-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/callofduty4modernwarfare/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 High-quality story mode packs in a lot of thrilling and unexpected moments.
 Well-designed multiplayer progression gives you something to shoot for online.
 Terrific audiovisual presentation.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Campaign mode is much shorter than those of the average shooter.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov  6, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9
Critic Score: 9.4, 80 Review (s)
User Score: 9.4, 22,601 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: Infinity Ward
Genre: Modern First-Person...
Date: Nov 5, 2007
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The single-player campaign is over in a flash, but the high quality of that campaign and its terrific 
 multiplayer options make Call of Duty 4 a fantastic package. 

  It took awhile, but Infinity Ward finally got the message that World War II is played out. With 
 modern times and international affairs becoming more and more, shall we say,  interesting  in recent 
 years, the 1940s just don't carry as much weight as they used to. Perhaps that's why Call of Duty 
 4 has a new subtitle, Modern Warfare. By bringing things into a fictionalized story that still 
 seems fairly plausible, the developer has made a much heavier game. But COD 4 is more than just 
 an updated setting. It's also an amazing multiplayer first-person shooter and a great but brief 
 single-player campaign with the visual chops to make it a standout shooter in an era filled with 
 seemingly dozens of standout shooters.  

           While the game may feel short, it covers a lot of ground.      

  The only real catch 
 is that the single-player is almost shockingly short. If you've been keeping up with this style 
 of game, you'll probably shoot your way to the credits in under five hours. While you can raise 
 the difficulty to give yourself more of a challenge, the main thing this does is make the enemies 
 frustratingly deadly, which sort of detracts from the fun.  

  While it may have a lack of single-player quantity, it makes up for most of it with its quality. 
 The game tells its story from multiple perspectives, and you'll play as a new British SAS operative 
 as well as a US Marine. The campaign takes you from a rainy night out at sea on a boat that's in 
 the process of sinking to a missile silo where it's on you to save millions from an unsavory nuclear-powered 
 death. Along the way, there are plenty of jaw-dropping moments where you'll look around the room 
 for someone to whom you can say, "I can't believe that just happened." In a world filled with war 
 games in which the good guys come out unscathed and the world is left at total peace, Call of Duty 
 4 will wake you up like a face full of ice water.  

  The action in the campaign is usually very straightforward. You have a compass at the bottom of 
 your screen, and the direction of your current objective is very plainly marked. But getting from 
 point A to point B is never as simple as running in a straight line, as you'll be conducting full-scale 
 assaults in Middle Eastern countries by moving from house to house, taking out what seems like 
 a never-ending stream of enemy troops along the way. You'll also get an opportunity to raid Russian 
 farmhouses in search of terrorist leaders, disguise yourself as the enemy, and, in one sequence, 
 don a brushlike ghillie suit and crawl through the brush as enemy troops and tanks roll right past 
 you. It's a breathtaking moment in a campaign filled with breathtaking moments. Unfortunately, 
 it's about half as long as the average shooter, and there are plenty of sequences where you wish 
 there were just one or two more hills to take.  

  Of course, if you're looking for longevity, that's where the multiplayer comes in. Up to 18 players 
 can get online and get into a match on one of 16 different maps. Many of the levels are taken from 
 portions of the single-player and they offer a healthy mix of wide-open, sniper-friendly areas 
 and tight, almost cramped spaces where grenades and shotguns are the order of the day. There are 
 six game modes to choose from. The old standby is team deathmatch, though you can also play in 
 a free-for-all deathmatch, which isn't as much fun as the team modes. The other modes are more 
 objective-oriented, and a couple of those have you lugging bombs across the map to blow up enemy 
 equipment, or preventing the enemy from blowing up your base. Others have you capturing control 
 points. Lastly, you can change up the game rules a bit with a hardcore setting that makes weapons 
 more realistically damaging or an old-school mode that puts weapons on the ground as pickups and 
 generally moves away from the simulation side of things.  

           The campaign takes you to multiple locales, but they're all full of guys who are begging 
 to be shot in the face.      

  In addition to just firing your weapon or tossing grenades, you earn some more interesting tactical 
 moves for skilled play. If you can shoot three opponents without dying, you're able to call in 
 a UAV drone, which basically is an upgraded radar that makes enemy positions show up on your onscreen 
 map for 30 seconds at any time. Normally, enemies blip up onto the map only if they fire their 
 weapon to make their location known. If you can go on a five-kill streak, you can call in an air 
 strike, which brings up a shot of the entire level map and lets you place the air strike wherever 
 you like. When combined with a UAV sweep, this can be really devastating. If you can make it all 
 the way to seven kills -- which is actually easier than it sounds -- you can call in a helicopter for 
 support. It'll buzz around the map and automatically open fire on enemies, though enemies can shoot 
 it down, too. These additions to the normal first-person shooter gameplay really open up the game 
 a lot and make it superexciting to play.     

  You'll also always have something to work toward, regardless of mode, because in standard, public 
 matches, you earn experience points for just about everything you do. Capturing control points, 
 getting kills, calling in support, all of these things give you points that go toward your rank. 
 Ranking up unlocks most of the game's multiplayer content.  

  The class system in Call of Duty 4 is also very interesting. Each class has a different weapon 
 loadout and different traits, called perks. As you rank up, you eventually unlock all five of the 
 preset classes and the ability to create your own class. This lets you pick your own main weapon, 
 your sidearm, attachments for both weapons, what sort of special grenades you want to carry, and 
 three perks. The perks are broken up into three groups to help keep things balanced, and as you 
 continue to level, you'll unlock additional perks. These class traits are one of the game's neatest 
 tricks and, again, really helps to set COD 4 apart from the pack.  

           We're pretty sure that real war doesn't look quite as cool as Call of Duty 4 does.    
   

  Perks in the Perk 1 group are more focused on explosives, letting you get more flashbangs if you 
 like, or letting you lug around a rocket launcher, which is great for taking out enemy choppers. 
 The other two perk groups have traits like juggernaut, which increases your health. There's also 
 last stand, which activates when you are killed by dropping you to the ground and switching you 
 to a pistol, giving you a moment to kill the guy who took you out before he realizes you're still 
 squirming around and finishes the job. Our current favorite is martyrdom, which causes you to drop 
 a live grenade when killed. It adds a healthy dose of mayhem to the proceedings. The perks and 
 other unlockables feel nicely balanced, too, so you probably won't run into situations where one 
 class is just better than the other. As it should be, your ability to point the red dot at the 
 head of your enemy and squeeze the trigger before he does the same is still the deciding factor. 

  While there are a ton of compelling gameplay reasons to play Call of Duty 4, it also has top-notch 
 presentation. The graphics are fantastic throughout, and they do a great job of rendering wide-open 
 fields, tight buildings or houses, smoke-belching silos, and lots more. Some of the multiplayer 
 maps look like they've already seen a lot of action, with blast craters, destroyed tanks, and other 
 things that you can hide in or behind. It also has terrific lighting, so everything looks as it 
 should. Everything sounds right, too. When you hear a battle raging in the distance, it sounds 
 appropriately muffled, and up close, the crack of an M16 or the full-auto barrage from an AK-47 
 are appropriately loud and angry sounding. There is also quite a bit of voice work throughout the 
 game, and it's all nicely done. The music, for the most part, is the typical sort of action-movie 
 music you've come to expect from a first-person shooter, except for a rap over the end credits 
 that seems to simultaneously detail the game's story while also acting as a subliminal diss record 
 with some slick talk about how this is the third chapter by Infinity Ward, perhaps lightly inferring 
 that you should ignore Treyarch's contribution to the series, Call of Duty 3. It's great.  

           There are plenty of things to unlock in the game's multiplayer mode.      

  COD 
 4 is available on the PlayStation 3, Xbox 360, and PC, and each version holds up admirably. The 
 differences between the two console versions feel mostly negligible. Both systems deliver good 
 frame rates and have good, easy-to-use multiplayer setups that most closely resemble Halo 2 and 
 3's party system and matchmaking playlists. The PC version of the game uses a more traditional 
 server browser to get you into games. Both systems work just fine on their respective platforms. 
 The PC version has the ability to run in a higher resolution, if you're equipped with a PC that 
 can handle it, but it seems to scale quite well. You can also create servers that allow up to 32 
 players to play at once on the PC, as opposed to a limit of 18 in the console versions, but given 
 the size of the multiplayer maps, putting 32 players in them makes things a little too crowded. 
 Despite listing 1080p support on the back of the box, COD 4 appears to prefer 720p on the PlayStation 
 3. The only way to get it to run in 1080p is to tell your PS3 that your TV doesn't support 720p 
 or 1080i, but the difference seems minor. Either way, you'd be hard-pressed to tell it apart from 
 its Xbox 360 counterpart. And all versions control just fine, making the decision over which version 
 to buy totally dependent on which controller you like the most.  

  It's a shame that the single-player is so brief, but you should only skip out on Call of Duty 4 
 if you're the sort of person who doesn't appreciate great first-person shooter multiplayer. The 
 quality of the content in the campaign is totally top-shelf, and the multiplayer is some of the 
 best around, making this a truly superb package.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1779 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: cluelesspug
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 18, 2009 5:53 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is by far one of the greatest games of all time. It's the best selling 
 shooter of all time for a reason people.
  
  Good
  
  - All sorts of guns to choose from.
  - Outstanding graphics.
  - Amazing story mode.
  - Fun 
 cheats are unlocked by collecting enemy intel.
  - The multiplayer is beyond amazing.
  - Sniping at people is fun.
  - Chucking grenades at people is fun.
  - Shooting people with 
 RPGs is fun.
  - Hitting people with C4 is fun.
  - Hitting people with Claymores is fun.
  - Knifing people is fun.
  - Shooting people with shotguns is fun.
  - A break from World War 
 II is nice. (of course World at War is still awesome)
  
  Bad
  
  - I was expecting a map editor.
  - Story is a little short.
  
  The only reason I give this 
 game a 9.5 instead of a 10, is because no game is perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmeads
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 12, 2009 4:06 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare. Trying World at War before this was my mistake, but I quickly corrected 
 it with buying this a week later. I scored. The campaign of Modern Warfare is simply incredible. 
 It follows the storylines of an British S. A. S. Officer and a US Marine. The setting is amazing 
 as well, spanning from the Middle East, to Azerbaijan, and of course, war-torn Russia. It really 
 captures how "Modern Warfare" would be like. Later in the campaign, some things that happen hit 
 you and you realize how good the story really is. Now the multiplayer is nothing short of superb. 
 The best online 360 game, in my opinion. The customization and gameplay is just amazing. It's certainly 
 one of the most addicting online shooters ever. You have weapons and perks to create your own class 
 with and this makes it really stand out and really great. All in all, Modern Warfare is in the 
 top 5 on the 360, maybe even top 3. A great buy and you can't go wrong with either the single player 
 or the multiplayer.
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  Single Player: 10/10 - Multiplayer: 10/10
  Graphics, Game, and Character Designs: 10/10
  Story: 10/10
  Voice Acting: 10/10
  Replay Value: 
 10/10 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nster81
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 11, 2009 9:21 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare. Trying World at War before this was my mistake, but I quickly corrected 
 it with buying this a week later. I scored. The campaign of Modern Warfare is simply incredible. 
 It follows the storylines of an British S. A. S. Officer and a US Marine. The setting is amazing 
 as well, spanning from the Middle East, to Azerbaijan, and of course, war-torn Russia. It really 
 captures how "Modern Warfare" would be like. Later in the campaign, some things that happen hit 
 you and you realize how good the story really is. Now the multiplayer is nothing short of superb. 
 The best online 360 game, in my opinion. The customization and gameplay is just amazing. It's certainly 
 one of the most addicting online shooters ever. You have weapons and perks to create your own class 
 with and this makes it really stand out and really great. All in all, Modern Warfare is in the 
 top 5 on the 360, maybe even top 3. A great buy and you can't go wrong with either the single player 
 or the multiplayer.
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  Single Player: 10/10 - Multiplayer: 10/10
  Graphics, Game, and Character Designs: 10/10
  Story: 10/10
  Voice Acting: 10/10
  Replay Value: 
 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ferntfactor
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 8, 2009 2:35 pm PT
Review:  i'm a WW2 FPS guy, but hey, greatness is greatness. loved this game from the day i got it. you 
 already know why, but here's my recap:
  
  The Good:
  
  - solid story lines
  - FPS action deluxe
  - Gillie suit!
  - super nice firearms to choose from (still none tops 
 the "Ting" of the good ole WW2 Garand)
  - you find yourself fully immersed in this game. when you're staring at the screen, you're there.
 
  - good cut scenes
  - good variety
  - some serious surprises - you don't know outcomes in advance.
  - multiplayer is excellent, as 
 you already know! i am a multiplayer "Noob", as all you gritty vets mock, but even i had a lot 
 of fun right out of the gate. thanks for your patience while us late starters ramp up!
  
  The Bad:
  
  - ummm... i dunno... the  scene 
 is super friggin hard on veteran.
  - would like to see a bit more variety in multiplayer maps.
  
  The Summary:
  
  top notch. 
 is and will remain a classic. and i have plenty of room for both it and Treyarch's new masterpiece: 
 COD WAW in my game collection. variety. it's the spice of life.... and death, in this case.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: -CANUCK-
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 7, 2009 4:01 pm PT
Review:  The 18-35 male is a valuable commodity. They have the kind of money that allows them to afford 
 $500 consoles, and thus makes them the hot target for developers. They work part time jobs at your 
 local supermarket and are usually in some form of debt in spite of their spending habits. In their 
 free time, they enjoy multiple energy drinks, weed to ease the energy drink buzz, and UFC because 
 there are fewer highs more sweet than a good ground and pound. And their hero? The soldier. The 
 partially unknown soldier, in the sense that he doesn't need an identity. The military man that 
 goes into the line of duty and shoots terrorists, Russians and all things Un-American. Odds are, 
 the natural habitat of the 18-35 male will have some kind of camouflage decal and some Todd McFarlane 
 US soldier action figures next to their Scarface or Bruce Lee poster. They love the name "Tom Clancy" 
 not for his espionage thriller novels but his games about systematically gunning down the ethnic 
 threat of the month. 
  
  So I bought Call of Duty 4 from a fellow 18-35 male recently. A game who's very cover art features 
 the unknown soldier. I've played the game when it first came out, back when Game Informer's claim 
 of this being "The most photo-realistic video game we've ever seen" actually belonged on the back 
 of the box. The game was great back in November of 2007, but times change, and in particular the 
 first person shooter genre, where a new, bigger and shinier entrant enters the gaming arena almost 
 every month. So the test here will be if Modern Warfare 1 has longevity, if the game can hold against 
 the rising demands of the 18-35 year old males that write for game websites. Like me. 
  
  The Modern Warfare universe is some kind of dreamland for people that think wars are cool; Russia 
 is in a civil war and an evil dictator has turned a Middle Eastern country into some kind of paradise 
 for sociopaths. The introductory credits involve a lengthy cutscene where you drive along Warsville 
 watching terrorists kill innocents, enemies and probably other terrorists along the way. Throughout 
 the game, you'll find bunches of nukes and Americans and Brits coming to the rescue, but the surprise 
 here is how well-executed the story is done.
  
  There's no Master Chiefs or military supermen that parade across the countryside laughing about 
 their kill counts. There's an aura of believability to the characters; one sequence that amused 
 me was a mission where I was in an aircraft carrier and one pilot asked the other for clarification 
 on what he meant by "a curved road"; it made me feel like I was surrounded by normal people in 
 what could be an actual combat situation. At the same time, the game takes some surprising twists 
 and turns, elevating itself above the usual "Great Americans killing foreigners" plotline that 
 these games lean towards and into an intriguing thriller that could only work in a video game. 
 
  
  It also helps that the trademark famous people "war is bad (or at least ironic) " quotes that appeared 
 when you die in previous CODs (the CODs tactfully made by Infinity Ward, anyways) return here to 
 mock the 18-35 males who consider war to be glamorous. 
  
  On the surface, Call of Duty 4 plays like X number of shooters. You go from one point in a level 
 to another and you kill a lot of bad people along the way. The gameplay is as refined as a realistic 
 shooter should be; iron sight aiming and covering your back are key to survival, and enemies will 
 be quick to capitalize and send you face down into the ground and a war-is-bad Robert McNamara 
 quote if you're not evading the line of fire. Unlike the recent Call of Duty: World at War, the 
 game never feels like you're simply fighting wave after wave of respawning enemy, rather there's 
 a logical sense of progression, of constantly pushing further into enemy territory. Not to mention 
 the trademark Call of Duty "you are one man in a larger army, in the middle of hell" atmosphere 
 is ever present. Your allies will be perfectly content to kill off the enemies (but depend on you 
 to advance in the level) . 
  
  But really, the strongest aspect of Call of Duty 4 is just how incredibly varied each level is. 
 It's as if the game consistently thinks of new and unique scenarios for each mission. Most shooters 
 are content to mix up the action with frequent gun turret or flame thrower sequences (cheers to 
 you, World At War, as I spit in your glass) , killing the novelty of the respective gimmick. Here, 
 certain sequences appear once and thus make their appearance level memorable. One moment you're 
 using night vision goggles while staring at dozens of laser-sights from your allies, the next you're 
 dressed in foliage and crawling through the bushes while enemy tanks drive by your prone avatar. 
 Each mission stays in your memory and, when placed in a greater whole that is Call of Duty 4, makes 
 the combined experience a stronger one. Really, I can't think of another first person shooter where 
 I've looked back on every single mission so fondly. 
  
  Well, except for the bonus "airplane VIP" mission that appears after the end credits. Some kind 
 of explanation behind this mission would be a bit appreciated. 
  
  The game is only about 5 hours long, but you'll want to play through it again and again, on harder 
 difficulties where your survival skills become crucial and you'll become quite acquainted with 
 those war liners. 
  
  I'm a bit less partial to the multiplayer, however. The core mechanics are sound; that each character 
 has limited health gives deathmatches more of a cat-and-mouse feel than the superheroic-like combatants 
 of the Haloverse. However, I hate perk-based multiplayer, and this is the game that started such 
 a trend. 
  
  I know there's an audience of 18-35 males that love the hell out of perk-based multiplayer, and 
 clearly a big one too since this is still one of the most popular multiplayer games on Xbox Live. 
 But I don't like online shooters enough to want to play the same modes repeatedly in order to unlock 
 content. I can't give you an assessment of how the other online modes besides deathmatch play because 
 I couldn't be made to clock in the amount of time necessary to unlock them. Worse, the better weapons 
 and character attributes only open up to higher classes, giving 18-35 males who pull all-nighters 
 along with their can of Mountain Dew (who are already better than me at this kind of game) a bit 
 of an unfair advantage. 
  
  Call me a girly man if you want for not being willing to cope with the "big boys." I'll simply 
 say that the online function is just "not for me." These perk-based modes are meant for the kind 
 of 18-35 male who's willing to play deathmatches all weekend at their dorm between Youtubed episodes 
 of Robot Chicken. 
  
  But for me, it's the campaign that makes Call of Duty 4 special. I have yet to play any other shooter, 
 including the last actual Call of Duty game, that has such a well-constructed, varied and entertaining 
 single-player mode, and its surprising that so many shooters that have since been released (as 
 I glare straight into the red eyes of the armoured soldier on the Killzone 2 box) that captures 
 the very same essence. And good luck to Infinity Ward, because I have no idea how they can possibly 
 top this act with a sequel. 
  
  4  stars. 
  
  I am indeed part of this demographic. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: towely62
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 3, 2009 1:21 am PT
Review:  this is the best call of duty game out there so if u dont have it or your still deciding which 
 cod to get, cod4 or cod world at war? trust me u want to get this one this blows all others away 
 best multiplayer since halo2 its just amazing stuning graphics . the only thing holding it back 
 was the fact i couldnt system link with my friends so we couldnt sent up a tournment which was 
 kinda let down cuz we ordered pizza and had to play halo3 system link my game room is awsome for 
 system links have tournments all the time one day we got up to 60 ppl playing a tournment of halo2 
 winners got like 150 bucks each which was pretty sweet i also had a gears of war tourny but turn 
 out wasnt so good and im not very good at it so NOW wat we do know is we try the game with 2 or 
 3 friends see if its good to play a tourny. o ya back to the game got carried away there its fun, 
 looks good, great multiplayer, good replay value, its just a perfect game i hope modern warfare 
 2 is just as good hope it has system link. gs should of scored this higher but to me it is a perfect 
 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lennyxxx
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 2, 2009 7:22 pm PT
Review:  Hello, yep it was one of the best first person shooters for its time, With great grafics and great 
 story line which bring to mind what could happen in the middle east, i liked Call of Duty Modern 
 Warfare and i still play it every now and then with my clan when i get a chance that is from work, single 
 player was great, and i finished the whole game on hard dificulty which might i say was not hard 
 at all, but veteran dificulty is a different story it is very hard i tryed many times over and over 
 to try and beat the game but to no avail, so i had to be satisfied with the achievements for hard 
 mode, as for online play i give the thumbs up, in the begining when the game first came out your 
 going to have problems playing online it usely takes 2-3 months to be abel to play the game how 
 it should be played like hardly any lag, picture quality is great, the perks i liked because you 
 just not given a weapon and have to take that perk already there if you know what i meen, you could 
 change the perks to suit whatever map you played on, weapons the detail was great, clotheing military 
 stile especialy the snipers i liked, all up if you have not played Call of Duty Modern Warfare 
 and you like first person shooters do youself a favor go and buy it, its worth every peny you spent 
 on it believe me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Th3N3wM3ssiah
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 31, 2009 2:54 pm PT
Review:  This game is very fun don't get me wrong but it strays away from the series I feel like the game 
 spat in the Call of Duty franchises face because Call of Duty has always been about Realism and 
 the whole single layer campaign was realistic in capturing Modern Warfare from the weapons to the 
 feel of it but Call of Duty has also been about being historically accurate and the single player 
 campaign was ridicules nothing in the campaign ever happened in real life also the game should 
 not have been included in the series it should have started its own series Call of Duty: Modern 
 Warfare all of the other Call of Duty games were world war II games and it felt like they tried 
 to include this game with all out the others It felt out of place. On the other hand the multiplayer 
 is the best of any game I have played in a long time I can say it competes with socom which is 
 a tall order to fill the only thing I didn't like about the multiplayer was the size of the maps 
 they are so small. Over all this game needs to have its own series Under the Call of Duty franchise 
 and it needs to include some actual battles from the war in the Middle East and stop making up 
 battles that make no sense and lose the Russians why are the Russians in pretty much every Call 
 of Duty game anyway Keep the multiplayer Fix the single players story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MighteyMouse2
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 25, 2009 8:05 am PT
Review:  this is my second favorite game of all time. my brothers and i poured hundreds of hours into this 
 infinitely fun game. prefect visuals and intense dialogue. i bought this game the day it came out 
 and i played it and didnt stop for about a year. it is that good. 
  
  this game was/is the cornerstone to all new fps games and is the starting point to the next generation 
 of great fps games. 
  
  i loved how they stepped away from wwII for a second and made a modern warfare game, it is just 
 what everyone needed. i love this game over halo 3 for the sole reason that it yields the human 
 element and real weapons and battlegrounds, as apposed to halo's fictional storybook characters, 
 worlds, and weapons. 
  
  favorite weapon - m4 carbine w/ red dot sight
  
  the only things i dislike about cod4 online play are random nades, juggernaut, kids that cheat 
 and mod stuff to have the edge. 
  
  need more weapons and use of vehicles including air vehicles for modern warfare 2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZJM9
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 23, 2009 3:45 pm PT
Review:  Whether you're a fan of Call of Duty or you just enjoy the occasional first-person shooter, Call 
 of Duty 4 definately has something to offer you. 
  
  The single player campaign is immersive and offers a lot of gameplay. It is one of the longer campaigns 
 I've seen in a first-person shooter. The story is good and very few times will you see repetiton 
 in objectives. You will do everything from blowing up tanks to sneak past enemies undetected while 
 trying to assassinate overlooking guards. Also, the weapons are unique. For instance, there is 
 a version of the M4 called the M4A1 which you can obtain in the campaign, but not multiplayer. 
 This gives the missions a different feel, so you won't feel like you're just in a deatchmatch against 
 the computer.
  
  The weapons themselves deserve a section of the review. Call of Duty 4 has one of the most impressive 
 arsenals I've seen in a game thus far. Whether you prefer the classic bolt-action sniper rifles 
 or a semi-automatic one, you can get it. Or if you like shotguns and sub-machineguns then there 
 are those, too. Of course there are the beloved assault rifles and light-machine guns for you to 
 wreak havoc with. Also, the weapons in multiplayer can be customized in create-a-class. You can 
 unlock attachments to put on your gun, like a better scope for your sniper rifle or a red dot sight 
 for your assault rifle. Then you can unlock camo to paint the gun with. Even if you pick up someone 
 else's gun, their gun will still be the same no matter who is using it. This makes the selection 
 of weapons seem at least twice the size because you can be using a plain M4 but go pick up another 
 M4 that has a red dot sight and desert camo.
  
  The multiplayer is the real draw of Call of Duty 4. Whether you like Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, 
 or objective based games, Call of Duty 4 has it. It even has a "Classic Deathmatch" where you jump 
 higher and you have "pick-ups" on the map, just like in the old days. In addition to that, the 
 Deathmatch modes have "Hardcore" versions where your HUD is removed and your guns do more damage. 
 This plus the gorgeous visuals and amazing sound make the game have an extreme sense of realism. 
 Team Deathmatch is undoubtably the most popular, as I see the most people play it. It is a basic 
 mode really, but the feel of Call of Duty 4 is what makes it so much better than other online shooters. 
 When I first played it, I didn't care much for it. But then it grew on me until I was addicted 
 to it. It becomes so hard to put down once you get into it.
  
  This concludes my review. I hope it helped and I hope you decide to buy Call of Duty 4. It's an 
 amazing game!
  
  Final Scoring:
  
  Graphics: 10/10
  Sound: 10/10
  Gameplay: 10/10
  Replay Value: Single Player: 7/10
  Multiplayer: 10/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: red192837465
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 22, 2009 1:33 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty has left its regular WW2 territory to fight a modern fictional war. You play as the 
 British and Americans in a fight against what seems to be a collection of Middle East countries 
 and Russia. The Russians are in a power sturggle and you have been sent in to stop it. The story 
 is actually quite good though the single player is quite short (3hrs to 5hrs depending on your 
 level) .
  
  Graphically, this is a excellent looking game. You will lie in the grass and actually can count 
 the blades. The firing of guns is excellent to listen and watch. Overall the production values 
 are excellent.
  
  Multiplayer is the biggest reason to buy this game. There are lots of game modes like Serch and 
 Destory and Deathmatch. This are very fun. The multiplayer has been upgraded by "perks". This are 
 esstenial ways to improve your player in different ways. There is a new leveling system called 
 Pregesting that is okay but doesn't offer many rewards after you reach level 55 the first time. 
 Lag is an issue however.
  
  
  + Beautiful game
  + Awesome Production Values
  + Addictive gameplay
  + Awesome Multiplayer
  
  - Lags often and badly
  - Short Campaign
 
  - Pregesting feels like a waste of time after awhile since you lose all of your weapons.
  
  ? Really Infinity Ward? One map pack? Thats it?!
  
  Overall this is a great game that has 
 1 big fault and a few smaller ones that stop it from being superb. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greasysteve927
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 20, 2009 6:45 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game. The online is fantastic and the single player is immersing and has a really 
 cool ending. It's one of those games that you can play over and over again and has almost endless 
 potential if you have Xbox Live. The story gives you a lot of play and is really fun. Also the 
 different difficulty levels are perfectly adjusted for different types of gamers. Casual players 
 can breeze through it on recruit, and achievement whores and hardcore FPS lovers, among many others, 
 play veteran. Of course anyone can play on veteran, it can just get a little frustrating for the 
 casual gamer. The Live is also great. Its level up system sends you new weapons once in a while 
 so you can choose your favorite guns. Also it gives you the option to start over from the beginning 
 10 times. That gives at least over 100 hours of play. Overall Call of Duty 4 Modern Warfare is 
 a must have game that you have to try, no matter what. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AnthonyBoscia
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 18, 2009 7:40 am PT
Review:  Somehow, I missed the whole World War II extravaganza in gaming. Maybe it's because the last console 
 I had was an N64 before I picked up my new 360. Needless to say, everyone seemed worn out on storming 
 Carentan and reliving Private Ryan. 
  
  This isn't the first game set in modern times, but as the "Warfare" part of the title suggests, 
 this ain't a Tom Clancy Rainbow Six type of game. This is war. When you're crawling through the 
 mud with Al-Asad's army pouring fire over your head, you'll see that.
  
  The best part is that this is two awesome games in one. The single player will absolutely floor 
 you. It is gorgeously rendered. There is so much detail amidst the action that you wish you could 
 soak it all in. And there's a lot to do. The game manages to pull the illusion of infinite space 
 off much better than some of its competitors. Even though it is dependent on certain triggers to 
 advance to the next section, I almost never felt that way. Instead, you really seem to work with 
 your team, and constantly have to use new weapons and tactics to survive and win. The computer 
 AI is sharp, too. I've see my battle buddies do some crazy cool stuff. There are moments when you 
 have to grab the Stinger or the Javelin and they don't come off as contrived efforts the way they 
 do in other games. The difficulty levels are also really well scaled, too. I can't remember having 
 so much fun in a single player shoot-em-up since Bond or Halo. Then there's an arcade option, which 
 is tremendous fun. The only drawback is the lack of co-op, probably because it would have been 
 so cool that your disk would explode from pure awesomeness.
  
  But, honestly, have you really not played the mutli-player? Because 15 months after its release, 
 I still see 80000 people who want to play. Online multi-player is cool beyond belief. The perk 
 and point is system is fantastic. You want to try the different game modes and weapons to earn 
 the challenges, and maybe find that you enjoy using stuff that you didn't think you would like. 
 It's a great balance between adding the attachments you like while maintaining fairness. After 
 this, I bought Halo 3 and found that I was bored by all the futuristic shenanigans. 
  
  Really, are you still reading this? Get online and I'll see you on Pipeline.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KepNaki24
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 17, 2009 7:49 pm PT
Review:  COD Modern Warfare, as it says in the official review, takes place in a modern day setting, taking 
 the perspective of the U. S. (naturally) and the British SAS against Russian and Middle Eastern 
 Terrorists. 
  
  Honestly, there are only good things I can say about this game.
  1. Excellent Storyline: Since I really don't wanna spoil anything for you, you just have to at 
 least rent the game and see for yourself.
  2. Finally Gets Away From WW2!!: I couldn't tell you how ecstatic I was that it got away from that. 
 Granted WW2 was a good subject for a war game, but it was good for CoD to take a new turn, into 
 this actual century instead of staying in WW2 time.
  3. Extreme Multiplayer: If the storyline doesn't grab you in, then you'll be glad to know that 
 this game is a really good multiplayer game to pick up. Just make sure to practice a lot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamerForca
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 19, 2009 11:13 am PT
Review:  The move from WWII to modern warfare was excellent, and the series has returned to the right path. 
 The campaign is intense and satisfying, compelling the player to continue to the end. The action 
 simply feels realistic as you battle through Middle Eastern cities and Russian and Eastern European 
 terrain. Many soldiers can be held on screen at one time, your allies and enemies fall around you, 
 and stylistic explosions go off as the battling ensues. Your enemies utilize realistic tactics 
 against you including flanking maneuvers and drawing you out with grenades. The story is surprisingly 
 good for an FPS. After hours of fighting alongside them, you will learn to like your squad-mates, 
 who weren't so kindly to you at the beginning of the game. There are several twists in the plot-line 
 that keep the gamer off-balance, and then a very rewarding ending to the fantastic campaign. The 
 only problem would be its short length. After beating it on the easier difficulties, trying to 
 get the achievements on Veteran can be challenging and fun as well.
  
  Usually, FPS and any game for that matter either have a great campaign or a great multiplayer. 
 Call of Duty 4 is the exception as it boasts a rewarding online mode as well. Online contains all 
 of your regular deathmatch, team deathmatch, capture the flag, and other types of modes, and allows 
 parties of friends to play together on each mode. Full of rankings and statistics, the replay value 
 of the online is enormous. The level system is fairly unique and is reason enough to play the hell 
 out of the various online modes. Different weapons and skills (some cool, others annoying) can 
 be obtained as the player levels up, and then player is allowed to Prestige up after achieving 
 the highest level. The online fighting is intense, with fast-paced action and aerial attacks being 
 called in. The assortment of maps is balanced for every type of player. Some are great for short-range 
 and melee, while others are ideal for sniping. Talking trash for hours with friends during a tough 
 fight is a great experience that few other games can offer. 
  
  CoD4's graphics were splendid, with lush environments and top-notch character models. Great particle 
 effects and shading add greatly to the realistic appearances of the areas. The characters and most 
 soldiers look very unique and impressive. The detail in the environments of Eastern Europe and 
 the Middle East are breath-taking; as you infiltrate houses you can see an almost perfectly realistic 
 look of houses in war-torn areas. Many soldiers and fast-paced action are held on-screen at one 
 time, making for larger, more life-like battles. The physics are fine as you won't really notice 
 the way the enemies fall (as in they fall realistically enough) . Explosions and lighting effects 
 are brilliant and look much more life-like than most games. The environments are a little destructible 
 in areas, but since you infiltrate buildings far more often then see them blow up, it doesn't make 
 a difference. The voice-acting is solid throughout, unlike most games, also adding some realism. 
 The music is solid and mildly enjoyable, but matches the levels well, especially during the sniper 
 missions. Every positive when it comes to the graphics and sounds of CoD4 adds together to make 
 the game more enjoyable in every way.
  
  With a deep multiplayer surrounding an intense campaign, there is no way anyone should skip up 
 CoD4. Many missions and a great leveling system add enormously to the replayability. Not only does 
 CoD4 do all the big things right, it is simply great in every way, making itself a must-own on 
 every system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Morbidmassacre
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 21, 2009 1:07 pm PT
Review:  First of all, Call of Duty 4 is interesting for not having the same old WorldWar 2 theme. The second 
 thing you should notice is that the graphics and sounds are great. Singleplayer is pretty entertaining, 
 has many good moments, but has so many stupid things like: endless enemies at some places, frustrating 
 tanks, depressing amount of grenades thrown at you, and dogs that can be beaten with good luck.
 
  
  Multiplayer is very different. It is the best multiplayer ever on console shooters, and it will 
 probalby be for a long time. But sometimes it's just about depressing, when i have to play horrid 
 maps like showdown, bloc.
  The best thing in it is that players get so much stuff to do (like challenges) and it's also amazingly 
 rewarding (new weapons and attachments) . some of the maps suck, but only Bloc and Showdown are 
 unplayable for me.
  I also really hate snipers. I don't use them so they should be banned from the game. 
  Another 
 cool thing is PERKS. I think the "Last stand" is really cool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZodiacalRad
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 12, 2009 10:17 am PT
Review:  This game is one of my favorite games. The game has really good graphics. with pretty good animations 
 and stuff like that. The online play is loads of fun with lots of game types, a large veriety of 
 weapons and perks to use to your liking, and a pretty good supply of maps to run around in. 
  
  The online can be for anyone. if you are a run and gun person it will work, if you like to 
 move slow and quiet it will work or if you like to sit in a whole where no one can see you and 
 camp till someone comes by you can even do that. The addition of gillie suits makes sniping lots 
 of fun you are practically invisible when laying in certain grasses or behind certain bushes.
 
  
  
  The campaign is really fun if you play on veteran difficulty it can be pretty tough. but it is 
 loads of fun and has lots of cinematic moments
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BiABeasts
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 11, 2009 9:28 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty: Modern Warfare is a pretty great game. The multi-player is the best part of Call 
 of Duty: Modern Warfare. The multi-player engine is great and the multi-player game play is fun. 
 The kill cam on multi-player helps out so when someone kills you then they can't just camp out 
 in that one spot or else you can go right back where they killed you and kill them before they 
 get the chance. The Call of Duty: Modern Warfare campaign/story mode could be improved by being 
 made longer, a little more challenging, and having a more interesting story. But overall this is 
 a pretty great game! This game is worth buying mostly because after you beat the story/campaign 
 mode then you can play multi-player over and over again because it is so addicting. Whoever doesn't 
 have this game should buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 19robson
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 5, 2009 7:23 am PT
Review:  Ratings: 5=Excellent  1=Very Poor
  -------------------------------------------
  Gameplay: 4.5
  Sound: 4.5
  Graphics: 4.5
  Campaign: 4
  Online (Multiplayer) : 5
  Replay 
 Value: OFTEN
  -------------------------------------------
  The campaign is very short which can be completed in no time. Even with the campaign being really 
 short it is all action from the very first mission right to the last mission. This game makes you 
 feels like you are in a war movie. The gameplay is solid, intense, and immersive, but there are 
 also many sequences that make this game so good.
  
  The multiplayer this is where this game comes into its own for me and makes it stand out from the 
 crowd. Almost all the maps are well designed, and many of them will require various tactics. The 
 game also launches with a variety of maps. The action online is constantly at a 100mph from start 
 to finish. It is just fun to play also its not that hard to get to grips with the online play.
 
  
  Favourite thing on the game: The speed of the action online
  Most Hated thing on the game: Short campaign
  -------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Recommended?
  Definitely even if just for online play.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: on_no
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 3, 2009 4:58 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is a great game, and is probably the best in the series. Single Player:
  The single player, though it doesn't make major strides, is short and sweet. There are three campaigns 
 in the game, SAS, Marines, and a joint campaign. The single player is fairly easy, unless you go 
 on veteran difficulty, which can present a challenge. Overall the gameplay is solid, but it didn't 
 make major strides like the previous Call of Duty's did.
  
  Rating 4/5
  
  Multiplayer:
  The multiplayer may be a bit hard at first, but after a while it grows on to you. 
 I dedicated a lot of time to this game, I wouldn't say it was wasted, as I met many friends here, 
 but some people on XBL are rude and disrespectful. The game is fun for for a long time, especially 
 if you have friends to play matches with Call of Duty four is also the most played game on gamebattles, 
 so that is another way to pass time. Infinity Ward gas done sub-par on releasing DLC, though, as 
 they have only released the variety math pack, which rarely ever appears on ranked playlists. Overall 
 the game is wonderful online, but the lack of good DLC keeps it from a perfect 5.
  
  Rating 4.5/5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ayhokkuu
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 1, 2009 10:34 am PT
Review:  the only way to explain this game is to call it a realistic shooter. on hardcore mode, it's basically 
 one-shot kills. i'd say that this game is best online or on deathmatch with some friends. the story 
 mode isn't bad, but it's not in comparison with games like FFVII (at least for the ones that like 
 it) . anyways, this game is great if you have friends at your doorstop everyday or millions of people 
 online. but another thing you must consider is that it takes a good 4-5 hours strait of playing 
 to get decently good, but i'd suggest at least 20 hours strait if you want to play online. For 
 those of you reading this review to know if you wanna get the game or not... I'd say yes, get it. 
 but if you don't get it your not missing anything. If you want to get it for online play, get CD 
 WaW. I personally hate the game because i get screwed over every time i play my friends or online. 
 But hopefully that won't happen to you ^^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Dark_Palladin-
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 26, 2009 2:23 pm PT
Review:  Pros and Cons:
  ---
  +Intense Multiplayer will always make this game a classic.
  +Lots of people online will ensure you always find a match.
  +Kill Cam is a great addition.
 
  +Ability to create your custom class.
  +Occasionally funny screaming from the russians.
  +Comes with a good map vareity, plus a downloadable map pack.
  +Modern-day weapons ensure you 
 won't get bored easily.
  +Tons of playable factions.
  +Large maps with even larger team battles.
  +Plenty of Acheivements to look forward to.
  +Lag-free.
 
  
  -Completly boring Single Player.
  -No drivable veichles in multiplayer.
  -Knife glitches alot.
  -Weapon reloads look slightly goofy and take too long sometimes.
  -"Enemy 
 UAV is airborne" qoute is used way too much online.
  -Graphics occasionally look washed out.
  ---
  
  
  Modern Warfare is definetly something 
 new for Call of Duty, let alone, the rest of the war-games out there. While most war shooters tend 
 to be horrifically terrible, Call of Duty has never disapointed me as much as I hate to admit. 
 Although the boring single player definetly isn't what makes COD4 a masterpeice, the Multiplayer 
 will blow you away, and since multiplayer is the main attraction of this game, in my opinion, I'll 
 review this game along the lines of multiplayer.
  
  
  
  Every Call of Duty game has really brough back the intensity of World War 2. Here, you are pitted 
 to modern-day time where humanity in Iraq sucks, and America, with Britian, are trying they're 
 best to take care of the baddies that are making that suckiness. That's mainly what you do in the 
 uninspired campaign. Its really simple enough to the point where your taking down a specifiic war 
 criminal, but I won't spoil. You get a good taste of the game's action through a few short levels 
 in the short campaign. Its good for newcomers, but because the single player is absoulutly horrendous, 
 I'll skip to the Multiplayer quality of the game. 
  
  For one thing, you may notice that as soon as you select quick match, a few seconds later the list 
 will be blasted with thousounds of players to fight againest. So far, I haven't come across a single 
 laggy sever, so its best to assume that the game's online plays perfectly smoothly and lags not 
 a bit. If you want to duke it out with your own custom match and settings, it may take a while, 
 but you can always find at least 10 people to play againest. You have plenty of match types, like 
 the old-school 4 way deathmatch, and then you got intense stuff like huge 20 player-large team 
 wars and HQ battles. The list of matches rages over 16 different game modes, and all of them are 
 appealing and intense.
  
  
  The controls at first will feel like a stupid 90's rip-off shooter, but once you get used to it, 
 you'll find the gameplay to be pretty sharp and comfortable. You have the simple shooter skills: 
 throw grenade with this button, reload with that button, sprint with that button, zoom with that 
 trigger, and some common stuff like that, but it still feels like a throwback to most shooters 
 like Gears of War almost. If you aren't playing demolition or some special game mode, the simple 
 object of the multiplayer is practially beat down the opposing team with a standerd arsenal of 
 weapons. If you manage to get a 3-kill-streak, you can call in a UAV, a helicopter, and an airstrike 
 to help your team earn even more points. Surprisingly, there aren't any drivable veichles as included 
 in Call of Duty 3, and since the levels are so huge, that may sometimes prove as a problem.
  
  
  Coming from a Modern Warfare game, you get AK-47s, Desert Eagles, SMGs, and a combination 
 of both Iraq and American firepower. The multiplayer maps, looking occasionally washed out with 
 Unreal-looking graphics, are action-packed and with so many players killing each other, you'll 
 occasionally feel like your really in an actual war, no matter how stupid the rules seem: Blow 
 up the opposing team as much as you can til the game ends. So when you finnally tip over, you get 
 a killcam of how you died, respawn, and go back to endlessly killing the other team. That's really 
 as simple as it is, but its also manages to mysteriously suck you in and make it an rivetingly 
 amusing experiance.
  
  
  
  
  COD4 also features a leveling system, which lets you level up to certain levels to unlock new game 
 modes and features. Furthermore, a new "Create-A-Class" lets you customize up to about 7 different, 
 custom classes of your choice. You can design each class's guns, their textures, add a custom scope 
 or gadget to them, and choose a few other options, like grenades for instance. You can also select 
 a number of perks included with the class; Being able to carry an RPG, having increased hitpoints, 
 being able to run faster or sprint longer, and causual stuff like that.
  
  
  
  
  You get treated to a number of 5-second rock'n'roll lines whenever a match begins or you gain a 
 level, but other than rockets shooting and explosions... well, exploding, there's not much music 
 outside the title screen. The sound fits in pretty well with game, as well as the graphics and 
 the controls, even though they have their flaws. Its really hard to write a decent review of COD4 
 with the multiplayer only its best part; just know that unless you're devoid of xbox live, this 
 game is for anybody.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mowmoocowcoo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 22, 2009 8:50 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty 4 has several things going for it. First off, choosing to place the game in a modern 
 context of fiction allowed the design team to expand upon the content and exaggerate the world 
 as much as the desired. Though the campaign will probably only take about 5 or 6 hours to beat 
 on the first three difficulties of the game, the hardest, veteran is sure to present enough of 
 a challenge to keep you busy for some time. The short length of the campaign is also compensated 
 for by the plot and the gameplay content. the game draws the player in and the structure is intense 
 enough to almost make the player feel as if they are in the game. but beyond this, the real meat 
 of the game lies in it's live multiplayer. The game presents a very fast paced and incredibly addicting, 
 high quality multiplayer, but not only this, as you play more and more, you start to unlock new 
 perks, weapons, and attachments, to mix and match in custom classes as you see fit. this does not 
 mean however, that a new player will feel completely overpowered. the guns are balanced enough 
 that no one gun will always win in every firefight. the multiplayer will surely keep a player busy 
 for hours and hours and the game as a whole has an incredible amount of replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cameronrules36
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 22, 2009 9:33 am PT
Review:  NOTE: I have only played this game 2 times: Once at my friends house and once at my cousins, I 
 don't have it. I have a question: Why is this game M? It's not that bad, nothing worse than the 
 other COD games (I played them before, too)
  Call of Duty 4 is a game based on war in which you shoot bad guys. The graphics and story are pretty 
 cool , and, altogether, this game was made very well, although the multiplayer is the best part 
 about it.
  
  The Good:
  -Good story presented with even better graphics
  -Multiplayer Mode is very fun
  -Great weapons and vehichles
  
  The Bad:
  -Story mode isn't 
 that fun
  -I don't really like the whole War game drama (except Batlefront)
  
  Overall, The Multiplayer mode in this game is definitely the best part about it. That's the truth 
 and that will always be the truth. This game is a good X360 game, but it is only really worth it 
 for the Multiplayer.
  
  Overall, 8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IAMADEUM
Rating: 4
Date: Feb 20, 2009 11:16 pm PT
Review:  Ultimately, the COD series is a failure. Granted, i love playing story mode, but multiplayer leaves 
 a lot to be desired. Why have they not yet added any type of cover system? Why do the AI still 
 charge down a street in the open and shoot and actually kill you, and why don't your teammates 
 do anything besides get in your way (because the last time I checked, people who run down open 
 streets with bullets flying don't get a single shot off, and teammates usually cover you) ? Why 
 is there not online Hardcore mode, where real COD players can have a good experience (no radar, 
 perks, all that noob stuff) ? Besides those "few" handicaps, this game has it's good parts:
  
  -Fantastic story mode with very satisfying missions.
  -Amazing sound and graphics.
  -Brutal 
 message of how horrible nuclear war can be.
  -Split-screen multiplayer is very fun, because levels are too small for large online teams with 
 those freakishly weird kids who manage to ALWAYS get 90% of their team's kills.
  -Great choice of guns.
  
  So COD4, as an offline game 8/10, as an online, i would say 4/10. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xlmfx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 17, 2009 9:01 am PT
Review:  If you've not played this game... then oh my god, you must go out right now and make the best gaming 
 purchase of your life... this game is amazing.
  
  The single is a very in-depth game with realistic surroundings. The guns look superb and the AI 
 is rather realistic too. The only downfall of the single player, is the length of the game. It 
 is rather short, only a few hours game play.
  
  But.... and it's a fair big BUT!!! Play this game online and you will be amazed!!
  
  
  Trust 
 me.... you will not regret playing this game.
  
  and even if you don't have xbox Live then, you won't be missing out either, cause get a couple 
 of mates round (or family) an this game pleases still... or if you know a couple of mates with 
 an xbox 360, link them together an play system link! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kagea
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 15, 2009 1:50 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is one of the best looking games I have ever seen, not to mention is runs perfectly 
 smoothly, not even a bit of lag during the most intense fights. The campaign is pretty short, but 
 the quality of it is outstanding. The beginning of the campaign starts out in training just like 
 the rest of the CoDs. Once completing training, you'll invade a russian ship and begin this amazing 
 action that will never seem to end! After completing campaign, you should quickly jump over to 
 online. To honest this is the best fps online game. I've put into it a good 15 days! (atleast 360 
 hours) and I've never gotten tired of it. You'll start out at rank 1 and will advance all the way 
 to 55! Once reaching 55 you have a choice to stay there and keep all the guns and scopes you've 
 unlocked, or you can pick pristige mode. Prisige mode is where you can start out at rank 1 again 
 with a new symbol, but you will lose all your guns and scopes, etc. There is a great amount of 
 online modes. Team Deathmatch is the most typical match. 6 players on each time, fight it off til 
 750 points is reached. Search and Destroy is a mode where you have 1 life per round. You either 
 defend base A and B or you will attack base A and B with the bomb. The bomb carrier must plant 
 it at A or B and has to keep is planted for 30 seconds. Search and Destroy has to be the most difficult 
 and in my opinion fun. To wrap the review up you MUST own Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare if you 
 enjoy any type of first person shooter. Thanks for reading my review! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ishoturface
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 25, 2009 8:44 am PT
Review:  The good: Amazing campaign although short - outstanding graphics - sharp sound - fun, amazing, 
 addicting and deep multiplayer - good plot - awesome gameplay.
  
  
  
  The bad: short campaign.
  
  Unlike the previous call of duty games which were set only in the 
 WWII setting. This game is set during modern times, Where you play as either S. A. S. or U. S. M. C.
 
  The plot is very simple yet very good at the same time.
  It turns out terrorists (big surprise) have gotten a hold of some nukes to blow up America.
  
 And in a twist the Russians actually help you to get rid of the terrorists.
  You start the game as S. A. S. (british) and you go through the basic training called F. N. G.. Now 
 FNG is basically to see how fast you can complete a scenerio in where this one is set in a ship 
 that you have to clear the enemies has fast as you can.
  FNG actually quite a bit replay value on its own since there is a online leader board for the fastest 
 times.
  After you finish FNG you head out for your first mission which is on a ship where the terrorists 
 have some sort of nuclear equipment on board and you have to get it and make your way back to the 
 chopper.
  The campaign is just filled with action, there is almost never a dull moment in it. Large firefights 
 that are deadly choppers overhead enemies with RPG's looking to totally destroy you.
  im saying that you will probably not find a game that is short as this with this much action.
 
  The missions vary quite a bit.. For instance, there is a flashback mission near the middle of 
 the campaign. Where you go back 15 years and remember a mission that was assigned to you and in 
 that mission your objective was to kill the terrorist that in the present day is the one of the 
 leader trying to blow up America.
  And the mission before that (which is also flashback) you are playing the role as a sniper in a 
 ghillie suit, and althrough out that missions you can decide to to either kill enemies quietly 
 or just leave them alone, or just all out run n' gun... sorta.
  
  The campaign is linear but not nearly as linear as previous games which only gave you one path 
 to the objective. There is only one path to each objective in this game but there are also very 
 many flanks that you can use against the enemies. 
  The AI is not exactly smart nor dumb. On the easiest setting the enemies are not dumb just plain 
 easy to kill and they miss a lot more shots..
  Now on veteran, the enemies are somewhat smart in the sense that they use more cover and are more 
 accurate.
  
  After you beat the campaign you unlock arcade modes.. Which is like it sounds. In arcade mode you 
 can play the campaign as usual, but you get points for kills and combos, and at the end of the 
 mission your score is tallied and put on the online leaderboard.
  Most of the missions are in the middle east but some are in europe and the first one being in the 
 bering strait.
  
  One mission you are actually in a enemies outfit but that does last long since they figure it out 
 when you guys fire at the enemies.
  The campaign as said before is short. Gaming vets could easily beat it in less than six hours. 
 But on a harder difficulty it will take around 10-12 hours since you will die a lot more.
  
  
  
  The multiplayer can be played through system link, split screen ( up to 4 players) 
 and online (up to 16 players) .
  The multiplayer is no doubt the best multiplayer ever. Even better than halo and im a huge halo 
 fan.
  The multiplayer is very deep. Allowing you to rank up your character until you reach max level 
 55. But even when you reach level 55 its not over you can set yourself back to level 1. Yes i know 
 it sounds dumb losing all your stats and weapons that you have unlocked.
  Even though you will be level 1 you will have a special emblem next to you gamertag meaning that 
 you were already level 55 but have the guts to go back and get level 55 again.
  You can level up to level 55 a total of ten times. But even then the multiplayer still offers lots 
 of stuff to bring you back.
  The amount you level up after each round depends on how many kills assists and your total score 
 at the end of each round.
  For instance deathmatch game mode give you only 5 ExP points per kill but there are lots of enemies 
 to kill, and if you do good in the match then you will get bonus points after the match.
  And team death match gives you 10 EXP points per kill but team deathmatch rounds last longer than 
 deathmatch so you can get more Exp points per round.
  There are also challenges for almost every weapon and unlockables for each weapon. The challenge 
 may be "get 100 kills with this weapon to get a certain amount of exp and unlock a red dot scope".
 
  There are also challenges that just include various gameplay features. Like place in the top three 
 in deathmatch game mode 5 times.. Or destroy a chopper taht a enemy has called in.
  Speaking of choppers. After you get a 3 kill streak you can get a UAV radar scan. That during team 
 game modes will show the positions of the enemies on your radar for 30 seconds. But in deathmatch 
 it wil only show you the positions.
  Get a 5 killstreak and you can bring up the map and call in a airstike against your enemies.
 
  Get two more kills with out dying for a 7 kill streak and you can call in a chopper for help in 
 killing enemies. The chopper doesn last forever though, it can get shot down by an enemy RPG or 
 it will fly away after a certain amount of time.
  The weapons are of course modern. LIke the M-16 the M-4 (whicih seems to be the most popular) , 
 the ak-47 (this game would be lost without it)
  and many more guns.
  Most of the guns you unlock are the best ones. Like the always deadly M-80 50. sniper rifle, or 
 the 50. desert eagle.
  There are about ten weapons you can unlock. And you can also unlcok gold weapons. By completing 
 each weapon classes challenges you can unlcok a gold weapons from the class (the classes being 
 SMG's, assault rifles, sniper rifles, shotguns and LMG's) .
  You might think that there cannot be more to put in the multiplayer by now but you are wrong.
 
  There are things called perks... Sounds odd yes, but they set this game apart from any other.
 
  Perks are sorta like special powers but not as big.
  There are 3 perk kinds (you can have all three kinds at once) #1 being involved with explosives. 
 The explosives one you can choose between having a RPG, C4, claymores (which have to be unlocked) 
 and some other ones taht have to be unlocked.
  Perk set 2 is not exactly a catagory like perk set 1. Perk set 2 is more to help
  you have a 
 slight advantage over the enemy. With perks like overkill which allows you to carry two primary 
 weapons but no pistol. Or stopping power which increases your bullet damage to other players. Or 
 maybe you woul like to kill your enemy with a last stand? Last stand allows you to pull out your 
 pistol "after" you have died and try to kill you enemy before he/she realizes you are actually 
 still alive, but you cant move while in last stand and if nobody finishes you off after a while 
 you can either just kill yourself or you wil ljust die.
  Perk set 3 probably has one of the best perks. That being martyrdom, after you are killed you will 
 drop a live grenade and an ususpecting enemy may walk over to your body looking for ammo or just 
 wanting to t-bag you. That person will be in for a surprise that will put a smile on your face.
 
  There are some game modes. The most obvious being deathmatch and team deathmatch. But there is 
 also headquarters where each team has to try and take over a certain area and hold for as long 
 as they can, but while your team is holding it and you die, you stay dead till the eny destroys 
 the HQ or the reinforcments clock reaches zero.
  Search and destroy being one of the most popular game modes involves one team defending and one 
 trying to destroy objectives. But each person on both sides only has one life per round, so you 
 would have to be careful and not just run n' gun.
  And there is also domination, which is there are 3 flags across the map and each team has to try 
 and hold as many as possible as long as possible in order to win.
  The most obvious game mode missing here is capture the flag. Now why they didnt put in i have no 
 idea but stil lit would have been nice with some good ol capture the flag.
  There is also an old school mode and hardcore mode. old school mode is based after old FPS multiplayer 
 games. You start with one weapon and you have to pick up the perks and weapons up off the ground.
 
  Hardcore mode goes like this. Weapons do lots more damage, there is no radar and some of other 
 stuff making harder that usual.
  
  
  The sound is top-notch i have honestly heard very few game better than this. The guns sound very 
 good and almost real. The acting is very good and could be some of the best acting I have ever 
 heard in a game like this.
  
  
  
  The graphics.. wow. be sitting down when you see them. They are THAT good.
  The game runs at 
 an amazing 60 fps (frames per second) very few game before have been able to achieve that. The 
 only time there is lag is online if you or another player has a very bad connection.
  
  The game is not without its problems though. I have noticed that players online sometimes try to 
 wall glitch and sometimes they are successful bit most of the time someone kills them before they 
 can do anything. it is not a big problem but i thought it was worth mentioning.
  
  
  Overall the campaign may be short but it is epic. The multiplayer makes up for any problems the 
 game may have.
  So simply put.. This game is worth it, heck i would pay twice the amount i did pay for the game. 
 It is THAT good.
  
  
  Campaign: 9.1/10
  Multiplayer: 10/10
  Graphics: 10/10
  Sound: 9.6/10
  gameplay: 10/10
  tilt: 10/10
  replay value: 10/10
  funnessfactor: 9.8/10
 
  Overall score: 9.7/10
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: silentNMF
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 14, 2009 8:54 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty, Modern Warfare.
  I was introduced to the game as a team building game at work. I started playing the game on the 
 PC first. I found that when I got home after work, I wanted to play COD4 so I picked up a copy 
 for my 360. I was very lucky in that I had just completed my new home theater.
  
  When I fired up the game, I made sure the sound was up and sub on high. The environment was awesome 
 with surround sound. The game does a great job of giving audio clues as to where your team and 
 enemies are. You can hear people sneaking up on you (as long as they don't have the dead silence 
 perk) . Can get pretty intense if you allow the game to immerse you in it's environment.
  
  I like the weapons available, my favorite is the sniper/claymore combination the best, but having 
 a SAW to mow down enemies is a great alternative. I like the ground war multiplayer the best because 
 there are plenty of people playing at the same time. 
  
  The single player mode is great, my favorite part is the overhead mission with the big sky gun. 
 I wish they would have developed that aspect into a couple more missions.
  
  I think playing on the 360 is a bit tougher in terms of game control, but after playing for awhile, 
 the 360 controls are no problem at all compared to the keyboard on the PC version. 
  
  The main reason I like this game is because you can login, play a couple rounds and logout.
  
 
  I would recommend this game to anyone that enjoys the genre of war and battle. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DLion_DWinston
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 13, 2009 7:32 am PT
Review:  Man gona try and keep this short and sweet.
  
  Game play great,
  
  Difficulty great,
  
  Graphics great,
  
  control system good still prefers mouse and keybord,
  
  Game length 
 could be long for my liking but good,
  
  Right now to ad more detail to it.
  
  Game action is good combined with the slow and fast passed action makes for a good fight. The team 
 play is set up very good even coming from a PC FPS game player.
  
  Weapons mmmm now thats defo great the amount you can chose and use mmmm the words shot your load 
 off springs to mind.
  
  Multiplayer wasent keen on it cause I was to much of a PC FPS player. But when I got into it man 
 I didnt even wana stop and didnt even wake my nephew up and he was sleeping next to me while I 
 played.
  
  So Call of Duty fans PC and Console players buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mootalstrike
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 9, 2009 9:00 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is a revolutionary game for Activision's series because prior to this release all 
 previous games had been World War 2 exclusives. The campaign is extremely well put together thou 
 it is on the short side. The story also relates really well to the world today with missions in 
 the middle-east, thou the story might seem a little cheesy at times. The Co-op and online multi-player 
 are addictive as well due to the fact that it uses experience which you gain from kills, challenges 
 completed and match bonuses after the end of a game based on your performance in the particular 
 match.
  It also adds in the idea of prestige which basically makes it so that when you hit the max rank 
 (55) you have an option to start over at one for an even higher rank in the online system. 
  
  If you are a fan of Call of Duty or fps's or even if you've always wanted to get into them 
 you owe it to yourself to check it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctores143
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 8, 2009 8:55 pm PT
Review:  As you probably know from the header of this review this game is so amazingly addicting that it's 
 scary. The thing that makes it so addicting is the online multiplayer and the ability to shoot 
 through things but ill get into both of those later.
  
  The story is centered around a iraq terrorist leader named Al-Asad. After the prolouge level you 
 are a terrorist leader being executed in front of a stadium full of people by Al-Asad. He says 
 "The start of the rise of our nation is with the death of this man" and then he shoots you. Your 
 job is to bring down Al-Asad at all cost. 
  
  The online multiplayer is the really amazing part of this game however. For every kill you get 
 you get experience points which unlocks better guns and more "perks" which are bassically like 
 superpowers for your character like extra health or the ability to hold your breathe longer for 
 steadier sniper shots. You can also shoot through objects like wood, cement, or thin sheets of 
 metal. You are also equipped with a knife for close encounters.
  
  Overall score:9.5
  
  Call of duty 4 is a great game and in my opinion is a bit better than call of duty 5 because of 
 the time period. There is much funner technology like helicopters and guns that shoot 20 bullets 
 per second. Buy this game right away! It's more than worth the money!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tancred8120
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 8, 2009 3:14 pm PT
Review:  By the time 2007 came around, the gaming industry had already seen an overabundant amount of World 
 War II games, and by now, most major campaigns of the historical war have been used before. Luckily, 
 Call of Duty 4 bears a new title: Modern Warfare, taking us out of the trenches of WWII and into 
 modern times. And the switch is not in vain; in fact, Call of Duty 4 is one of the best First Person 
 Shooters to date.
  
  Since it's really one of the only flaws in the game, the campaign's length is disappointing, only 
 coming in at about 5 or 6 hours of playtime at the most. By rule of thumb though, quality trumps 
 quantity, and boy does it here. You'll play as 2 different perspectives in the campaign, one a 
 fresh recruit in the British SAS, and another a US Marine. The campaign is exciting to play, due 
 to unexpected moments thrown out after every turn and thrilling sequences like aborting nukes, 
 storming house after house looking for a terrorist leader, and even crawling in the grass through 
 an enemy patrol. It's these moments that make the game as thrilling as it is; it's just disappointing 
 that they don't last too long.
  
  It's a fairly simple concept most of the time too: you bear a compass that helps you find your 
 way to the objective, which usually means getting from point A to B. This isn't a cakewalk though, 
 dozens of hostiles begging to be shot in the face stand between you and your destination. This 
 calls for some spraying and praying, although for non-Rambo fanatics, precision shooting works 
 as another approach.
  
  Since the fantastic single player campaign is rather short, you'll probably be spending most of 
 your time in the outstanding multiplayer, which is probably one of the best, and most addicting 
 multiplayer in recent history. There are 16 maps to be played on and a wide variety of game types, 
 ranging from strait up Team Deathmatch, Free for All, Domination (basically controls points) as 
 well as objective based modes like Search and Destroy or Headquarters. 
  
  Call of Duty 4 digs a bit deeper than just shoot to kill, take out three enemies without dying 
 and you'll receive UAV radar, which will expose members of the enemy team for 30 seconds as red 
 dots on your map. Boost it up to a five-kill streak and you'll be able to call in an air strike 
 for you to place anywhere on the map. If you're able to reach seven kills without dying, you and 
 your team receive an AI controlled helicopter that will shoot any enemy in the line of fire. This 
 adds more variety to the game and manages to keep things fresh and fun.
  
  By doing all this, you'll receive XP, which is what multiplayer revolves around. Earning XP keeps 
 adding to your rank, and achieving higher ranks will unlock weapons, attachments for them, perks, 
 and challenges (more on these later) , and most importantly, keeps you addicted.
  
  What all those are used for is the Create-A-CIass feature. This allows you to customize your way 
 of play. First, pick a weapon and a side arm, as well as attachments for them. You may want a silencer 
 to hide you from enemy radars, or a red dot sight to replace the iron sights. Special grenades 
 are also available, like flash bangs, which temporarily blinds a foe, and smoke grenades to provide 
 cover in heavy fire situations. You have the opportunity to use 3 different perks from each category 
 of perks. Perks in the Perk 1 group are mostly extra explosives to carry around like pressure activated 
 claymores, or a RPG's that are great for taking out those pesky choppers. Perks from 2 and 3 seem 
 to be a little more varied. These include Sleight of Hand will give you a faster reload; UAV Jammer 
 will make you undetectable by enemy radars, and Martyrdom will drop a live grenade when you are 
 killed. 
  
  Challenges basically give rewards of XP, and are earned by getting a certain number of kills or 
 headshots with a weapon, or harder tasks like killing everyone on the enemy team without dying. 
 These are a lot of fun to obtain and coax you into exploring more weapons and cIasses.
  
  If there was a status quo for audiovisual presentation, Infinity Ward pulled their weight plus 
 500 sumo wrestlers. Graphics are breathtakingly realistic  from wide open pastures, to burning 
 buildings, to insanely detailed interiors, everything looks great. The lighting is terrific and 
 the game runs smoothly with no hiccups whatsoever  no matter how hectic things get. Everything 
 sounds as it should also. Gunfire off in the distance is appropriately muffled, while up close 
 and personal shooting has a lethal crack to it. Voice work is excellent and although music sounds 
 like a typical action game, it's well done. 
  
  So overall, Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is an astoundingly good game that you need to play, 
 regardless of what platform it's on. Whether you're looking for an incredibly well designed campaign, 
 or a deep multiplayer experience that's more addicting than crack, you'll definitely find something 
 to enjoy. Odds are though; you'll love everything about it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Johonywuzhere
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 4, 2009 8:57 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 Modern Warfare is the best shooter by a long shot. This game is the game that made 
 the amazing Halo series not seem so good. It's campaign is epic and not so short if you have the 
 right difficulty. The helicopter mission beat any campaign mission in any game I've played. The 
 campaign is amazing if you choose the right difficulty.
  
  The online play is better then any online play yet. It has create a class where you choose your 
 weapons, attachments and perks you use in a game. Perks are upgrades to your chracter. You can 
 go up to level 55, and then can prestige (to do it over again) which you get achievements for doing. 
 The guns are epics and many maps can be fun to play on. 
  
  The graphics make this game the best looking game right now. Almost every detail is made and the 
 guns don't look cheesy like some guns on Call of Duty World at War. 
  
  This game is perfection missing nothing and taking every aspect into hand. This game beats any 
 other Call of Duty even Call of Duty World at War. The campaign beats its campaign by a lot. The 
 online play is similar, but the weapons just make the Call of Duty World at War's weapons look 
 like crap. Call of Duty 4 is your best game to buy, but don't ignore Call of Duty World at War 
 if you already have this game. They are both great games, but Call of Duty 4 just beats out any 
 shooter for a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Syk0_k03r
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 30, 2009 5:53 pm PT
Review:  
  ok, i like the singleplayer... its fun and i can play it all the time
  but people say the multiplayer is whats the best of this game. i agree it was just mad fun... but 
 then i lost interest
  everyone overrates the crap out of this game, saying "the multiplayer is the best ever." well maybe 
 for you it is the best, because youve never even heard of team fortress 2, cs, or bf2... much less 
 played em.
  
  want to know how those differ from COD4? they actually take skill to play. they dont use such an 
 annoying perk system, that it overpowers everything therefore unbalancing the game. 
  
  you can pretty much set up a class with certain perks that will give you more of an advantage than 
 anyone else. and you can do it at an early level. you have an M16, which is a strong, accurate, 
 very low recoil 3 burst rifle, which is pretty much unlocked when starting the multiplayer. you 
 have martyrdom which is when you drop a grenade when you die, and its unlocked early also. and 
 last... you have a perk that is strong enough to kill ANYONE in 3 shots... given to you at level 
 1!
  
  so, the following perks/weapons i just listed... gives you an instant advantage in the game at 
 about level 16, and the only way to "suck" with those is either because EVERYONE uses that certain 
 class, or your just that bad... in that case, play something else.
  
  so yea, its just boring playing it when everyone craps a grenade when they die and overpowers their 
 overpowered weapons... even if you use a different custom class, whats the point? shoot this guy 
 and kill him in 3 shots, shoot the other guy. theres not much challenge doing that... i like it 
 when games require you to throw grenades at a certain angle, and use tactics to kill your enemy. 
 COD4 fails at that, its either "first one who shoots" or who has a better custom class, which is 
 pretty much the m16 with martyrdom and stopping power which EVERYONE USES!
  
  so im beyond the fact that this game was "most played" everywhere for about a year now. maybe it 
 is something new... but the multiplayer is boring and unbalanced... nowhere near TF2/BF2/CS
  
  what keeps me from giving this game 6.5 would be the campaign. the campaign wasnt as fun as 
 the multiplayer was, but it was just epic... i can play it again and again and again and not get 
 bored 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bmassarani
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 29, 2009 6:17 am PT
Review:  I can't tell you how sick I am of WW2 shooters. Resistance (yes its an alternate universe but whoopideedoo) , 
 Medal of Honor, Call of Duty, have completely run the genre in to the ground. So when a buddy of 
 mine let me borrow COD 4 I was a little apprehensive. But believe the reviews, i thoroughly enjoyed 
 COD 4.
  
  The storyline, varied mission locales, new weapons, all make this an extremely fresh and fun game. 
 I was pleasantly suprised to see that the entirety of the game didn't focus on the middle east, 
 and the globe trotting missions kept the game's pace brisk and enjoyable. 
  
  i did run into some timed missions that gave me some problems (normally because in a shooter I 
 like to go slow, a necessity at higher difficulty levels) , but in certain sections of the game 
 it turns into a mad dash to escape or complete an objective. While these sections had me dying 
 A LOT, they were more fun than frustrating and added to a level of realism.
  
  The Good - Graphics, Story, the fact that it is a very competent shooter set in present day
  
 
  The Bad - The single player campaign is short, but well done. 
  
  The Ugly - accounting for the wind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eajack
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 27, 2009 1:29 pm PT
Review:  First off, let me say that I'm not much of a competitive multiplayer kind of gamer. I've played 
 the COD4 multiplayer, and it was very good. But not my cup of tea. But that's not the game's fault... 
 just my preferences. I can see how it is one of the best multiplayer shooters on the system right 
 now.
  
  Now... what my review centers on is the sometimes ignored single player campaign. Call of Duty: 
 Modern Warfare will change your perception of realistic shooters forever.
  
  The campaign is too short, but every moment of it is riveting and will pull your emotions apart 
 from beginning to end. You will feel heart pounding adrenalin in every firefight. You will feel 
 fear and dread of getting found when it is in your best interest to stay hidden. You will feel 
 heart-wrenching sorrow at the fate of those around you. More than once while playing, I'd finish 
 a mission only to turn off the XBOX and sit in quiet contemplation of what I had just experienced. 
 It was both exciting and sobering. It was fun as far as a game goes, but it also helps you to understand 
 the true consequences of war.
  
  There's plenty of variety in the campaign. You certainly won't say the game gets repetative. From 
 stealth to storming an enemy line. Sniper attacks to protective firing cover from a gunship aircraft. 
 Vehicular chases to helicopter drops. Every mission is new and exciting, and in almost every mission 
 something is going to make you exclaim "Holy Poop!" or some less family-friendly explicative.
 
  
  In the end, you will finish the campaign and know that you experienced something. Move on, dive 
 into the multiplayer, or replay the campaign on the uber-difficult modes. Whatever you do, you 
 will have played a seminal game of the era. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheDecoy2124
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 24, 2009 11:32 pm PT
Review:  COD4 is the greatest game in the series hands down. From the cinnematic quality campaign, to the 
 highly addictive multiplayer, COD4 delivers on so many levels. To be honest I see no true problems 
 with the game, well, except for Juggernaut, Martydom, Noobtubes, and random gernades. But, thats 
 a different story. I would recommend this over COD WaW even. 
  Gameplay- 10/10
  Visuals- 10/10
  Replay Value- 10/10
  Length- 10/10
  Multiplayer- 10/10
  
  I purchased 
 COD WaW on it's first night out and ended up playing COD4 by the end of the night. I really can't 
 explain it, but everytime I shot someone and hit them it was almost like it did nothing. I stopped 
 playing for a week and came back and was just doing horrible and I couldn't explain why. On COD4 
 my KD chart is 1,567 kills and 973 deaths, while on CoD WaW I have 946 kills and 1,627 deaths and 
 I have no idea why. The perks I use are Bandolier, Stopping Power, and Steady Aim. I don't know 
 why it happens to me but if anyone else has this problem please let me know.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RD1109
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 14, 2009 4:18 pm PT
Review:  The Call Of Duty series has always been a good series, but never really my "thing". So Call Of 
 Duty 4 wasn't a game I was very excited about. The thing that changed my mind is when my friend 
 gave me a beta key for this game. Then, I HAD to have it. Call Of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is definitely 
 the best FPS I've ever played, and I've played a ton. The game features a deep multiplayer I've 
 never found in any other game, and it's campaign mode is really fun and dynamic.
  
  SINGLE PLAYER
  
  The Call Of Duty 4 single player campaign mode is awesome. There are four 
 different difficulties, making it so anyone can enjoy. You play as two different soldiers, John 
 "Soap" MacTavish and Paul Jackson. Both are fighting for two different task forces, although the 
 two forces ARE on the same side. You will experience ground battles, large firefights, sneaking 
 up on people, getting attacked by dogs, sniping people miles away, helicopter gunning, and even 
 controlling the gun of an AC-130 gun plane. All these things make for a really fun experience. 
 Once you beat the campaign, you unlock "Arcade Mode", which is the campaign mode with scoring and 
 a set amount of lives.
  
  MULTIPLAYER
  
  The multiplayer in Modern Warfare is where you will have the most fun. The game comes package with 
 sixteen maps for multiplayer use, and there is an available "Variety Map Pack" for 800MP on the 
 XBL marketplace that adds three maps to the game. In my opinion, all of the maps are amazing, except 
 for a couple (two or three) . There is an ample amount of guns and equipment, all of which you can 
 customize to your own liking with many different scopes, silencers, grips, and camouflages. The 
 create-a-class feature let's you make up to five custom classes to use in mutiplayer. You choose 
 a main weapon, a side pistol, a special grenade (smoke / flashbang / stun) , and three perks. These 
 perks vary from extra weapon damage, faster sprinting, deeper bullet penetration (you can shoot 
 through walls in the game) , slightly more health, an MUCH more. You can combo any three together 
 for a deadly class. There are over ten game types to choose from (Team Deathmatch, Capture the 
 Flag, etc.) . The main focus of the multiplayer is the ranking system. This system has a level cap 
 of 55, and each level up comes with a new weapon, perk, or set of challenges. These challenges 
 can be used for large amounts of experience. Once you reach level 55 (takes about a week) , you 
 can then prestige. Prestige mode is a new level where you lose everything you've unlocked, your 
 current level, and your old logo in exchange for a new logo (proof of prestige) and another cap 
 of 55. You can choose to stay at Level 1 - 55, or move onto Level 2 - 55. There are ten prestiges 
 in all.
  
  Overall, Call Of Duty 4 provides everything ANY gamer could want in an FPS. If you are a fan of 
 shooters, and own an Xbox 360, PS3, or Gaming PC - GET THIS GAME. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killer437
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 18, 2009 3:07 pm PT
Review:  the game is so amazing! its multiplayer is so fun (i just unlocked r700) . anybody who has ever 
 wanted a modern warfare game, THIS IS IT! but when you do prestige mode, i would like to keep all 
 the guns and golden guns and camo and attachments and perks. COOL COOL COOL COOL COOL COOL COOL 
 COOL COOL COOL COOL COOL COOL COOL COOL COOL COOL COOL COOL COOL COOL COOL COOL COOL COOL COOL 
 COOL COOL COOL COOL COOL COOL COOL COOL COOL COOL COOL COOL COOL COOL COOL COOL COOL COOL COOL 
 COOL COOL COOL COOL COOL COOL COOL COOL COOL COOL COOL COOL COOL COOL COOL COOL COOL COOL COOL 
 COOL COOL COOL COOL COOL COOL COOL COOL COOL COOL COOL COOL COOL COOL COOL COOL COOL COOL COOL 
 COOL COOL COOL COOL COOL COOL COOL COOL COOL COOL COOL COOL COOL i would also like to see some 
 new weapon updates from xbox live =) I LOVE IT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gormo4
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 18, 2009 11:58 am PT
Review:  Positives
  + Great visually stunning campaign
  + Solid fps gameplay
  + Unbeateble multiplayer
  
  Negatives
  - Campaign is to short
  - Sometimes too addictive!
 
  
  Welcome to my review for Call of duty 4: modern warfare, not being a big fan of shooters I wasn't 
 expecting to much as I felt constantly let down by other shooters.
  Firstly- Call of duty 4 is set around modern warfare and features a short 10 hour campaign mode, 
 online multiplayer and split screen action.
  
  The campaign takes you accross modern warfare battlefields such as through Arabian cities, radioactive 
 ghost towns and many more.
  All areas are beautifully detailed and have great enviromental details, everything you shoot does 
 something.
  To sum it up- graphics are great, I especially note water quality and weapon detail.
  
  There 
 isn't much to say about music, I didn't really notice much because I was to busy listening to the 
 sound of gun fire and grenades.
  
  Don't get me wrong though, Cod4 isn't all bang and boom, there are moments where you have to be 
 stealth like, for example there's a mission where you sneak through fields with nothing but a sniper 
 rifle and your own wits.
  Good moments also include using the gunship, flying over a city shooting enemies from an anti aircraft 
 gun and carrying out your comrade from an abandoned city whilst being chased by wild dogs and russians.
 
  
  Multiplayer is great, you can play online with over 10+ maps, you can also do splitscreen with 
 4 players.
  I like the fast paced online multiplayer, you can play in several modes like capture the flag, 
 free for all, team death match or terrotories.. it's all good fun.
  
  Altough the campaign only lasts a good 10-20 hours Cod4 is worth the 20 if you have access to 
 online or have people to play splitscreen with.
  I hope this review has helped, thanks for reading!
  ~Gormo
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: myLIFEjustFINE
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 17, 2009 12:26 pm PT
Review:  Let me first say Call of Duty 4 is the best installation of the Call of Duty franchise. The mix 
 of a short, yet fully immersive single player campaign and absolutely stellar online play make 
 Call of Duty 4 a must own game.
  
  Gameplay wise Call of Duty 4 does leave many things to be desired. There is relatively no way to 
 fully interact with your environment aside from climbing random things. The controls and mechanics 
 are well done. Multiplayer is where the game truly shines. I've added over 250+ hours into the 
 online play alone ( i know I'm a dork ) and if you're wondernig, yes it is honestly that addicting.
 
  
  Graphics are awe inspiring and the environments are beautiful. While there is a noticeable difference 
 in the online graphics in HD there is still not much to complain about. At the time of its release 
 it had the best graphics on the market for a console. 
  
  Overall, Call of Duty 4 is an amazing game with a replayabilty through the roof. Gameplay wise 
 there is more to be desired, yet still manages to be the best online shooter on the market. With 
 an emmense gaming community Call of Duty 4 manages to create an identity as the best installment 
 in the franchise.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: coop36
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 15, 2009 1:03 pm PT
Review:  I admit I had doubts when I first heard the Call of Duty series was going modern. I thought it 
 would be the end, and a big mistake. But i was wrong on so many levels. This is a solid experience 
 with great graphics and fun to be had. Heres the pros and cons:
  
  PROS:
  --great single player campaign with variation like sniping and air assault
  --superb graphics 
 and details
  --awesome weapons and different feels
  --as always, good explosions and smoke effects
  --health regeneration isnt as cheap as you would 
 think it is
  --EPIC multiplayer and leveling up keeps you coming back
  --tons of options for matches in multiplayer to give you plenty variety
  --cool ending
  
 
  CONS:
  --single player not long enough
  -- not a "free roaming" fps, pretty much only one set path you can go on
  -- multiplayer at times 
 feels overwhelmingly cheap when you play clans or those with more experience
  
  
  Overall this is a great game without really any flaws besides not giving you more to feed your 
 appetite. If you dont already have this game you should give it a shot and see one of the best 
 games the xbox 360 and PS3 has to offer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: khoofia_pika
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 15, 2009 7:07 am PT
Review:  After the release of Call of Duty 2, everything was going great for Activision. They had garnered 
 a huge fan following and had made a modern masterpiece out of a series that was originally just 
 "another" competitor against the then omnipotent Medal of Honor series. all of Duty was bang on 
 track and everything was going great for them. But then came along Call of Duty 3, a game developed 
 by Treyach which when looked at indivudually is great and an FPS worth playing, which when compared 
 to the other COD games and compared to what we expected, fell flat. COD3 was a major disappointment. 
 Activivsion had to do something or one of their most major franchises would die. 
  
  It was then that Infinity Ward returned to make another sequel and the Call of Duty series returned 
 with a vengeance. Exactly one year after the previous installment, Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare 
 hit the stores. 
  
  The very name of the game reflects the fact that this installment is different than the previous 
 major titles of the series. First of all, it has a subtitle- "Modern Warfare." And the subtitle 
 quite much tells you what the game is about.
  
  
  Activision and Infinity Ward knew when they were developing this game that the time of World War 
 II had come to an end. They had to move on, and try something completely different. And so, that 
 Call of Duty will be set in the present day. 
  
  
  The story of the game, even though nothing special, is good and can lead to some great sections 
 in the game and some spectacular cutscenes and battles. 
  
  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is as refined, shining and polished and rounded as few games have 
 hoped to be till now. It has a very high level of sheen and quality and with a surprisingly stable 
 framerate (what with there being a lot of activity all over the screen all the time, with some 
 great environments, blasts, weapons firing, or soldiers or vehicles or whatnots) , great sound, 
 sharp and clear lighting effects, spectacular graphics, great gameplay and gameplay mechanics, 
 and the best online till date, this game has everything going for it.
  
  The graphics of the game are as good as any game can ever hope to be. Always, the background, be 
 it large and magnificent cities of epic scope or dark and dreary and conjusted areas in a small 
 buildings, the graphics are always very well sharply defined. There is always a lot of activity 
 on the screen- thousands of bullets might be fired in a moments, many vehicles and characters would 
 be present in the screen, there might be blasts behind you or all of them together. But the frame 
 rate never ever drops. Also, there are great lighting efeects and everything looks the way it should.
 
  
  The gameplay of the game is like any other shooter, only more refined and polished. Always, there 
 is a compass at the bottom of your screen which shows your ultimate objective's location. All you 
 have to do is move and shoot and shoot and ultimately reach your destination. Sounds pretty boring, 
 right? Wrong. Never before has "moving and shooting and reaching your ultimate objective" been 
 so refined, fun and brilliant. I simply don't have words for it.
  
  Then, there's the game's online mode (out of which team deathmatch is my personal favourite) . The 
 game has six modes and many many many maps to chose from. Also, there's the class system in which 
 you can chose your own class which will ultimately decide which weapon you wield and what type 
 of player you will be. As you unlock more classes, you will be able to make your own classes and 
 decide which weapon they wield, which grenades they carry and so on. 
  
  You earn experience points and as you level up, you unlock more stuff for the online mode. 
  
 
  Basically, COD4 is a very rounded, polished, refined and a high quality experience. Every aspect 
 of the game is almost perfect. Only, its campaign is too short and you can finish it in five-six 
 hours. But the quality of the game in general and the online mode make up for that. Buy this game 
 NOW!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: daddymc
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 14, 2009 1:37 pm PT
Review:  You can"t beat the New School! You can"t beat the New School! You can"t beat the New School! You 
 can"t beat the New School! You can"t beat the New School! You can"t beat the New School! You can"t 
 beat the New School! You can"t beat the New School! You can"t beat the New School! You can"t beat 
 the New School! You can"t beat the New School! You can"t beat the New School! You can"t beat the 
 New School! You can"t beat the New School! You can"t beat the New School! You can"t beat the New 
 School! You can"t beat the New School! You can"t beat the New School! You can"t beat the New School! 
 You can"t beat the New School! You can"t beat the New School! You can"t beat the New School! You 
 can"t beat the New School! You can"t beat the New School! You can"t beat the New School! You can"t 
 beat the New School! You can"t beat the New School! You can"t beat the New School! You can"t beat 
 the New School! You can"t beat the New School! You can"t beat the New School! You can"t beat the 
 New School! You can"t beat the New School! You can"t beat the New School! You can"t beat the New 
 School! You can"t beat the New School! You can"t beat the New School! You can"t beat the New School! 
 You can"t beat the New School! You can"t beat the New School! You can"t beat the New School! You 
 can"t beat the New School! You can"t beat the New School! You can"t beat the New School! You can"t 
 beat the New School! You can"t beat the New School! You can"t beat the New School! You can"t beat 
 the New School! You can"t beat the New School! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XBOXGangster
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 11, 2009 6:54 am PT
Review:  Ok i will give it to you short and sweet, this game is a multiplayer game its a short campaign 
 mode. You have ranks in multiplayer. 1-55 and have "Prestige" mode. This mode allows you to go 
 through the ranks another 10 times. Lots of great weapons. The forces that are in the game are 
 S. A. S., USMC, and Spetnaz. If you are looking for a multiplayer game buy it or world at war (cod5) . 
 Campaign is not good in this game. Its short but its good practice. The maps are good and the variety 
 map pack is good. There are lots of game types like Team Deathmatch, Free-for-All, headquarters 
 (my favorite) , Cage match, Sabotage (like counter strike) , Search and destroy (is counter strike) . 
 Another feature is create a class in multiplayer. This allows you to put red dot sights, scopes, 
 grips (on RPG's) , and camo on your gun. Also you can have a clan tag. 1 more thing is you unlock 
 things by rank. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tony-da-man
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 7, 2009 2:32 pm PT
Review:  Set in the world of the near future this game uses all the right features from many games and fuses 
 them together to form one of the best (although lacking innovation) fps's that i have ever experienced.
 
  
  Two levels: That is what I have to say. What does this mean.. I'll tell you. While multiplayer has 
 enthralled me and surpassed my expectations on every level and could not find any serious faults 
 with it, the same story cannot be said of the single player which is in my opinion so unexplained 
 that it cannot be untangled with a titanium brush!
  
  The story comprises of you following two soldiers: one American, one SAS, through the middle-east 
 and eastern europe following their story which intersects at points throughout the game you can 
 find the whole story on Gamespot, Wikipedia, etc.
  
  When you think of the single player of a game basically it consists of gameplay and story. First 
 to gameplay which can also be seen through multiplayer which is with Halo 3 the best i've played 
 for an fps. Now to the only thing I can complain about :the story.
  
  On paper the story sounds like a great experience which is in fact the most emotionally lacking 
 story in a long time. If anyone in died in the game I would/or did not feel any sadness at all. Tell 
 me if you would/or did. You really begin to not care about any character in the game because of 
 a lack of interactions with any of them at any point in the story. Look at other games if Sergeant 
 Major died in Halo i would feel sadness as he was such a character if cortana died again there 
 would feeling. GOW2 if Dom died, Marcus, Cole see my point! Every game needs to have characters this 
 did not happen with COD4
  
  Multiplayer: This is a true diamond in its own right and worth the money if this was the whole 
 game. Fully fleshed out classes, levels, lobbies, perks and guns add up to a top multiplayer bonanza.
 
  
  A great game which i hope will be improved upon with the next modern warfare. Thanks for reading! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FaBolOuS-KiDD
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 3, 2009 4:37 pm PT
Review:  War rages on in the fourth edition of Activision's acclaimed war game. For the first time in the 
 series, Call of Duty moves away from WWII to the modern battlefield. Armed with an arsenal of advanced 
 and powerful modern day firepower, players are transported to treacherous hotspots around the globe 
 to take on a rogue enemy group threatening the world. As both a U. S Marine and British S. A. S. soldier 
 fighting through an unfolding story full of twists and turns, players use sophisticated technology, 
 superior firepower and coordinated land and air strikes on a battlefield where speed, accuracy 
 and communication are essential to victory. The epic title also delivers an added depth of multiplayer 
 action providing online fans an all-new community of persistence, addictive and customizable game 
 play.
  
  The online game play by far is the most addictive yet. You Got this interesting customizable class 
 set. You got five different class sets such assault, for far away combat, you got the sub machine 
 class set for medium range combat, you got the shotguns class set for up close and personal, if your 
 the type of guy who camps back and doesn't like to die then you got the snipers class set, and if 
 your looking for raw power and a lot of ammo then the light machine gun class set is the one for 
 you.
  
  while customizing this classes you can add a variety of attachments such as the red dot for enhanced 
 vision which lets you pin point the targets from far away, you got the silencer for sneaking around 
 the map killing your enemies around the map without appearing as a red dot on the other teams radar, and 
 you also got a a cog scope which lets you look from deep in a map.
  
  One of the most interesting parts of the class making systems are upgrades call perks that help 
 you through the match there are perks such as rpg which give you which give you this extra gun 
 that lets you shoot rockets you can also equip stopping power perk which gives you extra bullet 
 damage or juggernaut which gives you extra life, you can also equip perks such as dead silence which 
 doesn't allow players to hear your footsteps around the map. You can only equip 3 perks at a time. 
 There are 3 types of perks the first perk accessory or extra equipment for your character, second 
 perk set makes your character do more do more bullet damage or take more damage and or reload his 
 gun faster, third perk sets are the gun enhancement such as deep impact increases bullet penetration 
 or dead silence. There about 12 perks for each set. You unlock more perks and more guns as you 
 rank up.
  
  There are ten unique ranks that you acquire while ranking up in call of duty 4 they are called 
 the 10 prestige's. luckily they are not that hard to attain you rank up just by doing anything. 
 Unlocking new gun, completing challenges, killing another player all of this gives you points so 
 don't worry about ranking up. You got a leader board score that compare you too other players around 
 the world. Challenges are like little achievement that you do on cod4 that gives you a reward of 
 points when complete them that helps you rank up faster.
  
  This was just a brief summary of what to come of the online play of call of duty 4. Over all i 
 give this game 10 plus rating and its one of the best game out there right now. So i suggest you 
 get off your computer right now and go get a copy of this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ikensee
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 3, 2009 11:00 am PT
Review:  This was my first CoD game I have ever played and it was a fantastic experience. The graphics look 
 very good and the gameplay has various formats from stealth sequences to shooting (duh!) to riding 
 in a helicopter while taking out enemies that are as small as an ant. It does get a little frustrating 
 on the harder difficulties, but that's why it's a harder difficulty.
  The arcade mode is fun and nostalgic. I always wonder when games shifted from "You have 'X' amount 
 of lives to get through the 'X' amount of levels" to "You have unlimited lives and continues." 
 Now I know why because I didn't get past the first level and I would therefore never finish the 
 game. Granted I'm newer to shooters and people can get a lot farther than me, but when enemies 
 can throw grenades right at your feet from 100 yards away, (okay so I stole that from the Gamespot 
 review, but it's true) you are bound to die, especially in harder difficulties. But the arcade 
 mode was fun while it lasted. I did not try online yet, but I'm sure it's fun. The story was pretty 
 good and the gameplay cinematic. My mother thought I was watching 60 minutes when I was playing 
 CoD 4. Overall, great game and a must own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ashbag
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 2, 2009 2:03 pm PT
Review:  The Good -
  - Excellent military story
  - Veteran mode is a true challenge
  - Incredible enemy AI
  - Very atmospheric soundtrack and incredibly realistic sfx
  - Awesome 
 graphics
  - Makes firing a gun more fun than it should be
  - Very useful aiming mode
  - Great variety of weapons
  - Acheivements and collectibles add replay value
  - Adrenaline 
 soaked online modes with a great ranking system. The killcam is cool and stops camping. The perk 
 system is also a nice touch
  - Story is a good length at around fifteen hours long
  
  The Bad -
  N/a
  
  Call Of Duty Modern Warfare is more than an outstandng technical acheivement, 
 its also an incredibly fun and challenging game with an immersive story. The change in setting 
 from WW2 to modern is a nice change too. The multiplayer is among the best there is at present 
 and will keep you coming back for months. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: yeliabmit
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 1, 2009 10:01 pm PT
Review:  I am a pretty big fan of the Call of Duty series to date. However, once I was past the interesting 
 changes in technology and available weaponry, I found the this "modern" installment to be disappointing 
 overall. 
  
  I understand that soldiers aren't often all that informed as to the purpose or reasoning behind 
 their assignments, but I found this game to be especially confusing at times: Who is this guy in 
 the tracksuit? How did a one-armed psychopath end up in charge? What do Russian Ultranationalists 
 have to do with any of this? This left me with the feeling that the backstory was a combination 
 of lame stereotypes, easy scapegoating, and PR whitewashing for US adventurism in the Middle East. 
 And the hackneyed ending, with its ridiculous cover-up of a nuclear exchange and armed incursion 
 into a sovereign Russia, put the final nail in the coffin. A more intelligent or original backstory 
 would have made a world of difference for me.
  
  As far as gameplay goes, I had hoped for some significant improvements since the original CoD, 
 but here too I was disappointed. It's great that the enemy takes cover, but not so great that they 
 still also routinely embrace death in order to take pot shots at you. Human Wave tactics are the 
 last resort of desperate commanders, not a standard response to enemy contact. It was unsatisfying 
 to learn that I could still advance using my squad-mates as cover, a significant problem with earlier 
 iterations of the game.
  
  The game is still a good game, but I'll think twice before purchasing any more of the series if 
 the AI issues don't see any improvement. And I guess I should have known better regarding the geopolitical 
 storyline. I'll probably have to wait twenty or thirty years before I can play a game with a more 
 realistic treatment of the US involvement in the ME. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tknight03
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 1, 2009 9:51 am PT
Review:  love the game a lot of surprises great graffix!!! every level explosive i like the fact you can 
 almost destroy anything that you shoot launch or throw at blows up . love it love it love it anyone 
 who loves action will love this game i like the fact that the creators strayed away form the countless 
 world war two but gave it the modern war love the tom clancys ghost recons but not happy with the 
 new release endwar to much setting up and reading getting to know the game before you can play 
 then you dont have a clue WHAT YOU DOING!!! so my personal review on this game is a 10 easy to 
 understand you dont have to be a nasa science programer to have fun shooting stuff killing bad 
 guys completting missions picking up cool weapons shooting bad guy from the air with cool diffrent 
 night visions plus when you get killed you contuine where you left off 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tg1413
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 31, 2008 10:11 am PT
Review:  To put it simply, Call of Duty 4 is an absolutely fantastic game, and is Infinity Ward's jewel 
 in the crown. Taking Call of Duty to an all new modern setting, Modern Warfare raises the bar on 
 first-person shooters to an extremely high level.
  
  After the disappointing game that was Call of Duty 3, Activision decided to try and reinvent the 
 Call of Duty franchise with the help of Infinity Ward, by moving to a shiny new modern setting. 
 The setting promised an intense, gritty and emotional shooter, and that's exactly what Modern Warfare 
 delivers. While the campaign is not that long, it's short and sweet, with every minute of it superb. 
 Anything that's lacking in the campaign is more than compensated for the highly addicting multiplayer. 
 
  
  Call of Duty 4's campaign is centred on many current affairs, such as nuclear warfare, wars in 
 the middle east, and ultranationalism. It pits you as Soap McTavish of the S. A. S., and Sergeant 
 Paul Jackson of the U. S. Marines. The game begins with a very explanatory tutorial, as your fellow 
 S. A. S. soldier Gaz, takes you through the ropes of combat. If you're used to FPS's then it'll be 
 a cakewalk. You're then led on to a mockup of your first mission, the cargo ship. Within this you 
 have to shoot various targets through a run as quickly as possible. As with the previous tutorial, 
 this is a breeze if you're experienced. 
  
  Before you start your first mission, you "experience" a cinematic level, which serves as an opener 
 to the game, and leads you into the upcoming events. You see a military coup in the Middle-Eastern 
 country you rule, through the President of that country's eyes. This opening sets the mood for 
 the entire experience, with various soldiers beating you and kicking in a very visceral and gritty 
 way. Finally, this ends with your execution, with one of the villains of the game Al-Asad taking 
 a pistol to your head. This is just a taster of things to come.
  
  The first thing you'll notice when just looking at a screen of Modern Warfare or watching a video 
 is the graphics. Modern Warfare looks amazing. Infinity Ward have had a whole new overhaul on the 
 graphics, using superb lighting effects, animations, and depth of field effects all running at 60 
 fps, making the game one of the most realistic looking, and one of the best looking games to date. 
 To match with the amazing visuals is fantastic sound. Everything within the game sounds realistic, 
 authentic, and, well, bombastic. No, seriously. Guns sound great, with solid cracks for gunfire, 
 each sounding like they fit each gun. Explosions sound suitably huge, and other things such as 
 helicopters whirring and tanks firing right in your ear make Modern Warfare a feast for the ears. 
 To top off the sound is the top notch voice acting. While your character never speaks, your comrades 
 such as Captain Price, Gaz, SSgt. Griggs, and Lt. Vasquez are acted incredibly well. They have 
 gravity and emotion, but they fit the situation and characters very well, creating realistic characters 
 that you come to care about towards the later stages of the campaign.
  
  The campaign is spattered with variety. While the places you go to are only within 2 or 3 countries, 
 the variety in the levels is incredible. Within each level there are so many different elements. 
 There could be a section where you kill some enemies in houses, then enter a huge firefight outside 
 and carry on once you've made it past that. Even though you are essentially running and gunning 
 through the majority of the levels, you're always doing something different within them. There 
 are so many things within each level that just make you think, "wow." For example, there's trying 
 to escape off a sinking ship while it's rocking from side to side, filling with water; there's 
 going through a house after cutting off the lights and picking off your enemies in the dark using 
 night vision; there's firing grenade launchers out of a helicopter. I could go on, as the levels 
 are just full of great, unforgettable moments. No matter what you do, it doesn't get boring (well 
 it does after a lot of playthroughs but that's not the point.) It's just nonstop from the word 
 go, and is an absolute blast to play. It's also presented in such a cinematic fashion that makes 
 it that much more intense. Unfortunately, while the campaign is so good, it's pretty short. For 
 an average player it should take around 8-10 hours, and once you've done it, if you're still playing 
 on the same difficulty, it'll get shorter and shorter. Honestly though, the length of the campaign 
 seems fitting to the intensity of it, as a much longer game may have actually detracted from the 
 experience. But there's always higher difficulty levels. I had to give a shout out to Veteran difficulty. 
 It's frustrating and it's hard, but somehow, it's still fun, and you'll get a real feeling of satisfaction 
 when you're done.
  
  One thing which could have also improved the campaign is the addition of multiplayer. With other 
 top shooter titles such as Halo 3 and Gears of War offering 4 and 2 player throughout their respective 
 campaigns, it seems like an obvious thing to do for a triple A shooter trying to compete. However, 
 if the developers at Infinity Ward did spend time developing a campaign that was also compatible 
 with multiplayer it may have detracted from the experience. Maybe we'll have to wait for Modern 
 Warfare 2, and see, if they do implement it there, how well it works.
  
  To top off the campaign is Modern Warfare's multiplayer. It's just superb. Fast, intense multiplayer 
 matches combined with a progressive experience system make it highly addicting. There's also a 
 decent amount of modes, and a great variety in maps. The experience system, the classes and the 
 perks are what make Call of Duty 4 stand out. For every kill or capture you get experience points, 
 and when you get enough experience you level up. When you level up you can unlock new weapons and 
 perks. There are various attachments for each weapon that can be earned by completing challenges, 
 such as kill 25 people with X weapon or get 25 headshots with Y weapon. The attachments include 
 a red dot sight, a silencer, a scope, and a grenade launcher for certain weapons. When you complete 
 these challenges, you also get experience, so there are other incentives to complete them. There 
 are also other miscellaneous challenges which you can complete to earn experience, which give you 
 another fun goal to work towards during matches. When you level up, you also unlock perks for your 
 character. There are 3 groups of perks, all of which can be balanced to suit your preferences. 
 There are perks such as bomb squad which tells you the position of any hidden enemy explosives, 
 UAV jammer which makes you undetectable on the enemy radar, and juggernaut which gives you more 
 health. All of these perks combined with the variety in weapons and attachments give you the freedom 
 to make whatever type of class you want. Finally, the icing on the cake is Modern Warfare's kill 
 streak system. When you get 3 kills without dying you unlock radar, where you can find all the 
 enemies positions on your map. When you get 5 kills without dying you can call in a bombing run 
 at any position of your choice on the map. And when you get 7 kills without dying you can call 
 in an attack chopper which flies about the map, shooting people for around 1 minute. If you get 
 all of these in combination with each other, you can dominate, but fortunately the game still manages 
 to remain balanced. Things like the helicopter make matches more intense, and makes being careful 
 worthwhile. My one complaint with the multiplayer is the lack of any kind of skill system. Modern 
 Warfare has a more than capable matchmaking system, quickly sorting you into teams and creating 
 matches, but the teams are entirely random, so you could be on the first level with hardly any 
 weapons, facing off against someone at the highest level with all of the weapons. A matchmaking 
 system involving skill would just improve the game that much more, so you played with people around 
 your skill level, and you didn't just destroy the other team, or you didn't destroy them due to 
 a difference in skill level. Hopefully that's something they'll include in Modern Warfare 2. Also 
 something just for people playing locally is the fact that only one player can go online locally. 
 It would have been nice to see more than one person to be able to go online locally, as versus 
 mode locally, while being fun, isn't as fun as online play.
  
  Overall, Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is an absolutely superb first person shooter, with a campaign 
 that is fantastic and intense while it lasts, and an addictive and fun multiplayer that rounds 
 off the whole experience into an absolutely amazing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tyrant03
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 30, 2008 8:46 pm PT
Review:  This was one of the games that I got with my Xbox 360 but I had watched gameplay videos on Youtube 
 before I got it and I knew I had to have it. The graphics in this game are breathtaking, possibly 
 the best out there. The only bad thing about the story mode is that it is over way too quickly 
 and for a game with a single-player campaign this explosive, you definitely want more! Every single 
 level has a OH MY GOD WOAH!!!!! moment in it especially the mission "Shock and Awe". I won't give 
 anything away but all I can say is wow... just.. wow. BUT not only is the story mode incredible but 
 it also offers one of the best multiplayer experiences that in my personal opinion is so much better 
 then Halo 3's. You actually unlock weapons, perks, add-ons and challenges with each rank up which 
 really motivates you to do the work. Overall, get this game now if you haven't! The short campaign 
 might turn some people away but that short campaign is only short because it's so amazing. You 
 will become so immersed that you will lose track of time.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Setsuka13
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 30, 2008 7:58 pm PT
Review:  This game is so cool because it the developers took a risk. (Unlike Treyarch, who played it safe 
 with WWII. Again.) They decided to stray away from the popular, although aging, WWII setting. They 
 went with a modern one instead. Now, this is a risk, especially considering that making up a war 
 and having it be convincing and entertaining, on top of being fun and realistic, is not an easy 
 thing to do. (And let us not forget to throw in good controls, graphics, gameplay and a whole overhaul 
 of what was once a WWII, set to be made for you, kind of game.) But after about a year, Infinity 
 Ward Delivered on virtually all fronts. We had before us a brand new, un-expected, Halo 3 killing 
 game that would live on to be played for years to come.
  
  This game has a short storyline which is the biggest thing preventing it from earning a 9.5, rather 
 than the 9.0 in which I gave it.
  
  The story (unless your a veteran player) can be beaten in a day or two. Really short basically. 
 But, however, short does not mean bad. This game has a very interesting story and is also surprisingly 
 believable. I'm not gonna discuss the plotline, but what I can say is that it's very good and will 
 probably keep your attention all through out.
  
  And now, for the multiplayer. The biggest and best (and obviously most time spent on (for both 
 you and the developer) part of the game.) part of Call Of Duty 4. The reason why multiplayer is 
 so great? Well it's simple really. 
  
  You start off as a private. Rank one. Very low. Almost nothing. But, as you play, you quickly learn 
 that you have a long way ahead of you. But that long way, is fun and addictive.
  
  You see, you level up by getting XP. A certain amount of XP carries you to your next rank, level 
 2. How you ask? By killing of course! Every kill you get, nets you points. What if you help kill 
 someone, but don't fully kill them? Less points, but points nonetheless. If you have some serious 
 skills (and a little luck) you may get 3 kills in a row. If you do, you earn the ability to call 
 in UAV Recon. It reveals all of the enemies on the map for you, so you (and your team) can have 
 an easier time killing and getting towards victory. 5 kills in a row and you can call in an airstrike 
 on a position of your choice. (UAV works well with that, because you can plant it where there are 
 plenty of enemies.) And last but not least, 7 kills lets you call in an attack chopper to shoot 
 your enemies for you. Why do mention all of that? Because calling in any 3 of those things will 
 get you ten points. Basically, almost everything you do gets you points and so leveling up is fairly 
 quick and easy. Even for new players. So don't worry about being good (I sure ain't) and just try 
 to win. You'll be guaranteed to level up eventually!
  
  Ok. I think I have been talking long enough. So, i'll summarize, and then i'll be done. 
  
 
  Good
  -Interesting and fun story
  -Multiplayer is addictive, rewarding, long, fun and any other positive thing that you can think 
 of
  -Graphics, controls and settings look and are great
  -Again, multiplayer rules, multiplayer rules, multiplayer rules
  -MULTIPLAYER IS AMAZING!!
 
  
  Bad
  -Very short story
  -If you have no xbox live (or can't afford xbox live gold) don't even buy this. Just rent it
 
  -Explosions are lousy
  -Slightly overwhelming at first
  -Some graphical issues online and off
  -Could have used some more modes, depth in multiplayer 
 and extras overall
  -Although lasts a very long time, eventually, it will get a little old.
  
  Now, you look up 
 and you see that the bad list is longer than the good. But that doesn't matter. Multiplayer is 
 just too good to pass up here. If you have xbox live (gold of course) buy this now and you shall 
 not regret it. Don't buy it, and well, nothing happens. But you'll be missing out! Anyways, yeah. 
 Xbox Live Gold=BUY IT NOW!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spartan285
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 30, 2008 7:04 pm PT
Review:  The Call of Duty series has been one of those love hate relationships for the first games in the 
 series. Half of the population loved them for there reality in war, and then the other half hated 
 them becasue they wanted another halo, to be a super soilder running around destroying everything 
 in site. But the new Call of Duty should please everyone, with a fantastic storyline and almost 
 perfect online. 
  
  We'll start off with the campaign for COD 4. You play the roles of two soilders, one in the SAS 
 named "Soap" McTavish, and other soilder in the USMC named Jackson. Now I don't know about other 
 players but I liked Jackson better, I wasn't really keen on playing as a cleaning product.
  
  In the first mission you feel very much like a S. W. A. T team, silent and deadly, you repel from 
 a helicopter onto a boat and silently and quickly take out the crew. This is what most of the S. A. S 
 missions are like (besides towards the end of the game when everything gets messy) . But then you 
 get to your first marine level, and let me tell you buddy it's a completly different story. You 
 and 30 other marines running up the street shooting dow terroists while you storm buildings in 
 search for there leader. This is what both of the game types are like except for in the middle 
 of the game where there are two stealthy/sniper missions.
  
  Unfortunatky the campaign is over in a couple of hours, but you'll stop crying when you play your 
 first match of online. I'm not going to try to explain the greatness you'll just have to find out 
 for your self.
  
  
  Shifty Sniper ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cyberspider2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 30, 2008 6:44 pm PT
Review:  g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g gg 
 g gg g g gg g g g gg g g g g g g g gg gg gg g g g g g g g gg g gg g g g g gg g g g g g g g g g 
 g g g rr r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r rr r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r rr r r r r r r 
 r rr g r r r r r r r r r rr r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r rr r r r tr rr rr r r r r r r rt r r 
 r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r rr r r r r rr r r r r r r r r r re e e e e e e e 
 e e e e e e e e e e e e e e ee e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e ee e 
 e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e ee e ee ee e e ee e ee e e ee e e e a a a 
 a a a a a a a a t sorry about this review because reviews have to be SO LONG.
  
  the singleplayer is great but frustrating on veteran. multiplayer is the true meaning of fun.+ 
 I was getting so sick of world war 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamefreak375
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 30, 2008 12:52 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty 4 was a great new take on the series, changing from world war II to modern times. 
 Gameplay got increasingly difficult (I was stuck on a level for two weeks on veteran) especially 
 the bonus mission. Online was awsome and addictive through the use of levels and multiple game 
 modes. There was a good number of sidequests like enemy intel, arcade mode and destroying every 
 tv in a certain level. The only flaw was that the game was too short. Graphics were stunning so 
 I had a clear view of the battle field. Controls were great although it was hard to aim a sniper 
 rife. The story wasn't very deep but it wasn't a main component.
  
  The good: Graphics, multiplayer, controls
  
  The bad: Short
  
  The verdict: COD4 definitely 
 took COD to a new level and it turned for the best. I definitely recommend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Essian
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 30, 2008 9:44 am PT
Review:  I have always had a problem with taking games too seriously. It takes me just a little too long 
 to realize that I have strayed from my normal, boyish enjoyment of video games into the World of 
 Warcraft-esque obsession with being the best. It's also what made beating RE4 impossible for a 
 year, it made me discard almost every fighting game with a little too much gusto, and I am heartily 
 convinced that all of World War II was the cause of Hitler being owned in CSS by his jewish nemesis.
 
  
  So you might be asking yourself what any of this has to do with CoD4. Well if you are asking that 
 question then you have obviously never played CoD4 and must, therefore, have been living under 
 a rock for some absurd amount of time. The game is so immersive and addicting that you WANT to 
 be the best all the time and have the greatest record, and the highest kill streak and all of that 
 other Pokemon-esque "I gotta catch em all" bullcrap. So I entered into the game thinking to myself 
 "Yay, I will go in, get a record of 30-15 like I do in Counter Strike Source and other online shooters, 
 and then march triumphantly back out again!" Needless to say that it didnt happen, and I ended 
 up going 1-11 . I played the next several games and improved only fractionally. After some time, 
 I started getting better. I now realize that if I had just stopped taking the game seriously I 
 would have had more fun.
  
  How about I actually REVIEW parts of the game now. Graphically the game is stunning beyond reason, 
 with well detailed environments and weapons, both of which vary a great deal. The sound work is 
 similarly amazing, with great weapon sounds, good voicework when calling out UAV and Air Support, 
 and some overall good sound effects (like grenade explosions, for instance) .
  
  As a matter of fact, there really arent many complaints that I CAN make against this game. Hang 
 on let me try a little harder. Oh yeah, I forgot, the lobby system sucks. Okay, so in the Xbox 
 360 version, when you join a game, all you can do is choose the game type (Deathmatch, TDM, Zones, 
 etc) but you cant choose what game you want to enter. Therefore it's like a random lottery. Subsequently, 
 you will probably end up getting into a map that you hate more often than not, unless you love 
 every map, which I find to be almost impossible. It wouldnt be so bad, except if you quit out of 
 a game, and try to roll again in the same game type, there is an absolutely excellent chance you 
 will end up in the same ****ing game you left. This gets aggravating, believe me, since sometimes 
 you end up in a game where the teams are 12 vs. 4, which really isnt very much fun...
  
  All in all, the lobby system is a small complaint. It's a tiny dot on the otherwise perfectly polished 
 exterior of a great online game. The single player? Yeah, havent even tried that yet, so I cant 
 help you there, but if it's anything like the online, then you won't have a reason not to love 
 it... unless of course you can't choose which level you go to, and you end up going to the same 
 annoying level 4 times in a row... because that might get on your nerves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SKAATHE
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 29, 2008 4:22 pm PT
Review:  Great game better than world at war and the online is so addicting that you won't stop until you 
 can go no further... (lvl 55 10th prestige)
  
  such an awesome game.
  buy if you don't have it.
  I'm playing it right now and I enjoy this more than any other game.
 
  The only complaint is that juggernaut sucks and is for nubs and so are grenade launchers and using 
 the annoying M16. it takes skill to play this game and if you use any if these 3 you will piss 
 people off online.
  Some people use modded controllers that make it so you fire like an automatic with single fire 
 guns. its pretty easy to tell who has them and they are sort of cheap.
  It would be a SIN not to own this game if you own a xbox360.
  If it cam down to either cod5 or 
 cod4 then I would recommend 4 because it's marked down now because it is an older game and it is 
 so much every penny I'm sad to say that cod5 isn't as great. I wished that they would take out 
 juggernaut but they failed to.
  The dogs are annoying and they last too long. If you get in a tank then you are immediately extra 
 powerful and it is almost impossible to take them out unless you have 4 panzershrek ammo or satchel 
 charges that you can throw and detonate before the person riding the tank blasts the hell out of 
 you. 
  I think that they also failed on the fact that you get the suppressor before the sight and that 
 sniper rifles don't have a category and that you must have a scope on a bolt-action rifle. They 
 bolt-action rifles' are weak anyway and with stopping power it doesn't kill them in 1 shot. 
  The flares are I ( guess supposed to be the equivalent of a flash bang) but the flare doesn't fully 
 blind a person and it last really short. Taurban gas is okay, you move really slow and you can't 
 see anything. So i guess the gas is a stun and a flash and the flare is a terrible version of just 
 a flash bang. 
  The campaign offers four people online and 2 on local. Nazi zombies sounds pathetic but it actually 
 is kind of fun to do with friends. 
  I don't want to ruin the campaign but you play as Russians and Americans on the marines and on 
 in the Red Army. 
  The campaign got me to play it once and never again so far. It is not as cinematic as modern warfare 
 was and I hope the upcoming call of duty has an even better story to tell. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarioCartDSv3
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 29, 2008 1:53 pm PT
Review:  What can I say about Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare? Well I can start off by saying that the online 
 is very good. Activision and Infinity Ward did a great job making this game great. I don't have 
 alot to say about this game because most of it is good. The campaign is pretty good. Challenging, 
 but good. The sniper level is one of my favorite levels of all time. What sucks is, in the campaign 
 they will give you weapons with a silencer, red dot scope, and a grenade launcher. Online, you 
 can only have one of those on a gun at a time. So it kinda throws you for a spin. The bigggest 
 problem I have with the online is, the spawnning. The spawnning is terrible. You can kill a guy 
 and he will spawn right next to you as your reloading from killing him. That is my only big beef 
 about the online. I will end on this note, if you like playing online multiplayer games, then this 
 game is for you. If you wanna play, then hook me up with a friend request. My XBL name is Mr Johnson16 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: legolas95
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 5, 2009 1:19 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is a game that, if any game could be, is literally a perfect game. 
 This game delivers intense thrill that will last how ever many times you play thro the campaign, 
 and the multiplayer will still keep you coming back for more.
  
  The campaign is GREAT, its just as fun as the multiplayer! You'll probably never get bored of shootin' 
 terrorests, and playing thro the awsome unique levels. There are many guns to use in this, many 
 of different catagories of them to. The campaign features many different things, like in one level 
 you'll be putting a stop to a terrotist attack or sniping a leader off with a high powered sniper. 
 In a couple of level they added the genius concept of adding freakish attack dogs that pounce on 
 you and you have to break their neck before they maul you. It's in intense moments like these that 
 make the game great.
  
  The mutiplayer is some of the best. Theres lots of gameplay mode to play on including free-for-all, 
 Team, capture the flag and many other modes. You can also costumize 5 guys, giving them different 
 weapons of the different catagories, different types of grenades, and some special attributes. 
 Unfortunately you can't costumize you costum, just lots of weapons and attributes. There's also 
 upgrades (attachments) for the weapon you pick out. You unlock different guns, attachments, grenades, 
 and attributes as you gain levels, and you gain levels by the usual method: killing other players 
 online and playing. 
  
  The story is the best millitary game story I've ever seen, well told (if you pay attention) and 
 lots of intense senes. Well done.
  
  To sum it all up this is the best game I've ever played, everything was perfected and something 
 you'll regret not playing. This game is just another reason to update to the next-gen consoles.
 
  Gameplay:10
  Graphics:10
  Sound: 10
  Overall:10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrpmp777
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 27, 2008 3:07 pm PT
Review:  Call Of Duty 4: Modern Warfare Is The Best In The Series For It. It Beats Call Of Duty World At War 
 In Alot Of Things. First Off. Live Is Amazing On Here. Kindof Hard If You Are New To Live. The Guns 
 Are Great Too. As Far As Call Of Duty World At War, The Guns Are Old As You Travel To World War Two. And 
 The Multiplayer Isnt All That Amazing As Call Of Duty 4: Modern Warfare. It Has Great Maps On Here 
 For Extra Fun. X-Box Live Is Probaly A Great Reason To Buy This Game If You Dont Have It. The Free 
 For All On Live Is Amazing. With 4-8 Players From Across The World That You Are Playing Against. The 
 multiplayer Is Great, Just Amazing. If You Think Im Lying Play It Yourself, The Game Couldnt get any 
 better. I would Say Call Of Duty Modern Warfare Is one of the best games avalible for the xbox 360. Well 
  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rabross12
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 24, 2008 7:10 am PT
Review:  Call of duty Modern warfare is a must buy game for any gamer who likes shooters and is into online 
 gamming, it is possibly the best multiplayer out there if not ever!
  
  The game is easy to pick up and play for people who are new to this genre or are veterans, and 
 both will not be dissapointed.
  
  The single player is a straight forward 4 hour tour, that is short but thrilling and graphically 
 stunning. But the real value for money here is the online multiplayer mode. There are various modes, 
 straight up death match, where it's every man for themselve's, team death matches, domination, 
 capture the flag to name a few.
  
  I prefer the free for all death match, where the first player to get 25 kills or the most kills 
 within the 10 minute time limit wins the match. You level up and gain xp as you progress and there 
 are challenges available in the barracks that help you gain xp to level up quicker, and as you 
 level up you unlock new weapons and perks, which you have the ability to customise to suit your 
 needs.
  
  The maps are possibly the best ever available in any game and the bonus map pack just adds more 
 class to the game play. 
  
  A must buy for any console owner, you are missing out on something special and you will not be 
 left dissapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackhalflife
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 29, 2009 5:41 am PT
Review:  Hi I am jackhalflife and I am going to review COD 4 Modern Warfare in celebration of the release 
 of COD World at War.
  
  
  story: I am not going to spoil anything for you but what I am going to say is at the S. A. S and 
 the U. S. A and fight the Russians and the middle east the story is not long or short but you will 
 enjoy it but the ending might be confessing but its still good :-) .
  
  
  gameplay: gameplay is fastpast and fun and it makes the multiplayer more fun
  
  
  Arcade mode: 
 after you complete the campaign you unlock the Arcade mode it is going through the story with number 
 of lives and get points when you get kills to tell you the truth the Arcade mode its not at great 
 :- (.
  
  
  Multiplayer: the best part of the game is the multiplayer when you are ranked level 4 you can create 
 your own class and upgrade your guns and gain perks. Perks are powers you get like you can get 
 two rocket launchers do overkills and drop a live grenade when you die the multiplayer is up to 
 18 player online and you get modes such as free for all team deathmatch plant bomb and capture 
 and hold but theres no capture the flag.
  
  
  graphics: the game graphics are graet and theres not alot of blood it looks good
  
  
  the 
 goods:
  -great story.
  -perfect multiplayer.
  -amazing graphics.
  -fastpast gameplay.
  
  the Bads:
  -Arcade mode isn't that great.
  
  
  overall:
  if 
 you like solid multiplayer and a good story well I am not going to say to buy it becomes its be 
 over a year so you probaly already own it. If you don't then go buy it but if your not connected 
 to online then don't. Online is the most fun part of this game. I haven't go COD World at War yet 
 but went i get it I will tell you what its like ok this is jackhalflife singing out ;-) .
  
  Story-9/
  
  Multiplayer-10
  
  graphics-10
  
  gameplay-10
  
  overall-10
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: suicide2005
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 23, 2008 12:05 pm PT
Review:  Infinity Ward creates what is possibly the best war game ever released.
  
  Call Of Duty 4 takes the same concept that the previous Call Of Duty games were known for but finally 
 puts it into modern times, an idea that many thought was long overdue. 
  
  The Campaign is very, very short. I give even new gamers at least 4-5 hours to finish it. But the 
 campaign is very realistic and is probably the most fun campaign ever created for the series.
 
  
  Online Gameplay really is the highlight in this game. It takes the online concept that they've 
 used for the past games in the series and have really expanded it. The limit of players on each 
 team has been shortened greatly but that makes it a little more fun and less crowded. 
  
  The maps for online gameplay are taken straight from the campaign and are really the perfect size 
 for matches, they aren't too big. There are maps that are really small, but i find the smaller 
 maps to be more fun because they are really intense and fast paced.
  
  Graphically the game looks fantastic, all the levels are heavily detailed and the character models 
 also looks very good. 
  
  There are a few negatives to this game. Some of the frame-rate is a little sketchy, especially 
 when going through heavy smoke and narrowly avoiding flashbangs because the white of the screen 
 causes the frame-rate to skip. There are some issues with the weapon aiming in this game, there 
 might be some occasions when the person shooting isn't even facing you and still hits you but that's 
 a small error and usually only happens online.
  
  There are 5 versions of this game. The 360, PS3 and PC versions are the best out of the 5. The 
 360 and PS3 are almost completely identical, the PS3 has some more occasional frame-rate issues 
 but they are not that problematic and are hardly noticeable. The PC is a little more visually impressive 
 and the online runs a little smoother, so if you have a PC that can run it at full speed and you 
 want a more stable online, the PC version is the one to get.
  
  The DS version is a very fun version, obviously doesn't look half as good as the Console versions 
 but the plot still remains mostly intact and it looks very impressive for a handheld version.
 
  
  The Mac version is a very good port of the PC version, it looks just as impressive, some of the 
 graphics are a little sketchy in the port but overall it is still a very good version.
  
  Overall, a classic game that is just impressive looking, while the campaign might be short, it 
 is still fun and will be played by fans for a very long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tanktoptastic
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 23, 2008 9:56 am PT
Review:  Best multiplayer maps (and action) than ANY game supported by a solid single player campaign. This 
 way around because online is where it shines and where you'll be racking up your 100+ hours on 
 beautifully rendered maps that work perfectly. The lobbies are easy to navigate and waiting times 
 are reasonable in lenth to either tweak your weapon selection or just wait it out till the next 
 game without wishing you had made a cup of tea, caught up on the football results and tidied up 
 your game collection while you waited.
  
  The "Perk" system is very well thought out and has a major impact on your game. Not only does it 
 encourage you reach the next level and therefore stumble in delight over a crumbled wall all the 
 time terrified of the cackle of an AK47 from behind but also there is no better feeling than your 
 mate finally getting enough kills in sequence to call in his first gunship and bringing it down 
 with a couple of RPGs when he thought you were packing extra grenades. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pezza02
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 23, 2008 8:27 am PT
Review:  Call of duty is an amazing game the storyline is excellent but i would say the carrer is a bit 
 harder than you think so i would recomend you to practice first. A lot of guns to choose from like 
 machine guns, shotguns, rocket launchers, and snipers. On multiplayer i also think there is a lot 
 of maps and games to play: e. g headquarters, team deathmatch. i also love it because you can get 
 helicopters for a 7 kill streak, an airstrike if you get a 5 kill streak, and you can get a radar 
 if you get a three kill streak, but annoyingly you cant get them on the normal carrer. It is also 
 fast at loading mostly everything so you wont be sitting there for a long time waiting for it to 
 load. overall i think this is the best game in the world and i hope its the same with call of duty 
 5
  
  I HOPE THIS HAS HELPED YOU. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Halo_Gears_COD
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 22, 2008 8:13 pm PT
Review:  This game is just a great game and a tachnical achievement. I love eveything about it. The graphics 
 and audio were very exceptional. The action in this game was among the best. This game had everything 
 right. The campaign was very moving and emotional, and it was so much fun to play even though it 
 was too short. If it had been about double in lentgh it would have been absolutely perfect. I lke 
 the fact that you play as two different people, one a a U. S. M. C. soldier in the Middle East, and 
 a British S. A. S. soldier in western Russia. And then theres the online multiplayer. This is the 
 greatest online game ever made. Everything about the online play was amazing. There is not enough 
 that can be said about it. The sheer intensity of online play is just awesome. Everything works 
 perfect. There is no lag and everything is just as good as it is in the campaign, but even more 
 intense. Just an amazing game all around and one of my all-time favorites. 10 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RIDDICK_TITO
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 22, 2008 5:14 am PT
Review:  best multiplayer and good in hardcord search and destroy im TITON 360 in XBOX 360 just perfect 
 in clan matches its really a real game best multiplayer and good in hardcord search and destroy 
 im TITON 360 in XBOX 360 just perfect in clan matches its really a real game best multiplayer and 
 good in hardcord search and destroy im TITON 360 in XBOX 360 just perfect in clan matches its really 
 a real game best multiplayer and good in hardcord search and destroy im TITON 360 in XBOX 360 just 
 perfect in clan matches its really a real game lol lol lol lol lo l lolbest multiplayer and good 
 in hardcord search and destroy im TITON 360 in XBOX 360 just perfect in clan matches its really 
 a real game best multiplayer and good in hardcord search and destroy im TITON 360 in XBOX 360 just 
 perfect in clan matches its really a real game best multiplayer and good in hardcord search and 
 destroy im TITON 360 in XBOX 360 just perfect in clan matchebest multiplayer and good in hardcord 
 search and destroy im TITON 360 in XBOX 360 just perfect in clan matches its really a real game 
 s its really a real game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: savestheday1000
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 21, 2008 1:40 pm PT
Review:  This game is good This game is good This game is good This game is good This game is good This 
 game is good This game is good This game is good This game is good This game is good This game 
 is good This game is good This game is good This game is good This game is good This game is good 
 This game is good This game is good This game is good This game is good This game is good This 
 game is good This game is good This game is good This game is good This game is good This game 
 is good This game is good This game is good This game is good This game is good This game is good 
 This game is good This game is good This game is good This game is good This game is good This 
 game is good This game is good This game is good This game is good This game is good This game 
 is good This game is good This game is good This game is good This game is good This game is good 
 This game is good This game is good This game is good This game is good 
::::::

::::::
UserName: onehardrocker
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 20, 2008 1:14 am PT
Review:  This game has been out for over a year, and I still find myself playing it every day.
  
  My first Call of Duty game was CoD2. CoD4: MW is my second venture into the series. Never having 
 been a fan of WWII games but loving the controls that CoD employs make the modern setting perfect 
 for me, and evidently millions of other Xbox gamers. 
  
  The single player game has been called too short by GameSpot, but anyone who played through it 
 on Veteran difficulty will argue against that. The graphics are incredible, and I'm even playing 
 on a SDTV.
  
  Controls unique to this series are having to raise the gun sights to shoot, and amount of damage 
 need to score a kill. This isn't like Halo where you can shoot from the hip and take insane amounts 
 of damage. Even being hit with the weakest gun will kill you within 3-4 body shots, maximum. This 
 forces you to use some strategy in single player and multiplayer alike.
  
  Multiplayer is the game's true strength. Even a year after release, it takes under 5 seconds to 
 dive into a game from any gametype available. The more you play, the more you rank up and the more 
 weapons you can unlock. I have always been the kind of person who get bored of console multiplayer 
 games quickly, but this is the first game that keeps me coming back.
  
  So if you are wondering if you should buy this game, DO IT. You will be amazed by the game itself, 
 and multiplayer will be going strong for a long while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: assassin973
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 19, 2008 2:49 pm PT
Review:  This game is GREAT! The campaign is awsome and the multiplayer is awsome. The campaign one veteran 
 is very challenging but i only got 3 levels left to go. The story is great to it. You start as a 
 guy who just joined the army and his name is Soap. He is played in almost all of the levels. Except 
 one time you play as another guy, but he ends up dying from a nuke. The multiplayer has great maps. Really 
 fun to play with a lot of people. I like the setting that you die in like in 6 shots with automatic. That 
 makes it harder in the game where you have to take more cover. Watch out youre first time playing 
 it on live. You will die a lot. Especialy if you don't take cover. The sniper in this game is awsome! 
 To warn you it is a lot harder to snipe in this then halo because you aim slower and it is easy 
 to miss. It is hard to snipe if they are not standing still. But i like making my own class. I like 
 online that you have to earn your air strike, or helicopter, or radar back from a streak of kills. A 
 MUST HAVE! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PsboyX360
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 19, 2008 7:42 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare was fun. Cool guns, but n00by and great story line. Cod4 is a bit 
 better than cod5 because it's classic. Cod5 is just another improvement. My favourite missions 
 in Call of Duty 4 were All Ghillied Up, War Pig, No fighting in the War Room, and Game Over. Those 
 mission were fun. I loved the part were the atomic bomb was exploded. It looked so realistic. Sad 
 that Sgt. Jackson died, he was better than Sgt. Soap MacTavish.
  
  Cod4 guns were ownage. Some were n00by but still fun to play with. Also the maps in Cod4 are great, 
 too small though. Cod5 maps are bigger.
  
  Cod4 was blocked in my country due to the explosion of the bombs that destroyed the mosques, but 
 it's just a game.
  
  I also enjoyed some of the characters like Sgt. Griggs and Gaz, they're cool. But Captain Price 
 is useless, all he does is sit in one place and order you to do stuff.
  
  But Overall, the game is fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GhostofDanzig
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 16, 2008 6:55 pm PT
Review:  Violent videogames promote violent behaviour. We know this now, the research has been done, the 
 proof is there. As gamers, and intelligent and rational members of the human race, we'd still like 
 to see the day when the hysteria stops and games stop being used as a scapegoat for the downfall 
 of civilisation, and no doubt it will arrive, but science has proven, like it or not, that playing 
 violent games does increase aggression levels. Maybe no more than playing sports like rugby, or 
 watching the X-factor finals, but none the less, it is a factor. But violence is human nature, 
 it's an unavoidable fact of life, we've been killing each other as long as anyone can remember. 
 Surely the problem, if any, with violent games, is when they portray violence as something which 
 is enjoyable, something that is it fun to participate in.
  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is violent. You'll realise this the first time you kill an assailant 
 with a burst from your assault rifle, and feel each individual bullet tear through his body, or 
 the first time you melee a downed opponent with your knife, or break an attack dogs neck. It's 
 also a hell of a lot of fun. The campaign may be short, but once it sucks you in, you'll have a 
 hard job putting the controller down. But what Modern Warfare does to the player which is missing 
 from the hordes of first person shooters available is give the feeling that, and I think the gamespot 
 review used a similar term, you're doing nasty and deplorable things to other human beings. The 
 weapons feel right, the sound is fantastic, the AI is spot on, the gore is present and visceral 
 yet never over the top. All these things add up to an almost unprecedented realism. The graphics, 
 whilst not the best available on the console, still hold up today and despite the occasional visual 
 rough patch or ugly environment, the games graphics will never jar enough to remove you from the 
 immersion. 
  The story, whilst perhaps not entirely original, certainly does the job and the real stars here 
 are the voice actors. You'll end up actually caring about a few of the games key characters and 
 this makes some of the games genius set pieces even better. Said pieces laugh in the face of tired 
 videogame traditions of 'Kill all the enemies, move to the next bit, repeat' and put the player 
 in situations where you'll need to use slight tactical considerations to push your team forward 
 onto new locations to force the enemy to stop re-spawning. These elements of the game, though challenging, 
 stood out to me as some of the strongest, and it's hats of to infinity ward for not touting this 
 feature in big neon letters on the back of the case. Other campaign highlights include a short 
 sequence rescuing a comrade from a downed helicopter whilst being shot at from all angles, and 
 a level taking control of a bomber plane which said more to me about the true nature of killing 
 in war than any other war game I've ever played.
  As far as the multiplayer goes, I can't really say a great deal on the subject. I'm terminally 
 awful at multiplayer and so only had a few games before giving up, but yeah, it seemed fine to 
 me.
  To conclude on the original point I was trying to make, COD 4 is so special because it doesn't 
 ever make you feel like the hyper invincible steroid freak marine stereotype that are so prevalent 
 in most games. If you're a half decent gamer, I'd highly recommend playing this on either of the 
 hardest difficulty setting. It greatly improves the sense of immersion, and you'll get the most 
 of the campaign because you actually have to work for each little victory and you'll end up savouring 
 it all the more. 
  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is a masterpiece. Even if your just looking for another shooter, 
 you won't be disappointed, but if your prepared to look further into the real messages behind this 
 game, you'll realise how truly special it is. 
  
  Liked this review? Check out more, along with rants and musings at  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Uddermaddness
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 14, 2008 4:11 pm PT
Review:  The bottom line is that Cod4 is a game that you wouldn't want to pass up. If it's because of its 
 ability to emulate real modern war action or because of its amazing online multiplayer.
  
  Some of the things that make Cod4 stand out from other fps games is how realistic it is, the variety 
 in its gameplay and its great but short campaign. 
  
  Things that contribute to its realisticness is your short lifespan, how you get tired after sprinting, 
 how you waver when looking through the scope of a sniper and also how you steady your sniper by 
 breathing in and holding it for 2 seconds. Things like this really bring you into the action and 
 make you feel part of the game. The thump of the controller when you are low on health is like 
 your heartbeat and makes you really think about what it would be like for real soldiers in war. 
 
  
  Examples of its variety of gameplay would be the different weapons like snipers, shotguns, smg's 
 and rpg's, it's different styles of combat like laying low on the ground with a sniper or hiding 
 behind a wall with an AK-47 and lastly the ability to call in air strikes and helicopters online 
 is something never seen in any other games and really adds to the sense of war.
  
  Now for the campaign. Although short, the campaign still should be considered great because of 
 its variety and how it never gets repetitive like some other games. The different things you do 
 in missions is what contributes to its greatness. Things like manning the gun on an AC-130 or on 
 a Cobra helicopter, or even providing sniper cover for the team below, all of these are just plain 
 fun to do. One of my favourite missions is the one when you're with cpt. Macmillan and you have 
 a camouflage clothes on and you also have a sniper. It's very fun to hide in the grass where no 
 one can find you. 
  
  Basically if you don't like cod4 or if you're not thinking of getting it than there something seriously 
 wrong. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reeal
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 14, 2008 12:52 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 Modern Warfare is a action pack game and a must buy for any first person shooter 
 fan. The game start you off as in the Special Air Service and onwards to the US Marines. It gets 
 you a decent amount of play time and you could always go on the harder level for a more challenging 
 experience. Single player packs a punch and a moving story the main meat is the multilayer. With 
 a great advancement system by Infinity Ward the Multiplayer gives the gamer more and more reasons 
 the keep on fighting the terrorist assault! 
  
  Graphics are above standard: 9 
  Game play are the best: 10
  Audio and the sounding are fantastically done: 10
  *The gun really 
 gives you a feel that your shooting and hitting someone
  *You hear the bullet woos.. by it's really enjoyable
  *dead soldier could be more "interesting" 
 =D
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: philrox
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 13, 2008 7:10 am PT
Review:  A very addicting first person shooter that deals with modern weapons and realistic game play. It 
 has it's pros and cons, like any game. The single player is fun to play, even if you're bored. 
 Searching for items throughout the levels creates a more challenging game experience.
  
  Overall good game, however the AI's could use some work in future generations. Also, the enemies 
 wouldn't be ONLY shooting the person playing in real life, which pulls down on the realistic level. 
 The online play could be assisted, especially with shooting people, due to loading a full clip 
 into someone, and they not dying. The searches for players should contain more that are local and 
 not as world wide, due to lag.
  
  This game is addictive to the eyes of the beholder, so if you enjoy first person shooters, go out 
 and buy this game! There is a wide range of guns, from the M4 to the M249. They could add more 
 guns, such as extra Light machine guns and submachine guns. The assault rifles have a good range, 
 but sniper rifles could be added as well. Seems rushed in this area, but other than this minor 
 flaw, the game is definitely worth the buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andrewizzo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 12, 2008 7:48 pm PT
Review:  assome game buyassome game buyassome game buyassome game buyassome game buyassome game buyassome 
 game buyassome game buyassome game buyassome game buyassome game buyassome game buyassome game 
 buyassome game buyassome game buyassome game buyassome game buyassome game buyassome game buyassome 
 game buyassome game buyassome game buyassome game buyassome game buyassome game buyassome game 
 buyassome game buyassome game buyassome game buyassome game buyassome game buyassome game buyassome 
 game buyassome game buyassome game buyassome game buyassome game buyassome game buyassome game 
 buyassome game buyassome game buyassome game buyassome game buyassome game buyassome game buyassome 
 game buyassome game buyassome game buyassome game buyassome game buyassome game buyassome game 
 buyassome game buyassome game buyassome game buyassome game buy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nurok17
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 7, 2008 8:42 pm PT
Review:  The Call of Duty Series has made it's name on WW2 action so this game is a totally new direction 
 for them to take and Activision did a great job. 
  
  This game gives you great gameplay, an immersive story, stellar multiplayer and awesome replay 
 value. You play between two different factions in the story. You start out as a British S. A. S. 
 Covert Ops Recruit, getting ready for your first mission. This game does a great job of helping 
 you get used to the controls and at the end of the training you go through an assault course which 
 tells you which difficulty you'd be best suited for. 
  
  This game is about taking out a terrorist organization bent on taking over the world. 
  
  One 
 of the best points of the game is a great variety of gameplay scenarios. You are not just always 
 going in guns blazing like Rambo. There are tactical points in the game (lead by your A. I. commander 
 but still pretty good) . A great amount of sniper action (all Ghillied Up and One Shot are amazing) . 
 Vehicle mounted weapons (the level on the Gunship is awesome) and some good old classic assault 
 driven levels.
  
  The visuals in the game are very stunning. The sound is superb (great surround sound feel) with 
 gunshots and explosions and the voice acting is rather well done. A pretty good scripting as well.
 
  
  The game overall has a great feel. You go from middle of a farm town that is overrun by russian 
 terrorists to the heart of middle eastern conflict territories. There's a rounded amount of indoor 
 and outdoor levels both night and day. The customization options on your weapons are pretty good 
 (standard but good) and the game is not so linear that it bores you. There are usually a couple 
 of paths to getting to your next objective.
  
  The multiplayer is phenomenal. I must admit that at first I was not the biggest fan but after a 
 couple hours on it getting used to the weapons and what worked best on which levels and not just 
 running around like a maniac not knowing where anything is, it got a lot more fun. You get XP for 
 kills and objectives and fun challenges which unlock add-ons for your weapons to perks you can 
 add to your character (like "last stand" when you die you get a couple seconds lying on the ground 
 with you pistol to shoot at the foe who killed you) .
  
  Overall a very rounded game and a great addition to the COD franchise. A totally new direction 
 for them which could have flopped but they pulled it off great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the8thsin
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 7, 2008 8:02 am PT
Review:  Let me be blunt - Call of duty 4 (cod4) is the most complete online FPS available, for atmosphere, 
 balance, fun and depth there is no equal.
  
  The modern setting creates a back drop rarely executed well - many have tried Battlefield, the 
 Conflict series, Vegas and Ghost Recon to name but a few that have tried yet failed to pull off 
 the finese and intensity that Infinity Wards masterpiece has succeded in doing.
  From the moment you enter a match you know that finally the nail has been hit squareley on the 
 head - the voice overs range from the obvious "lets do this" at the beginning of a match to the 
 pressure building "your the last one left" from S&D (search and destroy) - As you attempt to calm 
 yourself in knowing that you are the last one left on your team capable of winning the match, with 
 contact from your team mates abruptly cut as they fall in the heat of the battle.
  The music is rarely noticed during online games as the chatter from your team mates or the ping 
 of a headshot hold your audio attention most of the time.
  
  The depth comes from the excellent leveling and perks system that caters for those looking for 
 some longetivity from a genre that has thus far failed to jump on the 'create a class' band wagon.
 
  Perks and weapons are unlocked at a steady rate and maintan the balance very well - although it 
 is worth metioning that untill later prestiege levels there is a common trend with 'Stopping power' 
 (increases you damage from all weapons bar explosives) being used constantly. Coming back to 'prestiege' 
 levels there are 55 level to each prestiege and 10 in total all the way up to that elusive 'gold 
 cross' - for the truely hardcore.
  
  The graphics are excellent with a fantastic level of detail and help to capture the intensity and 
 maps fantastically.
  
  Thank you for reading
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: munchlax99
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 6, 2008 6:57 pm PT
Review:  This game had an awesome story and I still love its multiplayer. The only thing i dont like is 
 gaz dieing at the end. The map pack is great and the maps it came with are great. Crawling in all 
 ghilled up was nuts. I still dont how i didnt alert any enemies (sweet acheivment) . Overall the 
 best moments were blowing that guys arm off and crawling through where ever i was in euorpe!! the 
 graphics are the best i have seen in a while. This game is just as good as gears of war halo 3 
 and might even be the best xbox game out there. how did gamespot give it a 9. 10, 9.5 at worst!!!! 
 must buy for any xbox 360 owner. 10/10 Games i want call of duty 5, halo 3, unreal tournament 3, 
 rockband, ncaa basketball 09, fable 2!! Call of duty 4 is way better then all of them (maybe combined) !!! 
 TOM CLANCY RAINBOW SIX VEGAS ONE is a BAD GAME!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crznintendox
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 5, 2008 12:40 am PT
Review:  If you're looking for a game to play, welcome to Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare, an exciting and 
 thrilling game that all fans of first person shooters will enjoy.
  
  Since release of the past three games, the Call of Duty series have been set in the era of World 
 War II and gamers became tired of the same campaigns and locations. Now the game is set during 
 a fictional war in the Middle East, and you play as a British SAS spy and an US Marine, a major 
 change of pace from the European campaigns of the games before.
  
  The single player is a bit short, but this is made up for with the content of the game. This isn't 
 the usual shooter game where the objective is to just shoot your enemies until you get to the end 
 of the level; this game is much more than that. The first mission sends you infiltrating an enemy 
 ship where you have to shoot your way through soldiers to find blueprints of missiles. You think 
 you're done and mission over, but you get a message from your helicopter saying the ship's being 
 attacked, and you need to get out. Everyone is slammed to the floor and you are awakened to see 
 water is pouring into the ship and you need to sprint your way out. The single player mode is filled 
 with events that surprise and shock you into awe. 
  
  The main gameplay is using your gun to shoot the bad guys, and you do so in plenty of ways. There 
 are plenty of guns available in the game, ranging from machine guns to rifles to rocket launchers. 
 All of the guns are fun to use and equally satisfying to use. All the guns feel powerful, and you 
 can kill your enemy with a couple of bullets. If your enemy ever gets too close you can press on 
 your right control stick and out perform a melee attack. The character takes out his knife and 
 with one swoop, the enemy is down on the floor. There are also flash bangs, which blind your opponents, 
 and grenades, which can easily destroy two or three soldiers. If you want, you can even shoot cars 
 on the map causing them to explode and destroy anything around it. No matter how you choose to 
 fight in this game, it's always a fun thing to do.
  There are also levels put in place that break apart all the shooting action, giving you a different 
 perspective on the war. One level you are the commander of a war plane, and you use different bombs 
 to destroy the enemies below. Another moment that breaks up the gameplay is whenever dogs are released. 
 These dogs are here to maul you, and if one jumps on you, and you don't hit the correct button 
 in time, the dog will continue to eat your face. If you succeed in the button press, you'll get 
 the satisfying sight and sound of snapping the dog's neck. In another, and in my opinion, one of 
 the best segments of the game, you play as a covert sniper, infiltrating the enemy base so you 
 can take out your target. With only you and your commander, you crawl and crouch through the level, 
 hiding as enemies pass you by. You don't know the thrill and excitement you get as you crawl through 
 a field of tall grass and you are only one inch away from being stepped on and a swarm of soldiers 
 coming to attack you. There are many fun moments in the single player, and if you finish it, don't 
 worry. There is much more in the game for you to do.
  The biggest and the most addicting part of the game that will keep you playing it for days on end 
 is the multiplayer mode. There are plenty of modes to keep you busy. There is the standard Deathmatch, 
 and Team Deathmatch, and then there are other modes that are more objective, making you protect 
 a base or destroy a piece of equipment. All the controls are identical from the single player mode, 
 giving you all the options of killing your enemies from before. What the game does differently 
 from others is that is gives you experience points. You are given experience points for almost 
 everything you do: killing your target, using special moves, and just playing the round. These 
 experience points help you grow your character. At first you have only a few, weapons to choose 
 from. You have classes which include: Rifle, Grenadier, Sniper, etc, but you are only given the 
 very basic of these guns. 
  
  With your experience points you unlock more guns, and different accessories, such as camouflage 
 for your gun and different perks. Also, as you level up, you can unlock challenges that when completed, 
 give you more accessories such as gun camouflage and scopes or silencers and more experience points. 
 The challenges vary; from killing 50 people with every gun, to killing 50 enemies with a headshot 
 with every gun, to falling 30 feet to your death, or even just destroying 10 cars. Another way 
 the gameplay is different this time around, is the game rewards you for completing kills without 
 dying. Three kills in a row gives you the option of UAV, which is a radar that gives away your 
 opponent's position on your map. Five kills in a row gives you a missile strike, where you can 
 point to a position where you want your missiles to fall. Finally, seven kills in a row gives you 
 a helicopter, which will send a helicopter to fly through the area, shooting all your opponents 
 until it runs out of bullets or another enemy shoots it with a missile launcher. 
  
  Perks are also what makes the game different from others. They are basically different options 
 to choose from that make your character unique. There are three sets of perks. One improves you 
 as a character. This means increasing your health or making your bullets deadlier. The second type 
 gives you different options that will give your character unique characteristics. This includes 
 Martyrdom, a perk that allows you to drop a grenade every time you die, leaving your killer with 
 an unpleasant surprise. Another is Last Stand, a perk where when you die, you lie on the floor 
 with your pistol drawn and you can shoot your attacker, taking him down with you. The third changes 
 the type of accessories you have including, missiles, grenades, and flash bangs. Choosing which 
 perks your character has makes the game completely different every time and you will have a great 
 time testing out different perks. Also, if you have a certain favorite weapon or set of perks, 
 Call of Duty 4 allows you to save them with Create a Class. There are five blank slots where you 
 can create your own character to quickly go back to. Over time, you will have a set of classes 
 that are tailored to how you play, with unlocked weapons and gear, and if you max out to level 
 50, there is an option to restart with all your equipment back to level 1. No matter what, the 
 multiplayer in COD 4 will last you for a long time, and during that time it will be a joyous and 
 fulfilling experience. 
  Whether you are playing the single player and multiplayer, the game will always look and sound 
 amazing. The game looks incredible all the way around. The characters and textures all look real, 
 and there are plenty of different environments to fight in. This is not a game where you are stuck 
 in the same type of environment the whole way through. You fight through a missile silo, a ship, 
 a town in Afghanistan, and even a TV station. You will never be tired of the world around you. 
 The sound also enhances the experience. Every gun sounds different and all of them sound equally 
 powerful. The voice acting in the game is also very top notch. The allies you fight with all sound 
 great, and it is fun to listen to them banter during fights. The music enhances the experience 
 with crunching guitars and violins that will get your heart pumping whenever something major is 
 happening, which is almost always. 
  
  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is a thrilling and very enjoyable game throughout. The exciting, 
 but short single player campaign will give you the time of your life, and the multiplayer will 
 make you keep on playing for a long time to come. If you enjoy first person shooters, you need 
 to go out and buy this game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: NinjaCharlie17
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 3, 2008 6:57 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is a First-persone shooter. Everthing of this game is great. The Campaign is so 
 great that you might do it twice or more the cinematic is great the AI are good and story is great. The 
 controls are excellent easy to learn and you will feel your holding the gun. Multiplayer is what 
 makes this game so awesome it has a level up system. The higher you go the more guns you unlock 
 and you will be able to make your own custom class. The highest you could level up is 55 but in 
 the end you have an option of going into prestige whitch gives a new emblems but you have to start 
 all over again challenges unlocking the weapons again sounds like a grag but it isn't. Now i mention 
 custom class and challanges earlier. Challanges are objective that you could do to help you level 
 up faster. Custom class you could put your own guns, perks (are boost that help your guns be stronger 
 for more health or the ability to carry a second primary weapon) , and camo for your weapon. Overall 
 its a game you must buy and you will end up playing for weeks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sk8r_4_life
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 1, 2008 10:07 pm PT
Review:  **** yeah i puke down german beers
  
  What that **** want God?
  Word up, look out for the cops Wu-Tang five finger ****
  (Cash Rules) Word up, two for fives 
 over here baby
  Word up, two for fives them ****z got garbage down the way, word up
  KnowhatI'msayin?
  Cash Rules Everything Around Me
  C. R. E. A. M. get...
  Yeah, check this ol 
 fly **** out
  Word up
  (Cash Rules Everything Around Me) Take you on a natural joint Here we here we go
  dolla dolla 
 bill y'all Check this **** yo!
  
  
  I grew up on the crime side, the New York Times side
  Staying alive was no jive
  At second 
 hands, moms bounced on old men
  So then we moved to Shaolin land
  A young youth, yo rockin the gold tooth, 'Lo goose
  Only way, I begin to gee off was drug loot
 
  And let's start it like this son, rollin with this one
  And that one, pullin out gats for fun
  But it was just a dream for the teen, who was a fiend
 
  Started smokin woolies at sixteen
  And running up in gates, and doing hits for high stakes
  Making my way on fire escapes
  No 
 question I would speed, for cracks and weed
  The combination made my eyes bleed
  No question I would flow off, and try to get the dough all
  Sticking up white boys in ball courts
 
  My life got no better, same damn 'Lo sweater
  Times is ruff and tuff like leather
  Figured out I went the wrong route
  So I got with a sick ass click and went all out
  Catchin 
 keys from across seas
  Rollin in MPV's, every week we made forty G's
  Yo **** respect mine, or anger the tech nine
  Ch-chick-POW! Move from the gate now
  
  
 
  Cash, Rules, Everything, Around, Me
  C. R. E. A. M.
  Get the money
  Dollar, dollar bill y'all
  
  
  It's been twenty-two long hard years of still strugglin
 
  Survival got me buggin, but I'm alive on arrival
  I peep at the shape of the streets
  And stay awake to the ways of the world cause **** is deep
  A man with a dream with plans to 
 make C. R. E. A. M.
  Which failed; I went to jail at the age of 15
  A young buck sellin drugs and such who never had much
  Trying to get a clutch at what I could 
 not... could not...
  The court played me short, now I face incarceration
  Pacin -- going up state's my destination
  Handcuffed in back of a bus, forty of us
  Life as 
 a shorty shouldn't be so ruff
  But as the world turns I learned life is hell
  Living in the world no different from a cell
  Everyday I escape from Jakes givin chase, sellin 
 base
  Smokin bones in the staircase
  Though I don't know why I chose to smoke sess
  I guess that's the time when I'm not depressed
  But I'm still depressed, and I ask what's it 
 worth?
  Ready to give up so I seek the Old Earth
  Who explained working hard may help you maintain
  to learn to overcome the heartaches and pain
 
  We got stickup kids, corrupt cops, and crack rocks
  and stray shots, all on the block that stays hot
  Leave it up to me while I be living proof
 
  To kick the truth to the young black youth
  But shorty's running wild smokin sess drinkin beer
  And ain't trying to hear what I'm kickin 
 in his ear
  Neglected, but now, but yo, it gots to be accepted
  That what? That life is hectic
  
  
  ****s gots to do what they gotta do, to get a bill
 
  YaknowhatI'msayin?
  Cuz we can't just get by no more
  Word up, we gotta get over, straight up and down
  
  
  Cash Rules Everything Around Me
  
 C. R. E. A. M.
  get the money
  Dolla dolla bill YEAH 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supergamer14
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 28, 2008 8:46 am PT
Review:  So you you like war, and you like explosions, but you're tired of playing WWII you want something 
 modern well dumb ass the it's right here in your face while your reading this so look no further 
 than Call of Duty 4 Modern Warfare. Now your finally around our time period not is 2258 or some 
 far off year like that. Now you get to go to the middle east and fight ummmmm who's fighting in 
 the middle east right now I forgot. Also you get to fight in Russia with your British buddies. 
 So you go between the US Marines and the SAS. Now while some people say that this game is short 
 I say the campaign is fine in so not short at all. The story is great and interesting and this game 
 is just plain awesome. Now the thing people really want to hear about is the online play and it's 
 once again awesome it get fun, so if you love war then get your hands on this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: desyple
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 27, 2008 8:36 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is a solid game all around but there are too many little things that stop me from 
 loving the game rather than liking it. It has a very quick but solid single player campaign. I 
 however completed the campaign on veteran much too quickly and that was a bit of a letdown. I do 
 like however how they shifted the setting of the game from the traditional and boring world war 
 2 setting to the more modern setting. This made me able to relate top the game much better. This 
 was a very good thing to have in the game because it made me want to keep playing the campaign 
 rather than it feeling like a chore for some achievement points. All in all though the story was 
 great but short. 
  Call of Duty 4's multi-player is its saving grace though. Its just amazing and very immersive and 
 long lasting. The combat while easy is great since when you die you respond in a matter of seconds 
 and are able to get back in the action with your squad mates. It also has a ranking system which 
 is great for the hardcore vets to be able to distinguish themselves from the casuals or others. 
 Through the ranking system you are able to earn perks which increase damage and other effects in 
 game. This is both good and bad. Because this is abused often. however many players will keep coming 
 back simply to keep ranking up. The maps are well designed as well and really make the games fun 
 to play with the new places to plan strategy's with your friends and squad mates. My only gripe 
 about the multi-player is how run and gun it is and how you can basically run around the whole 
 map holding down the trigger shooting like a mad man and still probably win. This makes the game 
 a little broken to me. So its a solid game other than the short single player and occasional broken 
 online match with trigger happy people. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fredhex
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 27, 2008 5:34 am PT
Review:  I honestly did not know what to expect when I picked up the game (I'm a contrarian by nature) but 
 was astounded with the game's realism: fluid movement, tactics, weapon handling, etc. Also integral 
 to creating an immersive experience is the frantic chatter of friend and foe alike. Listening to 
 a Russian soldier crying out (in Russian) for a fresh magazine or yelling at his comrades to flank 
 your position raised the hair on my neck. Personally, losing oneself in gameplay is the ultimate 
 litmus test of a good game, and Call of Duty 4 definitely succeeds.
  
  Multiplayer is the best controlled chaos I've ever experienced in a game. Dashing from cover to 
 cover, vaulting over walls, all while in a mad pursuit of a headquarters or trying to escape from 
 an enemy creates a sense of urgency I've not often felt in playing any game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danmam2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 25, 2008 4:32 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare was my first venture into the Call of Duty franchise since Call 
 of Duty: Finest Hour. Needless to say, I was not disappointed. The single player campaign is stellar, 
 but very short. Its difficulty on Normal is just right, and getting through on Veteran is as hard 
 as it should be. It only takes a little north of 5 hours to play through, though. But that really 
 doesn't matter, as you'll spend hundreds of hours on the multiplayer. I'm sure you've heard of 
 the multiplayer leveling-up system. You earn experience for every kill, assist, etc. that you perform 
 during a game. These points allow you to level up, unlocking new weapons, perks (such as Martyrdom, 
 where you drop a live grenade when you die, and Extreme Conditioning, which allows to sprint for 
 longer distances) . After you reach the top level, you are given an option to enter "Prestige Mode" 
 (basically starting over at level one, up to 10 more times) . This effectively gives you something 
 to play for for 300 hours of multiplayer gameplay, which is approximately how long it takes to 
 reach the 10th prestige level 55. In conclusion, BUY THIS GAME. You won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thesameer94
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 25, 2008 7:26 am PT
Review:  Here is my review on Call of Duty 4. I apologize for any spelling errors.
  
  Campaign- The COD games are never really about story but this one provides a very entertaining 
 if overused story about nuclear power. There are many heartstopping moments and moments when you 
 go like, "Woah. Did that just happen?" But it is way too short to keep playing over and over again. 
 8.5/10
  
  Characters- Characters are always important to every game. In here all of the characters are likeable 
 and none are really annoying to the point where you mute your TV/throw your controller across the 
 room. The voice acting was superb in my opinion. However, the characters you control never talk, 
 but that's ok with me. 9/10
  
  Graphics- COD4 does not disappoint. I saw no graphical errors and even during 4-player splitscreen 
 the graphics looked amazing. I have no complaints. 10/10
  
  Sound- Again, the sound was terrific. All of the explosions sound very real and the guns sound 
 very authentic. When all of these are combined with the sounds of soldiers and the musical score, 
 you are treated to a very wonderful combination of sounds that makes you feel like you are in the 
 game, except with the background music. 9.5/10
  
  Gameplay- Sadly, there is still no cover system. However, all of the controls feel right and it 
 makes for a very tight control. 9.5/10
  
  Multiplayer- For me, the multiplayer was the funnest part of COD4 and it is probably the best multiplayer 
 ever. There are the regular modes like free-for-all and team deathmatch but there are also new 
 modes. For example, Search and Destroy involves blowing up each others team bomb and there are 
 no respawns. This makes for a very interesting game of cat-and-mouse sometimes. For leveling up, 
 there is a level cap of 55 but if you choose to go to Prestige Mode, you can start over as a 1st 
 Prestige and try to regain all of your weapons and skill all over again. This process repeats until 
 you are 10th Prestige and level 55 so good luck on finishing up with this multiplayer. Sadly, there 
 are no achievements for multiplayer but there are mini-challenges for you to try new things to 
 unlock weapons and attachments like scopes and silencers. Also included is the party system that 
 allows to build a team before entering a game. This ensures you are playing with your team. My 
 only two complaints are that-
  1. There is no matchmaking so you can play with pros or noobs.
  2. You can't pick which map you 
 play on, only which mode.
  For 1, this annoyed me slightly when I was thrust into a game with all 10th Prestiges who all pwned 
 me and when I played with noobs who wouldn't shut up. But that was ok, because it is very simple 
 to kill people. Even a new player can kill over 10 people in one team-deathmatch which can also 
 annoy you.
  For 2, I found this sort of weird because I like playing on my favorite maps instead of jumping 
 randomly. 
  If you have XBOX Live, get this game because this multiplayer beats Halo 3 into the dust. If you 
 don't have Live, I would still recommend this game for its splitscreen versus and quality campaign. 
 9/10
  
  In my closing comments, I have to say that this is probably the best game of 2007 other than Halo 
 3. Buy this game and you will not be disappointed with this excellent game. 
  
  Final Score-9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dhopkins
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 25, 2008 6:13 am PT
Review:  After high school, I decided to join the Army. I wanted to do it for the same reasons that most 
 guys want join the Army. Not to protect freedom. Not to get money for college. Not even to "Be 
 all I could be". I wanted to impress a girl.
  
  Impressing girls are the motivation for just about everything a guy does, from washing his car 
 to deciding to kill people for your country. It all goes back to girls. This was no different. 
 She classified herself as a 'friend'. That of course, didn't stop her from dating my other friends. 
 I guess I was a 'non dating' friend. I remember her as being beautiful. And I don't mean beautiful 
 in the way all high school crushes are when you look back through the decades. She was beautiful 
 because she smiled when she saw me. She was beautiful because the pitch in her voice changed when 
 I called her and she realized it was me. She was beautiful. And she was dating my friend.
  
  He had joined the Army before he was even out of school. So of course, my teenaged mind thought 
 that if I joined, she'd immediately fall in love with me. I didn't tell the recruiter any of this. 
 I did the whole spiel about the College Fund and getting leadership skills. I aced the 'ASVAB', 
 the Military version of the SAT. Aced. The recruiter's eyes lit up when she saw my score. 'This 
 is the highest score I've ever seen. You'll be able to pick any job in the Army!' I began thinking 
 that being in the Army would be great, and I could barely wait to get in.
  
  In the end, I didn't join the Army. Not because I came to my senses and realized that wearing a 
 uniform won't stop someone from loving someone else. My eyes were too bad. There was no getting 
 around myopia. The girl ended up marrying my friend. He's still in the military and I still see 
 him from time to time.
  
  The last time he came over I popped in Call of Duty 4 for the Xbox 360. I figured he'd love it. 
 After coming back from a tour in the Middle East , he'd probably feel right at home with the large 
 selection of weapons, realistic environments and intense action. I walked him through a few of 
 the missions. The AI in CoD4 is great, shouting orders at you, laying down cover fire, making you 
 feel like you're part of a squad and not just some Rambo-esque figure lugging around 4 guys as 
 dead weight.
  
  When I switched to the online multiplayer mode, things heated up. He leaned forward in the chair, 
 eyes going into a cold stare. Explosions blanketed the streets and he took command of the 7 other 
 players he'd never met before. 'Clear that building! Don't come out till you've hit every room. 
 You! Hold this corner. Anything moves, shoot. And call out your targets!.' I watched this guy that 
 used to play flag football with me, level his assault rifle and calmly place three bullets into 
 another player.
  
  Call of Duty 4 has a ton of multiplayer modes. Old School Death Match, Capture the Flag Variants, 
 Free for all, etc. But we were playing Hardcore Team Death Match. Meaning the 'realism' is jacked 
 up. You get shot, you're out for the round. No cute indicators pointing to grenades at your feet. 
 It's brutal. And my friend, the same guy who was afraid to dive off the high board at the pool, 
 was kicking ass. Now he was paired up with some anonymous player, probably 1000 miles away. They 
 would cover each other as they went through the level. One shooting while the other reloaded. BAM! 
 The other player's head explodes and his virtual body falls to the ground. The graphics in Call 
 of Duty 4 are without equal. I expect my friend to hunt down the offending player on the opposite 
 team, maybe using a knife melee attack for extra effect. But he doesn't. The cold stare that was 
 in his eyes, got a little colder. He didn't put down the controller. He used it to look at the 
 body of the guy who he'd been playing with a few seconds earlier. When he spoke, his voice was 
 softer, more fragile than before. "Hey, you said had a sweet racing game for this right? Lets check 
 that out instead.".
  
  I switched the disc in the Xbox 360 and for the next hour we barely said a word. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Commander-D
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 23, 2008 6:07 pm PT
Review:  This game may have a short single player campaign but it is still intense and rewarding depending 
 on how hard you make it. Graphics are spectacular, gameplay is intense and addicting, voice acting 
 is great, multiplayer just adds to the already solid gameplay experience with the ability to customize 
 classes and challenge up to 15 other players to settle the score. My only real complaint about 
 the game is that the "One Shot One Kill" mission is annoying because in the last part of the level 
 the enemies always get the drop on you any it can be real annoying especially on higher difficulties. 
 Overall this game is an awesome experience and I recommend to all FPS fans who don't have this 
 game to go and buy it if you can.
  
  PS: Well all I can say now is that people new to the multiplayer mode of this game will find themselves 
 dying a lot so be aware of experienced players 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ALazyMonkey
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 23, 2008 5:25 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty took the leap and went into modern warfare. Not another World War 2 game. This game 
 has good graphics and a lot of weapons to choose from. The single player campaign is really good 
 but short, if they made the single player longer it would have probably have gotten a better rating. 
 After you complete the single player and get a feel for the controls and the weapons in this game 
 you will want to play the multiplayer (since that's all you sort of can do) . The multiplayer is 
 where this game shines, it has a lot of maps, lots of gametypes, and a great leveling system. As 
 you level up you unlock guns to use, game types to play, and that is pretty much it, but you do 
 get an emblem for every level. You have to make a tough choice once you reach level 55 though, 
 if you haven't reached it yet, and I don't know how you haven't, then I won't spoil what the choice 
 is. If you get enough kills with a certain gun you will unlock a skin for it. If this game had 
 longer single player and more unlockables then this would be a perfect first person shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rdwolf260
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 23, 2008 1:57 pm PT
Review:  In this title, Infinity Ward scraps the World War II setting for a more relevant setting. The single 
 player campaign puts you in the Marine Corp and British SAS to stop a Muslim extremist from detonating 
 nuclear bombs. The action is fast and furious, the graphics are the best the new generation consoles 
 have to offer, and variety is refreshing. You'll be tasked with infiltrating enemy camp, rampage 
 through a television station, and creep under tanks and trucks in front of your enemies' noses 
 in a sniper ghillie suit as you stalk your prey. The game design itself is sheer genius that's 
 shown through many in game sequences that will make your mouth drop. Unfortunately, the single 
 player campaign is extremely brief and can be completed in just a few hours. Of course you can 
 always ratch up the difficulty. However, on Veteran setting the enemies become uncannily accurate 
 and very often score one shot kills, which makes progression extremely frustrating if not impossible. 
 Call of Duty 4's brevity though is a very minor complaint when you take into an account that it's 
 multi-player component is hands down the best in existence. The ability to score experience points 
 and be rewarded with the ability to call down an air strike on your opponents or to call in an 
 attack chopper for support is extremely gratifying. Call of Duty 4 is the best FPS game made and 
 has set a standard for the genre that will be very hard for just anyone to surpass. It's a testament 
 to the game's greatness that after over a year, millions of players continue to pop this title 
 into their console trays. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maniak4life
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 23, 2008 7:49 am PT
Review:  After being amazed by COD2 and... entertained by COD3, it's time for Call Of Duty 4: Modern Warfare, 
 and I think i've fallen in love.
  Let's make things clear, this is better then Gears of War.
  It's NOT better than Orange Box but 
 its very, very close.
  
  COD4 doesn't just improve on every aspect of COD3, it reinvents the formula and creates one of 
 the, if not the, most immersive and consistently enjoyable game on the system.
  
  The whole engine has received an overhaul and what a welcome one it is.
  Every aspect of the 
 graphics is impressive.
  The gameplay improves on the already fantastic gameplay of COD2+3 and it is quite simply a pleasure 
 to play.
  The story is very well done, and relevant, and although the campaign, like COD2+3 could be longer, 
 the multiplayer more then makes up for it.
  It's a refereshing change to play Call Of Duty in a modern setting, although im equally interested 
 in seeing what Treyarch do with this engine in a WW2 enviroment.
  You already know this game is an absolute gem, and if you don't have it your missing out on one 
 of the best experiences on the console.
  
  +
  
  Graphics are tasty.
  So is the gameplay.
  So is pretty much everything else.
  
  - 
  
  The campaign is slightly 
 short, but that's COD. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yeley718
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 22, 2008 3:09 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is a great game all around, from its' campaign, to its' multiplayer this is one 
 of the best games ever one any console.
  
  The story is quite emotional, with an incredible ending, i don't want to spoil anything so i wont 
 give away to much. But I'm sure you will find it very entertaining.
  
  After you are done with the campaign (which is not short if you play it on veteran) then COD4 has 
 a incredible multiplayer mode, which lots of people are playing, you rank up by getting EXP points 
 through 55 levels of rank and while you do this you w2ill unlock new weapons, and perks.
  
  All the weapons feel powerful and accurate, and the gun models are great, the games graphics are 
 superb, and the maps are designed excellently. With a good amount of buildings, cars, ETC.
  
  This is a great game all around, the frame rate is solid, and never falters, the graphics and 
 sound are great (including the voice work.) And the game has one of the best levels i have ever 
 played called "Crew Expendable"
  
  You owe it to yourself to pick this one up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slipstream720
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 22, 2008 12:44 pm PT
Review:  I went nearly a whole year hearing about this game and how great it was, and I just thought to 
 myself "I'll get around to it". I decided to order the Game of the Year edition off amazon, and 
 it has to be one of the best (if not THE best) games I have ever played. The storyline isn't phenomenal, 
 but it is pretty good. The core gameplay is easy to learn/hard to master (though I though that 
 the melee and crouch buttons were placed oddly) , and the campaign features some pretty fun missions. 
 And the graphics, for the most part, are gorgeous. But as anyone can tell you, COD4 isn't famous 
 for it's single-player. It features probably the most unique online ranking system for online multiplayer, 
 and a feature called "Create a Class", in which you can choose an individual weapon, sidearm, and 
 "perks", which are like power-ups that each person has 2 of. My only complaints are about the split-screen 
 multiplayer. This is a heavily underrated feature, but it feels a bit tacked-on and minimalistic. 
 First of all, there are many weapons that are available online that aren't on local multiplayer, 
 and there is no Create-a-class option (there are only predesignated classes) .
  
  I reccomend this game for people who enjoy good video games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FJHrunner
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 21, 2008 4:11 pm PT
Review:  Ok let's get to the point, COD4, yea... it's modern warfare and thank God the creators make it 
 interesting now! Well, there are some good and bad that comes out of everything! Good: Just a great 
 storyline and awesome new characters!!! Bad: I would be concerned about why the rating is switched 
 to "M" now! Ah who knows! One more bad thing is that the characters can be just a tiny bit racist 
 about the Iraqi's! But don't be bothered by that too much! But overall rating, out of 5 stars, 
 I'd rate COD4... ****/... 4.5 stars!! Great game! Best shoot 'em up game I've played since Halo 
 2!!! Awesome game! Keep up the good 
  
  
 
  
  
   
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wilko369
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 20, 2008 11:28 am PT
Review:  well, what to say about call of duty 4, well first, the graphics are amazing especially with a 
 HD ready tv, and second the online play is amazing!!
  However amongst the super awesome game is the story, well honestly it sucks! It absolutely let 
 the game down, so yes the online play on it is class, and yes the graphics are amazing, but the 
 story is one of the best parts of a game, and quite frankly this sucked, it was far too short and 
 included weapons and items you cant even get in the game.
  So overall its an amazing game, the online play is probably one of the best online plays to date, 
 but the story just let it down...
  The best thing about the online play is probably the leveling up and golden weapons, however many 
 people cheat when leveling up by talking with the oponent if they can level up on them, i mean 
 where's the fun in that.
  Its taking all the fun out of it.
  My personal favourite match type on it is a hardcore free for all or hardocre team death, and would 
 reccomend it to you.
  
  Its a big step from world war two to trying and making a mordern warfare game, however i think 
 they managed it just fine, but due to the story they made it by the skin o there teeth... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zauriel_MU
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 18, 2008 10:13 pm PT
Review:  I loved Call of Duty 2, I played through it a bunch of times and had a lot of fun doing it. But 
 frankly by the time I got to COD:2 I was sick of the World War 2 setting. Shooting Nazi's just 
 isn't fun anymore.
  
  Call of Duty: Modern Warfare brought this series into a whole new setting. A setting that is furious, 
 fast and wholly fresh. I could go on about the awesome graphics, the story or even the multi-player. 
 There is nothing that I could say, or add, that hasn't already be said. All of it is great.
  
  But what really, truly, makes this game stand apart from the series and many First person shooters 
 in general are the cinematic moments that leave your jaw on the floor. Normally when a FPS does 
 something new inside the game (say going from running and gunning to operating a gun on an airship) 
 the game suffers. Not in this game. The moments where you do something special are what make this 
 game special. Do not pass this game up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: michaeldog12
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 18, 2008 5:56 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty 4 has a campaign like all FPS and multiplayer. You can beat the campaign in about 
 5 hours. You can choose your difficulty which makes the campaign just right for any player. What 
 makes this game so addictive is the online multiplayer. You start off at level 1 and gain experience 
 on the way as you kill your opponents. As you level you get new guns and perks. There are also 
 challenges that when completed reward you with experience and attachments for your weapons. The 
 graphics in this game are spectacular and the human models are well made. This game is great for 
 all kinds of players, from regular players to hardcore. Its really hard to say how much time you 
 will spend playing this game, it all comes down to what kind of gamer you are. I recommend to buy 
 the game if you have Xbox Live. If you don't have Xbox Live then rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xgamer367
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 18, 2008 3:44 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty games in the past may not have been perfect, but COD 4 is a shooter that has achieved 
 perfection. The graphics are incredible, with great weather effects and no low framerates. The 
 environments are beautifully detailed and breathtaking. The voicework is also amazing. This is 
 the first COD game to have a fun campaign mode. The action is intense, and you can actually use 
 tall grass to be hidden, unlike in the other games. Campaign is fun, but too short. The highlight 
 of the game is it's multiplayer. There are several game modes you can play, including the new Search 
 and Destroy. The multiplayer has an amazing ranking system. You can cuztomize your own class, with 
 a weapon and perk, or bonus, of choice. As you get to higher levels, you get new weapons, perks, 
 weapon parts, and challenges. You will spend hours on multiplayer, trying to perfect your classes, 
 and because it's fun. COD 4 is the best FPS that I have ever played. I highly reccomend it to any 
 console owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Legendary-Mode
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 17, 2008 11:54 am PT
Review:  Infinity Ward was born out of the success of retelling some of the greatest battles in World War 
 II. The company has become synonymous with the virtual beach at Normandy. So it was quite a gamble 
 to break from the comfort zone of Nazi-occupied Europe and leap into present day. The gamble paid 
 off. Ghost Recon, Rainbow Six, and every other military-based shooter has been put on notice. There 
 is a new standard to judge this sub-genre and it is Call of Duty 4.
  
  The meticulous care IW took to faithfully recreate WWII-era weaponry was also given to bringing 
 modern armaments to life. Many of the incredible tools of war used today come into play in COD4. 
 You'll man the weapons of the AC-130 Gunship, which flies above the battlefield and fires 105mm 
 rounds that decimate the enemy; make big explosions with Javelin missiles, which drop straight 
 down to hit the thinner top armor of tanks; and cycle through a small arsenal of both light and 
 heavy guns featuring a variety of scopes and augmentations. With an astonishing number of enemies 
 in the field (half of whom seem to carry rocket launchers) , you are going to need every last bit 
 of modern tech to survive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hickamie14
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 15, 2008 7:32 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is the Call of Duty series leap to the modern era, and boy does 
 it naiil the landing.
  
  With Infinity Ward back at the helm, Call of Duty 4 delivers a cinematic and engaging story of 
 international terrorism and a possible Russian civil war through two different perspectives-a U. S. 
 Marine and British S. A. S. You'll get to know your squad better than in previous games and there 
 are still the trademark cinematic missions that are better than ever, and allow you to take control 
 of a gunship as well as sneak through Chernobyl in a Ghilie suit. The single-player will only last 
 you 4-5 hours your first time through, but it has four difficulty settings and great replay value.
 
  
  The multi-player in Call of Duty 4 is going suck your life away if you're not careful. CoD 4 adds 
 a fantastic new rank and unlock system that, to me, is unrivaled in gaming. While supporting fantastic 
 18 player matches on 18 maps, Call of Duty 4 allows you to create your own class by using the tremendous 
 perk system. Perks allow you to pick the way you play by giving you a number of abilities, like 
 more life or bigger explosive range, to pick from, this idea works marvelously and I mean it. The 
 game also features an impressive weapon repertoire, six game modes, a very good matchmaking system, 
 and a really great menu. This is one you'll be playing for a very long time.
  
  The graphics in Call of Duty 4 are top-of-the -line. The game has great lighting, fantastic explosions, 
 great character models, and an overall impressive design. The sound is very good as well, providing 
 weapons that sound incredible, a great orchestral score, and an incredible amount of detail that 
 gives the game an extra tactical element.
  
  While there isn't some great feature like saved films in Call of Duty 4, it more than makes up 
 for it by delivering some of the smoothest and consistent game-play I have ever played. The controls 
 are ingeniously designed and Team Death-Match is much deeper than most games thanks to the new 
 Perks. Not much more can be said, Call of Duty 4 nails everything it does and exceeds in a number 
 of areas that make this a game a absolute must buy no matter what console you own. 
  
  ~~~~~~STORY: 8.9~~~~~~GAME-PLAY: 10~~~~~~LASTING APPEAL: 10~
  
  THE GOOD: Fun, cinematic single-player 
 | Stellar controls | Fantastic rank and matchmaking systems | Outstanding visuals and great sound 
 design | Perks | Good maps and plenty of them | Extremely deep game-play.
  
  THE BAD: Single-player is a little too short.
  
  OVERALL: 10
  Call of Duty 4 is a stellar 
 game that everyone should own-a true classic.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: berkan-
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 16, 2008 10:07 pm PT
Review:  Cod4 is a revolutionary war game, based on the modern war affairs.
  
  Call of duty - modern warfare is a must buy for any fan of games, and it will keep you entertained 
 until Cod 6 with its multilayer modes, game play, story and features unlike any other war shooter 
 out there.
  Surprisingly it has a miraculous advantage over Cod 5 because of the entertainment it has to offer, 
 which most players will agree with. It centerfolds an idea that will be brought into games to come 
 and will involve you in many ways within its addictive vibrant story it has to offer. Cod 4's game 
 engine and graphics are both fantastic, which keeps the game entertaining but realistic at the 
 same time to offer a variety of emotions while sitting on your couch. Cod 4 will certainly turn 
 your living room into a war field. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ritual-Power
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 16, 2008 8:48 pm PT
Review:  To be very blunt this is the game medal of horor wants to be!!! This game is almost perfect with 
 a depth story line strong broad characters and good challangeing achevement list. Multiplayer and 
 xbox live is simply amazing; 55 levels 10 times with amazing weapons and added effects to boot. 
 Furthermore the 200+ in game challanges ranging simply from falling off a cliff to killing 5 people 
 by shooting a thrown gernade. the game can be appealing to a fan base that is new to FPS's and 
 those who can pull off a 43-2 KD spread. The only minor issue with the game is the no true skill 
 matching system to match people with people of appropriate skill level the poor guy joining a game 
 with 5th prestige players wont stand a chance. Bottom line; THIS GAME IS A MUST HAVE FOR YOUR XBOX 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bunkerboy619
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 16, 2008 3:14 am PT
Review:  So, i have had this game for just over a month now, i know i should have bought it when it came 
 out but . . . anyway, this last month of CoD World at war beta's and the release of the game have 
 made me wonder, should i buy a game just as its next installment is coming out, i bleedin well 
 think so!!!!!!
  OK, Lets take Halo 3 & put it up against CoD 4, hmmmmmmmmm, after playing CoD online, I was totaly 
 owning everyone on Halo 3!! This game has an incredible ability of turning even the most casual 
 of gamers into mlg pro's, I used to live on Halo, Now i eat COD'EOS for breakfast!!!!!!
  
  So while all you rich kids play cod WAW, i wont be playin it till CoD 6: Mission to Moscow (May 
 not be True) 
  
  Final Verdict: 9.9 out of 10, Single player campaign's a bit short, so only buy this if you have 
 LIVE, No Really 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Peaches1347
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 15, 2008 6:38 am PT
Review:  CoD 4 has been out for sometime now. I just didn't believe it could really be that good due to 
 the Sh**y-ness of the last call of duty where you mindless wander around around shooting Nazi's 
 or Japaneses soldiers.
  Then a friend one day forced me to take it and play it. And i loved it. The story is fast paced 
 and action packed. It has you take two sides the USMC and SAS. Infinity Ward or Activision (which 
 ever made the game) finally took a more realistic view on how the Marines and other military forces 
 around the world actually work. They no longer make them out to be the worlds biggest bad a$$'s 
 that always are pumped full of adrenaline. The dev's use actual terminology from the marines and 
 other military forces which gives it a more authentic feel to it. But enough about that
  
  The actual story takes place in modern times with a middle-eastern country and Russia teamed up 
 to take down the world with nuclear weapons. You progress through the story switching between the 
 views of two characters "Soap MacTarvish" of the SAS and "Sgt. Johnson" of the USMC. Although you 
 play more of the SAS then the USMC. The story is very simple from a far its basically this "Try 
 and find who has the nuclear bomb". But if you get into the story its more complex and emotional 
 as you get attached to the characters. Which makes the end leave you with a feeling of satisfaction 
 because you just saved the world.
  
  The multi-player is just amazing. Even though achievement whores might not stay for long because 
 theres "no achievements whats the point" remember the time when you played games for fun not for 
 achievements?!
  The exp. system they have set up is fun and (for you not achievement whores) will make want to 
 say. You can customize everything you fight with from guns to grenades and you can even get perks 
 to do special things like sprint for longer, etc... If you love multi-player kill everything in 
 site games this is perfect for you
  
  But alas every game has there faults. The dialog is kind of cheesy along with the voice acting. 
 The difficulty is insanely hard at harden and veteran to point where if your enemy runs up to you 
 and he has a machine gun (WHICH HE WILL!) and get the first shot its almost impossible to to get 
 you gun down because for some reason when you get shot the world turns white and red and your gun 
 proceeds to aim higher with every shot this gets aggravating after the first 10 times that it WILL 
 happen. I don't know if the dev's want to have a realistic game but it comes to a point where reality 
 in games goes to far. 
  And if it was reality they were shooting for they missed it in some points by a long shot. I'd 
 be standing and the middle of a gun fight and all the bad guys would shoot at me, ME not my allies 
 standing 3 paces to the right but me and only me! Its like my allies paid them off during the loading 
 screen too kill me. Along with the enemies sole targeting and hatred for me they seem to be able 
 to spot you be hind walls.
  The health system seems to be the same as most modern first person shooters. You get hit the screen 
 turns red and you run away to twiddle your thumbs in the corner until your character decides that 
 he is okay. This has its ups and down because the AI have no desire to love for long because they 
 will run halfway across the field to come up beside you when you are twiddling your thumbs and 
 kill you.
  
  All in all CoD 4 is a great game that anybody should own and probably will enjoy
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheBlackKnight3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 12, 2008 9:46 pm PT
Review:  People might just say, its just another shooter, but it isnt like its world war II counterparts. 
 It has great multiplayer, and levelling up could keep you going for hours. Multiplayer is one of 
 the best I have ever had, and I will probably be playing for a while. You can just pick it up and 
 play, and you arent obligated to play until there is a save point or something. The combat system 
 is good, and with small details like night vision and perks make it a great game. The difficulty 
 is adjustable, and the difficulty is perfect for whatever level a person plays at. Unlike all over 
 the previous Call of Duty games, this one actually has a good story, which, although it can be 
 beaten in one day, is interesting and there are many new things that will keep you going. Although 
 sometimes the shooting isn't that accurate, overall the game is enjoyable and with the low price 
 is an extremely good deal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ARRunner
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 12, 2008 4:47 am PT
Review:  Now i was a halo man and never really took a look the COD series until halo 3 is now becoming a 
 tad old and i want something new. Bingo, Call of Duty 5 WaW looks like a decent shooter. To give 
 me something else to play until its relese i hired COD 4. I had heard of being good. and good it 
 was but better.
  The single player campaign is short buts thats hardly a worry considering how good it. The single 
 player is fully fleshed out, You are never really left for more than 5 seconds without someone 
 shooting at you. By doing this i found myself being constanly exicting and then this is what makes 
 this game stick out. most of this game is like OMG did that just. One would think once on the Helicopter 
 sure hes save, hes the hero or once you get the treasure off the boat thats it, well done. You 
 are wrong things go horribly wrong for the protagonist, The player is also always feeling like 
 there is never any rest and thats probally why it feels so short but its really quality over quantity. 
 Not to mention the great balance of Guns, enemies, Enviroments and Graphics.
  
  The multiplayer is like Counterstrike in a way. But this is a whole lot better. Ever wanted to 
 create your on gun or your own class get COD4. The Maps are awsome, and the leveling sytems is 
 too, shame bout there is no Ozzie servers. But this is an outright winner for Customization on 
 an FPS. The higher your level the more guns you can get and more perks ( like class bonuses) .
 
  
  This game is among the greatest FPS of all time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warrior427
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 11, 2008 7:50 pm PT
Review:  this has to be one of the best 1st person shooters ive ever played the plot is great and the storymode 
 never lets up and the game never gets reppetitive which is really good the graphics and physics 
 really bring this game to life along with the characters like captain price there isnt really anything 
 wrong with this game I wish it was longer and there more levels like the sharpshooting part of 
 the storyline that had to be my favorite part and the weapons are really cool the best Ive ever 
 seen in any call of duty game and I think the multiplayer maps should have been a little bit bigger 
 to allow for better strategy and I dont know about this for sure but maybe the game would have 
 been even better with vehicles like tanks and stuff on the battle field like in call of duty 3 
 but I dont know call of duty 4 is a combat game not a driving game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaBusta
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 11, 2008 8:40 am PT
Review:  The story is about the S. A. S and U. S. M. C. trying to stop terrorists from launching nuclear warheads 
 towards the U. S., (Yes, kind of a worn out story, all the new movies are about that too..) but 
 although the plot is old, the way the story evolves it still is a GREAT story, with firefights 
 throughout the game!
  
  The graphics are sensational, actually quite photo-realistic, and it makes you able to determine 
 distance and position a lot better than in any game i've played.
  
  The sound is terrific, and they obviously put a lot of effort into recording and processing the 
 audio to make it sound as realistic as possible.
  
  The multiplayer is what impressed me the most. You start off with a very limited choice of weapons, 
 but as you kill your enemies and complete weaponchallenges (like 'get 75 headshots with the Barrett 
 .50 cal.' and 'kill 15 enemies with cooked grenades') , you will rise in ranks, and unlock a great 
 arsenal of weapons from submachineguns to large calibre sniper weapon systems. There are several 
 game-modes, one for each taste, and you won't tire until you've played it for 40-something hours. 
 At least, I didn't.
  
  The only bad thing I have to say about this game is that there are no multiplayer achievements, 
 even though they have a GREEEEAT multiplayer engine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shantmaster_K
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 10, 2008 10:02 pm PT
Review:  Overview 
  
  Activision and Infinity Ward are at it again creating one of the biggest hits of 2007... Call of 
 Duty 4: Modern Warfare. This intense shooter will surely keep you at the edge of your seat with 
 the weapons and technology of modern warfare. The game starts off at a military base where you 
 will learn the basic controls at a shooting range and a timed obstacle course. Not only will this 
 game keep you busy with shooting Arabs and Russians and big explosions, but the game also has many 
 different challenges you will face throughout the game and multiplayer. Like the obstacle course 
 for example. Before you begin this timed obstacle course (the obstacle course will also tell you 
 a recommended level to start the game) you commander will say that "Gaz", a member of the British 
 S. A. S holds the record of going through the obstacle course at 19 seconds. You can choose whether 
 to try and beat this record or just run through it to start the game. Many challenges such as this 
 will be in the game. 
  As you go through the game you will either play as a member if the British S. A. S or a member of 
 the U. S Marines. You will go through the game killing your enemies with awesome weapons, bombs 
 and guns from planes, calling in air support and helicopters, and quick blade action. You will 
 use strategic techniques throughout the game to defeat your enemies. 
  - 
  Multiplayer: One of the most fun and intense multiplayer games ever, in my opinion. As you begin 
 the multiplayer potions of CoD4, you will only be able to play 3 different game types. But as you 
 play more and gain experience, ranks, and levels, you will be able to play more game types, unlock 
 new weapons, unlock attachments such as a silencer or a red laser dot for aiming, and unlock different 
 types of perks. Perks are different kinds of bonuses that you can use throughout your multiplayer 
 gaming. Deeper bullet penetration, increased health, and bigger explosions are a few examples of 
 perks. Also what makes this game fun besides the awesome weapons, are the new features you can 
 use such as air support, radar, and sending in a helicopter. 
  
  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare. A must have game for all you fps fanatics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordNightwolf
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 10, 2008 8:40 pm PT
Review:  The 4th game in the never ending call of duty series. This one how ever is DIFFERENT your probobly 
 thinking "ABOUT F***ING TIME!!!" The price tag is expencive still after a few years on the shelf 
 of $60 but now it comes with a code to get the varity map pack which is $10 so think of it an extra 
 1000 microsoft points you dont have to spend! So how a bout spendint those points redoing your 
 gamertag if you replaced 1's for all the I/L's or 3's for E's. The campain is a 2 part story but 
 in the end the 2 anti-terorrist groups team up. All the gamerscore you get in the game is only 
 unlocked in the campian so beatit once to get a decent amout. The Xbox Live is the main reason 
 most people go this bad boy. But the people you meat are 99% of the time eather phyco-socal or 
 just plain old @$$ wholes. You can rank up to level 55 which is the highest up to 10 times. And 
 you can complete chalanges to unlock new wepons, perks, and equpment which you can chouse from 
 when your making a class. You could of guessed that this is in present day. There is jus SOOO many 
 good things about this game! So many to list (and I'm just lazy) Thats why Call of Duty 4: Moddern 
 Warfare gets a : 
  
  9 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grubes26
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 10, 2008 6:07 pm PT
Review:  There is a big reason why this game has 3 editions, one in which is the GAME OF THE YEAR EDITION!!! 
 The game is a perfect masterpiece of authenticity and action through all the levels. I'll admit 
 that this is the first game that I've played in the Call of Duty series and it makes me want to 
 go purchase the other 3 in the series. I've gone through the game on two of the difficulties and 
 both times was a blast granted it was a little easier due to the fact that i knew what was coming 
 up but the harder the difficulty gets, new enemies appear from different angles kind of throwing 
 you for just a little loop. I've almost unlocked all the achievements in the game and I'm currently 
 working on the Veteran difficulty of the game which is definitely proving to be harder than the 
 others. Even if you are not an FPS fan, this might be the game that changes your mind due to the 
 awesome graphics, realism, and just plain balls to the wall action!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diddiwidddi94
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 10, 2008 10:02 am PT
Review:  Call of duty 4 is a great game to play, it is easily one of the best online games ever. but the 
 only bad thing is, the singleplayer.
  
  The single player on COD4 has a great storyline to it but it is too short. The story of the games 
 is about two people one is a member of the marines (Americans) and one from the SAS (British) there 
 names are Pvt Soap Mctavish (SAS~) and Sgt Paul Jackson (Mairnes) . They are trying to stop a man 
 named Khaled Al Asad. Al Asad is second main man in the middle east and he kills the main man to 
 become the ruler of the middle east. But then you find out a Russian named Imran Zakhaev is the 
 boss of Al Asad and he is fighting the SAS, but they don't know it was his army. 15 years ago Captain 
 Price a high ranked soldier in the SAS and leader of your team came across Zakhaev with his Captain 
 Mc Millan. His mission was to kill Zakhaev, but he only shot his arm of and they left him to die. 
 And that is the main part of the story on COD4.
  
  The main feature on COD4 is the online mode, it has intense fighting and many guns in your armory, 
 but youdon't just get the guns you have to work your way up 55 rank until you can get them all 
 and use them. Also there is something called prestige which allows you to go through the 55 ranks 
 all over again 10 times, there is a price to pay if you prestige though, you lose all your guns 
 and challenges and you have to go through it all again. OAlso online when you reach level 4 you 
 can do something called create a classwhere you can put any gun you have open on and use it with 
 a range of things called perks. Perks are things that can upgrade your gun or simply protect you 
 when you are camping. A few examples of simple perks are Stopping power or jugernaut.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: general_milo
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 10, 2008 9:41 am PT
Review:  Call of duty 4 is an excellent game, sure the story is over in no more than 3 or 4 hours, but the 
 split screen is a blast.
  
  The online is great, irrisistable and just plain fun, the perk system that they used revolutionized 
 FPS' everywhere. The game online is an absolutely addicting thing, its like a drug!
  The online has a lot of people playing so you'll never have to wait and wait and wait for people 
 to join the game so you can play, the custom class option and perk system is absolutely brillian. They 
 also have a prestige mode system, theres like,12 of them, so when you get to level 55 (the highest 
 leve) you can go to prestige mode to start all over gain and unlock all the stuff again, with a 
 diffirent promomtion symbol.
  
  The graphics are pretty good, not extremely good compared to some other games out there at the moment, but 
 good. The realism in the game though is practicly unbeatable, when your character is running and 
 you take a turn, you make a super realistic turn, you dont just turn right on the dot like this.
 
  
  _______
  I 
  I
  I
  Instead you make like how you turn in real life. Anyway, i know how that was weird to obeserve but 
 its true.
  
  The bottom line:
  
  This game rcoks hard and is a must have for all console owners and FPS lovers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rakan959
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 9, 2008 3:45 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 offers a story set in the Middle East, using modern weaponry in tactical situations. 
 While very nice, the campaign is fairly short, and will last a week for a casual gamer. 
  Some may say that the multiplayer is great, and while it is, it is much too easy to advance in 
 rank. Some may say that the XP system is great, and I agree, but if they think that Prestige is 
 a reward, then they have another thing coming. Prestige is simply a way to say "Well, we're not 
 going to spend the time adding in more weapons to be unlocked at higher ranks, so we just want 
 to release the game now, and we'll add it a couple of years after the release of our next game." 
 While it offers bragging rights to some, having to give up all your weapons and start at level 
 1 all over again just for a tiny graphic next to your name is not a good reward.
  With great graphics and a decent campaign, this game earns a good score, but the Prestige system 
 brings it down to an 8.5/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reymainevent
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 9, 2008 2:57 pm PT
Review:  ok the multiplayer aspect of this freaking game is awesome. how awesome you say? i dont know how 
 to put it but its awesome trust me. and if you dont trust me well your lost. its very addicted 
 and while playing you earn experience point for killing, calling air support, or capturing opposing 
 teams flags or whatever. i mean its like an rpg leveling up and *bleep* like that. you earn prestige 
 they're 10 of them to be earned everytime you level up all the way to level 55. to me its kind 
 of worthless since you lose everything you earn and start from scratch all over again but you get 
 a nice looking prestige thing-majig. as you can see all that i've been talking about is the multiplayer 
 part its because i havent even played the single player aspect of the game. i havent even touch 
 it or look at it. ok i lied i look at it but i just when straight to the multiplayer part and started 
 blasting away. 
  
  Reasons for buying the freaking game:
  1.) guns and bullets what else can you want a pony?
  2.) killing people in xbox live and getting 
 a +10 is rewarding.
  3.) just a freaking fun multiplayer game man
  
  Reasons for not buying the freaking game:
  1.) you like the wwII better
  2.) asking yourself 
 will i get 500,000 or more kills or will i be long gone by then?
  3.) no alien enemies no cortana no fun
  
  overall, this game rocks and puts you in a very addicting 
 multiplayer experience 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nemicrese
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 8, 2008 1:32 pm PT
Review:  This game has a lot of plus for it. it has the perk system which gives it an rpg feeling and can 
 give you a chance to pwn the guy who keeps killing you. the campaign is very fun and gets intense 
 at lots of points throughout. some negatives are it gets repetitive. second is prestige mode. I 
 didn't know what prestige ment at first so when i hit level 55 i tried it and lost my rank and 
 all my weapons and achievements and for what... a symbol next to your name. my suggestion is not 
 to prestige at all unless your bored out of your mind or just want to get back at your brother 
 who got you in trouble and log onto his account and prestige for him. There are a good amount of 
 guns to choose from and a good 15-20 perks to help you own anyone that gets in your way. This game 
 is a must buy if your a fan of FPS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZiggyHaloX
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2008 1:30 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 blew me away. I was seriously worried about the atmosphere of world war abandoning 
 you, making it a dull game, but that fantastic world war atmosphere, has been replaced by a huge 
 amount of excitement, hype, and danger. Bullets coming from the left, right and center, you're 
 never at peace in CoD4. Which is seriously badass. There are a few ways to cheat the targeting 
 system by constantly tapping the scope trigger without losing any speed, but the game actually 
 points this out to you so... its not exactly cheating the targeting system its more of... a tactical 
 movement? Well okay they kind of gave you a cheat, which really shouldn't be encouraged in any 
 case but aside that I can't actually think of anything wrong with the game except the slight lack 
 of graphical quality in online multiplayer, which is the best I've ever experienced because of 
 a beautifully executed system that works like a charm, with perks that varies your style of gameplay. 
 
  
  It's the best CoD yet, and if you don't get it this christmas, if you don't already have it, you're 
 missing out on a truly excellent experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ipromise3
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 5, 2008 10:33 pm PT
Review:  Pros: Excellent multiplayer. Great graphics. Fun story. Addicting. 
  
  Cons: No co-op. Story could have been longer. Could've been more downloadable content. 
  
  
 The game's story was really great. It was medium in length, but good and modern. The guns you can 
 use and your missions are really fun. I never actually played call of duty games because they all 
 looked the same to me and I wasn't a fan of WW game. I saw that this one was modern time so i picked 
 it up and I'm glad that I did. The only thing I didn't like about the story was that it didn't 
 have co-op.
  
  The online for this game was probably the best online I've ever played. I got this right when it 
 came out, which was after halo 3, and this game made me stop playing halo 3 online because there 
 wasn't any point anymore. I haven't found any first person online game for the 360 that can compete 
 with this except maybe Cod5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrossFire245
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 5, 2008 3:37 pm PT
Review:  COD4. The first Modern Warfare game for the great Call of Duty franchise. It's been here for a 
 year now and it's still going strong. And it is not hard to see why.
  
  I'll start with the SP. In the campaign, you're fighting in a war from multiple perspectives. You'll 
 play some missions as a US Marine and others as a British SAS Operative. There are many intense 
 and action packed moments throughout the campaign. Sometimes, soldiers will surprise you, and others 
 times, they will just be begging for a fight. There are very few moments where you don't feel like 
 you're in the middle of the action. The sound is great, with explosions and guns sounding exremely 
 realistic. Controls make the gameplay feel very smooth. Hold the LS to sprint, left trigger to 
 aim down the sight, LB for special grenades, RB for frag grenades etc. You'll play in many different 
 environments too, each with its own unique design. A couple examples is a large navy boat and a 
 war-torn city in the middle of a desert. One of my complaintsi s that the Campaign is WAY too short. 
 I beat the campaign on normal in 5 1/2 hours. Luckily, Veteran make it much harder. It took me 
 8 1/2 to beat it on Veteran. Outside of campaign, besides the true MP, there is not much to do. 
 I would like something like A COD4 type of terrorist hunt or something like that, but I was dissapointed.
 
  
  Here's a big complaint that I have with the game: No Co-op. To me, this feels like a HUGE miss. 
 This SP would be great with Co-op, splitscreen and online.
  
  However, the MP is what makes COD4 shine so brightly. There are 55 levels, with 10 prestige modes 
 after (although all the prestige mode do is take away ur weapons and give you a new badge. There 
 is a lot of customization. You can create your own class, with a primary and a side arm. You can 
 design the weapon in any way you want, such as giving it a Red Dot sight, silencer, camaflauge 
 etc. These things can be earned by completing the many challenges available. Each gun has a few 
 challenges for it, and you unlock a couple more after beating the beginning ones. Along with that, 
 there are many different perks that you can earn. Some are great, while others are annoying (ex: Martydomn, 
 which drops a live grenade after you die, and juggernaut, which gives you extra health) . The higher 
 you go in rank, the more perks and guns you unlock. There a a few thing you can get in the games 
 for a certain kill streak. Here they are:
  
  3-UAV (radar)
  5-Airstrike
  7-Helicopter
  
  There are also many game modes. Here are the ones I can name off the top of 
 my head: Free for all, team deathmatch, hardcore team deathmatch, Ground War, Domination, Search 
 and Detroy, Hardcore Search and Destroy, Old school free for all, Headquarters, and some other 
 mode with small team objective games that I can; t name atm.
  
  Theg ame has a good amount of maps, with open fields, tight houses, and war-torn stuff, although 
 a few more would always be nice. Spawns can be bad at times and it does lag a little, but not always. 
 There are times when I'll spawn and be killed in about 4 seconds. The action is intense and the 
 customization and gameplay should keep you addicted for a long time. The graphics are pretty good, 
 and even if they weren't, it would not take away from the beauty that is Call of Duty 4.
  
  Summary:
  
  Pros: Great MP, intense SP, lots of customization, great controls, graphics and 
 sound are pretty good.
  
  Cons: Short SP, not much to do outside of MP, a couple annoying perks, a few minor spawn problems.
 
  
  My score: 9.0
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: djburnzy1
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 5, 2008 2:09 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 came as a surprise for myself personally. I had been meaning to purchase it for 
 a while and once I finally did I jumped straight into campaign mode. I became transfixed from that 
 point onwards of the idea that I was in the body of a solider. The feel and look of the game creates 
 the illusion that you are quite literally in the boots of an war hero. 
  
  Call of Duty 4's campaign mode would have to be it's strongest attribute. Not only does it have 
 a evident strong storyline but the missions and tasks are fairly simplistic. CoD4's campaign comes 
 in four different difficulties in which you can choose between at the very beginning of the game, 
 theses are : Recruit, Normal, Hardened & Veteran. Aside from this you have a range of achievements 
 associated with each difficulty (mostly veteran) and level. 
  
  Call of Duty 4's online mode also is a fairly strong attribute. It has a basic leveling system 
 in which gamers can 'rank up' and receive bonuses, upgrades, etc. There are also small missions 
 to complete during online mode further enhancing this games replay value. 
  
  Unfortunately Call of Duty 4's online system is no very gamer friendly as those gamers who have 
 leveled higher then other would have an advantage due to receiving upgrades, etc. Even though this 
 is a bad thing, in a way it prevents gamers to constantly boast about who's the higher rank as 
 some of the more experienced players may have reset their ranking in a mode called ' prestige mode'.
 
  
  Furthermore, online and offline (campaign) do not allow co-operative. This simply meaning this 
 game isn't a party game. Apart from this, the online department will not fail to disappoint as 
 there is so much packed into it. It also have customizable kits and perks which can be equipped 
 to weapons to allow for maximum destruction in the battlefield. 
  
  Finally, CoD4's local play allows anyone from anywhere to simply jump into the game in progress. 
 This gives fun and enjoyable feeling amongst the utter chaos of blowing each other apart in the 
 battlefield with CoD4's devastating range of weapons. 
  
  CoD4's is an absolutely remarkable game and I would highly recommend it to not only FPS fanatics 
 but every other gamer out there. It will not disappoint.
  
  
  Summary - 9/10
  Game play: Simple, yet tricky to master
  Online: Extensive and enjoyable
  Local: Easy and Reliable
 
  Graphics: Precise and realistic
  Co-operative: Non-existent
  Difficulty: Veteran is ridiculous.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: WolfLink5777777
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 3, 2008 2:24 pm PT
Review:  Be willing to surrender your free time to this game for months after you buy it. Unlike most first 
 person shooters, this game has an original, modern, not WWII storyline that many have found dull 
 and repetitive over the years. The visuals and graphics are stunning and give you a sense of understanding.
 
  
  The single player, as I previously stated, is original and innovative. The environments in the 
 missions all fit the situations and allow you to truly think about the situation you are in and 
 using the environment in a strategic way to gain the upper hand over the enemy. You can't simply 
 run-and-gun through this game unless you're on the lower difficulties.
  
  Speaking of which, the appropriately named Veteran difficulty will test your skills to highest 
 possible factor. The enemies are ruthless, and your knowledge of the game will be of great use 
 here. This is not an easy task. You can also play the game with score, similar to Halo 3. Though 
 doing so doesn't unlock anything new or get you any achievements, it's still a fun way to include 
 replayability.
  
  That brings me to the last aspect of the game: Multiplayer. This is the game's strongest point. 
 The multiplayer is addictive, challenging, and will take up the most amount of your time playing 
 Call of Duty 4. There are many different multiplayer types, all with unique rules and tasks. You 
 can join a party with friends and go on a seemingly-never-ending frag-a-thon through the late hours 
 of the night. As if the multiplayer's bulk wasn't enough to keep you playing, the multiplayer also 
 allows you to complete challenges for experience and new weapons.
  
  Speaking of experience, if you are able to reach the highest level, you can begin Prestige Mode. 
 This allows you to go back to rank 1 with a special emblem, losing all your perks and challenge 
 progressions. Though this may sound bad, it gives you reason to keep playing.
  
  Overall, anyone with an Xbox 360 should buy this game. It's vast possibilities and replayability 
 allow for months of playing. The challenges will test you and give you the urge to keep playing. 
 This is a truly fantastic game and will have you playing for a very long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Getix-01
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 1, 2008 11:10 am PT
Review:  Call of duty 4: Modern Warfare.
  Graphics: These graphics are incredible and at times breathtaking, i don't want to give anything 
 away but act 1 ending. as it sais on the back of the case... voted best graphics of 2007. At first 
 you may not think they're as good as call of duty 3, but look carefully and you will change your 
 mind.
  
  Gameplay: There is not much to say except ... the campaign is incredibley gripping and as soon 
 as you think its over at the end of act 1, that is when it pulls you back in with act 2 and you 
 are incredibley relieved that you didnt waste your money on and short game. 
  
  Multiplayer: Again like all topics in this review, voted best of 2007, no lies there. Trust the 
 reviews
  gameplay is sometimes very fast paced but really fun at the same time, there is not 1 time you 
 will be frustrated that you are being killed too many times... well unless your a 5 year old.
 
  
  9.5/10 Brilliantly Genius. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zombietart
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 1, 2008 1:56 am PT
Review:  After playing COD 3 on my PS2, i was really hyped when i heard about COD 4 coming to the Xbox 360 
 and what was especially cool about it was that they had left the WWII part of history and did modern 
 warfare. The game was banned in this country (U. A. E) so i had to pay a little extra to get it off 
 the gaming "black market". As soon as I started playing, I was hooked. The very contrasting switches 
 between playing as Private Soap McTavish of the British S. A. S. and Sgt. Paul Jackson of the U. S. M. C. 
 was a touch of genius because it keeps the game from being too repetitive since the S. A. S. tend 
 to be more stealthy and fiendish, whereas the U. S Marines are a lot more blatant and balls out. 
 The gameplay is awesome, with flawless controls and really cool missions. The difficulty of the 
 game is quite moderate and if you find you get stuck somewhere because it is too hard, you're doing 
 something wrong. The goods of this game include its online multiplayer in which 18 players can 
 duke it out in several modes, of course including "deathmatch" and "team deathmatch" with different 
 customizable combat classes. The diverse combat classes players can play with in the campaign keeps 
 the game from getting stagnant and boring. The enemy A. I. is competent and will kill you a bunch 
 of times as well as not repeat the exact same actions it did the last time you tried the level. 
 The cut-scenes in the game are unbelievable and the captivating story really integrates the player 
 into the game. The bads of this game include the games length (which is partially made up for with 
 the multiplayer, but not quite) and mainly the friendly A. I.. In the S. A. S. you play a private, 
 yet you often find that the platoon will not move unless you lead them, and only if you go in a 
 certain place; for example i once left the platoon to go kill an annoying Russian turret, and when 
 i went to the objective area, they weren't there, and i eventually found them sitting in a house 
 doing nothing. In the U. S. M. C. the troops under your command (you being a Sergeant) will follow 
 you, but will only go in the path planned out by the game, and you will often find yourself in 
 a shortcut on your own being shot at by every Arab and their dog, while your troops just hang out 
 a bit behind you on a totally different path. 
  
  All in all COD 4 is an exceptional game that would not be a waste to buy and will keep you entertained 
 whenever you feel like playing a modern and realistic shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GreySeven
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 31, 2008 11:54 pm PT
Review:  I hadn't played a COD game in my life until my friend put a copyofCOD4in my hands and asked me 
 to meet him online to play. And so I did.
  
  After about ten hours of online play, I was pretty hooked. The rules were simple, the competition 
 was fair, and the controls were intuitive. Despite the crappy-assed campers, the random grenade 
 throw kills, and the occasional dude who knows every exploit, the game is pretty solid online. 
 There's always a guild here and there who play the game non-stop and make me feel like a monkey 
 with a cell phone too (clueless and angry) , but it's easy to get over it.
  
  You'll find the online play addicting if you pick up this game. Working on ranks and achievements, 
 upgrades for weapons and all that can be a real time consumer. Is it all really work it? Eh... 
 maybe these little 'perks' give you an edge here and there but hokey religions are no match for 
 a good blaster at your side. In other words, you can tear up asses with a stripped-down MP5 the 
 same as with a supped-up AK47. It comes down to skill, timing, and flanking, making weapons really 
 obsolete anyway.
  
  I hate snipers. All of you.
  
  I delved into the campaign after playing hours online and found it lacking. The story was half 
 decent, but really overall the kind of FPS that has you shooting down waves of enemies isn't too 
 exciting for me. I honestly didn't find enough flavor in it to keep me interested though it was 
 exciting at times. But not great. You know what I mean?
  
  So i went back to online play and that is where I will stay. To me, COD4 seems to be bringing on 
 a trend a lot like Counter Strike. It's endless, but addictive, and terrible all the same. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deejay5
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 31, 2008 6:37 pm PT
Review:  if your even thinking about getting this game, get it. its definatly the best game ive got so far 
 and its just a great shooting game. online multiplayer is awesome and alot of people play it which 
 is great. good options in the game, as you get higher levels you unlock new guns, perks and more. 
 you also unlock gun equipment as you get further in the game, for example, a silencer, red dot 
 sight and also a scope. online, when you get 3 kills in a row you get a radar which allows you to 
 see where other people are for a while, if you get 5 in a row without dieing, you get airstrike 
 which bombs a certain part of the map then if you get 7 kills in a row you get a helicopter. this 
 makes it even better
  
  the single player is great to, to be honest i hadnt played it that much because online was so good, 
 so many people playing online and your bound to get in a game anytime your online. but yeah even 
 if you dont have xbox live, i still recommend that you get this game. but definatly awesome on 
 xbox live.
  
  but yeah must have game, go out there and buy it, i highly recommend it!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darth_Brahma
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 30, 2008 3:16 am PT
Review:  This is by far one of the best FPS games ever. One of my favorite parts in the game is when you 
 fight in the sky and provide air support for the troops on land. Although the game's story went 
 by really fast, the multiplayer is incredible. Call of Duty 4 is what modern warfare is about, 
 plus there's a lot of thinking involved which I like. If you can't move your troops up, then you're 
 stuck battling enemies left and right only to find out that you're stuck and once you move, the 
 enemy spots you and it's all over. The AI is very smart. One of the smartest AI's ever. I'm not 
 gonna compare this to any FPS out there because none is worthy. The gaming industry should add 
 another genre, which is TPS for Third-Person Shooters. Gears of War falls under this genre which 
 is also game of the year 2006. Call of Duty is the greatest FPS ever next to Halo. I think Bungie 
 has a lot of catching up to do and hopefully Halo: Recon will do just that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zBloodD3monz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 30, 2008 9:52 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is a must have game for online multiplayer. The story mode is too 
 short and once I completed it left me thinking "Is this all there is?" But multiplayer and the 
 graphics came to the rescue. The graphics on COD 4 is one of the best.
  
  Online multiplayer is different from COD 3 but better. Multiplayer lets you customise your own 
 weapons, and you can have things like a red dot sight, silencer, grenade launcher and more. Perks 
 lets you customise yourself to fight in a war in different ways. Perks inlcude things like increased 
 resistance to bullets, higher bullet penetration, quiter while walking, unseen from radars and 
 alot more. Theres a large variety of weapons. Multiplayer seems to lack the team work factor. The 
 prestige system gives you an objective - to get to the highest rank. But can sometimes makes you 
 think its pointless, and can make you think "Why did I do that?" You can unlock golden guns which 
 gives you an another objective.
  
  Overall I recommend getting this game for playing online. I got bored with it after a while, but 
 I still went back to it and played it. I don't recommend getting COD 4 if you don't have Xbox Live, 
 because its quite short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wake_of_Eden
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 26, 2008 9:16 am PT
Review:  First and foremost, I must say that I had never really been into war games. First Person Shooters 
 never really interested me growing up mostly because I enjoyed RPG's more, and found FPS's more 
 difficult. But, after being introduced to Halo I've never looked back. And Call of Duty 4 blows 
 any FPS out of the sky.
  
  What drew me to this game the most was the fact that it was modern warfare. I don't know if it's 
 because this game is more realistic than another that would use laser rifles or whatnot, but the 
 fact that this kind of stuff can actually happen, and most certainly does in certain military scenario's, 
 makes it that much more exciting.
  
  I would go in point form and discuss everything detailed, but there is nothing about this game 
 I didn't like. The story mode was amazing with a ton of content that mixes game play up which helps 
 keeping you challenged. The graphics are spot on, voice dialogue was great, and the game mechanics 
 are perfect.
  
  After beating it on regular difficulty, I wanted more so I decided to take it up a notch and play 
 through the game at the hardest difficulty setting. Now THAT was challenging! But if anyone likes 
 this game as much as I did, I'm sure you'll be able to complete it just the same.
  
  I'm not really into multiplayer mode so I can't touch on that, but for the single player aspect 
 you can't get much better than this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FURY93
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 25, 2008 5:44 pm PT
Review:  This game is by far one of the best FPS games out there.
  The story is realistic and it wil have you playing for hours on end. However the online multiplayer 
 is absolutely amazing and you will become hooked on it even by just playin one match. The multiplayer 
 is so fun and realistic and it you can play it for weeks and it will never get boring. The game's 
 graphics also make it more relistic to play and makes the action seem more real. Another faeture 
 about the multiplayer is the custom classes, which lets you choose your own guns and equipment, 
 which makes it that extra bit more fun to play and it takes online multiplayer up to a whole new 
 level of amazment and fun. I can't wait for the next call of duty, especially if it is going to 
 be as good as this. Overall this game is defintely a must-buy, especially if you like are a FPS 
 fan. It is a great, fun game to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xchazax
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 25, 2008 6:04 pm PT
Review:  mutiplayer is amazing until uve played it for abofterut 20 days of gameplay. single player is average, 
 dosnt involve much just crouching and shooting at men. the multiplayer is brilliat with great fast 
 pace action. geta tedious after 20 hours of gameplay but still there are more games you can play 
 while u bored of call of duty and eventually ull be playing it again. if u want mutiplayer this 
 is the best u can get. this game is better with friends so if ur friends dont have this game then 
 try and purswaid them to buy it and ull be playing with the after school and on weekends 11111111111111 
 1111111111111 11111111111111 11111111111111 1111111111111 11111111111111 11111111111111 1111111111111 
 11111111111111 11111111111111 1111111111111 11111111111111 11111111111111 1111111111111 11111111111111 
 11111111111111 1111111111111 11111111111111 11111111111111 1111111111111 11111111111111 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SereneKhaos
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 25, 2008 7:11 am PT
Review:  Story: 8
  The story of COD 4 is probably it's weakest point, but you shouldn't really take that as much of 
 a disadvantage. Its campaign mode is an average 7-8 hours. (well average for a shooter anyways) 
 But its storyline is one of the best written for a shooter game. So I believe Story deserves an 
 above-average score.
  
  Gameplay: 9.5
  This is one of its strongest points. When you first play this game, you will already feel the value 
 of what you bought the game for in its entirety. It's gameplay is probably only rivaled by the 
 likes of GOW and Halo. Best of all, enemies die like they need to, only a few bullets and there's 
 pretty much no running away when you're getting shot at like in Halo where it takes a good number 
 of bullets to finally down somebody. It's only flaws IMO is that it feels overwhelming to be pitted 
 up against around 15 or so enemies at once when you only have a squad of like 5 soldiers and that 
 the campaign is too linear, no exploration whatsoever.
  
  Multiplayer: 10
  Now THIS is the reason you should buy this game in the first place. Best multiplayer I've ever 
 seen. You level up to earn more weapons to use and unlock more challenges to complete online, just 
 adds more to its already phenomenal multiplayer. There is probably 1 map that you won't like on 
 this game and that's Bloc. (However, I dislike both Bloc and Countdown, there's just too much smoke 
 and sneaking on that map, but, of course, that's just me.) I have to admit, if you don't have online, 
 you probably should just rent this game as the Multiplayer is just where it destroys all others.
 
  
  Sound: 9
  Very crisp and each gun has a distinct sound. You can literally tell what gun you were killed by 
 without even looking at the killcam just by the sound they made, especially the Barrett, the most 
 distinct gun sound in the game, bar M60E4.
  
  Graphics: 10
  Excellent textures, and it may not be up to Crysis standards, but what is? (*cough* Far Cry 2 *cough*) 
 But seriously, this game's graphics along with its fluid, lifelike animations is pure eye candy.
 
  
  Replay Value: 10 (or 7 w/o Online)
  This game will last you for many, many hours, way more than just 100. I've had this game since 
 Christmas and I've been playing it just about everyday, from 2-7 hours a day (Yeah, I have no life) . 
 But without online, this game will probably only last like 3 weeks, if that even. There are 30 
 hidden secrets you can find in the levels and all the achievements are single-player only, but 
 they still won't last you that long to be worth what you payed for it unless you payed $20.
  
  Last Notes: This game is a MUST-BUY if you have an online connection, but I must say a rent 
 at most if you don't.
  
  Total Score: 9.5 (w/ Online)
  8 (w/o Online) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JB1994
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 24, 2008 8:46 am PT
Review:  Gameplay- (9.8) Cod4's gameplay is everything you would want from a FPS, the controls are smooth, 
 the guns are very mixed and there are lot, shooting guns feel great and killing feels even better, 
 especially online. The multilayer is the xbox 360's best yet, its very addictive and enjoyable.
 
  
  Graphics- (9.6) The game also looks great, everything looks very realistic and the weather effects 
 are very nice.
  
  Sound- (9.6) Great voice acting, guns sound realistic, just about everything sound almost perfect 
 in Cod4.
  
  Value- (10) Cod4 is one of the best purchases ive ever made, there's so much to do and it will last 
 you for ages. This is definitely the best FPS ever made in my opinion, it has everything. The only 
 thing i could really complain about is that the single player campaign is a bit to short. Anyone 
 who likes FPS's, shooting games or just looking for an online game then Cod4 is a must get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jayza-solikuns-
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 24, 2008 12:38 am PT
Review:  bloody hell im stupid.... that review i had was so long = (
  ARRRGGGHHH
  why did it go = (
  
  Awesome game tho m8 =) ..... recommend it 2 all i have very few faults on COD 4, tho these are 
 ;)
  
  1) too short - could include more ultra-nationalists figureheads to eliminate
  
  2) more weapons plz - more original or unique weapons would b appreciated and possibly vehicles
 
  
  3) extensive maps - allow more freedom to flank the enemy, find a more strategic sniper spot and 
 allow for more angles to take out the enemy... this game does a good job in disguising that it 
 is on rails
  
  I had alot more 2 say not typing it again took me bout 20min.... had alot 2 say on the positives 
 not in a mood 4 positives now... multiplayer is awesome, design is awesome, difficulties are perfect, 
 campaign is sik (tho short) love some of the art... overall i give it a tight end (the jack of 
 all trades m8)
  
  N. E. huu this game is an easy 9 - 9.5
  would b a 10 sept 4 those few issues ive mentioned
  sik game m8
  Soli Out ;)
  
  PS: im 
 so pissed bout my old review it took sooo long = ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrSlippery39
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 24, 2008 12:32 am PT
Review:  If you do not have this game by now, get it. Seriously its that simple. The Campaign is one of 
 the best scripted most fun i've played from a FPS shooter in a long time, although it is a bit 
 short. 
  
  But thats what multiplayer is for! This game has taken 23 gameplay days off my life due to the 
 multiplayer. Its just pure fun. Unlocking all the weapons, the attachments and the different camo's 
 is so much fun. The EXP system in place means that even if you lose, you are still earning experience 
 meaning that you don't actually "lose" in a sense.
  
  The multiplayer is not perfect though. There are some glitches, like people getting out of maps 
 and such. But these take so much effort that you rarely ever have a person doing it. Also when 
 the host ends the game it ends the game for everyone. This is annoying if you are used to Halo's 
 online system. The game also sometimes puts you in games that are just finishing, or games where 
 one team is completely dominating the other which really isn't all that fun.
  
  But besides those, you really do have a masterpiece. This is a game that you could be playing for 
 a long time. Or at least until COD 6 comes out :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wwedx
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 23, 2008 8:22 pm PT
Review:  I had never liked ANY shooter game untill i played this this game i picked it up play the story 
 loved it and then relized THERES ONLINE OMFG. once you start playing this you will think every 
 other game out there sucks i havent met a game yet that is better than this this game is kinda 
 why i bought an xbox 360 beacuse i LOVED it on the ps3 BUT there wa LAGGGGGGG and i figured out 
 whell i love the game online but PSN isnt really that good so i bought the xbox 360. The single 
 player is done very quick but thats the GOOD thing about it its not too long so it has replay vaule 
 That is something many games dont have not MGS4, gears OR EVEN HALO 3 BEACUSE THERE JUST TOO LONG 
 aanother thing that adds replay vaule is the intels its jsuts great going back and getting them 
 intels are some things hidden in most lvls that are noy required but there just great to go back 
 and find beacuse the lvls arnt that long. some cons are that... i think should be more guns to chose 
 from and it should have better clan support.
  PROS: A++online 
   Nice and short
   Has okay clan support
   Differnt
   Never gets boring
  
  CONS:
   should have more guns
 
  
  Bottem Line: MUST BUY 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OOblahMan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 23, 2008 5:44 pm PT
Review:  My favorite shooting game so far. You get a large variety of weapons to use and also you get different 
 challenges to help boost up your score and give you more xp for XBOX LIVE. The story is short it 
 took me one day to beat it. The story is still fun and action packed. If the story was longer I 
 think it would of been better to me and most people because people wouldn't get bored of it so 
 easily. Also online you have perks that can change the way you play. They have UAV jammer which 
 stops the enemy from seeing you when they get a UAV, stopping power which increases bullet damage 
 and many more. Of course there are annoying perks like martyrdom which makes you drop a live grenade 
 when you die. (i use it but not with my silenced weapons which i use A LOT) . Juggernaut is also 
 really annoying because it increases your health so it takes people a longer time to kill people 
 who use it. I don't use it because it just... sucks, and only bums use it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bentpeg
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 23, 2008 2:15 pm PT
Review:  Yah this game rocks. Visually stunning game which will keep you on the edge of your seat right 
 from the start. The feeling of having to depend on more than just yourself is brilliant. It truly 
 makes you feel like you're part of an elite team and on an occasion makes you glad to have them 
 there or responsible for any harm that comes their way. The surprise extra mission after credits 
 was nice and even though it was a short game, this is one short game I'd say is worth just as much 
 or more than most other longer ones. The multiplayer was really fun even for those who usually 
 only like offline play. The online leveling along with perks such as air support and radar (or 
 radar blocking) offer great incentives not only to keep playing but to push to play better each 
 time. I personally love listening to friends and coworkers get po'd at themselves when they can't 
 figure out where that fatal bullet came from... yah... there's always somebody better though. What 
 a great game, I can only hope that Treyarch's World At War keeps the action rollin' at the same 
 standard or better.
  
  Thanks Infinity Ward. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: j_herring1987
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 22, 2008 5:45 pm PT
Review:  This is the most kick ass game to kill towel-heads. But I've noticed that since our problems with 
 the Middle East has gotten worse since September 11, 2001 that there has been more games with Muslims 
 as the enemies like the Desert Storm series, Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six Vegas one and two, Far Cry 
 two, all the Socom games. So as you can see there is a lot of games with Muslims or Middle Easterners 
 as the bad guys. So, to me this game is a little racist in the sense that we are killing Muslims 
 and we are... conveniently at war with them as well. This could be as said as well with Russians 
 and Nazis in games like call of duty series and medal of honor series. This is also the best online 
 game other than Halo 3. But all in all, I love the game and it is probably one of my favorite for 
 campaign, multiplayer, online, and killing towel-heads!!!!! Hoo-rah! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xag17x
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 22, 2008 4:37 pm PT
Review:  This game has great graphics, real guns, and realistic factors which makes the game awesome. With 
 Create A Class you can pick the guns you want and I think that is pretty cool, plus you can add 
 attachments and camo to your gun so you can make it what you like. In the Halo series there are 
 guns like SMG, Assault Rifle, Sniper Rifle and Shotgun but in COD4 there are multiple types of 
 Assault rifles, Shotguns, SMGs, and Snipers. The multiplayer maps tie into campaign which is awesome.
 
  Prestige mode is this thing you can choose to do at level 55. You can go back through all the 
 levels again. Your stats don't get erased but YOU LOSE ALL YOUR GUNS, CAMOS, AND ATTACHMENTS!!
 
  The bad thing is there is no co-op and only single play Xbox Live though some people might like 
 that I have a friend that comes over and we play COD4 and switch off every match and I get annoyed. 
 
  
  So I give this game a 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jakesommersHP
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 22, 2008 9:40 am PT
Review:  Throughout the course of this and many other reviews, there will be 4 factors of the game i will 
 be looking at:
  Graphics-How the game looks.
  Sound-The sound quality
  Gameplay-Is it fun, boring, exciting, or just not worth playing?
  Longevity/Lasting Appeal-How 
 long it lasts.?
  
  
  
  
  
  Graphics:
  
  The graphics in the game are top notch. Infinity Ward have really excelled themselves in creating 
 the near future of the world. The enviroments are mostly spot on, with an exception being the grass 
 and bushes. They are both flat objects and don't move according to yours, so it takes away from 
 the realism of the game's graphics.
  A worthy mention are the character models. They all look realistic and have proper faces, not 2-D 
 drawing stretched over someone's face. The textures are also very good and there is no pop-up (that 
 I have seen) .
  10/10
  
  
  Sound:
  Like the graphics, the sound is near-perfect. The voice acting is some of the best in gaming, with 
 british and american accents sounding real. Gun sounds are very realistic, and RPG shots and Javelin 
 shots sound good. And there are little touches the the sound of footsteps which puts this game 
 head and shoulders above the rest.
  10/10
  
  Gameplay:
  
  single player
  The gameplay in single player is good, but nothing compared to the action in multiplayer. In single 
 player you are up against pre-scripted scenarios and it is a linear game. While for many it may 
 be a turn-off, it suits the sort of game COD4 is. It helps the sense of fear that you are not going 
 to get out of the place alive. The single player is worth the asking price alone.
  
  online
  But it is in the online modes where the game really excells. It is a game almost purely 
 made of skill (damn those snipers!!!!) where it takes 2 shots to die. You have next to no chance 
 of staying alive if the guy is behind you and vice versa. It keeps you on the edge of your seat 
 and makes the game more fun because of it. The whole experience is hard to explain, you need to 
 play it to understand.
  10/10
  
  
  
  Lasting Appeal:
  A weak point of the game. Whilst the online mode can last forever, the single player is very short 
 (it takes around 5 hours) and other than difficulty levels, nothing else needs to be done. There 
 are 30 hidden objects to find for collectors, but not much for the others.
  7/10
  
  Overall:
  9.5/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: eggo1982
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 20, 2008 12:49 pm PT
Review:  Everything about this game is excellent. The only reason I didn't give it a perfect score was that 
 the campaign was a little too short, but the campaign doesn't really matter that much because the 
 online multiplayer is the reason you'll play. The graphics sound and game play live up to the hype 
 the game has generated. The sound, graphics, and gameplay give the game a truely realistic feel. 
 The campaign is very tense and engaging with four different difficulty settings that you can switch 
 between missions if you feel the has gotten easy half way through. Being able to change the difficulty 
 level and the many checkpoints throughout the game keep it from getting boring or frustating. The 
 only problem is that the campaign is over really fast.
  
  Online is where Call of Duty truely shines. It has a vast assortment of maps and games for you 
 to choose from along with a ranking system that allows you to open up many different perks, weapons, 
 and weapon attachments that allow you to fully customize your fighter for different maps. You can 
 save up to five of these customized classes. There are also challenges that earn you even more 
 points to continue ranking up. There are leader boards and the keeps complete track of your stats. 
 All of this makes Call of Duty the best shooters I have ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d3emondav3
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 20, 2008 8:23 am PT
Review:  CoD 4 had me hooked for weeks. It has a short campaign, but only if you are playing on easy (recruit) 
 or normal. The hardened and Veteran diffuculties are almost impossible, especially the Epilougue 
 level. There are some very tough spots in the campaign, but mostly on the harsder difficulties. 
 Multiplayer is great, and it is fun to customize your character.
  
  Story: The story is great, and daringly realistic, featuring a shoot and ask questions later squad 
 of marines, and a undercover sneaky squad of SAS. They both play differently. I prefered the SAS 
 squad.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are some of the best i've seen, and the weapon designs look amazing. The 
 enemies look like they are real when they die, flailing around, or flying 10 feet when you shoot 
 them with a Grenade. Explosions look cool, and the building details are almost life-like. The only 
 thing I have to complain about is the american Sergeants' skin. He is black, and his skin looks 
 like icing or putty. Weird.
  
  Sound: Call of Duty 4 sounds like a real battlefield when you turn it up. Everything sounds like 
 it should, and the weapons sound the bst of all. Nothing to complain about here.
  
  Call of Duty 4 is a must buy for shooting fans, as it is intense and all together very fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamesmaster5
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 20, 2008 2:52 am PT
Review:  Yuck! We still have that bad taste left in our mouth from Call of Duty 3 and you know what would 
 wash that out? A nice dollop of Call of Duty 4. There are many words describing this game ; Wow, 
 amazing, superb, astounding, unbelievabubble! Well maybe not that last one, but you know what I 
 mean.
  
  Every First-Person shooter out there is sniping me, riddling me with bullets and some throwing 
 grenades! But then comes out Call of Duty 4. Bazooka's at the ready, prepared to blow me sky high... and 
 so they did! Call of Duty 4 is an excellent mix of all out war and instant - accessible - action. 
 With many amazing, disturbing and often funny moments. This game is faultless! Except of course 
 for the really fun glitches! As well as this, the addition of a hardcore mode can satisfy any gamers 
 needs! You are unique in your class that you create, you feel like your a soldier in combat except 
 for the controller in your hands and the microphone around your head and the fact that your about 
 to be served dinner in a couple of minutes this is as real as it gets!
  
  With the addition of clans, helicopters and air-strikes this is a one of a kind that will leave 
 me blown in mid-air for quite a while. 
  
  Review submitted by : Gamesmaster5
  
  Thx for reading! Please give me your opinion on it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fracturemaster
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 19, 2008 5:17 pm PT
Review:  Cod4 is by far the most amazing in the series by far, with a great compelling story that is surrounded 
 with highly detailed graphics and spot on sound. Game play wise the game is most entertaining popping 
 in and out of cover you will ever experience. Really though this is a hardcore fps that is meant 
 to be taken seriously as a game, for having some of the most realistic settings you will ever kill 
 someone in. The controls are standard cod and easy to use but the real seller hear is the subtitle:
 
  modern warfare.
  This is what we have all been waiting for, they moving on, for now, and its beautiful. New guns, 
 new places, new war. But same old  captain price, though a valuable 
 character, why wont you die!!! oh wait he does at the end... Oopsies a spoiler!!! its hard not to 
 tell its soooo cool!!!
  
  Cod4's main/only down fall is it's short/not long enough/iwantmore!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: STANROY617
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 19, 2008 2:11 pm PT
Review:  I would highly recommend this game for anyone who's looking for a high paced FPS. The campaign 
 could be a bit longer but it's still very well put together. I spend most of my time playing this 
 game. This is also a great game to play if you're waiting for the release of another game. The 
 leveling system is very addictive. I'm on my way to becoming a tenth prestige. The only bad thing 
 about this game is that the xbox live servers are bad for it. Another big problem is that it is 
 really easy to be hacked, but it's a lot of fun when you kick someones a** when they've modded 
 the  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thisnickstolen
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 18, 2008 7:42 pm PT
Review:  Stunning single player
  Fantastic multiplayer
  Awesome perk system
  No region filter -1 point
  The story sucks you in
  Best console FPS to date
  
  Veteran 
 difficulty is a must, It helped my multiplayer so much. I highly recomend this game even to Non-FPS 
 likers the story is awesome but can be punishingly difficult on veteran. There is no real reason 
 to prestige either, what they sould have done is give you a reward or something like a gun or extra 
 perk or unlock different perks in the latter prestiges. But im glad they fixed that up in CoD WaW 
 by giving you extra create-a-classes. And the cheats are good for a larf too, by collecting laptops 
 that a scattered through out the game you unlock things such as enemys turn into tires when you 
 kill them and unlimited with no reloading. Pure Awesome 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sabre772
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 18, 2008 3:25 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is the best Xbox 360 game i have ever played even better than Halo 3. I know most 
 of you that have Xbox 360's will be astonished i said that but in my opinion it is true. Although 
 the Call of Duty story is very brutal, should not have a weak stomach, it is very fun to play. 
 You have a wide range of weapons at your disposable and the game is incredibly realistic with gun 
 recoil and holding your breath to take a sniper shot. The story is engaging, decently long and challenging 
 enough to keep you interested throughout. Some missions are so fun that you will want to play them 
 more than once. Even though the story is great the crown jewel of COD4 is its multiplayer. The 
 multiplayer system is extremely well designed with several levels of prestige that you can obtain 
 so it will keep you interested for hours. Even if you don't want to prestige you can work towards 
 completing a large number of objectives set for you or golden guns. Multiplayer has a large number 
 of game types including team tactical, cage match, free for all, team match and many more. Multiplayer 
 maps are well designed and each level can host a array of the weapons available without being disadvantaged. 
 The perk system of multiplayer also makes you think of what you will need most in a certain level 
 so you will have the greatest advantage.
  Advantages
  Amazing graphics
  Great multiplayer
  Great story
  Large array of different weapons
  Great customisation of 
 weapon and character
  Keep you occupied for hours upon hours
  Disadvantages
  Not able to play with guests
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sivasiva
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 17, 2008 2:48 am PT
Review:  Call Of Duty 4 is a game that has one of the best graphics, sound and cutscenes ever created in 
 a game. Using a call of duty 4 engine, it delivers a non-stop roller-coaster action. The missions 
 are very unique and it focuses on a (sort of) terrorist organiztion that captured slaves and killed 
 them. And then, the characters that we are controlling are assigned to bring down the organisation. 
 Every character's voice acting are excellent. The weapons are good and when used, it is really 
 loud that even my neighbour compained about me disturbing their sleep at night when i was playing 
 the game. I loved the machine guns and the sniper rifles. They were easy to use. Sound explosions 
 are really loud too... The storyline is very captivating and the best i have ever experienced since 
 Gears of War. It is set in a modern setting and captures the look of a modern day. The difficulty 
 setting is just right for newcomers but not for Veterans. The veteran difficulty is easy for people 
 like us that has played many games like this before. Call of Duty 2 was the game that seriously 
 challenged veterans. Back to this game. this game has bugs and glitches. For example, Enemy soldiers 
 will get stuck in a debris or just freezed by themself. Also, the friendly AI will just get stuck 
 into something. They just shoot through walls and from the other side, their weapons will poke 
 out. Sometimes, they would appear through the walls from the other side. They would also constantly 
 repeat the sentence they were talking for the hundredth time and that would really irritate me. Parents: Be 
 warned. There are some vulgar language used in this game and this is definetely not for the young. Now 
 to multiplayer. Multiplayer was a really huge success and many player played through the multiplayer 
 of the game. The multiplayer modes are very interesting and captivating but they may get boring 
 after a while to some players. For me, i have stopped playing multiplayer a while ago as now, it 
 is difficult to find gamers online as there have been many blockbuster games that have been released 
 in which, the multiplayer are captivating too. But nevertheless, this is a game that has to be played 
 by all gamers. Infinity Ward has developed a game that is hugely successful. And now, i am looking 
 forward to Call Of Duty: World At War where it will be based on the Pacific Region. Cool..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sepotyerp
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 16, 2008 7:56 pm PT
Review:  With all the hype of halo 3, this game blew it out. So far I would have to say this and gears of 
 war are the best games that have come out on the 360. This deserves a great rating and might not 
 ever be beaten, atleast for a while. This game has incredible graphics and gameplay. Amazing campaign 
 topped with an unbeatable multiplayer. There is great gun play and the learning curve is really 
 easy, you can pick up this game and be playing no problem in about 20 minutes. I spent more time 
 on this game than any other game i own, and it never got boring. I think what made this game not 
 deserve a 10 is the fact that the Veteran difficulty is mucchhh to difficult. For as much as i 
 have played and how good i got i could never beat it on Veteran. Also, there was a few perks that 
 were very unrealistic, like martyrdom and juggernaut. Those could have stayed out of it. But in 
 the end, one of the best if not the best game out for 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Neon7771
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 16, 2008 4:07 pm PT
Review:  A big section of FPS type games is the modern warfare types. There have been many copies of the 
 same games, but Call of Duty 4 definitely takes the cake as the best modern warfare shooter. 
 
  
  Although its campaign is short, the real meat of this game lies within its extensive multiplayer. 
 It's highly addicting, especially when you have friends to play with. It stays true to the modern 
 warfare theme with the kind of weaponry, and multitude of other things you can throw at your opponents.
 
  
  This is a must have for any FPS or war game fan. It's probably one of the best shooting games on 
 the market, right up there with the all time greats like Halo and Gears of War. This game is definitely 
 a possibility for game of the year, although I feel it might loose out to the other titles coming 
 out in the coming weeks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kvon403
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 14, 2008 5:07 pm PT
Review:  call of duty 4 is a awsome multiplayer game and a very different campaign mode I think that the 
 campaign mode is awsome especialy the online is crazy people runing and killing and stabbing it's 
 so exhilerating somtimes and when you have a friend with you it's even better local play is good 
 too but you need 3 or 4 player's for it to be good fun also campaign is awsome there's some many 
 differnt situations you can be in from boat's to helicopter's to vehicles it is in my top 5 best 
 present games to date so that's all I have to say about call of duty 4 I hope this review make's 
 you want to buy the game if you don't already have it and look for future review's from me and 
 hope you like this one and thought it was'ent a waste of you'r time and i really suggest buying 
 this game if youre not sure then rent then you'll see so thanks for reading and thanks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Inuyasha_Iic
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 12, 2008 7:23 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is a great game with very few flaws. The only thing I can point 
 out that forces this game a little on the scale is that the single player mode is a little short, 
 other than that it's great.
  Most of my playing time, however, is spent in multiplayer mode online. There are so many things 
 you can do to keep you busy and have incredible fun at the same time. I know a lot of people compare 
 this game to Halo 3 and most people have picked one side. I, for one, used to be on the Halo 3 
 side, which is a great game, but lacks. Once I finally played Call of Duty 4 I realized that I 
 couldn't go back. There isn't anything with this game that can go wrong unless you have a bad internet 
 connection.
  Overall this game is deserving of the GOTY title and I hope to see more of this in the future. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: allotheabove123
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 12, 2008 2:55 pm PT
Review:  i have absolutley zero negative things to say about this game. first things first the campaign 
 in this game is a pretty decent lenth and can be played over and over. the ofline multiplayer can 
 support up to 4 people on one console but i wish you could create your own custom class while you 
 are not in an online game. the online multiplayer for cod4 is amazing with many modes to plat like 
 free for all, team deathmatch, search and destroy and many others. cod4 also has many weapons to 
 choose from like M16s, AK47s, MP5s..... the maps are all pretty fun to play and are unique. cod4 
 has ranking systems that allow you to complete challenges to earn attachments for your weapons 
 untill you get to level 55 then you have th opprotunity to prestige (10 times max) which basically 
 means you start over at level 1 but you get a new symbol to show that you didnt just start playing. 
 overall call of duty 4 modern warfare is an amazing game and is well worth $60 at stores 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jango-Man
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 12, 2008 11:23 am PT
Review:  What's not to say about Call of Duty 4 that has yet to be said? The game is flawless. Quite literally. 
 The graphics are possibly the best I've ever seen, topping the shooter charts. It's smooth, detailed, 
 and renders extremely fast. The game's single player campaign is great. It really gives you a feel 
 for the game and the story. It gets REALLY hard though once you jack up the difficulty. That being 
 put aside, COD4 has amazing voice actors. They really jack up the intensity of the game by seeming 
 like they are real people fighting a real war with you right beside them. Enough talk about single 
 player. Let's move over to XBOX Live. Superb, addictive, and fun. The online may get a little frustrating 
 because of the fact that people spawn in front or behind you, and pop in the back for an easy kill. 
 But that is all justified when you shoot them in the teeth from all the way across the map with 
 a 50 cal. sniper rifle. C0D4 is a masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sk8more67
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 12, 2008 8:04 am PT
Review:  So, Call of Duty 4 is basicly the same concept. You still kill people, but now it's more modernized. Newer 
 weapons, night vision goggles, I think that this game might not have a downside! Oh wait, it's the 
 short campaign. Just like the DS version, this game doesn't have a whole lot of levels. But, the levels 
 are fun and can take a long time to beat, so I guess it makes up for that. Unlike normal war games, in 
 Call of Duty games, once you're hurt it shows a circle of blood on your screen. It gets bigger and 
 bigger, covering your screen the more you get hurt. But, if you have found cover, or you have killed 
 all the enemies, then the blood on the screen gos away, and you are completely healed. Nice, huh? A 
 downside is that in this game, is you can't melee people with your weapon. But, what makes up for 
 it is that you can stab people, which is probably better than meleeing someone. The multiplayer in 
 this game can get really intense, but thats a good thing! You probably will love this game if you 
 like Call of Duty games.
  
  -Sk8more67 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Esgi7
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 12, 2008 8:02 am PT
Review:  I was pretty excited when I saw that Call of Duty was going to do a modern-style game. I was getting 
 a little sick of the same-old same-old WWII games, and glad that the new COD was modern!
  
  I actually didnt get the game for a while. Instead, I first played it with a friend who got it 
 first. I was quite impressed. The graphics are amazing, the weapons are awesome, and the sound 
 effects sound great. I'll have to admit I was pretty surprised when my friend first sniped me through 
 a wall. Object penatration! Cool! The game was so realistic, that in the single player campaign, 
 it was almost scary sometimes when the bullets started flying everywhere. It was even better in 
 harder difficulties. The game is definately and adrenaline rush.
  
  The story of the campaign is worth making a movie about, and the characters are pretty cool (Especially 
 Griggs) . But, stories always have an end. Multiplayer doesnt!
  
  The multiplayer is amazing. The gun unlocking system works well, and it is pretty fun most of the 
 time. Being able to custimize what guns you use is pretty neat.
  
  All and all, Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is definately a keeper, and one of the best FPS games 
 available. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beto05
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 23, 2008 5:15 pm PT
Review:  As a WW2 Fan, I had my doubts when Activision announced they were developing a Modern Warfare game. 
 When they realesed COD: MW I changed my conceptc drastically.
  
  COD 4 is drastically different from the previous franchise games , since all the past 3 were in 
 WW2.
  
  Weapons, combat style, infantry everyting is modern. Do not expect Bolt Action Rifles and Short 
 Munnition SMG's, COD 4 deals with high customizable weaponry dated from the 90's and from today.
 
  
  The game has nice graphics, and a revolution in sound. You really feel you're fighting with US 
 Marines and the SAS. 
  
  The game has a mid story, which remembers Jack Bauer trying to stop a crazy cold war veteran to 
 blow US with nuclear missiles, but instead of an action man, you have armies mobilized to stop 
 the insanity of a group of terrorists.
  
  The Gameplay is really easy to handle, same old story from the previous COD Games.
  
  The big 
 Deal from COD 4 is the Multiplayer. Just playing to say what it is. As usual, the guys from Activision 
 made another excellent work.
  
  Despite being a WW2 Hardcore gamer, I really liked this game. You really fell you're in combat. 
 For those who like war games this is a must have, since it gives you a notion of how a Modern Combat 
 is. If you're tired of playing the Single Player, go to Multiplayer.
  
  Sound = 10
  Graphics = 9.0
  Gameplay = 9.0
  Replay = 9.5
  Fun = 9.0
  
  Overall = 9.5
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pash007
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 11, 2008 10:18 am PT
Review:  Oh dear. After many months of people telling me how fantastic this game is and how this is the 
 greatest game ever released, I finally stumped up the cash to buy it off Ebay (17.50 incl postage 
 for the game of the year edition - bargain?) .
  My Xbox 360 gamercard motto is "World's Worst Gamer" - this is true, but I completed this game 
 on REGULAR difficulty level within a week. Now, I share my Xbox 360 TV with two soap addicts, and 
 I work full time, so the amount of actual playing time I get is minimal to say the best.
  What there is of the actual game is very good - good graphics, plenty of action, good controls. 
 There just isn't enough of it.
  After completing this game, I was told that the online play is the main selling point of this game. 
 Sorry, but I've seen it all before........ Call of duty 2, Rainbow 6 Vegas 2, Halo 3........ it's 
 nothing new, just very well sold.
  Another point, if this is such a good game, why are Treyarch making the 5th game in the series, 
 and not Infinity Ward? Is this because they are going to make a game with a decent story and lengthy 
 gameplay.
  To me, the game is, well, the game. Not the online play. Imagine if I'd paid the full 40 for this 
 game and I didn't have xbox live gold.
  All in all, not impressed.
  
  When I complete a game, I want to have the "WOW" feeling of actually achieving something. I had 
 this feeling after completing COD2, Bioshock (The REAL greatest game ever) , Assassins Creed (yes 
 even Assassins Creed) and (gulp, wait for it) Viva Pinata (after getting all the achievements and 
 making all the pinata resident - sorry, I know I'm in my forties, but it's a great game and very 
 underrated) . 
  
  Completing COD4 gave me the "Is that it?" feeling.
  
  I must apologise for my ramblings to everyone out there who loves this game, but I feel duped into 
 buying it. Or, is it you who've been duped into liking it by all the hype?
  
  Unfortunately this means that I won't be rushing out to buy COD5. I think I'll spend my hard-earned 
 money on Quantum of Solace and hope the game lasts a bit longer.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wyllyam
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 10, 2008 9:32 am PT
Review:  Call me what ever you want, but I can't stop playing the multiplayer. The campaign is good also, 
 but it's the multiplayer that brought this game form 8.5 to a 9.5.
  
  The campaign has awesome graphics and sound. You really get the feel for it as you play. I hate 
 the endless enemies that will keep coming until you advance but once you realize that the point 
 is to keep pressing forward (except for a few key objectives) then the game is really easy. But 
 don't up the difficulty unless you want to frustrated beyond belief at the difficult ambushes you 
 face in the game.
  
  Online this game is awesome! Takes some getting use to playing against skilled players, but once 
 you get the hang of it you'll never play another multiplayer FPS again. I challange someone to 
 find a better game online. If you do email me so I can stop playing this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killer3450
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 9, 2008 7:27 pm PT
Review:  The single player campaign can be a bit short, but the quality of what's there is awesome, will 
 entertain you from start to finish with level design that catches your eye for each new area, an 
 arsenal of weapons to grab, and AI that will have you slamming your controller off the wall on 
 those higher difficulties. Watch out for those damn dogs.
  The different difficulty settings will definately give you a run for your money especially one 
 the later levels. Online multiplayer is amazing. Fairly innovative with the perks system as well 
 as the leveling up process.
  Now I will tell you that while playing the online play you will die a lot and I mean A LOT, but 
 its worth it because as you progress through the ranks you unlock different items and weapons that 
 make the game unique and fun every time. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: quikdash6
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 18, 2008 12:34 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is my favorite game on the 360 so far. The single player campaign can be a bit short, 
 but the quality of what's there is awesome. The different difficulty settings will definately give 
 you a run for your money especially on the later levels. Some might even frustrate you to the point 
 of giving up. How much fun is it if there is no challenge though?
  
  Online multiplayer is amazing. Fairly innovative with the perks system as well as the leveling 
 up process. The learning curve online might be kind of steep since there doesn't seem to be any 
 real matchmaking system so if you're new to the game, give it a few hours to get the hang of the 
 maps and opposing player movement. The imlpementation of airstrikes and attack helicopters at the 
 respective kill streaks of 5 and 7 adds additional reasons to stay alive and keep in the fight. 
 There are a few community issues over certain weapons and perks, but in the end things seem to 
 cancel each other out. The maps could be bigger at times to allow for a more sniper friendly feel 
 at times, but that's not to say it can't be done with great success. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeonNinja
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 8, 2008 11:08 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is the first Call of Duty title to bear the distinction of not being set in World 
 War II, and the folks at Infinity Ward have done a bang up job creating a fun FPS with a satisfying 
 story, an intense campaign and excellent multiplayer options. Call of Duty 4 is no Halo 3, that's 
 not an insult to it, so much as it is to say that Call of Duty 4 is a far more scripted game than 
 Bungie's shooter, making it, for lack of a better word, a roller-coaster-like ride through the 
 trenches of the Middle East and Eastern Europe.
  
  The game takes you from one exciting scenario to another, and often changes up what you have to 
 do. Whether it's search and destroy, search and rescue, assault, recon, assassination, it's this 
 variety of objectives that makes Call of Duty 4 so engaging and fun. Yes, for a great majority 
 of the time, the game is basically on-rails, but it's the suspension of disbelief that it provides, 
 which helps make it seem far more engaging than any on-rails shooter could or should be. The game 
 is so fun, and the scripted sequences are so intense that while playing, you will forget that the 
 game is taking you down a linear path throughout. In fact, the most memorable mission out of the 
 whole game basically consists of following the leader from Point A to Point B, but it still is 
 one of the greatest missions ever.
  
  Call of Duty 4 is such an exciting experience because of how intense, dramatic, frenzied and frenetic 
 the firefights truly are. In one mission your squad will be running through fields of tall grass 
 searching for a storehouse where your target is hiding, suddenly, an ambush and you'll go from 
 storehouse to storehouse clearing them out, in search of your target. The missions themselves provide 
 great twists and turns, and each one is more exciting than the other.
  
  Of course, the game helps break up the feeling of being on-rails by taking you through two different 
 sides of the war, first the British SAS and then the USMC, though both, despite being in different 
 locations, are ultimately striving for the same goal. It helps show a sense of urgency and provides 
 drastically different types of gameplay, with one group aiming for a somewhat stealthier, on-the-run 
 and hiding in the shadows form of gunplay while the other is in an all-out war through the crumbling 
 cities.
  
  Of course, there are a few downsides to the game's campaign. For one, it can be completed in anywhere 
 from four to six hours depending on the skill of the player, that is, in some cases, less than 
 half of the length of most shooters out there. Then comes the problem with the scripted sequences. 
 Should you play the game on the standard difficulty, it's an intensely gripping and cinematic experience, 
 but should you raise the difficulty the scripted sequences remain, but the enemies are instead 
 harder to kill, and you are easier to kill, and repetition and frustration are bound to set in 
 for many. This is not like Halo 3 where gamers can up the difficulty expecting a more intense session 
 of gaming, in Call of Duty 4 the higher difficulty levels aren't fun, in fact, they're absolutely 
 unnecessary since they weren't implemented correctly.
  
  However, despite that, if you're searching for longevity than Call of Duty 4 has a multiplayer 
 mode that can go head to head with the best of shooters. Up to eighteen players can wreak havoc 
 on maps inspired by locales in the game. The multiplayer is deeply rewarding for skilled player. 
 It isn't just the game types, those are practically standard across all FPS these days, but it's 
 what Call of Duty 4 does to reward skillful play. The game has perks, and the more you play the 
 more experience you get, the more perks you can unlock. For instance, the last stand perk allows 
 players, once they have been gunned down, to remain alive for a bit, and as they lie down they 
 can take out their pistol and fire at their killer or opponents around them. Of course, the game 
 rewards skillful play as well, if you get three kills in a row, you can use a radar for a bit, 
 if you get five kills in a row, you can call in air support to help you fight. The perks and other 
 goodies make Call of Duty 4 an exceptional online shooter that stands out from many other shooters 
 in a big way.
  
  The excellent thing about the multiplayer is that the graphics and the sound don't drop in quality 
 from what's in the campaign. And that's a very good thing. Call of Duty 4 will take you from crumbling 
 urban areas to grassy rural areas, from missile silos to mountain tops and it's all accompanied 
 by a hail of gun-fire, smoke, explosions and plenty of shouting on either side. The game has an 
 exceptional musical score, and coupled with some of the most ear-bleeding sound effects out there, 
 it all makes Call of Duty 4 feel like a great package.
  
  It needs to be said about Call of Duty 4, if you aren't going to play the multiplayer, do not purchase 
 this game, the campaign is good, but not good enough to warrant a purchase on it's own, it isn't 
 as replayable as other shooters out there and it's far too short. But if you're looking for an 
 intensely fun multiplayer experience to go alongside Halo 3, then Call of Duty 4 is a worthy purchase. 
 When taken as a whole, the game is an excellent effort by Infinity Ward, and while it isn't the 
 best shooter out there, it's good enough to be considered one of the big dogs of this console generation.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: XCyberForceX
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 6, 2008 1:19 pm PT
Review:  Opinion - I'm not much on FPS games, dabbed a little here and there with Halo, but this is really 
 the first FPS that grabbed be.
  
  Good - At 60 frames per second the action is smooth and the graphics truely awesome. The missons 
 kept the story line moving forward and took no time at all to finish . . . on normal. Veteran is 
 a different story - its definitely more challenging. The game was truely made for online multiplayer. 
 With up to 18 shooters entering a match, the action and intensity always keeps your heart pumping 
 at an insane rate.
  The are multiple online games you can play and pick the ones more suited for your style (i. e. Team 
 Deathmatch, GroundWar, Team Deathmatch Hardcore, etc.) . Also, as you progress online you move up 
 in rank, unlocking different weapons and personal challenges.
  
  Bad - Can't think of anything. The game is pretty near perfect.
  
  Overall - The game is a 
 A-. It's well worth the purchase whether you like FPS games or not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kypokillz1
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 4, 2008 11:14 pm PT
Review:  How Kypo scores:
  -.5 for bad graphics
  -.5 for deafening cat grenades
  -1.5 for lack of origniality
  -1 for clumsy AI
  -1 for awkward control/ repetitive actions
 
  -.5 for the occasional glitch
  +.5 for no multiplayer
  +.5 if it is fun
  
  Call of Duty 4 is one of the best games I own. I guess this is sort of like an annual review thing. 
 But have I has one hell of a time playing this masterpiece. Unfortunately, this game is the reason 
 for the new +.5 for no multiplayer in my scoring system. Here is how it works: You use an M16, 
 a Sniper [any] , or an LMG. Your perks are x2 RPG, Juggernaut [more health] , and Martyrdom [dropping 
 live grenade instantly at time of death] . That is what I consider a noob. I can kill Juggernauts, 
 and I can avoid those death-grenades but I can't ignore the fact that a kid a couple years younger 
 than me is claiming he has slept with my mother. Rude people, you know. Graphics aren't everything, 
 but I thought they were outstanding. The variety of sounds you hear throughout the whole game, 
 in any mode, is what I think is the most exceptional part of the game. First I've seen anything 
 as blue and gray as this. Everything else is just so good... It's hard to explain if you haven't 
 played it before. The fact that it's fun compensates for the occasional glitches. The only fault 
 is the 2 second glitches. Go buy it, like you haven't already. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DIABETUS
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 4, 2008 10:24 pm PT
Review:  I'm going to be short with this review, since everyone has read reviews for COD4...
  
  You are an SAS soldier (British Special Air Service) AND a US Marine. You are put into a fictional 
 modern day war and must break through the enemy lines, while getting pounded by waves and waves 
 of grenades, bullets, explosives, snipers, and helicopters.
  
  If you've played the COD series, then you know the drill: Follow the objective (s) on your compass, 
 kill any enemies in the area, keep moving until you reach the final objective, and await further 
 orders for more objectives or hold to end the mission and move on.
  
  Typical COD gameplay: You either hold your position to defend yourself from waves of spawning enemies 
 OR you assault a specific target.
  
  However, this one takes the cake in all of the series. It just FEELS so real! The graphics are 
 jaw-dropped and the sound effects will make you jump, as if you really ARE within the battlefield. 
 An HD or Blue-Ray TV is a must for a game like this. Regardless, it's freaking sweet on any TV 
 you play.
  
  The campaign is VERY short and I was frankly disappointed, hoping that it would be like COD2: long 
 and entertaining. It's certainly entertaining, but not long.
  
  But the game does NOT end there: the multiplayer is to DIE for! There are numerous modes you can 
 play and many unlockable weapons that can be acquired by ranking up or trying to complete a series 
 of challenges.
  
  I don't have anything else to say, except that I am anxiously awaiting Call of Duty: World at War. 
 Hopefully, Activison will make it ten times longer than COD4 and present new features to the gameplay.
 
  
  So, if you really haven't gotten this game, GET IT! It's war-like fun!
  
  Oh, and on one final note: Veteran mode IS ALMOST impossible! Seriously, Infinity Ward did a thorough 
 job to make Veteran mode as painfully realistic as possible for the player to beat. If you aren't 
 light-hearted at losing to Veteran mode, then you should probably start off at Easy or Normal. 
 You will die so much, that you'll want to give the game the worst review and throw it out the window. 
 Really, IT'S NOT EASY!
  
  So what's the game like on Veteran mode compared to the others in the series? You will see grenades 
 flying from all directions to your location specifically and not your teammates, you will pay dearly 
 if you get struck with a bullet, and you will be forced to keep moving FROM cover and into the 
 open, even if your character is on the verge of death.
  
  "You will not survive." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Halo-Master12
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 2, 2008 5:51 pm PT
Review:  The Bad Nothing execpt a little short single player.
  The Good
  Amazing graphics
  Many Guns
  Awesome Multiplayer
  Great sound
  Xbox Live rocks
  get to be in helicopters
 
  The revolution continues to grow as it gets better and better and it will get even better when 
 Call of duty 5 comes out. This game is now going part of my scale. Pong-Call of duty 4
  This game will get you addicted, I have a friend who has had at least 2 weeks of total online play 
 this year! This game will be the start of a new era! Let everyone know about this amazing game! 
 i will keep going on about this game until the end of time. This a lot better than most if not 
 all the games out here. Why dosen't Wii make these king of games!! This game is made and designed 
 for the xbox 360 so get it! I am not joking one bit, a little bit short singleplayer but a amazing 
 game! Get this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mr-9kzs
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 2, 2008 3:27 pm PT
Review:  This game can't be beat , if you don't like campaign go to online the best thing ever!!!! If you 
 are a noob prepared to be poewned because this game is fast-paced. The campaign couldn't be better 
 it beats Gears of War's story (which is also awesome) . So if you're looking for an M+ shooter game 
 this is the one!!!!!! zzzzzzz zzzzzz zzzz zzzzzzzzzz zzzz zzzzzzzzzz zzzzz zzzzzzzzzz zzzzz zzzzzzzzz 
 zz zzzzzzzz zzzzzzzzz zzzzzz zzzzzzz zzzzz zzz z z z z z z z z z z z zzzzzzzzz zzzzzz zzzzzzz zzzzzz 
 zzzzzz zzzzzzzzzzz zzzzzz zzzzzzzz zzzz zzzzzzz zzzzz zzzz zzzzzzzzzzzzz zzzzzzzzzzzz zzzzzzz zzzzzzz 
 zzzzzz zzzzz zzzzzzzzz zzzzzzzzz zzzzz zzzzzz zzzzzzzz zzzzzzz zzzzzzzzzzz zzzzzzzzzzzzz zzzzzzzz 
 zzzzzzzz zzzzzzzzzzzzz zzzzzzz zzzzzzzz zzzzzzz zzzzzz zzzzzz zzzzzzzzz zzzzzz zzzzzz zzzzzzzzzzzzz 
 z z z 
::::::

::::::
UserName: battleroyalex
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 2, 2008 6:22 am PT
Review:  Finally a game that focuses on modern warfare; who wasn't getting tired of all those WWII games? 
 Call of Duty 4 lives up to its predecessors and goes beyond, with more weapons than you could hide 
 under your bed.
  
  The single player game play is that of an average fps but the story alongside it goes above and 
 beyond your average war game. The single player will entertain you from start to finish with level 
 design that catches your eye for each new area, an arsenal of weapons to grab, and AI that will 
 have you slamming your controller off the wall on those higher difficulties.. Watch out for those 
 damn dogs.
  
  Multiplayer is where this game truly shines with it's level-based award system you will be instantly 
 hooked. Silencers, Scopes, Sights, and even different cameos you can customize for all the weapons 
 as you gain levels and unlock new ones. There are more game types than your 52'' flat screen can 
 list and enough players to get you in-game instantly. The downside, once you reach max level there 
 is not much to gain. You can "Prestige", which is starting the whole game over from level 1. All 
 you get from this is a new emblem next to your name. I would have liked to at least see some new 
 cameos to unlock.
  
  So overall this is a great game for whoever likes FPS, and with all the multiplayer game types 
 it's sure to fit your style. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Heroldp813
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 1, 2008 3:18 pm PT
Review:  B/f i start my review, let me just point out that i like both Halo 3 and COD 4. I know i can already 
 feel the love, but honestly both of these games are why i bought a 360 in the first place, and 
 i think instead of waring with our 360 brothers about which game is better we should point our 
 attention to the PS3 fanboys (i plan on getting a PS3) . Let me get back to the review. Well what 
 can i say about this game that has not already been said. Great game especially if you want a break 
 from Halo or Gears of War. My only problem with this game is the cheap as grenades that kill me 
 b/f i even get out of the starting gate, but despite that you'll find the game very fun. Also i 
 noticed that the crowd on call of duty is more reserved, there are still kids talking crap, and 
 when i say that i mean its harder to get friends then just by playing with them b/c everyone is 
 already in a group. Halo seems to be a bit different in that aspect. I would buy the game and enjoy, 
 but please try to like both games, b/c in the end were all killing people and talking crap 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iMAC21
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 1, 2008 2:50 pm PT
Review:  Are you sick of the WW2 shoot em ups? well to be honest i was, Then COD4 was realised and none 
 too soon
  
  The game play is easy to enjoy and adapt to, Still using the same engine as the same COD games, 
 It is just as easy for a new-comer or and experienced COD user to get set up on the game, The time 
 is set in present day, With two different out looks on modern war, The Americans against the Arabs 
 (obviously) and the British agsint the Russians, Later combining operations to save the world from 
 terror (sound familliar?)
  
  You go through the game as two main charaters, An American trooper (who later meets his demise) 
 and an English soilder call "Soap"..... yes you did read that right, Whislt the single player game 
 is short even with long-ish levels it is one of the best shooters around if not ever, The information 
 of the game has been well reserched and is up-date on the latest, Guns & other weaponary, Badges 
 and other military certifications
  
  But the crowing point of the game as i'm sure you are aware is the online multiplayer, It has over 
 taken Gears of War and Halo (1,2 & 3) as the most played game online, All you have to do is play 
 it to see why, At first there doesn't seem much but after an hour of online play you should see 
 what i'm talking about, With all the variations of match types and leveling up system, Its a game 
 to stay top of the online playing charts for a long time.... At least until the next one comes out 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DonDeCairo
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 30, 2008 11:32 pm PT
Review:  After spending all my time with FPS in the Halo series and finally giving this game a shot i must 
 say it was a great move. This game is a lot less frustrating most other FPS that i play. The story 
 for the story mode was very enjoyable. It took me no time to get used to the controls. Any average 
 gamer can pick this up and rip it. The graphics and the display are outstanding.
  
  The best part of the game in my opinion has to be the multiplayer. The ranking system and barracks 
 is great. Being able to shoot for different objectives with each of the guns and creating your 
 own classes really adds to the game. The ranking system is also very flexible, and most games aren't 
 really that overwhelming in difficulty.
  
  It is a much more realistic shooter than any i've played. I strongly recommend anyone to at least 
 give it a shot, it can get pretty addicting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lacrosse02
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 29, 2008 7:29 pm PT
Review:  Honestly, It has been so long since I've played the single player online I can't submit an accurate 
 review for it. I faintly remember having fun, but I quickly turned to the much anticipated online. 
 I've spent the bulk of my time w/ COD 4 (a solid 14 days) playing the multiplayer.
  The good:
  -Great level up system. Gives you a reason to keep playing.
  -10 prestige levels. 
 Work your way up from level 1 to 55...10 times.
  -Perks allow you to customize your classes to your playing style.
  -Leaderboards allow you to 
 check out your stats (ie. kill death ratio, wins/losses, accuracy, and overall points gained against 
 friends and on a global scale.)
  
  I have nothing negative to say, oh wait, I do. 
  
  My only criticism is that there are NO ACHIEVMENTS for online multiplayer. This leaves all my hard 
 earned hours of online play feel empty with nothing to show for it but the leaderboards and completed 
 challenges. Hopefully, COD 5 will include the online achievements.
  I recommend this for anyone who loves the online multiplayer atmosphere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: socky1101
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 29, 2008 5:45 pm PT
Review:  This game really is a great game but it gets old after a while. At first when you play the game 
 its amazing and it is. But after you play it over and over it gets old after a long period of time. 
 
  
  But most games are like that its just that still so many people say its the best game in the world 
 but its not. I used to love the game a lot but now since I have better games to play I never play 
 it anymore. 
  
  The story and setting were great and the sniper mission is my favorite. Multiplayer was great also. 
 But i will say, i am going to get COD 5 and COD 6 but
  we still need a Vietnam call of duty, not a WWI or WWII game. Maybe bring back the tanks and cars. 
 I miss doing stunts online and screwing around with cars. Dont bring airplanes or heli's becuase 
 then its gonna be like Halo.
  
  Overall great game but gets very, very old after a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rated-R-83
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 26, 2008 10:58 am PT
Review:  I bought an Xbox 360 simply to play this game on Xbox Live and I totally wasn't disappointed at 
 all. I'm so glad they finally modernized this game instead of the previous World War 1 and 2 concepts. 
 Call of Duty 4 has it all. Great story mode, Easy game play and easy to learn game functions. The 
 way it's put together you swear you're actually in the game taking on the missions. The weapon 
 selection is Phenomenal. The most addictive part of this game is the online play. You can play 
 against all kinds of people all over the world. You can get a team of friends together and take 
 on the world. The leveling up and unlockables is what makes it so addicting. There's also so many 
 different types of online games you can play that you'll never want to put this game down. Plus 
 they recently added new maps to the game so it helps keep the game alive. Call of Duty 4 is definitely 
 enjoyable. Now I will tell you that while playing the online play you will die a lot and I mean 
 A LOT, but its worth it because as you progress through the ranks you unlock different items and 
 weapons that make the game unique and fun every time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Supertramp20
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 24, 2008 7:34 pm PT
Review:  The campaign single player starts off with you playing as soap a british soldier. Later on you 
 play as sgt. paul Jackson in the american forces. The single player starts off as a really fun 
 game and then it's over very quickly. There are many different guns too use. But you can't drive 
 any vehicles. The graphics are great with minor glitches. The ai are great. Well this game wouldn't 
 be what it is if it didn't have it's amazing multiplayer. It's addictive and fun. They made 55 
 levels in online play which turn out great and customizable weapon and grenades an perks system. 
 They have great maps with many add on maps which you can buy on xbox live. This game defiantely 
 deserves the 9.5. Probably the best game in the series by going into modern combat. I think if 
 the game goes back too wwII I think that will be a bad choice and end up in a lower score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThAdEa82
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 24, 2008 7:25 am PT
Review:  This game has outdone itself and is definately what a multiplayer experience should be. Here I 
 am almost a year later and I am still playing it. It is a must have on any platform. Granted the 
 campaign is a bit "short" but then again... most probably aren't playing it on Veteran as that will 
 run up your time count significantly. For those that will complain about it's "stategic" aspects, 
 it's true... this game isn't very in depth as far as that goes. It does give you the upper hand 
 if you can exploit the bit of strategy it does have. Multiplayer is more fun than that of Halo 
 3. Enough said. If you just got a 360, get it as COD 5 may/may not appeal to you depending if you 
 like WW2 stuff. The story may not be the greatest on single player, but it is fun. You should get 
 this game strictly for the multiplayer and the single player stuff should be a secondary reason. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxbababooeyxx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 23, 2008 5:46 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty 4 is the best looking and overall funnest online experience for a FPS that you can 
 have. Now some of you are asking why did this game get an 8.5 and vegas 1 a 10? heres why.... because 
 cod 4 has no single player game. i mean it does but it sux! everything is rush rush rush. you have 
 no control over the other soldiers you always feel in a hurry and its just terrible. let me control 
 a squad or just put me by myself. Online play is great!! (if you have 2 friends with ya) . If you 
 have a party of three and you do the "team tactical" its the best FPS ever by far and its not even 
 close the game gets an 8.5 just for that. other than that though the game has problems. if you 
 get on with 2 people inevitably you will get stuck with a terrible partner who will either not 
 have a mic or will be doing his own thing and it takes all the "tactics" out of the game. then 
 theres the Noob tube! just a pathetic cheap weapon, so are the rockets i hate that they include 
 weapons like that its horrible and world of war will have a flame thrower so the BS will continue. 
 Here is the solution to fix the problem of people just sniping or running around not helping the 
 team.... dont allow any points to be achived or anything to be unlocked or challanges completed 
 if your team loses. its that simple! if your team loses you get no promotion poits nothing! that 
 solves the problem and makes everyone in the room try to win. (told ya that was easy) why do we 
 reward losers anyway? its like we got this everyone gets a trophy menatality and it sux. also in 
 free for all it should matter more about kill death ratio than just kills. for example in one game 
 i was 21-3 and came in third the guy who won was 25-27. he was MINUS 2 and he won? thats horrible 
 that doesnt reward skill at all. other than that ou can keep the game pretty much the same take 
 my recomendations and add capture the flag and we will be looking at a 10!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eastsidesanjose
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 23, 2008 5:18 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is the best game out of all of them... well not really because i have not yet played 
 Call of Duty: WORLD AT WAR, so i dont know witch is better. This game is so awsome because if you 
 are going to get the game some day, then on wifi you can play 16 people from around the world. You 
 can also play team battle,8 v. s 8 and no matter were you go when you are playing free for all you 
 always get shought out of no were. Call of Duty is the best game ever man.
  
  If you had the chance to pick one game out of all of the XBOX360 games, i would pick Call of Duty 
 4 Modern Warfare out of all of the games. That is how good this game will be if you played it. On 
 Call of Duty 5, my friends told me that they heared that it is 10 times better then Call of Duty 
 4, so i dont now what is better cause they sometimes dont tell the truth most of the time so i dont 
 really belive them to mutch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dartadion
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 22, 2008 9:06 pm PT
Review:  The only good thing about Call Of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is the graphics. Everything else as I 
 said in the title "Disappointing". My friend told me about it and said it was a great game though 
 I played it and about 30 mins into the game I just got bored.
  
  So I finished the campaign in about 6-6.5 hours only to be diappointed with the storyline that 
 could have been worked upon a lot. I try multiplayer and find myself even more disappointed. Very 
 unoriginal multiplayer modes with a ranking system that made me vomit. You need to keep playing 
 online to unlock new weapons. Come on were is the fun in that. 10 games to unlock the 2nd worst 
 sniper and so on. In other FPS you have all the weapons on the field for you so its strategic. 
 This is just pick 2 guns for the whole round. Great one has to be a crappy pistol and the other 
 your own choice.
  
  Even worse, no 2-4 multiplayer online. Disappointment all the way round. Pathetic. The games jump 
 is 2mm high and you press A for when you need to jump and the game does it for you. Also your a 
 soldier with no bullet proof vests in a war. Your asking for the enemy to kill you. No Very realistic 
 physis so Ragdoll Fans beware, No good physics. And melee is a stupid knife. I truly wonder how 
 this game is the most played game on Xbox Live.
  
  All I have to say is Call of Duty: World At War better improve on what COD 4 did but since it runs 
 on the same engine it will be just as worse probably. Not for Halo, Far Cry, Medal of Honour, Rainbow 
 Six Vegas and all FPS fans because you will be disappointed. So remember if you see COD 4 on special 
 at a store, don't think about and buy Halo 3 or another FPS. If it's COD 5 then Far Cry 2.
  
  Anything but Call Of Duty!!!!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dylan_fo_filon
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 22, 2008 4:18 pm PT
Review:  ugh ya this game is awesome but i hate it when people say that this is the best game ever. ok now 
 listen very carefully people, this game TAKES NO SKILL! all you have to do is pull the trigger, 
 and you get a kill, thats why people love this game so much! halo actually takes skill, call of 
 duty 4 doesnt, end of story. thats why so many little kids play it. i am a huge fan of this game, 
 so dont think im not, my gamertag is DyIann, play me if you think im bad, but w/e i love this game, 
 i just think its a tad overrated and halo 2 and 3 are way better.......... just so i can actually 
 post this- you should stop reading now ----- gkejvgo irevfjre oimjreo igj3qgngo injrgni grgj5g8joijgj 
 ggj76kj 87joiykv jtigwr ivgkkr gogkr0gii dkmgoiremjgqe okrgk ikgreoijgwe mgrek ktow5k rgnre re 
 tr wt ref f d f grgoire igr eoigjrei iojvdfi jreiotj439 jvdsi oewifl poajregi oaijregre ash oijrgpow 
 oirejgore yo hey what the poop rengregneoi joirefaoi iaewjoi43h8 irjgoiar orejvgaoirjg uoirehg8gin 
 9jreg9jjn9n 9jgwoirg inre oirehnj oihj voifvjr eiogt8 oirekjre ijregoire bahvauv ouaidnhv8re ure 
 oireha ok 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pepsi-KFC
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 19, 2008 3:54 pm PT
Review:  While games like Halo 3 were alittle dissapointing for us mild X Box fans there are perfect remedies... 
 Cll Of Duty 4 is possibly the best! The graphics may be very simillar all through the levels but 
 they are amzingly realistic and the sound effects are very accurate sounding... I've never used 
 a real gun before obviously!
  
  The campain may be short but you can test you're self with different difficulties and the shear 
 value of thet amazing gameplay is outstanding! The controll system is spot on and the gameplay 
 in the campain and realisim can't be faulted.
  
  The X Box live experience is on a world of its own though, many game modes, unlockables and achievemnets 
 (not for gamerscore) are availiable and the fun is undescribable, no other internet game comes 
 close.
  
  All this does come with minor down sides including that some people just don't like the game, theres 
 somthing about it which makes it either a love or a hate game and I'm in the love section. Also 
 it does feel a bit basic compared too Halo 3 yet much better in that respect anyway.
  
  As a whole this is probably the best 360 game to date but with COD World at War on its way its 
 not worth a purchase unless you just can't wait! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frogcrazyant1
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 18, 2008 7:28 pm PT
Review:  This Game is really good at being a war game and to act stealthy and to kill people. This is the 
 best realistic war shooter ever. This game is full of surprises, and one specific one that is so 
 crazy it makes your jaw fly open in awe. The campaign is pretty delicious, but fairly easy and 
 short. I beat it the first day i got in like 4 hours. It has great levels like Death From Above 
 where you bomb the people but cannot bomb the church. The achievements on this game are fairly 
 easy for going through the campaign, but then the rest or on veteran, which can be pretty hard 
 for some, even though i have most of them. So if you want this game for achievements, go find another 
 game. What really makes this game fun and the only reason why people keep playing after campaign 
 is the online. Even though i suck at it myself, i love the map layouts and the fast paced killing, 
 because its so realistic. And getting grades from it and ranking up from side mission on the online 
 was a great way for people to keep playing and i liked to do that. Also in campaign, my favorite 
 part was totally raping the german shepards after trying to rip my heads off. This game is pretty 
 good for all war lovers and noobies alike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CydonianKnight5
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 18, 2008 1:16 pm PT
Review:  The game was hyped up quite a bit and in my opinion had EVERY single thing i heard it would have, 
 and quite a bit more. 
  
  The game comes with remarkable graphics. I also know some people who said it did not have a long 
 enough campaign. So do those people want 30 missions? Because im glancing at it and it has at least 
 19. If you want a comparison, Halo 3's campaign has about 10 missions. 
  
  The online play is fantastic. The only bad part is the large amount of camping gay people who sit 
 around corners with P90's. But other than that, its really impressive. It is also about 30 times 
 more competitive than Halo.
  
  It is also much easier to rank up than Halo. The prestiging is one part that makes it alot different 
 than any other game in this category. It's not just playing for fun. You can do it all over again. 
 Sure you lose your weapons and perks, but it is very fun to see how fast you can do it all over 
 again.
  
  With all of those things in hand, I think we have a quite impressive modern-day warfare game. Although, 
 I dont like the idea of going back to WWII AGAIN, CoD: World at War, may be worth buying. But, 
 it has some HUGE shoes to fill. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lorendc
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 17, 2008 11:03 pm PT
Review:  First, the Campaign. The Campaign was very hard on the highest difficulty but it was still a great 
 storyline and the game play didn't ever lose it's fun. A games Achievements are another thing that 
 I at least pay attention to and beside a couple miscellaneous achievements this game is a lot about 
 beating the game on veteran. The Intel items as well as the Rescue Roycewicz and Man of the People 
 to name a few, can be you tubed quite easily. However the New Squadron Record achievement will 
 take 100% accuracy and a completion of a timely fashion.
  
  Next their is the online line were you can test your skills with a variety of different modes and 
 variations of it like hardcore. The ranking system is fairly simple, you have three ways of ranking 
 up; Weapon Kills/Headshots, Barrack challenges or just kill your enemy. Once you hit reach level 
 55 you prestige or stay at your level and get everything possible and then wish you would have 
 prestiged. Maybe it's just me but the game seems to lose it's fun when you are playing for XP you 
 don't need. I advise prestiging to the fullest then get everything so you don't fell unaccomplished 
 with your rank that could have been higher. Again just my opinion, bottom line this game is a pretty 
 kick ass! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Atreyu606
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 17, 2008 12:16 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4. I was concerned about it switching from WWII to modern warfare. I have been a fan 
 since the first COD came out, so I was very used to the WWII aspect so I was a little concerned; 
 that was until I played the game. I admit, the game was good, but I do miss the WWII aspect. But 
 nonetheless, the game was fun. The campaign was a little short, but if you play it on veteran you 
 would end up spending four times more than you would if you did it on normal. But you could always 
 go through it again in arcade mode which is always fun. But like I said, you could beat the campaign 
 in a single sitting, so if you don't have Xbox LIVE, than rent it. But if you have live and are 
 looking toward to the multiplayer, actually buy the game. The multiplayer is so much fun. The perk 
 system allows you to build up your strong points, the challenges give multiplayer the same rewarding 
 feeling as achievements do for the campaign (which I think is how it should be, I think achievements 
 should only be for campaign so the people without XBL don't get screwed out of achievement points) . 
 In the end Call of Duty: Modern Warfare is a really fun game, but I would only buy it if you have 
 Xbox LIVE and are going to play Online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: creeping-deth87
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 16, 2008 1:21 pm PT
Review:  For those of you who remember playing Counter-Strike till the wee hours of the morning, you will 
 find that your search for the next completely and utterly addictive shooter has finally made its 
 debut in Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare.
  
  The campaign is unsurprisingly quite short, though that's not to say it lacks any visceral thrill. 
 There are some truly exciting moments, including roping down in the middle of a thunder storm onto 
 a massive ship littered with terrorists. You will take on a variety of roles, from sniper support 
 to suppression fire to search and rescue. There is rarely a dull moment to be had in the game's 
 exciting story. Sadly, the whole thing is too short for anyone to get really attached to the campaign.
 
  
  The visual presentation is superb. The character models sport impressive detail, as do the weapons 
 and the environments. The game also runs incredibly smooth, without a hitch in frame rate in even 
 the most climatic confrontations. Very few shooters incorporate shadows so well that you can use 
 them to your advantage, but Infinity Ward has somehow pulled it off. The sound is also great. Exceptional 
 voice acting brings the story to life, and all of the guns sound appropriately fearsome and deadly. 
 There is very little music to be heard, but what is there fits the mood of the game perfectly.
 
  
  The greatest attraction here is the excellent multiplayer suit. In an odd yet brilliant touch, 
 Infinity Ward has spiced up the levelling system introduced in more recent shooters. In addition 
 to unlocking new ranks and new weapons as you progress, you also unlock 'perks' to give the game 
 an RPG-twist. These perks come in a variety of forms, from extra ammunition to an increased rate 
 of fire, anti-personnel mines, greater damage penetration through walls, and a variety of others 
 too numerous to name. Equipping different perks vastly changes the way you play the game, as certain 
 perks only suit certain styles of gameplay. For example, the Iron Lungs perk allows you to hold 
 your breath longer with a sniper rifle and so gives you more time to properly line up your shot.
 
  
  In addition to the perks system, the game also rewards you in interesting ways for killing streaks. 
 3 kills allows you to use a UAV sweep, which reveals the location of all enemies on your radar 
 for a brief period of time (enemies normally appear only when they fire) . 5 kills earns you a deadly 
 air strike, which is especially devestating on the smaller maps such as Wet Work. 7 kills gives 
 you a helicopter which flies around the map and shoots your enemies on sight. The chopper is vulnerable 
 to weapons fire and especially RPGs (another perk you can equip) so it's far from being a broken 
 mechanic in the hectic multiplayer matches. All of the standard multiplayer modes are present here, 
 including unique variations of existing ones. Hardcore Team Death Match for example gives a very 
 Counter-Strike like experience without any respawns.
  
  Unfortunately, the multiplayer suffers from hosting issues. It is not uncommon to frequently get 
 kicked out of a room due to hosts leaving the game. Random spawning is also incredibly frustrating, 
 as the game will occasionally spawn you directly in front of (or in some cases behind) enemy players. 
 These are really the only detriments to an otherwise great multiplayer experience. Call of Duty 
 4 truly excels at everything it aspires to be, and this is what makes it so enjoyable. The maps 
 are appropriately sized for the number of players (up to 16 on X-Box Live) and all of them offer 
 great spots for snipers and others for close-quarters massacres with shotguns and sub-machine guns.
 
  
  There is excellent variety in the maps, taking you from war-torn streets in a Middle Eastern flavour, 
 to duking it out on the deck of a freight vessel, to snowy battlegrounds. None of the maps feel 
 or play the same, and many of them require vastly different tactics to overcome the opposing players.
 
  
  Call of Duty 4 is an excellent shooter that sets a new standard for the genre. The incredibly fast 
 pace, coupled with the unique perks system, makes for a very entertaining and unique experience 
 that all shooter fans sbsolutely must try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cortolio
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 17, 2008 7:35 pm PT
Review:  How does one begin to review such a fantastic game? There are so many good points about it that 
 it's hard to concentrate on just a few. Easily, though, this is one of the greatest shooters ever 
 created. 
  
  Graphically, this game is superb. Character models look natural and sport a fine level of detail. 
 Gun textures are excellent even with added camouflage patterns. Everything in this game looks like 
 it belongs and level designs are almost flawless. The level of atmosphere is really quite awesome. 
 You never lose the feeling that you're in a hot spot or somewhere dangerous.
  
  The singleplayer portion of this game, although short, is amazing. Never does the game feel repetitive 
 or tedious. Of the five hours or so of gameplay you take on many different and exciting roles over 
 a huge playing field. At one point you find yourself in the gunner seat of an AC-130U Gunship. 
 Through infrared vision you rain death upon your foes with outstanding realism. That point of the 
 game is simply one of the greatest moments in virtual history. There are also plenty of scripted 
 moments within the game that will simply leave you awestruck.
  
  Since this game is a shooter, it would not be fair to leave out a section strictly devoted to critiquing 
 its firepower. Every gun in this game has its place, though some lose their worth after you've 
 unlocked a complete arsenal. Gun sounds are more or less realistic, especially the SVU which sounds 
 appropriately beefy. As far as being balanced, though it's easy not to deny the fact that the M16 
 cannot be stopped. However, if all of the guns were totally balanced then it wouldn't really matter 
 what you were carrying. Hit detection is top notch, and unlike a game like Bad Company it takes 
 much less than 50 rounds to kill someone. This game also gets a big thumbs up for getting grenades 
 right. Fragmentation can be devastating, making grenades extremely useful. 
  
  This game sports strong multiplayer. Team deathmatch is the best mode, however other modes are 
 still good. It's easy to get immersed into the fight and find yourself playing round after round. 
 Completing various challenges makes ranking up fun and fast paced, however there are virtually 
 no online Achievements. There are a variety of exciting maps, and only a few cater to annoying 
 hardcore snipers. Spawning within the battlefield is effortless and requires little waiting. The 
 game does an outstanding good job of keeping you in the action.
  
  With memorable singleplayer and competitive multiplayer, COD4 is an excellent buy. This game stays 
 interesting for hours and never loses steam. It's the reason people still love first person shooters. 
 No fan of gaming should be without this masterpiece of a title.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Feedbackdrmmr15
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 14, 2008 3:47 pm PT
Review:  Game Review-Xbox 360-Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare
  
  Review 134
  
  Released: November 5, 2007
  Publisher: Activision
  Developer: Infinity Ward
  Game Genre: 
 Modern First-Person Shooter
  ESRB Rating: M for Mature
  ESRB Description: Blood and Gore, Intense Violence, Strong Language
  
  Story: 30%
  Gameplay: 
 40%
  Graphics: 20%
  Improvements: 0%
  Durability: 10%
  
  Story (10/10)
  Not only is the storyline in-depth and realistic, there are many surprises that keep the gamer 
 in suspense. The Call of Duty series is the only war shooter series that I've ever played that 
 actually gives a decent storyline. COD 4 goes way beyond average.
  
  As is the norm for the COD series, you switch multiple times between characters in different countries. 
 The main idea of the story is similar to most modern shooters. Your objective is to take down a 
 terrorist organization.
  
  Gameplay (10/10)
  The game has a variety of missions and objectives that keep it from falling into redundancy. The 
 storyline is short, as in most COD games, but very entertaining.
  
  There is not a lot of difference in the game play in this installment as it has been in previous 
 titles. The left trigger still pulls the gun sight up, holding the right stick steadies breathing 
 while sniping, etc. The play is smoother and more realistic than ever.
  
  The multiplayer mode is very great as well. Games are no longer won by the amount of kills, but 
 the amount of points that a team puts up. Points vary based on kills, deaths, where the enemy is 
 shot, how an enemy is killed, etc. Bonuses are also available in these games. For example, get 
 five kills in a row without dying and you'll be able to call in an air strike.
  
  Another advantage of the game is its point system. As you progress further into multiplayer, you 
 will get points that unlock different weapons and abilities.
  
  Graphics (9/10)
  
  Improvements
  Previous Games:
  Call of Duty 2 (9.25/10)
  Call of Duty 3 (7.8/10)
  
  Durability 
 (8/10)
  The storyline is short, but online play will keep gamers at it for some time.
  
  Overall Score (9.6/10)
  Rounded Score (9.5/10)
  
  Final Thoughts:
  COD 4 is one of those 
 games that really hits the peak of its systems' capabilities. It is a game that will continue to 
 be played online for years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hiddren
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 14, 2008 9:15 am PT
Review:  This is a game that you will never get board of well unless when you pass 100 hours on it its a 
 very fast FPS and its not like ok Im a sniper I will sit in one spot and will not be killed you 
 will because they are all over the map!
  Yeah but that is just Online
  
  You Start the story off as you train to be in Captin Prices SAS Team which it teaches you all the 
 Controls
  1st Mission where you invaid as I would call it a Big Container Ship to get this Intell then the 
 Boat sinks!
  
  You work for the Marines as well so 2 different storys And there are 1-2 JFO (Joint Forces Operations)
 
  This is a very good game for a Fast Shooter But not for me.
  
  You will have some Great fun Killing Shooting and some funny People flying in the Air (Idiots)
 
  Well I really dont want to give the story away so Go and Hunt em Down! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diyari
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 13, 2008 1:30 am PT
Review:  well to be honest it is not that good I heard about and it is not bad...
  
  tow things I like most about it are it is not like other war games which you have to go fight without 
 knowing the purpose of your fighting, and this game have a kinda fine story that makes you go on 
 with it and don t just throw the disc in the trash can...
  
  The graphics are very good but like all the games there are some flaws in it, but it it not a big 
 deal.
  
  There are some new weapons which happens to be cool.
  
  one thing which is so missing is there are no vehicles to drive, no tanks, no jeeps, nothing. but there 
 is that mission when you are in plane and flying around that place to protect the troops there, and 
 that one is not so fun...
  
  Call of duty 4 is kinda short and you will complete it in just a while.
  
  there are some remarkable 
 places in the game like: when the atomic-bomb explodes and your choper will fell down then you get 
 out and look around the place. it is so well made and exciting.
  And there is the end, it is amazing when thing happens and how they designed it to kill the last 
 man. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rynair9
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 10, 2008 9:59 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty 4 is a game that tests your gaming displine, ability and determination. With an excellent 
 storyline and the greatest online play ever made. The game has basically no faults. The single 
 player action is very intense and fast moving. With dozens of enemys on the screen at once, aswell 
 as several A. I. friendlys. Call of duty 4 single player is enough to give the game a 9.0 But the 
 online play is enough to give it a 9.5. The action is so competetive and addicting, people have 
 spent literary 80 days playing the game online. That is insane. The way they set up the online 
 ranking system of prestige mode is intersting and orginal. My highest rank score rise hit 4000 
 before i had to retire. I have over 17 days logged in, i have not been that addicted to a video 
 game since the days of socom 2 online for ps2. Overall it is a great game and def worth checking 
 out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: virus209
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 9, 2008 5:17 am PT
Review:  Story Mode
  Playing the single player story is a big waste of time. I couldnt get into it. Wow its boring. 
 Didnt want to waste my time playing the story. Its borring when running around shooting people 
 around with no tactic skills. Its mostly a rushing game. single player story could of been made 
 way better.
  
  Graphics
  Graphics in Call of duty is nice but could of dont better.
  
  Online Multiplayer
  Online which rocks the game. I Love the online Multiplayer on Call of 
 Duty 4. In my opinion its the best online Multiplayer game out there and i say by much points better 
 then halos online multiplayer. Its cool how they made the online system. You can rank up to unlock 
 weapons or skills and how you can custommize your weapon. Alot of weapons to unlock. It would of 
 been cool if the walls break like in Bad Company. 
  
  Bottom line
  Fun online but story sucks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: conorJgeraghty
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 8, 2008 9:01 am PT
Review:  This game is one of the best on the 360. Its amazing multiplayer is the best on Live and makes 
 the game a must buy. Everything from the sound to the visuals is top notch. Not many games compare 
 to this experience treat and is a marker for any games of the future.
  The Campaign is an immersive and action packed experience and will keep you going long after you 
 beat the game once even if it is just to get the acheivments.
  Multiplayer is awesome, addictive and piles of fun. If you haven't played this game yet, where 
 have you been?
  The game is realistic to a T and all modern weapons are realized with the amazing graphics and 
 sound. This game is a real must buy for any fans of shooters, FPS and action games. Gameplay is 
 around 14 hours but multiplayer will keep you going for ever, i have played for over 25 days so 
 far.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ethan111111
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 7, 2008 7:04 pm PT
Review:  After renting Soul Calbur 4 i rented this. played it, and loved it. every level is unique and very 
 cinimatic and beutifull. every big movie like part makes me want to play it over again and do it 
 better. my bro watched me the whole time and thouht it was like a awesome movie and when it was 
 over and i ( Spoilers ) killed the big bad guy, figures. (spoiler over) i was satisfide enough 
 not to complain on how short it was just like portal, whitch is great. i only played the story 
 i know Multi is fun but i dont have gold yet. oh well. I give the game worth a 35$ with a week 
 gold trial, if it could. but its still 55$ i meen GTA4 already is 50 $ for used. hopefully blockbuster 
 got a open rental for assasains creed if not Idk. if not mabe, burnout: P or bioshock, or gow, or 
 GTA 4 if my bro will let me. yeah i can get anything else but that just because of the only thing 
 you do for fun is kill, f*** or drive insane.... bye! stay tune if anyone even reads my reviews... 
 if your reading this go to my page and read other reviews.. bye again my nose is killing me! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nord_leg
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 7, 2008 12:45 pm PT
Review:  This game is very easy to pick up and play, even if you have never played any of the games in the 
 series before.
  
  The campaign mode of this game is fun in itself, it really pulls you in to the characters and is 
 very action packed.
  
  But the online play for this game is where it is best. With the variety of weapons, perks, attatchments, and 
 the ability to start all over, it is very easy to play this game for a long time. I still play it 
 to day, and it should tide me over until the next one comes out.
  
  But there is one things that make this game not as enjoyable. In the online play, a few guns are 
 highly over powered, making it harder for someone new to it, liking and sticking with it. But if 
 you are like me and stick with it, it become incredibly fun and hard to put down.
  
  Another good thing is the prestige system in this game. There are levels that you advance online, unlocking 
 new weaponry and perks. But once you reach level 55 you will have a chance to start all over, gain 
 a new symbol of your rank, and do it all again. This gives people something new to do if you get 
 bored with the game.
  
  Another thing is the challenges, very fun and they make it so the game has something to make you 
 work for.
  
  Overall a very good, well rounded, and easy to pick up game. If you have been a fan of the series, ABSOLUTLEY, pick 
 this up. And even if your new to the series you should still be able to pick it up, endure, and eventually 
 play it well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fool619
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 6, 2008 1:21 pm PT
Review:  If you like First person shooters and COD this is the right game for you. COD4 brings a feel of 
 what is really happening overseas. You start out in basic training for the British S. A. S and then 
 you board a Russian Battleship which has Classified information that you need, then in the next 
 level you become a U. S marine in the middle east trying to hunt down a terrorist who has made a 
 pretty big name for himself. Call of Duty 4 has perfect graphics and a great campaign mode. Even 
 though the campaign is a little shorter it is the best in the series. But with a first person shooter 
 there has to be multiplayer. Local Multiplayer is great but the real fun is with the Online multiplayer 
 it has great fun for people who love online shooters. Even though Gamespot only gave it a 9.0 I 
 give this great game a 10. I recommend you buy this game you will love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: player_mac
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 6, 2008 2:33 am PT
Review:  This game is all about multiplayer, that's where you'll spend hours and hours popping fellow players 
 while they are trying to plant bombs or defending targets.
  
  Call of Duty multiplayer gives you the option of creating a character that supports the game-style 
 that you like. If you like to play stealthy you can equip yourself with perks that makes you run 
 without making even a single noise, or never showing up on the enemy's radar, and vice versa if 
 you are up for a more direct approach. This feature really adds to the experience and gives warfare 
 online greater depth.
  
  There are a lot of different maps, and they do vary in size and type. Abandoned cities in different 
 colors, open range maps and small office buildings for intensive action.
  
  There is something special about this game that makes it stand out from many other online-wargames. 
 Infinity Ward have pointed out that they started to work on multiplayer as a division of it's own 
 at the same time as they started working on the singleplayer mode. And it shows. The graphics are 
 outstanding and the sound as well. The gameplay leaves you with nothing to complain about and it 
 has a genuine feel that probably will make you play this game for days and days. The fact that 
 they implemented a level-system, where you gain ranks according to your score in the matches, definitely 
 gives you a motivation to keep levelling up. Besides, reaching top level will take you more than 
 10 days and nights of non-stop playing.
  
  I guess I should mention the single-player campaign as well. A story driven mode where you play 
 as two different soldiers in operations connected to eachother. I do wish that they had narrowed 
 it down to one soldier though, because it's more captive when you feel like you actually ARE the 
 person that you play as. But in general, nothing to complain about. Solid warfare here. And that 
 pretty much summons the whole game - SOLID WARFARE. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: namnatur
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 5, 2008 8:44 pm PT
Review:  
  Pros: Lots of intense gunfight, attractive and fluent storyline. Excellent graphics and sounds, 
 which give you a realistic environment fighting in. Interesting bonus and cheats, particularly 
 A Bad Year.
  
  Cons: Why should the enemy be regenerated crazily in many scenes? No real co-operation, NPC only 
 can help in shooting people, though, it helps a bit in most situations.
  
  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare (COD4) is one of the most successful first-person shooter in 2007, 
 available in multiple platforms, XBOX 360, PS3, and PC (also on PSP, but it's more like another 
 title to me) . The gaming is much alike as its predecessors, player follows the mission objects, 
 which is very linear as parts of the default storyline, and completes all of them until the end. 
 At first glance, this system might look quite boring, however, the intense gunfight and the seemingly 
 co-operation gave player a very different experiences when Call of Duty first showed up in 2003. 
 This great feature is integrated in COD4 even better than before.
  
  There are two characters, if you don't count the gunner on AC-130 in, that player is able to control 
 as usual, which lead player to involve multiple campaigns and, of course, different scenes. However, 
 in COD4 the storyline is compacted as a whole, therefore player would feel like he/she is playing 
 roles in an action movie, such as The Rock or Black Hawk Down. Though the objects are in a linear 
 arrangement, they are quite variable in nature. For example, player is able to operate weapons 
 on an AC-130 gunship in a mission, and an automatic 40mm grenade launcher on an CH-47 Chinook in 
 another one. Of course in most circumstances, player has to face lots of enemy and intense gun 
 fire if you don't push through that point as soon as you can. The most intriguing missions are 
 the two that bring player back to fifteen years ago to execute an infiltration and assassination 
 mission in the contaminated region near Chernobyl. There you have to stay your profile low and 
 try not to get enemy's attention. This in some ways changes we FPS fans' perspective of what a 
 sniper really is, definitely is not that simple as hiding behind a corner and shooting unaware 
 people.
  
  On the other hand, the extremely linear storyline might give player a dull feeling while replaying 
 it through the relative short scenes, total 19 playable missions including the bonus. Moreover, 
 the structure of storyline asks player to reach checking points to trigger events, and the enemy 
 is regenerated over and over again around many of these checking points. While player reaches the 
 next, no more enemy pops up at once. This experience makes some players feel frustrated after they 
 have found it finally, because the skill of gunnery and all tactics seems to be unnecessary. All 
 you have to do is to push yourself to the next checking point, if you are able to hold yourself 
 to that point. The aforementioned gaming mode has lived as long as the original title existing 
 in marketplace, even in combat your routes and tactics are fixed in accordance with the storyline 
 and the checking points. I wonder why Infinity Ward hasn't tried a structure with multiple endings 
 or multiple processes.
  
  Fortunately, there are more funny things hidden in the game. Thirty laptop scattered in the whole 
 game can be gathered to unlock cheating mode. Most cheats are funny but not useful at all, though 
 they makes me laugh out loud, especially A Bad Year, which makes enemy become tires and explodes 
 once they are killed. Unlimited ammo might be quite handy, and this cheat makes M203 grenade launcher 
 become fearful because you may fire it repeatedly like an automatic weapon. For XBOX 360 player 
 there are still more things to seek for, the achievement. Most achievements are simple to gain, 
 some might be tricky, but the most difficult ones are those ask player to finish missions under 
 Veteran difficulty. Since the gunfight in many missions is so intense, player would play many times 
 in order to get through. However, because player can revive repeatedly from the checking points, 
 you will be fine if you are patient enough.
  
  Simply put, COD4 is a great game, it offers lots of entertainment and wonderful time to we players. 
 Even though the linear storyline might confine the gaming experience, player still have many fruits 
 to seek for. Infinity Ward has done a great job in adding new contents to an existing gaming mode, 
 the way that we are familiar in the whole series of Call of Duty. I expect in the future title 
 a more nonlinear storyline and freedom in combat, like co-operation and variable objects, are added 
 into the game play. In that case, I'm sure COD will be pushed to a new frontier and probably become 
 a perfect game all the time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sniperboy_recon
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 3, 2008 4:35 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best game ever made!!!
  I was going to go buy Rainbow 6 but when I heard that CoD4 was a good game I bought it. It was 
 worth every penny and it is a great game. This game is awsome in sniping, stealth, and you feel 
 your actually inside the game. The weapons are awsome and Xbox live is so much fun. I fell in love 
 with this game and super addictive and fun and it is a great game to play with your friends..... If 
 you like war games and marine type games you should buy this game.
  
  Check out my profile so you can add me on Xbox live...
  
  This game is the best game ever made!!!
 
  I was going to go buy Rainbow 6 but when I heard that CoD4 was a good game I bought it. It was 
 worth every penny and it is a great game. This game is awsome in sniping, stealth, and you feel 
 your actually inside the game. The weapons are awsome and Xbox live is so much fun. I fell in love 
 with this game and super addictive and fun and it is a great game to play with your friends..... If 
 you like war games and marine type games you should buy this game.
  
  
  Check out my profile so you can add me on Xbox live...
  
  This game is the best game ever made!!!
 
  I was going to go buy Rainbow 6 but when I heard that CoD4 was a good game I bought it. It was 
 worth every penny and it is a great game. This game is awsome in sniping, stealth, and you feel 
 your actually inside the game. The weapons are awsome and Xbox live is so much fun. I fell in love 
 with this game and super addictive and fun and it is a great game to play with your friends..... If 
 you like war games and marine type games you should buy this game.
  
  
  Check out my profile so you can add me on Xbox live... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ultradude2345
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 2, 2008 4:55 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is the fourth entry in the famous Call of Duty franchise. It's also the first to 
 put the player in a modern setting. 
  
  Call of Duty 4 takes place in modern day at a time of crisis. Khaled Al-Asad an insurgent has successfully 
 staged a coup in the Middle East and is being supplied with nuclear weapons by Russian ultranationalist 
 Imran Zakhaev. Both villains are easy to hate with heir reflection on real world tyrants.
  
  As it did in the past, COD 4 is a FPS and you play the game through the eyes of several soldiers. 
 The core players though are a U. S Marine and an SAS Operative.
  
  From the marine point of view you are pitted in urban warfare in the Middle East against Al-Asad's 
 footsoldiers. The action is fast paced and hardcore and you get access to the deadliest of the 
 game's dozens of weapons. Missions as the marines include escorting a tank and providing air support 
 for a large ground assault. The marines are in the majority of the first third of the game with 
 the SAS hogging the rest.
  
  The SAS side is rather different from the marines. Instead of open warfare with dozens of good 
 guys and baddies, you are with a small group of commandos as they infiltrate rural Eastern Europe 
 to stop Zakhaev and later Al-Asad. The SAS is more stealth oriented but gives you access to more 
 gadgets like C4 and airstrikes.
  
  The campaign is solid but painfully short. Luckily it provides enough twists and turns to keep 
 you interested until the surprising end. The average player could beat the game in about 8 hours. 
 But with the very difficult veteran difficulty, players may want to keep coming back for achievements.
 
  
  Visually, COD 4 is photorealistic. Every possible detail has been nailed from sweat on faces to 
 the heat waves from gunfire. The frame rate is fluid and smooth with not a hiccup anywhere. HD 
 is a must.
  
  The sound is also brilliant. Voice acting is superb with marines barking orders to insurgents shouting 
 in Arabic. The guns also sound and feel real. The game is begging for 5.1 sound, especially during 
 the marine levels.
  
  
  Multiplayer is the crown jewel of Call of Duty 4 and rivals that of Halo. The 2 big factors in 
 multiplayer are perks and Create-A-Class. Create-A-Class is what you think it is. 
  
  You get to choose your gun, sidearm, grenade type, perks, attachments, camo finishes, and even 
 a name. It'll be really hard to find someone with the exact same class as you. There is also a 
 ranking system of 55 ranks. You get EXP by winning, killing, or doing objectives like capturing 
 territories or planting bombs. As you level up you will unlock new weapons and perks for use. You 
 can also level up a weapon to get attachments and camo finishes. After you get to 55 you can start 
 over again for a unique emblem next to your name. You can do this 9 times in total.
  
  Perks are special abilities that you can give your class. The perks are in 3 categories. You can 
 have 1 perk from each category
  
  Ammo & Accessories
  Effeciancy
  Elite
  
  A&A has perks that may give you C4, extra ammo, or an RPG.
  
  Effeciancy has perks that may 
 make you reload faster, do more damage, or give you more health.
  
  Elite has perks that may let you steady your aim longer, sprint longer, or drop a bomb when you 
 die.
  
  COD 4 has tons of maps based off of single player and currently has 3 maps available for download.
 
  
  
  With all this said, get Call of Duty 4 by all means. You will not regret it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arch_xEagle
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 1, 2008 11:16 am PT
Review:  This game will last you forever at least until the next one comes out. It is highly addictive once 
 you beat the campaign which isnt as short as Gamespot says it is you will start playing online 
 for hours on end. The difficulty is just right because at the begining of the game it suggests 
 which difficulty you should choose but you can just ignore it pick your own. Of course easy is 
 pretty easy but to beat it on veteran it will take you many many hours to complete and a few frustarating 
 times.
  
  The multiplayer is incredible fun though they have a very uniqe leveling up system where as you 
 get experience you unlock guns perks and the ability to make your own class where you can customize 
 your guns with camoflauges scopes which type of gernades you want and many other things. I metioned 
 that you unlock perks too and perks are little thing that give you bit of advantage in battle and 
 there are many to choose from just little things as double tap where your gun shoots faster or 
 extra gernades.
  
  Overall its the best shooter I have ever played and it is definitly a must buy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: serealon84
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 31, 2008 11:22 am PT
Review:  First, let me start by saying this: this game is the best game to ever hit the shelves. If you 
 haven't bought it already, go buy it now. I'll start off with the single player. It's too short. 
 The story was okay, but I would like the story to have been a little bit longer. Though it was 
 short, playing it on veteran difficulty makes it seem like it's one long ass game. I almost took 
 a sledge hammer to my xbox over some of the missions. I swear, it must have taken me well over 
 50 tries to beat the mission where you have to run off of the farm into the helicopter at the bottom. 
 I don't even want to begin with how hard the Mile High Club was on veteran. I gave up after about 
 200+ tries until I finally got it when some friends were over. Some missions, like Death From Above, 
 are fun as hell. This is the first game I've seen that you actually get to be in a gunship shooting 
 at people below w/ either a machine gun, a grenade launcher type gun, or a huge rocket launcher. 
 I can't even count how many times I've replayed that mission.
  Onto the multiplayer. I believe that the online multiplayer for Call of Duty 4 kicks Halo (or any 
 other game's for that matter) in the balls. It is so addictive. The ranking system makes you want 
 to just keep playing non-stop. The create a class system is cool, too. There are so many guns to 
 choose from, that it's hard to have a favorite. Another thing about the online are the perks. This 
 is the first time I've seen something like this. Perks are "bonuses" that you can put onto your 
 created class to give you some extra help. Whether it be making the gun stronger, shoot faster, 
 taking you off the radar, giving you extra grenades, giving you claymores of c4, and tons of other 
 things. Another cool thing are the kill streak bonuses. 3 kills in a row gets you a UAV, 5 in a 
 row gets you an air strike, and 7 in a row gets you a helicopter. The maps suit any type of player: 
 close quarters, snipers, mid-range, stealth, or people who like to blow the hell out of anything 
 that moves.
  All in all, Call of Duty 4 is a first-person-shooter lover's dream. It's definitely a game to get 
 and never put down.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: E1000_the_Gamer
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 31, 2008 7:49 am PT
Review:  This game is just amazing!!! there are so many things in this game that you can do!!! if you want 
 to do all of 'em, you will for sure spend over 100 hours, that's very serious!!! :O
  
  Starting by the single player feature. the story is very fun to play, the are many different difficulty 
 levels making it adaptable to everyone and the veteran difficulty will challenge you a lot! This 
 is also one of the weak point of the game: if you can't play in veteran difficulty, then... bye-bye 
 achievements!!! Yes, all achievements can only be unlocked in single player mode... this is not 
 something very very good... but if you don't f**king care about your gamer score then... you will 
 like this game! 
  
  The environments of the game are pretty well done and very cool to play in. there are 30 laptops 
 that are hidden all-around the levels and they are all needed for one of the achievements. Also, 
 there are many many many places where you can hide from the enemies!
  
  Now, let's talk about the multi player mode
  
  The multi player mode is perhaps the game's 
 best feature. you can play with up to 3 of your friends offline or with 15 online friends all having 
 their own game. there are also levels that can be achieved by killing other players or by completing 
 challenges. There are 6 challenges by weapons and there are over 20 weapons, meaning over 60 challenges 
 only for weapons! there are also many different game modes that you can play.
  
  Finally, this game has won over 40 awards at the E3 in 2007. this isn't for nothing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DodgeDuty
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 30, 2008 10:44 pm PT
Review:  Single Player:
  
  Like any COD game intense, cinematic, very linear.
  
  Graphics gorgeous. No obvious glitches.
  
  Multiplayer:
  The best in series, with all the 
 maps and game modes. If you are a hardcore shooting fan and just got the game, you will be pissed 
 that the hardcore levels without radar aren't unlocked. When you first start it you only get three 
 game modes with radar. Soon you get annoyed with the noobs who rely on radar to get kills. Sometimes 
 they will be right next to year but won't realize it until you shoot your gun which appears on 
 the enemies radar. After you get UAV jammer, silencer, or hardcore, this won't be a problem. 
 
  
  My second complaint is the pistol. In most shooting games you move faster with a pistol than a 
 sniper. Well here you move the same speed which is annoying when switching to the pistol, and when 
 you face a noob who looks down iron sites 2 feet away. Because you cannot shoot while running and 
 moving with a pistol is not fast enough. The other thing is the pistol can be shot so fast with 
 little recoil, that it seems impossible it would not break the guys hand off. 
  
  Perks are a great way to customize classes, but some are cheap like juggernate which gives players 
 more health. Its a good way to balance player skills, though they can piss off hardcore players. 
 
  There are other things that help noobs, but alas, if COD 4 was for the hardcore only, then not 
 as many people would play it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phxsns1
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 30, 2008 7:49 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is the first game in the call of duty series too be set in modern times, and for 
 Infinity Ward's first try, they did a great job. The campaign is a little on the short side, but 
 it is also very fun. You will play as a British SAS and a US Marine through the game trying to 
 take down a terrorist in the middle east and also ultranationalist Imran Zakhaev. You can probably 
 finish the campaign in around 5 to 8 hours. The multiplayer portion of the game is absolutely incredible. 
 The maps are all pretty nice and the game modes include free for all, team deathmatch, and search 
 and destroy. 
  
  Overall, Infinity Ward did an excellent job on their first try at a modern setting, and even though 
 the campaign was short, the great controls, gorgeous graphics, and addictive multiplayer make Call 
 of Duty 4 a one of the best shooters of 2007. Nearly 10 months after its release, it STILL stands 
 head and shoulders above the rest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Celor
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 30, 2008 7:57 pm PT
Review:  I wasn't sure what to expect from this when I put it into the tray. On one hand, I had enjoyed 
 CoD2 but I didn't find it to be anything mind-blowing. On the other hand, I had heard many great 
 things said about this game, so I was more than a little hyped to be able to finally play it. 
 
  
  Story:
  The story featured in this game is a bit mundane, but at least it ties all of the epic set pieces 
 together. Most of the time I was too busy marveling at the scope of the game, and getting lost 
 (in a good way!) in the gameworld to really pay much attention to the story. Most characters -- excluding 
 Captain/Lieutenant Price -- are of card-board quality in that you don't care what happens to them, 
 or really remember them after the game is over. Personally, I think this game would have benefited 
 from a better, more in-depth story, but the intensity of the game might have been bogged down from 
 that, so maybe it is best like it is. You decide.
  
  Gameplay:
  Gameplay wise this game is very good. The campaign is fun and immersive, but it is also very, very 
 linear. You basically just start at point A and progress to point B with little to no freedom except 
 the occasional alley, building, or extra room for you to explore. Luckily the campaign is cinematic 
 enough to keep you hooked in spite of the general lack of freedom, and shooting baddies has never 
 been quite this fun. I highly doubt that this game would have been as well received had it featured 
 the openness of S. T. A. L. K. E. R. because it is rather hard to keep a compelling narrative when the 
 player is granted as much freedom to go where you want to as S. T. A. L. K. E. R. featured. Luckily this 
 game features such large and epic set pieces that is doesn't need to be open-ended.
  
  The set pieces I mentioned in the last paragraph are the meat in this game. Said set pieces are 
 quite spectacular and feature everything from escorting a tank through a tightly packed alley in 
 the glaring, Mid-East sun while enemies shoot at you from all directions, to storming a hill and 
 clearing baddies out of ramshackle buildings in the dead of night somewhere in Eastern Euprope. 
 The mission "Operation Shock and Awe" is quite amazing, but I don't want to spoil it for you.
 
  
  Graphics:
  Yes, the graphics are as good as you have heard. Everything from the PC and NPC animations to the 
 gun modeling and texture work are perfect. I especially liked the iron-sights and scopes you could 
 put on your gun, and the way become the focal point of your vision is an especially nice effect. 
 The only qualm I have with the graphics are the textures a bit muddy when you get up close, but 
 I don't foresee any situation when the player will be observing the ground or buildings too closely. 
 It's a rare treat to play a game that runs at 60 FPS, especially when the game looks as good as 
 this one does, and it's quite hard to go back to playing games that run at 30 or below like most 
 games today do.
  
  Sound:
  The sounds of battle are crisp and clean. The gun sound like guns and explosions sound like explosions. 
 I don't recall any use of music throughout the game except in the menus, but I might have just 
 not noticed any.
  
  Achievements:
  Since this is an Xbox 360 games, the player will be able to gain achievements to add to their collection. 
 As of the time writing this I have 37 achievements out of the 37 that the player is able to gain. 
 I didn't find any of them to be too hard, except for a few levels on the Veteran dificulty and 
 the Mile High Club achievment.
  
  Multiplayer:
  Ah, multiplayer, the best part of this game. The multiplayer levels are open and well designed. 
 Most are distinctive and cater to all play styles (sniper, close quarters, gunner, etc) and each 
 level is distinctive, both in design and atmosphere. Multiplayer features a ranking system that 
 is similar to Halo 2 and 3, but it is allot easier to level up in this game than it was in those 
 two. You gain experience for winning games, completing objectives and challenges.
  
  The multiplayer has a feature called challenges. Challenges are optional to complete, but you'll 
 get experiance that will go towards advancing your rank for each one that you do complete. There 
 are two different kinds of challenges: level based and player based. Level based challenges include 
 killing a set number of players with C4, blowing up a certain amount of C4 set by someone else, 
 killing a certain amount of players with grenades, and there are quite a few more, and some are 
 just for fun like falling a certain amount of feet to your death, etc. The weapons based challenges 
 include killing a certain number of players and getting a certain number of headshots. The level 
 based challenges don't reward the player with anything other than a set number of experiance points 
 that go towards the player's rank. However, the weapon based challenges reward the player with 
 both experiance and a weapon modifciation. Each weapon in the game (excluding pistols) has its 
 own set of challenges. For completing a challenge with a specific gun, the player is rewarded with 
 a new addon for his gun (a new color, a new sight, a new grip, etc) .
  
  The developers added an incentive to level in the form of rewards. For every fews ranks that you 
 go up, you'll get a new weapon, perk, and new challenges. I thought it was a rather ingenious thing 
 to do because it adds a bit of an RPG element to the game. How many times have you played an RPG 
 and thought to yourself, "just one more level so I can get that new skill"?
  
  The perks that I mentioned before are what really make this game stand out from the rest of the 
 pack. The perks allow the player to model their character in any way they se fit. Want to make 
 a sniper? Use whatever perks you think best (My personal favorites are Stopping Power, Claymores, 
 and Iron Lungs) . The perks allow an almost RPG level of customization that I have yet to see in 
 a shooter since.
  
  Summary:
  A great game that's definitely worth a purchase. Both the single-player and the multiplayer are 
 fantastic -- especially the multiplayer. The game features both great gameplay and great graphics. 
 Easily the best game in the series! Highly recommended! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigd575
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 27, 2009 3:25 pm PT
Review:  A new Call of Duty game that is not in the World War II era exactly what a lot of people have been 
 wanting. I was waiting for it to come out and I was excited because I wanted to see how good the 
 game was going to be. And well I'm surprised a lot and by how good the game actually turned out.
 
  
  Modern Warfare is well developed and nothing really wrong with it. It's got great graphics in it 
 and playing through the single campaign is great and a lot of fun also. Although the single campaign 
 is also to short and I wished it would have been a lot longer than it was. But even more than that 
 is the multiplayer it has which makes for ten times more fun. CoD4 has a lot of replay value in 
 it and when your tired playing single campaign just go to multiplayer and you be playing it for 
 ever because it's so much greater.
  
  I highly recommend Call of Duty 4 to any war fan or any FPS fan out there that has a Xbox 360, 
 PS3, or PC. You will be amazed by some of the stuff that happens when your playing the game. So 
 I give Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare a 9.0 out of 10.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: uhateit
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 30, 2008 10:31 am PT
Review:  There was absolutely nothing wrong with this game in any way. The game was very very well developed, 
 the storyline was great and the graphics are amazing.
  
  I enjoyed playing this single player game all the way to the end. The shooting sequences were well 
 thought out and the level development was perfect.
  
  I thought the level Death from Above was very fun, flying in the plane and dropping bombs on the 
 bad guys was very unique and a cool experience. There was so much to offer with this game and everything 
 was well made by the developers.
  
  I would recomment this to anyone who wants to play a very good war type game with a lot of action. 
 I have never played any of the Call of Duty games before and this was pretty much my first "war 
 style" game and I had no idea it would be this fun to play!
  
  Fighting off those pesky terrorists was a neat experience and I could see why games like this would 
 make someone want to join the military to fight. Although I would never join the military this 
 would be a cool experience to do in real life.
  
  I gave this a perfect 10, the first 10 I have ever given. This is for great storyline, graphics, 
 gameplay, level development, and it kept my interest throughout the entire thing. Never was a dull 
 moment while playing this. The game is perfect in everyway! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingTheodon
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 30, 2008 5:28 am PT
Review:  Story: The story is great, it'll keep you occupied for some time if you're playing hardened or 
 Veteran. Or if you're not so good at FPS's, then there is always an easier mode to suit you, and 
 make the gameplay just as enjoyable. And if you've tried blasting your way through it on normal, 
 Give a shot at Hardened or Veteran, it's wayy more challenging and will catch your attention for 
 at least 10 hours.
  
  Graphics: The graphics were great, the explosion effects all seemed pretty real, and when in iron 
 sights, the scopes were all very realistic. The guns were all very detailed and realistic. 
  
  Multiplayer: Multiplayer was brilliant, the rank system was really cool especially with prestige 
 mode, with the prestige mode it made alot of players cling on to the multiplayer for ages, because 
 they want to rank up. I have played more than 50 hours online.
  The bad thing about Multiplayer is that there are alot of jerks online who rant and quit early, 
 and criticise you, otherwise the gameplay is perfect.
  
  Gameplay: The story was great and so is Online play, and it has lots of challenging and fun achievements 
 for you to accomplish, this will also hook you onto the game for several more hours.
  
  Overall: Overall I'd say this game was amazing, and really deserved Game of the Year, Call of duty 
 4 will cling on to you and won't let go for several weeks or months!
  
  This game is DEFINITELY worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UUUMMM184
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 30, 2008 2:08 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: An excellent shooter that is as intense an experience as you can find in gaming. The 
 multiplayer is also top-notch.
  
  Graphics: From top to bottom, one of the best-looking console games around.
  
  Sound: The explosions 
 will shake you; the constant sounds of gunfire will put you on edge. The end song is an added bonus 
 and properly immortalizes the unfortunate phrase, "Go deep and hard."
  
  Value: The single-player experience is brief, but there are many other things that will hold your 
 attention once the campaign is complete.
  
  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is a fantastic game. The single-player experience is easily Infinity 
 Ward's best work to date. Calling it intense may be an understatement. The overall story is standard 
 action movie fare, but the relationships built over the short five hours of play are surprisingly 
 strong. Though the single-player lacks length, the multiplayer should keep you invested in COD 
 4 for the long winter. This is a truly fantastic multiplayer offering that's as deep as any other 
 online game available.
  
  Infinity Ward has done it again. Call of Duty 4 is a 
  winner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: batmanboy11
Rating: 9.9
Date: Aug 29, 2008 6:54 pm PT
Review:  Let's start with the campaign. Although it's only six hours long the quality is amazing. This sequal 
 adds the ability to sprint which helps escape a certain death in some situations. The squad and 
 enemy AI is improved considerably. No longer will the AI run out and expect you to kill everyone 
 they will actually help. Once you finish initially (You'll want to play on Vetern sooner or later) 
 there is multiplayer. With tons of game modes sixteen maps (plus four downloadable) 550 ranks and 
 over twenty weapons you'll be occupied for ever. Two great additions is the experience point system 
 and perks. The former is how you rank up. You earn experience by getting kills, completing challenges 
 etc. The latter are things that give you an extra advantage in battle. these range from three frags 
 to extra damage. 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 
 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 
 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GoldenSilence87
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 29, 2008 11:46 am PT
Review:  First things first: I'm not a FPS guy. Sure, I played the early versions of the Battlefield series 
 back in the day and had a brief fling with Halo but I'm not someone who loves the gritty, realistic 
 world of military shooters. 
  
  Call of Duty 4, singelhandedly, changed me. I bought the game practically on a whim, from an offhand 
 suggestion from a college friend. That was in late April. It's the only 360 game I've really bothered 
 to play since. 
  
  Modern Warfare is a remarkably polished game. While many have citicized it's lack of longetivity 
 in singleplayer, the game delivers in substance, style, and fun. The story is refreshingly three-dimensonal. 
 You'll enter into the shoes as Marine Paul Jackson and SAS operative 'Soap' and battle the combined 
 forces of a Middle Eastern dictatorship and Russian ultranationalists. 
  
  The game spawns two continents and each level is gorgeously detalied and varied. You'll sweep a 
 cargo ship at night, rescue a tank from a swamp, and chase a fugitive in a ambush laden city. While 
 each level is fun, they are nothing compared to the majesty of 'One Shot One Kill.' This should 
 be the future benchmark for ALL future first person shooters. There are two scenes in that level 
 that hade me wondering if I was playing a game after all: One, when you crawl through a field and 
 dodge between APC's and dozens of infantry without firing a shot. Two, when you attempt an assissnation. 
 I wont delve into the details but both left me with my jaw slack and my knees twitching. Bottom 
 line, they are simply the epitome of mission design. 
  
  As is, the game cleverly alternates between stealth and raging gunfights, introduces a goose-bump 
 inducing score, and almost chillingly recreates real weapons and equipment. In fact, the M16A4 
 and the M4 Carbine looked just like they're true to life counterparts and the pistols look as if 
 they'd just been used. 
  
  The gameplay remains standard, as the shooter genre has for years. You use the left stick to look, 
 the right stick to aim your gun. The left and right triggers are used to sight a weapon and to 
 fire. Y switches between your primary and secondary game while the right and left bumpers are used 
 to throw 'special' (ie stun, smoke or flash) and frag gernades. A is to jump, X reloads, and clicking 
 the right stick produces your knife. 
  
  The graphics are, simply, phenomnal. The cities of the Middle East and the mountains or Russia 
 look superb and the game, twice, puts you into a first person 'cinema' mode where you can see the 
 breathtaking graphics first hand without having to dodge gunfire. The weapons look awsome, as well, 
 and muzzle flashes are blindingly bright. The character models are almost ridcuously modeled, as 
 you can see individual shell casings hit the floor, and the 'heat wave' effect from a firing gun. 
 They are breath taking. 
  
  Of course, some have said that Call of Duty is really two games in one: single player and the multiplayer 
 variety. The multiplayer is fantastic. It's addicting, scales well, and has plenty of varied maps. 
 I've wasted approximately seven, yes SEVEN, days blasting various fools and I havent been bored 
 once. 
  
  All said, Call of Duty is a fun, turbo charged shooter. It's worth the $60. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jwgamer119
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 28, 2008 2:58 pm PT
Review:  It took awhile, but Infinity Ward finally got the message that World War II is played out. With 
 modern times and international affairs becoming more and more, shall we say, interesting in recent 
 years, the 1940s just don't carry as much weight as they used to. Perhaps that's why Call of Duty 
 4 has a new subtitle, Modern Warfare. By bringing things into a fictionalized story that still 
 seems fairly plausible, the developer has made a much heavier game. But COD 4 is more than just 
 an updated setting. It's also an amazing multiplayer first-person shooter and a great but brief 
 single-player campaign with the visual chops to make it a standout shooter in an era filled with 
 seemingly dozens of standout shooters. 
  
  The only real catch is that the single-player is almost shockingly short. If you've been keeping 
 up with this style of game, you'll probably shoot your way to the credits in under five hours. 
 While you can raise the difficulty to give yourself more of a challenge, the main thing this does 
 is make the enemies frustratingly deadly, which sort of detracts from the fun. 
  
  While it may have a lack of single-player quantity, it makes up for most of it with its quality. 
 The game tells its story from multiple perspectives, and you'll play as a new British SAS operative 
 as well as a US Marine. The campaign takes you from a rainy night out at sea on a boat that's in 
 the process of sinking to a missile silo where it's on you to save millions from an unsavory nuclear-powered 
 death. Along the way, there are plenty of jaw-dropping moments where you'll look around the room 
 for someone to whom you can say, "I can't believe that just happened." In a world filled with war 
 games in which the good guys come out unscathed and the world is left at total peace, Call of Duty 
 4 will wake you up like a face full of ice water. 
  
  The action in the campaign is usually very straightforward. You have a compass at the bottom of 
 your screen, and the direction of your current objective is very plainly marked. But getting from 
 point A to point B is never as simple as running in a straight line, as you'll be conducting full-scale 
 assaults in Middle Eastern countries by moving from house to house, taking out what seems like 
 a never-ending stream of enemy troops along the way. You'll also get an opportunity to raid Russian 
 farmhouses in search of terrorist leaders, disguise yourself as the enemy, and, in one sequence, 
 don a brushlike ghillie suit and crawl through the brush as enemy troops and tanks roll right past 
 you. It's a breathtaking moment in a campaign filled with breathtaking moments. Unfortunately, 
 it's about half as long as the average shooter, and there are plenty of sequences where you wish 
 there were just one or two more hills to take. 
  
  Of course, if you're looking for longevity, that's where the multiplayer comes in. Up to 18 players 
 can get online and get into a match on one of 16 different maps. Many of the levels are taken from 
 portions of the single-player and they offer a healthy mix of wide-open, sniper-friendly areas 
 and tight, almost cramped spaces where grenades and shotguns are the order of the day. There are 
 six game modes to choose from. The old standby is team deathmatch, though you can also play in 
 a free-for-all deathmatch, which isn't as much fun as the team modes. The other modes are more 
 objective-oriented, and a couple of those have you lugging bombs across the map to blow up enemy 
 equipment, or preventing the enemy from blowing up your base. Others have you capturing control 
 points. Lastly, you can change up the game rules a bit with a hardcore setting that makes weapons 
 more realistically damaging or an old-school mode that puts weapons on the ground as pickups and 
 generally moves away from the simulation side of things. 
  
  In addition to just firing your weapon or tossing grenades, you earn some more interesting tactical 
 moves for skilled play. If you can shoot three opponents without dying, you're able to call in 
 a UAV drone, which basically is an upgraded radar that makes enemy positions show up on your onscreen 
 map for 30 seconds at any time. Normally, enemies blip up onto the map only if they fire their 
 weapon to make their location known. If you can go on a five-kill streak, you can call in an air 
 strike, which brings up a shot of the entire level map and lets you place the air strike wherever 
 you like. When combined with a UAV sweep, this can be really devastating. If you can make it all 
 the way to seven kills -- which is actually easier than it sounds -- you can call in a helicopter for 
 support. It'll buzz around the map and automatically open fire on enemies, though enemies can shoot 
 it down, too. These additions to the normal first-person shooter gameplay really open up the game 
 a lot and make it superexciting to play. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hermitkermit
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 28, 2008 11:07 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: I never thought that a WW2 Shooter would do so great in modern era. 
  
  COD4 is a great and fine-tuned game, the single player will keep you on your toes through out most 
 of the game, and it is just a blast to play! I hope that the next COD5 will be like this, but It's 
 not. (But anywho, That's not part of the review) The game is very fast and furious from the abandon 
 buildings in Russia to the hot and sandy plains of Iraq. The game also has a tight and smooth storyline, 
 so go on buy , rent, or borrow a copy.
  
  GRaphics: To me it seemed not all that fancy, the enemies die in a pre-death state, no ragdoll 
 physic much. The Explosion look gorgeous however. The guns and overall effects is amazing well 
 done. 
  
  Sound: Voice acting is superb and the sounds of enemies and tanks rolling nearby is top-notch.
 
  
  Replay Value- The multiplayer is by far the most fine-tuned I have ever played, the action is fast 
 and deep. You can customized your weapons and kits. Along with perks, like drop a live grenade 
 onto the floor as you die? Great depth and sure to keep you playing for a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slash-lou-tom
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 28, 2008 1:09 am PT
Review:  as i was saying this is the best war game i have ever played and im a herdcore gamer the online 
 for the xbox 360 is insane but the lag is terrible with no other cod has been lag the option to 
 custamize guns is great the online games i think there should be more hardcore games not just team 
 deathmatch and seach and destroy i think there should be a hardcore team tactical and head quaters 
 as i was saying this is the best war game i have ever played and im a herdcore gamer the online 
 for the xbox 360 is insane but the lag is terrible with no other cod has been lag the option to 
 custamize guns is great the online games i think there should be more hardcore games not just team 
 deathmatch and seach and destroy i think there should be a hardcore team tactical and head quaters 
 if you agree with me let me know my gamertag is toxicbut 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrThunderHD
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 27, 2008 7:47 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is a departure from the series norm in terms of setting, but it 
 succeeds in bringing an excellent FPS to the modern era.
  
  COD4 like all previous COD games is a FPS that follows a few select soldiers through battles in 
 an ongoing war. Unlike all the other games it brings this war to the current time, leaving Hitler 
 and his Nazi regime in history. The campaign follows different soldiers through a fictional middle 
 eastern conflict. The single player of the game is solid with many different difficulty levels 
 for increased replay value. However, where COD4 shines is in its engrossing multiplayer. It has 
 a multitude of modes ranging from the standard team deathmatch, to free-for-all, or even old school 
 (no H. U. D.) COD4 has a variety of maps which allow for small enclosed buildings and expansive courtyards. 
 It has a large array of weaponry and perks for all play styles, from SMG's and Shotguns to Sniper 
 Rifles and Claymores. The last point to accentuate about the multiplayer is the ranking system. 
 This along with the finely tuned gameplay is what keeps players online. The more kills/wins/assists 
 you get in a game earn your points/xp which increase your rank. Once you reach the top of the ranks, 
 thereby unlocking all the available weapons and perks you are given a choice. You can either stay 
 at your current rank and enjoy your newly unlocked items or prestige. Prestige is the hubris of 
 COD4. Prestiging will change your rank icon and demote you to level one again locking all the weapons 
 and perks not available at the start. The prestige icons serves the sole purpose of showing other 
 players that do not have your icon how much better you are then them.
  
  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is a breath of fresh air in a great series of first person shooters. 
 Its tight controls, nice graphics and option filled multiplayer, make it a tough game to put down. 
 At almost a year after being released and a sack full of awards later, it is still one of the best 
 multiplayer experiences available. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonzilla_basic
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 27, 2008 6:17 am PT
Review:  
  
  WOW.... Nothing more that i can say
  
  
  ~ Graphics ~
  
  The Graphics are insane. So life like and real. There is no problems with the graphics. The surroundings 
 are beautifully created. The character models are very strong. 
  
  
  ~ Sound ~
  
  The sound is out standing. From people yelling at you to explosions to the vehicles driving, the 
 sounds is great. There is not too much that has been missed with sound or that i can think of.
 
  
  
  ~ Gameplay ~
  
  
  The gameplay is great in this game. Some of the boards are difficult and some of them are easy. 
 The storey line is solid and the change from WW2 to a modern day warfare is amazing. The online 
 play is perfect. Its so much and it offers so much replay value. 
  
  ~ Overall ~ 
  
  
  This game is amazing. I have played all of the Call of duty games and COD4 is way better than 
 COD2. GET THIS GAME NOW!!!! If you dont have XBOX Live get it . Online this game is fantastic. 
 
  
  Thank you
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: inyaface45
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 26, 2008 10:52 pm PT
Review:  Out of all the games I have played on the Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3 so far nothing compares to 
 the multiplayer and story of this game. I have spent over 18 day of total playing time online and 
 I am still addicted to this day. I have not found a game yet that can keep me excited like playing 
 Search and Destroy and being the Last Man Standing. I can also say that I have not found a single 
 flaw in this game yet. The graphics are perfect the levels are challenging and the story keeps 
 you on the edge of your seat and kicks you off of it all at the same time. I never really liked 
 the Call Of Duty series till now and I must say that Call of Duty 4 has came a long way from its 
 predecessors Call Of Duty, Call Of Duty 2, and Call Of Duty 3. That is why I feel that Call Of 
 Duty 4 game is the greatest game of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enzo2606
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 26, 2008 9:31 pm PT
Review:  I finished this game twice. The first time on my PS3 and next in my Xbox 360 in Veteran level...
 
  
  I almost gave up playing it in Veteran... after finishing the game I couldn't complete the last 
 mission in the plane.
  
  I really enjoy this game. One of the best shooter I ever played.
  
  I made a community of friend 
 when I play online. At work, everybody who has PS3, also has CO4, so that, there was a time where 
 we played this game every day.
  
  Now, we are waiting the release of War at world 
  
  I tried to convince my friends on playing MGS4 but they started to play it and they didn't like 
 it.... It's a shame.... They are losing to play the greatest game ever.... All this because they 
 compare the intensive what COD4 is with MGS4, which you have to sneaking most of the time in the 
 first act, looking as it was boring...
  
  If you like shooter game type.... COD4 is the way to go...
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: marioisbored
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 22, 2008 10:41 pm PT
Review:  As the title say it is the best shooter I have ever played due to several reasons. The first reason 
 is its balanced gameplay, there is not one class that is greater than all of the others. For example, 
 as a sniper, you are usually prone to attacks from behind you and at a close range, but you are 
 able to take out many people from a distance. When you use a shotgun, you are prone to attacks 
 from far away and medium range. As a submachine gun user, you will be able to take one things close 
 to medium range, and a machine gunner you are able to take apart helicopters and people from medium 
 to long range. Another great aspect of the game is its campaign storyline, which is truly amazing. 
 The game's storyline takes place in a near future where a new war has erupted and you are one of 
 the new soldiers that will make a huge difference in it. The gameplay brings up a variety of things 
 makes this game fun at all times, and not becoming too bland. For example, there is one point where 
 you have to check the wind speed and pressure in order to do a snipe, and another point where you 
 are in a vehicle killing off people. The only thing missing in this campaign mode however, is the 
 ability to play co-op, which is available in a number of games now.
  
  The main thing that attracts attention into this game however is its online gameplay, which is 
 amazing. This is what truly makes it the greatest shooter out. It contains many gameplay modes 
 for people who like to differentiate gameplay and has a variety of character types to choose from. 
 Another thing that is fantastic about the game is the perks, which is what ultimately makes this 
 game what it is. Perks give you the ability to change a character to what you want it to be and 
 gives you complete control over your experience. This game is definitely a must buy but the one 
 thing that is missing from thins amazing game is its lack of co-op and guests. Which could have 
 easily made this game even greater than what it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Overlord93
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 22, 2008 3:37 pm PT
Review:  Forget game of the year, this is game of the century,
  yes, i did steal that off halo 3, but there is no way to describe this other than divine, if god 
 made a game, this would be it, 9.0 is an insult to this piece of technological mastery, gta is 
 dirt compared to this, the multiplayer options are endless, as is the enjoyment you get from it, 
 IW have not let us down, with new map packs, and constant updates, and thats just the multiplayer.
 
  It is rare that there is as detail found in the single, and multiplayer of a game, but for this, 
 thats certainly true, anybody who says this game is rubbish, is a noob, not a gamer, and without 
 any knowledge or skill in fps games.
  To sum it up, the storyline is beutiful, the singleplayer is cinematic, and multiplayer : DIVINE
 
  EVERYBODY SHOULD HAVE THIS GAME
  I just cant believe gamespot gave GTA a higher score, this is gaming at its best! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: satanwershipsme
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 22, 2008 10:48 am PT
Review:  This game really got my gaming hooked on war games. It also gave me a new look on what the Iraq 
 war is really like. The online game play is off the hook! You get perks to customize the way you 
 want to play (last stand, longer sprinting, 3x special grenades, etc.) The game is great I can not 
 wait until the Call of Duty: World at War!! Now that game should be just as amazing as the last 
 one. But if you have not gotten Call of Duty 4 you have to go out and get it before it is to late. 
 if I ran up and tried to kill you, it might be the best idea to just knife them. another unique 
 thing about Call of Duty 4 is that say that you threw 1 grenade and killed 3 of your friends with 
 that one grenade you will get a challenged complete sign will pop up on your screen. You will get 
 to go up levels up to level 55 and then you get to go to star over with a new icon next to your 
 level telling people that you are a higher level than them so don't mess with you because they 
 just might get a knife, mini uzi, or even a light machine gun that will kill them in a snap of 
 a finger. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Green3362
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 21, 2008 6:51 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty for has a new look on the game this time a round. The present time is a good change 
 in my book but sometimes i miss all the old guns from the first ones. 
  
  The SP is well written and has you jumping back from one squad to another as any other Call of 
 Duty game threw out the story. The difficulty is reasonable if you're not tring to get every achievement. 
 The MP is the best online FPS there is hands down. The custom weapons you can have all the way 
 to the perks you pick the only thing thats bad is a bad team or a 5 year old british kid thinking 
 hes the best thing since sliced bread telling you what to do and ends up with a kill to death like 
 7 to 23. Everything for this game is just an all around good. I would of liked to see some online 
 based achievements too tho. The only reason i dont give it a ten is because of some glitch spots 
 in the maps that people just spam in and rack up the kills. other then that this is the best game 
 for online mayhem. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Najohn
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 21, 2008 12:49 pm PT
Review:  I have never in my entire life played such a well rounded shooter game that I play everyday, next 
 to Syphon Filter. 
  
  Campaign mode was a good introduction to prepare players for online play. I started at the lowest, 
 easiest, campaign level and beat it within 2 days of gameplay. Got bored, SO Veteran I skipped 
 off too, which was a way better challenge. It gave players the feel of how it would feel like to 
 hold a Night Vision Laser, Silcened, Red Dot, M4 Carbine in your hand and spray and reek havoc 
 all over the map. The detail Infinity Ward took to the map details made even GTA IV look like rubish.
 
  
  Live play was like Campaign on Veteran except with more gun selection and, way more challenges. 
 I have loved every moment of COD 4 live play since I started, except for the drawback the Microsoft 
 workers do nothing when a complaint regarding a turbo controller, lag switch, or modifying of the 
 game or 360 goes left un resolved. Other then that, everything is like waking up every morning 
 and owning everyone with my Gold AK 47.
  
  What can I say, great game, great graphics, great live play (except Microsoft's lack of complaint 
 resolution) , and jaw dropping updates (some to come Silencers on Snipers, and 2 attachments on 
 1 gun :o) and Live downloads (Variety Packs) . Enjoy your gameplay 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jajdr
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 21, 2008 12:09 pm PT
Review:  this is the most realistic game I have ever played in my life. its so good that its more realistic 
 than the one that the us army made (america's army) .
  
  I knew it was awesome right there in the beginning where you're in the training grounds. the story 
 was really awesome too because you play as 3 different guys, die from a nuclear explosion, g back 
 in time (flashback) , and make the best ending to the game of the year with the third.
  
  in multiplayer i like the special abilities you can have (last stand, mtrydom) and i like how you 
 can get to call in heli strikes by killing 7 in a row.
  
  it still feels like the call of duty we used to know, but with more and better weapons, its in 
 the modern day setting, and has multiplayer which is as good as halo's. or even better. depends 
 on the person playing it. 
  
  this game is awesome. get it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alz619
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 20, 2008 9:37 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 was a great game boasting infinty wards latest efforts.
  The game its self lacks length. It has a great storyline, but few missions to play.
  Online is 
 another story. COD4 is probably the best online shooter to this day. The game has excellent graphics 
 and gameplay whilst online. the only problem is 'n00b tubing' where your oponent will over use 
 their grenade launcher attached to their gun. this gets annoying especially in hardcore games. 
 The invents new ways in which you can kill the enemy. you can shoot, grenade, plant claymores and 
 c4, call air strikes, call chopper support, knife and more. 
  Offline play is short but compelling. It also isn't a hard task to in excess of 900+ gamerscore 
 on the xbox360 version, as all the achievements are for offline play.
  (most can be achieved by playing through the game on veteran difficulty) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: awalt27
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 20, 2008 2:25 pm PT
Review:  I don't know where to begin with this game. In my opinion its off the charts. I'd say its even 
 better than Halo 3, and here's why.
  
  The is one of the most intense games I have ever played. Whether its the screaming or the explosions 
 going off all around you. With its superb graphics you'll feel like your really there.
  
  But one of the key components of this game were the bad guys. Most of the time you only kill them 
 because your radar/pointer is flashing red. But in this game they add more to that. You don't kill 
 them because you have to, you kill them because you want to. There are moments in this game when 
 you just wanna call them "dirty bastards". Once you get to see who your fighting you really grow 
 to hate them and that makes shooting them 10x more fun.
  
  I hope you enjoy this game as much as I did, and if you've never played this game its a must have. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grethora5
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 20, 2008 2:13 pm PT
Review:  This game is incredible, it has a very, very good campaign that is very emotional for a FPS. The 
 modern setting is much more deep than the dried out WWII setting, which is refreshing. The entire 
 deal with nukes and president assassinations makes you think if the world will really become like 
 this. The gameplay is fairly straightforward, shoot at what moves and pray to see another level, 
 but Call of Duty pulls it off phenomenally, the HUD is very simple but detailed in telling you 
 everything that is going on. The entire game is great until you get to try multiplayer, then it 
 is @#%$in' incredible. The detailed leveling system you would find in an RPG is very easy to use 
 and creating classes is a ton of fun. There is something about the online atmosphere that always 
 sucks me in unlike any other game. Halo, pff. Gear of War, lame. But Call of Duty 4 is always fresh 
 and fun. Whether you are trying to reach 10th prestige or messing around with your friends on a 
 private match, I highly recommend this game to EVERYONE! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tbmiller1
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 20, 2008 4:57 am PT
Review:  Starting with the campaign to the online perks, in-game lobby chats this game has it all. It is 
 simply the best game overall I have ever played. I have been playing online now for 9 months and 
 still going strong. I have made over 100 friends online just from this game alone. I can't put 
 it down. I started a clan which now has 54 members. I am ranked 700th in the world for online wins 
 and 4900th in the world for score. There is almost never any lag and the veteran mode on campaign 
 will test even the best players. I simply cannot say enough about this game. I cannot wait to see 
 what Infinity Ward brings with Call of Duty five. I am hoping that they find a way to make it so 
 that team killing can be stopped or at least a way to punish those that do it. It is something 
 that brings the game down. I would recommend to anyone who plays online to make sure they have 
 a full party so they can be sure not to get a team killer.
  
  Dragon Smack 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmiisha_796
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 19, 2008 2:48 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is a game you might think to yourself when you see it on a store shelf:"Well definitely 
 seen 3 games likes this one in the past with Call of Duty 1,2 and 3." But you are wrong. This game 
 features no Germans at all. And with all the weapons you will get, you will definitely feel that 
 this is not the World War anymore. This time the game focuses on the more pressing enemy at this 
 day and age, the Middle-Easteners.
  
  1) Pros:
  Where do I begin? Well first-things-first, this game looks like a true next-generation game. Its 
 absolutely beautiful, from the weapons to the enemy characters to the landscapes. This game looks 
 stunning and its enough just to stare at it until your PC/console overheats. Then there is that 
 nice variation of gameplay, with the running out of a sinking ship and all. That part didn't feel 
 awkward at all and infact it was another stunning example of the game's great graphics. Its not 
 just graphics though, the voice acting is also really believeable and it just adds very nicely 
 to the whole game experience. Its not just variation in gameplay though, there are the variation 
 in missions. There is a whole act/chapter of recapping what Capt. Price did when he had just started 
 with the army. This variation of missions also make this game a definite, 'MUST BUY'. The multiplayer 
 is another one of this games many strengths. In this enjoyable part of the game, you will unlock 
 some special stuff as you progress through the many levels in the multipalyer mode. These levels 
 are from level 1 all the way up to level 24 (thats as far as i've been) . After a few levels you 
 will gain a higher and better military rank aswell. Like from Corporal you'll move to Seargent 
 and so-on-so-forth.
  
  2) Cons:
  Well there aren't any. This game is preety much awesome the whole way through. But there is the 
 case of the Bckground Music. It does not seem to ever change from the usual track. But then-again, 
 FPS's are not known for having a variation of music/tracks. And there is that little bit of non-sensibility 
 to the game,'Its been almost 70 years after the World War but Capt. Price is still around? And 
 without even a single grey hair on his face or on his head.
  
  3) The round up:
  A few simple words, 'GET THIS GAME. THERE ARE NO TWO WAYS ABOUT IT' 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Josh_3691
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 18, 2008 4:53 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is the fourth instalment in the WW2 German slaughter-a-thon that had built up a 
 solid reputation before Treyarch did their very best to ruin that reputation with the average Call 
 of Duty 3. Thankfully Infinity Ward are back and apparently Gerry has taking enough of a beating, 
 so it's the turn of the Arabs and Russians.
  
  The story is a welcome change, if a tad predictable, it turns out an unnamed Middle Eastern country 
 (COUGH Iraq COUGH) has assassinated it's leader and the terrorist group responsible have taken 
 control. Of course their first action is to try and get hold of nuclear missiles and blow up the 
 West. Some Russians are more than eager to oblige and it's your job to stop them. So your introduced 
 to the British SAS recruit your controlling called 'Soap' MacTavish, I assume he got that nickname 
 from his antics in the shower with the other recruits, and your off to save the world.
  
  Strangely enough I actually found myself liking these characters, from the sarcastic comments from 
 Gaz, the wily old veteran Captain Price and the stereotypical black character Sergeant Griggs. 
 Some of the story moments are genuinely touching mainly the moment you take the final few steps 
 as a dying soldier, and after all the work you put into keeping him alive you feel genuine sorrow 
 during his final moments. Overall the story is great and will keep you interested from start to 
 finish.
  
  The gameplay is great as well, on the surface it's a standard FPS but there is an amount of hidden 
 depth to it. You will find your preferred weapons, ways of utilizing Flash Bangs and Grenades, 
 also you have to make the decision to gun your way through or take it more stealthy moving from 
 cover to cover. Your team mates AI is relatively good as well taking down their fair share of enemies 
 and finding good cover. Unfortunately they do have a habit of getting your way and believe me when 
 I tell you nothing is more infuriating then getting to the end of a level on Veteran difficulty 
 only to have a team mate get in the way of your bullets. Obviously the enemy AI has perfect accuracy 
 from miles away but they flank and grenade you cleverly which is a good bit of development. The 
 single player mode is quite short, I managed to finish it in 12 hours on Veteran difficulty, but 
 it never gets boring as Infinity Ward really made it varied with you infiltrating a base one minute 
 to going all stealthy in a ghilly suit in Chernobyl the next. Although I expect on a lower difficulty 
 it would only take you about 7-8 hours to complete.
  
  The game is extremely good looking with great lighting effects, detailed environments and character 
 animations which come together to make it one of the pretty games on the console. The sound is 
 top notch as well with the music accompanying the action on screen well and the voice acting is 
 superb as well, if a little corny.
  
  Right on to the big seller of the game and that's its multiplayer mode, now there is no denying 
 that the online multiplayer is great there are tons of different maps to play on, lots of different 
 modes and a great feature where you level up your rank as you keep playing and getting kills, this 
 provides a great reason to keep playing and makes up for the short single player mode. This game 
 is one of the most popular games on Xbox Live and unfortunately that means that are plenty of 12 
 years just waiting to call you a newb, saying how you 'phail at life' and waiting at spawn sites 
 with a sniper rifle. Still these people can't be helped and shouldn't detract you from a well put 
 together multiplayer mode.
  
  There isn't much to do after you finish the game there is an arcade mode with an online leader 
 boards to try and get on (although lets be honest you'll never beat the obsessed freak from Austria 
 who's memorised every enemy placement) , there is a cheat mode where you can. well you know cheat 
 and of course for all you achievement whores you can earn lots of points if you play through on 
 veteran difficulty. 
  
  So that's Call of Duty 4 by far one of the best shooters on the console, with a better multiplayer 
 mode than Halo 3 and great story to play through. What more could you possibly want?
  
  What you want Treyarch to develop Call of Duty 5 and send us back to WW2. No chance mate Activision 
 wouldn't be that stupid. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JimTimmons
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 18, 2008 3:36 pm PT
Review:  Once you start playing the one-player campaign, good luck putting it down. As far as FPS go, this 
 is the cream of the crop for me. The last one I really got into like this, besides Bioshock, was 
 Return to Castle Wolfenstein. The action is really fast - hectic and chaotic are good adjectives. 
 There were some tweaks to the controls and weapon technology that really made the difference between 
 this installment of Call of Duty, and the previous ones. To be fair, I didn't spend a lot of time 
 with its predecessors, but it didn't take me too long to get good and engrossed in this one.
  
  My only complaint - and it's not really a complaint because I'm not a huge online/multiplayer 
 gamer - is that the campaign is REALLY short. Obviously this series is aimed at and designed for 
 online gamers. I have spent some time playing it online and it does a great job of transferring 
 the action I loved so much in the campaign to the multiplayer platform. It's a lot of fun, for 
 an online/multiplayer game, if that's your thing.
  
  The controls, the action, and the visuals make this game completely worthy of its Game of the Year 
 award. The campaign is short but if you're more into multiplayer gaming that I am, it's a must-have 
 for your collection. Even if you're not you should own this one. It really is a great game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Craaazy1
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 18, 2008 2:49 pm PT
Review:  When i played this game in single-player for the first time i felt like there was a lot of anticipation, 
 
  which, in my opinion is a good thing. I was always wanting to find out what happens on the other 
 side next. It also isn't far-fetched unlike alot of other games (rainbow six vegas, first level, 
 being in an explotion and being burried alive in rubble but coming out without ingury?) . On a more 
 in-depth note, the gameplay is suprisingly great. With awesome story lines, graphics, and sound 
 effects it supprises me that they could also do a great job on the gameplay. It also is'nt a game 
 that plays itsself. Not super-interactive with the weapons but thats shadowed by the great things.
 
  
  
  With the online part i thought it was like a 9.8 out of 10. it has a great frame-rate for online 
 play. It also is great for beginers so they don't jump in and be overwelmed. The only down fall 
 to online though is no costome character visuals. Thats about all. The perks are something different 
 and pretty cool, they make the game much more realistic.
  
  Final opinion: Into FPS? War? Shooting? This is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingWallace9
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 17, 2008 6:44 pm PT
Review:  How in the world did Infinity Ward do it? Call of Duty 3 wasn't very good, Call of Duty 2 was pretty 
 good, and Call of Duty was awful. When this game came out, I did not yet have my Xbox 360, but 
 I still did not buy into all the hype that surrounded this game. I thought, "oh, another Call of 
 Duty game, big deal". Then the reviews rolled in. I started to beleive them. I got excited over 
 the game. 
  
  Then, my brother and I got our 360. We bought the game, and both of us were blown away. The graphics, 
 the storyline, the new weapons. Everything was good. We thought it was better than Gears of War! 
 We could not beleive the Xbox Live multiplayer either. It beats Halo's by a longshot. This is as 
 close as you can get to a perfect game. The only game that is at it's level is Super Smash Bros 
 Brawl. 
  
  The single-player campaign has two flaws. Number One; Death From Above (I have never been so bored 
 in my life) , Number Two, it ends. It is very short, but so much action and depth is packed into 
 it that I don't really care at all! The level designs are fantastic (see "All Ghillied Up" if you 
 don't beleive me) and the characters seem real. Not to mention the story is one of the best in 
 any game I have played. Levels like "Blackout", "Safehouse", "One Shot One Kill", "No Fighting 
 in the War Room" and "All Ghillied Up" are just some of the best levels I have ever played. In 
 a few worlds, it's amazing. 
  
  The Multiplayer is also amazing. The different types of play are great (I favor Team Deathmatch, 
 Headquarters and Search and Destroy) . I feel that everyone who owns an Xbox need Xbox Live, and 
 since most Xbox 360 owners do, I highly reccomend getting this game for the multiplayer experience 
 alone. If you like Halo's multiplayer, play COD4's and be prepared to be blown away. 
  
  All in all, I love this game. Xbox 360 owners need it, and anyone else who can get it on any other 
 system, I highly reccomend you do so. Everything about this game is better than most other games. 
 I garauntee that you will love this game. Happy playing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kenney42
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 17, 2008 8:55 am PT
Review:  I bought this game only a month ago and I must say it has to be one of the greatest games I've 
 ever played on the 360. The single player campaign brings you through perspectives of different 
 people and the detail and effects are amazing. Even the little details like trying to shoot the 
 main Russian terrorist while your screen is blurred and your heart is pumpin' makes it worthwhile. 
 Although, the single player campaign will make you say to yourself "Is that it?" due to the shortness 
 of the game.
  
  As for multiplayer, it's definitely one of the greatest multiplayers of all time. Multiplayer play 
 is very addicting and will keep you staying up late for hours. It's especially fun when you join 
 a party with some friends and just have a good time. Although you get the odd n00b yelling in the 
 mic, you can easily mute them ;) .
  
  Can't wait for COD: WaW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: munger88
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 17, 2008 7:57 am PT
Review:  This game is really fun with a great campaign and multiplayer. But some people are saying this 
 game is the best shooter ever. I really don't agree with that. In my opinion, games like Team Forteress 
 and Halo 3 are better than Call of Duty 4. But I don't want to start an argument on COD4 or Halo 
 3.
  
  SOUND: 8/10
  The sounds in this game are very realistic, but the music is sort of lacking. The gunshot noises, 
 and things such as that are great, but soundtrack is not a strong point.
  
  GAMEPLAY: 8/10
  While the multiplayer and campaign is very fun, Call of Duty 4 suffers from a 
 thing a lot of other shooters suffer from. Here is online, give or take a few things: Spawn. Shoot. 
 Kill someone. Die. Respawn, repeat. Yes, they have things such as claymores, C4, and helicopters 
 to break the monotony, and gametypes such as Search and Destroy and Domination, but really, after 
 your 4th prestige the game gets very repetitive.
  
  GRAPHICS: 8/10
  The graphics were said to be the best ever in a video game, and I was a little dissapointed by 
 them. Their are objects on certain maps you can just go prone and crawl through. Call of Duty's 
 deaths also aren't very realistic. Blood does come out, but if you shoot them in the head with 
 a shotgun, other than the blood on the wall, their head looks exactly the same. Good graphics, 
 but not amazing.
  
  REPLAY VALUE: 9/10
  You will play this game for a long time. Campaign is something you could probably play through 
 in one day on any difficulty except maybe Veteran, but online is something you will replay a lot. 
 Until you get highly ranked, online is very fun. Once you get highly ranked, it becomes monotonous 
 and repetitive.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jak_two_ratchet
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 17, 2008 5:01 am PT
Review:  This game just kicks ass. I Spent like a week playing this and I got 1000/1000 Gamerscore because 
 I was so hooked. Of course there really is no reason to replay it now D:. Anyway the story was 
 really fun and difficult. I started playing this game on Veteran and I've never played call of 
 duty before so I didn't know how hard it would acctually be. Don't even get me started on Mile 
 High Club... Online is ok, I didn't Really spend to much time online though. So yeah Awesome game 
 and would tell it to anyone. So yeah everyone buy/rent/borrow (borrowing and renting are different 
 to me) this game and have fun. 
  
  
  now i have to take up space so that i can submit my review to gamespot i know this is not an respectful 
 thing to do but that's all i can say about that game so la la la la la la la la la la la la la 
 la la la la la la la 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lm2f
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 16, 2008 7:26 pm PT
Review:  same old cookie cutter shooter with weak story and boring gameplay, same with all the cod games. 
 ALL you ever do in this game is running around and shooting people in the face. characters are 
 bland, and I was like "finally they died" at the end.
  
  the most fun I had in single player was using the ragtime cheat in the level where my guy was on 
 the way to being shot on the plus side shooting noobs in the face is fun, I spent many hours doing 
 that. and controls are sharp, which contributed a lot to making the multilayer better
  so in the end, no it's not worth buying because it is not anything that have not been been done 
 before, the best thing about the game is it being very polished, and fluid weapon animations, but 
 if you are looking for an innovative game and playing something different, look somewhere else 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rydeth
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 16, 2008 8:42 am PT
Review:  Lemme start off by saying this advancement in the gaming industry pushes the expectations of next 
 gen games by ALOT.
  
  Pros:
  
  Amazing Sound
  Multi Console
  B-E-U-T-I-F-U-L Multiplayer
  Classic modern warfare weapons
  Amazing storyline
  Alot of multiplayer 
 modes
  Beutiful lvling system
  Achievemnt are fun to gain
  Realistic Enviroment
  
  Cons:
  Noob Chat Spammers ( REALLY ANNOYING )
  
  This game does not fail in anyway possible 
 and it is Waaaaaaaaay better then most next gen FPS's out there. (Except BioShock, Obviously xD) 
 This game Owns bad company so if you want to buy a FPS just go with this one. Bad company's for 
 noobs and it is a noob game.......
  Don't ever buy it or rent it.
  
  My gamertag; E1337wArZoNe
  
  
  Look below for a bunny!
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  Bunny ------------- () ()
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Loofty1
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 15, 2008 11:00 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4: Modern Combat takes a step away from the 1940s to unleash a hell of a good time 
 for all players.
  
  The single player game is crazy. It will have you up glued to your controller until it's finished, 
 then you'll go through it again. Intense and cinematic, the single player is a riot. Multi-player 
 is the best on consoles. The unique level system gradually gives you perks and weapons to keep 
 you playing. The weapons are customizable as well as the weapon sets. This sets up the multiplayer 
 for high replayablity. 8 - 16 player matches and the intensity of the single player with your friends.
 
  
  The graphics are awe inspiring. The engine has great lighting, supurb physics, and an amazing draw 
 distance, all at 60 frames per second. Creek really shows off the games engine.
  
  The games control scheme makes it so you don't know that you have a controller. Tighter tuned than 
 even Halo 3.
  
  Now for the stuff you don't want to hear. The single player, amazing as it is, is too short. Downloadable 
 content is very low with only one map pack. The controls are different from most other shooters, 
 so you will have some awkward time when switching off to play Halo 3 or The Orange Box. And the 
 A. I isn't the smartest. You won't find any Fear soldiers here.
  
  Other than those mild miffs, the game is near perfect.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gears_of_halo13
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 15, 2008 11:15 am PT
Review:  This game is a ton of fun. The multiplayer never gets old, and the campaign can get very addictive. 
 I just wish there was co-op. The campaign is a wee bit short, but it doesn't effect how great it 
 is. of you are into first person shooter, then i most definitely recommend it. It does have some 
 pretty bloody moments (but no insides or anything) , and sometimes it has bad language, so if you 
 have a problem with your kid seeing and hearing those kinds of things, then you probably shouldn't 
 let them play this game (if it is only language you have a problem with, then you could let them 
 play online if you have xbox live, just not with a headset. the reason i say no headset is because 
 people like to use some bad language when wearing one) . In the campaign, there are levels where 
 you are British and levels where you are American, so if for some strange reason, you don't want 
 to play a game with either of those countries in it, then dont buy this game. Also if this is going 
 to be your first or second first person shooter or something, then i would rent it first. Hope 
 my review has been useful. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KOTORkicker
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 15, 2008 8:15 am PT
Review:  Overview
  
  Set in the present day, CoD4 is an FPS influenced heavily by events occuring right now. One of 
 the most realistic shooters I have played, nothing is exaggerated (Apart from the final 15 minutes, 
 which doesn't make a difference because they are truly epic) and quite down to earth.
  
  Gameplay
  
  The gameplay is standard CoD fare, spiced up by the introduction modern day weapons, 
 scenery and locations. The guns handle meatily, particular M1A4 and rifles of the like.
  
  Difficulty
  
  As you'd come to expect from a CoD game, the difficulty is immense in comparison 
 to other shooters. Veteran is a frustration fest, and you will find yourself thinking that you 
 are on a safe corridor, only to find some terrorists poke out from a location you'd never expect 
 and own you.
  
  Storyline
  
  The storyline is among the best that I have seen in recent time. It flies along, and the dialogue 
 is captivating. The loading screens are even well dressed up, with news reports and briefings, 
 among others, filling them in.
  
  Multiplayer
  
  I have no experience with the multiplayer as of yet, but I hope to soon.
  
  
  
  Overall, 
 9.1/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdawg2519
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 15, 2008 7:37 am PT
Review:  Even though I heard so many dismal remarks about the single player campaign length in this 
 game, I am still one of the more casual gamers and only play and hour or two at most each 
 day, if that. If thats the case for you, with 21 mission levels, one could probably beat the 
 game in 4 days or less. With that said, I had pondered between this game and GRAW 2, 
 and could not decide. I went with COD4 simply cuz I had preferred COD games over the ghost 
 recon series, and it would be safe to say that (at least for now) I have not regretted my 
 decision. The graphics are superior to any other COD game Ive witnessed; the game play is 
 submissive, yet challenging in a non-frustrating way; and for the casual gamer without live, 
 and to other titles in this genre, nothing compares, or comes close to it.  
::::::

::::::
UserName: coolcats1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 15, 2008 7:06 am PT
Review:  i think out of all the game systems that have this game on it the xbox 360 version is the best. 
 But back tothe review. First off call of duty 4 is a great game, i like that its a 1st person shooter 
 and well its like what certain people do in real war. My favorite part would have to be the level 
 ( one shot one kill) because i like that your on a mission with just one other guy, and i also 
 like that its set in the past ( on that level) . My favorite characters are captain price, gaz, 
 and probably nekolie. ( if thats how you spell it. But anyway its a fun game thats a real thriller. 
 If you like war games then buy this. If you dont like war games that much then rent this. but one 
 more thing it is pretty bloody and i know that that is gross to some people so check into that 
 before you deside on buying it.
  
  Ill be writing more reviews so keep tuned in) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xXBOXMEMBERx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 15, 2008 12:00 am PT
Review:  call of duty 4 is by far one of the best game ever in fact the only real problem in this game is 
 when playing on veteran in sometimes be annoying because you die much quicker onto the review. 
 the graphics are 5/5 best graphics i have seen in a video game so far. replay value very high you 
 be playing this years from now difficulty is about just right byt can be difficult at times. storyline 
 very well played especially for going to modern warfare. this is deffinitly a must have game for 
 any collection. A great series cod5 will be even better. there not much more i can say in this 
 review now to get more bang for your buck go play cod4 modern warfare also to finish off this review 
 online multiplayer is the best online multiplayer ever the is no other online multiplayer in my 
 opoin that is better then call of duty 4 because there is so much to do but i am not going to tell 
 you it all go get the game and find out for your self! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lopur94
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 14, 2008 9:42 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is one of the intense first person shooter games in this gen. You have two roles 
 in the game. You start of as a new S. A. S soldier named Soap MacTavish and you will have to go through 
 the tutorial missions which is on a cargo ship. You also take the role as Paul Jackson in the US 
 Marine Corps. You will be dong missions in different locations like the mountains in Russia to 
 the deserts of the Middle East. It seems that a terrorist group has gotten their hands on a couple 
 of nukes and you have to stop them. The missions are simple, find someone, or secure an area and 
 other missions.
  
  When you are Soap with the S. A. S, most of the missions are stealthy and strategic. Your group would 
 always be a small group of soldiers and handle the enemies quietly if possible. You will usually 
 be armed with a SMG or assault rifle with a silencer. Sometimes you will be a sniper and have to 
 take out the sentries. One false move and your cover will be blown. The enemies will be upon you 
 and it will be a challenge to get yourself out of the situation.
  
  WHen your with Jackson in the US Marines, things are little different. You will usually be in a 
 bigger group fighting big groups of enemies in pure daylight. These batles will be more intense 
 but harder. Most of the enemies will be armed with AK-47s and RPGs which you will have to duck 
 from.
  
  There are a variety of missions in the single player campaign. There will be stealth missions, 
 conquest missions, assassination and escape missions. In one mission you will operate a AC-130 
 gunship and in another you will operate the gun on a helicopter. In one you will have to chase 
 someone and in another you will have to storm buildings to find someone.
  
  Your weapons will be the usual weapons you see the soldiers using but you can pick up other weapons 
 from dead enemies. You will also be armed with frag grenades and flashbangs or smoke grenades. 
 In some missions you will also have claymores and C4s. In others you might have the ability to 
 call in a helicopter or an airstrike.
  
  When you take too much damage you're screen will get a red border or bloody border and you will 
 have to find cover and recover.
  
  The single player campaign is a little short and you can finish the game twice in two days. But 
 the multiplayer will give ou unlimited hours of more intense combat with a awesome rank systems, 
 customizable weapons and cool perks.
  
  Overall Call of Duty 4 is a good shooter with intense gameplay, nice visuals and a awesome multiplayer. 
 Though the single player campaign is short, this game is an awesome add on for your first person 
 shooter collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: n1ghtmare454
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 14, 2008 6:46 pm PT
Review:  When this game came out it was definitely one of the best online games i have ever played, But 
 lately things have changed. There are little kids everywhere, and its virtually impossible to play 
 a game and win without being called a "noob" or someone say "your garbage". Many times will i play 
 and be called a hacker, and 100% of the time i use the g3 im called a modded controller FA**OT. 
 It seems like the COD4 community has turned into a bunch of whiners and complainers. This game 
 would be a whole lot better if it had some sort of poor sport filter or something. Maybe they should 
 put in an update or something, like have a Just for fun matchmaking type, and another one that's 
 competitive or something? Because Call of Duty 4 has just turned into one big trash-talking fest. 
 This game can be fun though, don't get me wrong, its just rare to find a good group of guys to 
 play with. So buy this game at your own risk. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Quepon
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 14, 2008 3:12 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 owns the biggest chunk of my life out of all my video games, next to the Guitar 
 Hero/Rock Band series.
  What can I say? Well, the one negative thing that I can say about COD is that the campaign was 
 FAR too short. BUT, the online component completely makes up for the campaign (which, although 
 short, was very enjoyable) , and is what gives your g0ld membership a true purpose. 
  The unique Perk system gives an extra flavoring that makes COD's online experience especially interesting. 
 
  Being able to customize your character is almost always an important part of video games in general, 
 and it is here too. Sure, you can stick to the premade classes which only have base-level perks 
 if you want to indefinitely fail, but creating and enhancing and re-enhancing your particular class 
 is the way to go if you ever hope to do moderately well. 
  The important thing to know here is that if you're not that great at the game, then you can still 
 do well! I'm sure the pros will jut lay off you if you tell them that you're a noob.
  
  Oh wait, nevermind that. Everything that I just said in that last paragraph was a lie. You have 
 to practice a lot and maybe develop a strategy or something, or else the pros will eat you. And 
 even then, you will get killed a lot. But, even when losing, this game's incredibly fun.
  
  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is most definitely an essential to anyone's Xbox game collection. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danielcliment
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 14, 2008 3:09 pm PT
Review:  To all game developers who work hard to design games and make our life happier, this is your starting 
 point in game development.
  
  COD 4, is just like having a chilled glass of water after being 3 days on the desert, is fresh, 
 crispy clear and simple. The graphics are just perfect, the dust, lighting, shadowing, etc. The 
 felling of each gun is just fantastic, plus the sound of every different weapon, great....! 
  
  FPS games can be great o abysmal, and maybe one of the ingredients of COD4 is the simplicity 
 and sharpness of it. to many gadgets can be a problem, a lot of data on the HUD can be annoying, 
 sound effects can be a disaster, etc, etc, etc. I played like every one around here halo, gears, 
 bad company, etc., and i always go back to COD 4 is just to good. good job guys and truly you've 
 done and amazing work!!!!
  THANKS!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: m4ttsy
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 14, 2008 12:15 pm PT
Review:  I was going to start with the negatives for this game....... ok onto the positives! Seriously though, 
 Infinity Ward have created a Masterpiece with COD4 and the online multiplayer is highly addictive, 
 great fun and will seriously take some beating. 
  
  I have had this game for quite a few months now and there aren't many days when I don't play it. 
 I completed the campaign pretty quickly (that may be the only small downside) and got stuck into 
 playing against the rest of the world online. 
  
  It does take a little getting used to and it can be frustrating at times but this is only because 
 other people are so good at it. However, it doesn't take long to learn the maps and the buttons 
 soon become second nature. 
  
  I was instantly impressed by the rating process i. e. the more you improve, the better weapons and 
 perks you get. This does make it a little harder for the 'newbs' but even the best players can 
 start from the beginning again once they have reached the top level.
  
  Does anybody else have trouble sleeping after an intense session on COD4? That's how much it gets 
 you...... you live it, breath it, sleep it and dream it!
  
  This is bar far the best game I have ever played and I have played A LOT since the days of my ZX 
 Spectrum. Great work Infinity Ward and please keep bringing out the world's best games! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andilliio
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 13, 2008 8:24 pm PT
Review:  Good
  Call of Duty 4 is an all around good shooter. The levels are interesting and inovative. Each is 
 fun and captivating. Oddly enough the most interesting levels are the ones that you aren't fighting 
 in. For example walking around after a nuclear blast or being forced into a car to await execution. 
 The story itself is interesting and surprising with new challenges and plot twists at every turn. 
 The enviorments are well made, interesting and realistic. The gameplay is hardly linear as there 
 is always an ally or other building you can explore to get a better vantage point on the battlefield. 
 Combat is more realistic than ever. Stealth, cover and luck will all come into play. With the new 
 ability to shoot through certain walls the combat becomes more intense then ever as a peaceful 
 stroll through a building turns ito a frenzy of unaimed bullets coming through a wall. The only 
 thing you can do is shoot back at the wall and hope for the best. This makes using guns and grenades 
 more fun then ever. The graphics in this game are amazing everything looks and feels more realistic 
 than any shooter to date. The acual gameplay with added abilities such as summoning a helicopter 
 to your aid will require some skill and a little bit of personal stratagy to overcome; will you 
 be sneaky and manuever your way to victory, or rely on well timed airstrikes, or just go in and 
 blow the crud out of everything that moves? This COD is harder than the rest because you die a 
 lot quicker so you have to find the strategy that works best for you. The multyplayer is worth 
 the cost of the game itself with the addition of active radar the combat is quicker and more fun.
 
  
  Bad
  Unfortunatlly the game suffers some flaws that include bad AI and far too powerful weapons. The 
 enemies aren't very smart and usually don't even move when you attack then. They seem to go to 
 pre-existing routes and stay there to brave all of your attacks. Its not that bad however the enemies 
 will throw grenades, send dogs, and melee you but it just doesn't feel like your fighting a human. 
 The guns in this game, while fun to shoot, are all around to similar. Almost every gun is automatic, 
 almost every gun can shoot through walls, and almost every gun can kill you or your enemies in 
 only a few hits. This really takes away from the strategy of the game and the multyplayer experiance 
 is a lot less fun than in COD2 and 3. My biggest about COD 4 is that it is rated M meaning a lot 
 of younger kids who enjoyed the T rated CODs aren't going to be able to get it.
  
  Overall COD is a great game that I Highly recomend to any fan of Call of Duty, shooters, or fun. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigd1451
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 13, 2008 7:13 pm PT
Review:  this game is so fun and it never gets old ive had it since it came out and ive played online for 
 over 5 days...... it has a ranking system online where you go through 55 ranks and when you get 
 to rank 55 you can choose whether to go prestige or stay at 55.... prestige is basically where you 
 give up all of your challenges, guns, everything and you get a symbol where your old rank used 
 to be that tells everybody that you are that prestige... i am currently a 5th prestige... there is 
 a total of 10 prestiges.... the campaign on this game is easily the hardest and most adrenaline 
 pumping campaign ever made to date..... everything from getting blown up in a nuke to shooting a 
 guys arm off.... i have beat the game on recruit, normal, and hardened, i am now trying on veteran 
 buts its so tough, its taking me forever..... this game is a must have and a great addition to anybody 
 who likes shooters game collection 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bacamaro2000
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 12, 2008 10:46 pm PT
Review:  When I first purchased this game I knew that it was addictive because a friend of mine had played 
 9 days (accumulated time) online and i laughed at him. well i've owned it for 4 months now and 
 i've played 7 days total online and thats not counting my time on the single player campaign. 
 
  
  lets begin with the campaign. if you don't have an xbox live connection this campaign is probably 
 a 9 out of 10. the story is great, the action is constant, the replay value is very high and the 
 difficulty starts at easy and slides to "you will not survive" (and it means it) . once you finish 
 the campaign you can play an arcade style version where you basically play the game but have a 
 limited amount of lives and it keeps score based on headshots and what not. the only reason for 
 that i suppose is just to compare with your friends without being online? idk...
  
  the online play is not too fun at first but once you've played a while you WILL be addicted. you 
 start out and its not that great because you might enter a room with guys that just completely 
 dominate you. they have the perks that you dont and the experience that you dont. you'll hear tons 
 of people complaining, cussing, talking about your mom, etc. and that parts terrible. but the other 
 side of that is the teamwork chatter which makes this game a ton of fun. now if you want to just 
 have fun, join a hardcore match and piss people off by team killing. theres something for everyone 
 online. different game types, different ways of challenging yourself (through challenges and gaining 
 XP and different camouflages and more) and even a prestige mode that exists for nothing else that 
 you can say to the 4th prestige rank 23 that he sucks because you're 7th prestige level 20 (and 
 then something about his mom for sure) 
  
  buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Megabryan15
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 12, 2008 2:21 pm PT
Review:  fun game well worth your money its not that hard and hard at the same time but leaves you wanting 
 more 10 / 10 if your into war you should buy it i beat it already the mile high club mission is 
 real fun xbox live playable multiplayer ia awesome and your able to custimize your sets and unlock 
 new weapons.... not to mention prestige mode!!! very entertaining its a first person shooter if 
 you liked big red one you will like this game amazing game its very addictive and you can play 
 with your friends online if you have online internet connection. as i said before its a fun game 
 also if you liked zelda you will like this game when you play it once you will play it again and 
 its not even funny.. internet connection. as i said before its a fun game also if you liked zelda 
 you will like this game when you play it once you will play it again and its not even funny. it 
 already the mile high club mission is real fun xbox live playable multiplayer ia awesome and your 
 able to custimize your sets and unlock new weapons 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingVenetian
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 10, 2008 12:18 pm PT
Review:  I have to admit something that may tick off Call of Duty fans: I'm tired of playing World War II 
 shooters. 
  Every time I found myself faced with playing another Call of Duty (COD) , Medal of Honor, or Brothers 
 in Arms I got a little pit in my stomach. It didn't have anything to do with the philosophical 
 debate regarding whether or not it was appropriate to portray WWII as a video game. No, that feeling 
 of discomfort stemmed from the fact that the genre has been way overplayed. How many digital Nazis 
 have I put down in my day? I mean, it's fun and all but in all honesty you can only take so much 
 of the same thing no matter what coat of paint or title has been slapped on it. 
  
  When I heard that another COD title was in the works I have to admit that I rolled my eyes. The 
 third installment was a lot of fun but not entirely impressive or innovative by anyone's standards. 
 Needless to say my enthusiasm for a fourth incarnation was relatively low. Thankfully Modern Warfare 
 shattered my expectations in more ways than one! 
  
  Activision and Infinity Ward have turned their franchise on its head. COD4 takes place outside 
 the realm of World War II and sees itself in, well, modern times. With a plot that involves terrorists 
 doing what they do best, Modern Warfare quickly separates itself from the rest of the series. The 
 story is very refined with a single plotline and though there aren't a lot of surprises it's very 
 compelling the entire way through. Once again you'll be witnessing events from the perspective 
 of a few individuals but the real kicker here is the sense of immersion and gameplay quality which 
 easily outclasses just about every other shooter on the market. And no, I haven't forgotten about 
 Halo 3. 
  
  Gameplay
  
  
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  Right from 
 the very beginning COD4 manages to pull you in and knock your socks off. Shortly after firing up 
 the disc you're presented with a straightforward training stage that gives you the basics. You 
 simply run through a series of plywood and pop your gun at some targets to orient yourself with 
 the controls. It's simplistic, familiar, and in many ways a great example of how great the core 
 gameplay is. 
  
  Cutting right to the chase I will say that since COD4 is a first-person shooter you can pretty 
 much ascertain some of the things to expect from your experience. You'll control your soldier with 
 the analog sticks, throw grenades and shoot with the shoulder buttons, reload and swap weapons 
 with the face buttons, and melee by clicking the right analog. It's very familiar within the confines 
 of the genre especially if you have played a COD game before. The kicker here is that the control 
 is so refined that you'll wish every title played so well. Seriously, I tried to find a fault with 
 the set up and I couldn't; it's intuitive and functional the entire way through. 
  
  After you've run through some of the basics the game begins with its glorious presentation. Without 
 giving too much of the story away you're going to be in the shoes of several people throughout 
 the campaign. The first person you'll portray is the president of a Middle Eastern country who 
 has just been kidnapped by the lead terrorist and all around bad guy Khaled Al-Asad. After being 
 escorted through a war-torn city where its citizens are being executed you'll eventually be taken 
 to a place where you're put on the world stage. From the point of the president you watch as Al-Asad 
 puts the gun between your eyes and pulls the trigger. There was just something about this approach 
 that really drew me in more than the other inclusions in the COD franchise and it gives everything 
 a primal feeling. 
  
  After being shot in the head you're going to find yourself eased onto the battlefield. Between 
 playing as a Marine and a member of the British S. A. S. you'll be taken from one aspect of the battle 
 against Al-Asad and his forces to the next. The experience you're going to have varies slightly 
 depending on the stage but overall the action is intense and over the top. 
  
  An early stage sees you busting through an urban environment and raiding a TV station to take Al-Asad 
 off the air. As you work your way through the maze-like interior of the building you'll come across 
 pockets of terrorists who are less than pleased to see you and your buddies. These firefights are 
 fast-paced and require quite a lot of tactics. Taking into consideration the fact that bullets 
 travel through walls and doors means that ducking behind a desk like you would in a typical FPS 
 gunfight just isn't going to cut it. 
  
  In each stage the game gives you something new to play with whether its gear or a gameplay mechanic. 
 The aforementioned cover shooting means that no conventional spot is safe for as long as you'd 
 expect. The neat bit here is that even though enemies can take you out while you're hiding; you 
 can do the same. Anticipating enemy movements behind a structure yields amazing results though 
 don't be surprised if bullets blindly come your way while you're shooting. The AI will take you 
 to task and you'll feel as though you're on the edge in any fight. The outcome of most battles 
 hinges on how you approach them and even though you can replay sections you'll never catch the 
 CPU doing the same thing twice. Keep this in mind when you lob a grenade into their midst. You 
 may just want to cook it off a bit before tossing it otherwise it may come back to haunt you. 
 
  
  There are so many highlights in COD4's singe player that it's very difficult to spotlight them 
 all. Every stage has something to offer whether you're manning the artillery of an aircraft, laying 
 down sniper fire, running into a combat zone to save a fellow soldier, or engaging terrorists in 
 the dark of night. You're never going to be bored while playing this game despite the fact that 
 you'll have the feeling that you're being led from place to place. Even the game's short length 
 isn't an issue thanks to the AI and stellar design all around. Additional difficulty selections 
 and modes that become available after beating the game are also a definite plus. 
  
  As is the case with any great FPS the real longevity of COD4 stems from the multiplayer aspect. 
 While people all around the globe are strapping on their Spartan and Elite armors and shooting 
 each other with Needlers, I found myself having a slightly better time with Modern Warfare's online 
 component. 
  
  The fact that COD4's gameplay is so amazing certainly helps and online firefights possess the same 
 ferocity that the single player encounters do. The thing that separates this title from others 
 in the genre is the manner with which it approaches ranking and such. Each kill nets you a certain 
 amount of experience points and various actions during matches will do the same. Once you rack 
 up enough you'll unlock a new rank which is represented by a number next to your name. 
  
  As you rank up you'll be able to customize your experience the way you want to. Other gameplay 
 modes become available along with new weaponry and things called Perks. These Perks are essentially 
 a way of augmenting your persona by using them with custom builds. For instance when you begin 
 you have a minimal selection of three types of Perks to use. As you become seasoned online better 
 options will open up and soon you'll be able to equip three grenades, drop one when you're killed, 
 and add extra damage to your bullets. The end result is a first-person shooter with RPG elements 
 mixed in with white-knuckled gunplay. In other words it's amazing! 
  
  Even as I sit here writing this review I find myself looking fondly at my 360 and desiring nothing 
 more than to stop typing and pick up the controller. I beat the game, I have put in several hours 
 online, and still can't bring myself to put the title away quite yet. It may not be fair to compare 
 the two because Halo and COD4 are like apples and oranges. Both are great in their own right though 
 I do have to say that for the time being and foreseeable future Halo is in its case and COD4 is 
 in my 360; take that for what it is. Activision and Infiniti Ward outdid themselves with this one 
 and they have made Call of Duty a franchise worth caring about again. This is one of the best shooters 
 on the market and if you own a 360 and love the FPS genre you absolutely must buy this game. 
 
  
  Achievements
  
  
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  The Achievements 
 in Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare range in difficulty to obtain. For starters they all revolve 
 around the single player experience so you don't have to worry about playing every mode in the 
 multiplayer a thousand times in order to unlock 20 points. I got 300 points after playing through 
 my first time with a variety of skill achievements (such as stabbing three people in a row) and 
 ones gained from simply beating stages. You can also go back to revisit the title on the significantly 
 harder Veteran difficulty and trust me when I tell you that's quite the challenge. 
  
  Graphics
  
  
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  The 360 has some amazing looking titles. From Gears of War to Halo 3 and Mass Effect to Eternal 
 Sonata there are so many games that feature fantastic graphics that take advantage of the system's 
 capabilities; Call of Duty 4 looks better than all of them. Modern Warfare is quite simply one 
 of the most beautiful titles to grace any console and that's the bottom line. The lighting, design, 
 effects, weaponry, animation, stages, and characters are all simply top of the line. I didn't notice 
 a single flaw while playing this game and whether it was the single player or multi there was never 
 a drop in quality. 
  
  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare supports up to 1080p and no matter what set up you're playing on 
 this game is going to look gorgeous. Simple things like the inclusion of vision impairing grenades 
 and explosions that kick up particles and debris really draw you into the game. Everything is crisp 
 and clean with a presentation that is the very definition of wartime being hell. If you felt previous 
 incarnations of the series portrayed war in an accurate manner wait until you get a load of COD4's 
 battlefield. 
  
  Sound
  
  
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  As fine 
 as the visual presentation of Call of Duty 4 is, it's the audio that really hits all of the right 
 notes. This game utilizes your home theater brilliantly and if you're rocking a 5.1 set you're 
 going to be on Cloud 9. I can honestly say that out of every game I have ever played this is probably 
 the most immersive. The explosions, voices, gunfire, footsteps, and clinking of grenades on the 
 floor will envelop you. As bullets ricochet around you and tear through your cover you'll be brought 
 to the edge of your seat. 
  
  Not only is the sound direction phenomenal but the music is another strong point. The Call of Duty 
 franchise has always been known for epic tunes and sweeping scores so fans will be pleased to know 
 that Modern Warfare is no different. 
  
  Conclusion
  
  
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  If you 
 can't tell already, Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is the best in the series. It's one of the most 
 ferocious shooters on the market and everything from the gameplay, graphics, and sound comes together 
 in perfect harmony to create a visceral wartime experience that will grab you and not let go. The 
 single player campaign is short though amazing and the multiplayer functionality is out of this 
 world with a fantastic amount of depth that stems from the RPG elements. I can't wait to see what 
 Infiniti Ward has in mind for downloadable content but until then this remains one of the greatest 
 games on the market right now. 
  
  Halo 3 and Gears of War may be 360 system sellers but COD4 is not to be ignored. It's a rock-solid 
 title that pushes the envelope and shatters expectations. In my opinion this is the shooter to 
 beat right now and I don't see myself going back to the two other titles any time soon. Master 
 Chief, you're a great guy, but wow, COD4 is giving you a run for your money
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockerking9
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 10, 2008 8:23 am PT
Review:  This is one of the best first person shooters I have ever played because it takes place in a current 
 war, the war on terrorism, which could possibly be the next World War. This game takes place in 
 the MIddle East and Russia as you fight the War on Terrorism. The graphics are the best for a realistic 
 game I have ever seen in real life, and the fact that getting Gamerscore is really easy is a bonus. 
 I reccomend this game to anyone who has a X-Box 360, Playstation 3, or Computer (MAC or PC) . This 
 game has real aspects of a war because when you use a flashbang it blows out your characters hearing 
 for like ten seconds and it does not hold back on the cuss words just like a real war, but you 
 can get shot two hundred times in a level, but you will not die so that is a red flag, but overall 
 this is an amazing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ani_manga200
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 9, 2008 11:16 am PT
Review:  Awsome game, it was very good. It had awsome graphics, awsome single player mode, I never got to 
 try in online though, since I don't have internet to my Xbox 360. This game was so cool, the graphics 
 looked real, it had alot of cool action, and the story mode was well detailed, I'm a slow game 
 player, so this game took about 3 weeks to beat. :P This game was the best I've played for 360, 
 and second best I've played this year. I give this game a perfect 10. My favorite part of this 
 game was the ending, that was an awsome way to end the game, but also kinda weird, the ending was 
 so easy, compared to the rest of the game, which was kinda hard, but it still had a good ending. 
 The opening was borring, and hard, my dad was the one who figured it out actualy, lol. I wander 
 if PS3 version was as good as the 360, It was a realy realy realy realy realy realy realy realy 
 realy good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mind83
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 9, 2008 1:56 am PT
Review:  The best of the best FPS. i think it is the best game of the year and the era ever The best of 
 the best The best of the best The best of the best The best of the best FPS. i think it is the 
 best game of the year and the era ever The best of the best The best of the best The best of the 
 best The best of the best FPS. i think it is the best game of the year and the era ever The best 
 of the best The best of the best The best of the best The best of the best FPS. i think it is the 
 best game of the year and the era ever The best of the best The best of the best The best of the 
 best The best of the best FPS. i think it is the best game of the year and the era ever The best 
 of the best The best of the best The best of the best The best of the best FPS. i think it is the 
 best game of the year and the era ever The best of the best The best of the best The best of the 
 best The best of the best FPS. i think it is the best game of the year and the era ever The best 
 of the best The best of the best The best of the best 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jstamm33
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 8, 2008 1:23 pm PT
Review:  The first time that you start up this game you will notice the amazing graphics and how well its 
 all put together. The campaign is really fun, entertaining, and classic. Throughout the campaign 
 you will play as United States Marine, and as an elite soldier in the British SAS. Both have their 
 strengths however in my opinion playing as a soldier in the British SAS is much more entertaining. 
 You will switch off between these two characters which is fun. The missions are affected by your 
 actions, so its not free roam, however its not completely linear either. The characters that you 
 will meet you will seem to "connect" with and feel close to them. Its not like a Brothers in Arms 
 game, but its a nice touch. The multiplayer is fantastic, because you get "perks" and can create 
 your own "classes" as you rank up. The multiplayer will definetly keep you playing for years to 
 come. It even has 4 player splitscreen so you can always play with your buddies. Overall this is 
 a great game and SHOULD NOT be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 5sonic
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 8, 2008 7:01 am PT
Review:  CoD4 is a GREAT game. It is probably the best FPS of 2007! And I'm not even a fanboy. While it 
 has it's flaws, there definately aren't many.
  
  Graphics-CoD4 has, almost without a doubt, the best graphics of any game ever made. I'm not lying. 
 IT's true. If you look hard enough, you'll probably find a few muddy textures. But the next section 
 is so good, you won't find any time to do that. 10/10
  
  Gameplay-The gameplay in this game is the same basic formula as in CoD 1,2,3... except now you're 
 shooting Russian extremist vying for control in Russia. You shoot them, cut them, and nade them. 
 What else do you need. 9.5/10
  
  Controls-In my opinion one of the weaker aspects of the game, the controls run fluidly but your 
 sprint easily will have you running into coutless walls, while your knife is about half a second 
 delayed. 8.5/10
  
  Sound- The music always carries the right feel for the mission. Sometimes that means loud horns 
 blaring, and somtimes that means no music at all. All the guns sound great, and the grenades sound 
 pretty good too. 10/10
  
  Multiplayer-The multiplayer in CoD4 is fun and addictive, and while the perks are a great addition, 
 I just don't think it had enough options to match Halo 3. But it is still very good.
  
  Overall- CoD4 is awesome. Anyone who denies it is A) a Halo fanboy or B) Not that well knowlegded 
 when it comes to games. Must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: animate110
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 7, 2008 5:20 pm PT
Review:  One of the must haves not for the campaign , but for the sheer intense online multiplayer. Either 
 if its customizing weapons or just getting those last few exp. for you to prestige, it is just 
 that good. The prestige mode made it a long lasting game in my opinion, because you can still play 
 long after you have hit lvl 55 for the first time. You can not only do it once, but 10 more times. 
 Making this a more of online player for me and maybe others.
  Just rent, buy, or borrow this game its worth the time to pick it up and play in your spare time 
 around the day. This game has to be one of the most out done games of the year and i am not doubting 
 activision to out do another one of the call of duty games of their series. So for my time spent 
 on this game it is well worth more of mine and maybe some of the new upcoming players of this game. 
 So kill or be killed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kubow23
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 7, 2008 2:24 pm PT
Review:  Cod4 is probaly the most disapointing one yet, there is just to much bs. For instance shooting 
 through every wall. Then there is the martyrdom or however you spell it, you cant drop a live grenade 
 when your dead. Also Juggernaught? wtf? I dont even know what is up with that. I still play the 
 game alot, yes it is fun when you have all your friends on, just the little things they have in 
 the game is dissapointing. They could have made it more fun by making more realistic and with out 
 all the fake perks and stuff. Yet the game runs pretty smooth, and there is not very much lag. 
 The helicopters can be kind of bull to, for instance when your in a building with no windows, and 
 your completely in cover, some how the helicopter will still shoot you. Also there is way to many 
 little kids on the game, and every body thinks there bad (as in can beat any one up) which can 
 be pretty funny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JPSmonkey111
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 6, 2008 8:06 pm PT
Review:  Well, if you have read my other reviews, then you know that I don't give out a 9.5 very often. 
 On a rating scale in which you rate in .5's, a 9.5 is the highest rating possible to achieve by 
 modern games. To me, a 10 is very hard to recieve, if not impossible. Look at GTA IV rating, a 
 10. What the heck are you going to rate GTA V if its better? Ridiculous.... 
  
  Anyway, I rate games in 5 sections...
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  
  Realisim is what CoD4 aims for. And 
 it hits the bulls-eye. Guns feel and shoot realisticly, the controls are tight, and every little 
 thing feels just right. The levels in the campaign are very intense, and really feel like real 
 military operations. 
  
  STORY:
  
  Again, realisim is the key. The campaign is broken up into 4 sections. All of which follow a different 
 soldier, and a different story. But they all fit together seamlessly. 
  
  CONTROLS:
  
  The controls are very tight, and since the game runs at a very smooth, very awesome 60 fps, the 
 controls seem to react instanteously on screen. This is very good, because in most situations in 
 CoD4, tight controls will be a must. 
  
  GRAPHICS:
  
  This is the icing on the cake. One word. Photo. Realistic. Well, fine, thats two words seperated 
 by totally hip periods. Reflections, Textures, Anti-Aliasing, and the great use of the blur effect 
 makes the graphics beautiful. It is one of the most wonderful looking console games, and is even 
 comparable to PC games (crap you, Crysis!) . 
  
  LASTING APPEAL: 
  
  After you beat the campaign, will you still play this game? Of course, of course, a talking horse 
 (Please, don't ask.) ! Throw in multiplayer and Arcade mode, this game has 50+ hour value.
  
  .. And it most definatly deserves a 9.5. Totally. Hip. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iFragMuffinMan
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 6, 2008 4:23 pm PT
Review:  With a solid single player, and an addicting multiplayer this game does nothing but deliver everything 
 that you want.
  
  Single player review- The single player is solid, and has a difficulty for just about every skill 
 level. The levels are creative, the story great, and the ending well pshhhh it's just well.... unexpected? 
 Plot twists and insane depth make it a solid buy even if you don't have live
  
  Multiplayer- The reason half of us own this game. Boasting a ton of maps, and a map pack to add 
 4 new maps to the mix. The customization is in depth allowing you to add attachments to each gun, 
 unlocking unique camoflagues to your guns, perks so you can get a truly unique experiance and further 
 cusomization. and of course the famed Prestige. Prestige was an easy way for them to add days of 
 extra play to this game, allowing you to go through the ranks all over again. It also has a game 
 type for each player whether you be a camper/rusher/tactical/nade happy/spray and pray, something 
 for everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Creed38
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 24, 2008 12:35 pm PT
Review:  COD4: Modern Warfare was the first game i bought for my 360 when i first got it for Christmas, 
 having played almost every other COD game, i was very interested to see what COD could do as a 
 modern combat game, and trust me COD 4 did not dissapoint.
  
  The single player contains all the same characteristics that anyone who played the other COD games 
 could remember, but it also includes alot of sweet new features that have to do with the Modern 
 setting, like night-vision, silencers, airstrikes and helicopters. Although the campaign follows 
 one set storyline, you bounce back and forth, playing as two different military units: The Marine 
 Force Recon and the British S. A. S. divisions, both having their own uniqueness and it is very interesting 
 to fight through the storyline of each of them.
  
  The multiplayer is pretty standard, u can play alone with your friends or team up with your friends 
 and play other people, or just jump into whichever game type u want. One awsome feature of the 
 multiplayer is that u gain xp as u kill people in matches or by completing certain tasks in different 
 game types. As you gain xp u level up in ranks, unlocking many new weapons and special gear that 
 you never got to use in single player. 
  The main drawback of the Multiplayer (In my Opinion) , is that the game doesn't have a strong anti-spawnkill 
 system and some of the maps are relatively small so it will ocassionally spawn enemies behind or 
 very close to you or vice versa, making it easy for people to kill and is what seems to frustrate 
 me the most. 
  
  Dont get me wrong though, i love this game and i will continue to play it for a long time but i 
 have to give it a 9.5, if they somehow found a way to fix the spawn system it would definitely 
 be a 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ben399
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 6, 2008 10:55 am PT
Review:  With a huge number of players online at any given time, terrific graphics and a good character 
 customization system, it's no surprise that COD4 has won so many game of the year awards. However, 
 there are a couple noticeable flaws that keep it from getting a perfect score.
  
  Graphics-9.5/10 although the enemies look realistic, the settings are generally beautiful, and 
 in most cases the explosions look great, there are some flaws. For one, the air strikes look terrible. 
 They could have just made the explosions look like a bunch of bigger versions of the explosions 
 resulting from a grenade, but instead they decided to make it look like a cloud of orange sparks 
 surrounded by a cloud of black smoke. Another noticeable error is in the map, "wet work" where 
 the ocean looks like the result of the three year old and a new box of watercolors. And I'm not 
 just being sarcastic; it really looks that bad.
  
  Sound-8.0/10 shots don't really echo, grenades don't sound right, and air strikes sound terrible. 
 Aside from that I don't have anything to complain about.
  
  Single player-9.9 the campaign has a terrific plot, the characters are some of the best in gaming, 
 and each level has a memorable moment. The arcade mode is fun, too (I took away .1 points because 
 I didn't like the air strikes) .
  
  Multiplayer-9.5 It was good but a bunch of smaller flaws kept it from its full potential. Although 
 the ranking system works well, I have always thought that your rank should be determined by your 
 current performance, and hence should be brought down as the result of a bad game, rather than 
 just having you acquire a certain number of points every time you kill something. And although 
 the unlock system works well, I think it's stupid to keep some classes and the "create a class" 
 system locked until you reach a certain rank. Not only because its so easy to reach that rank that 
 you wonder why you were ever made unlock it, but also because it is the best part of the multiplayer. 
 Aside from that, I though multiplayer was great (except for the air strikes which, in case you 
 haven't realized yet, I hated) .
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: raingiver
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 4, 2008 11:16 pm PT
Review:  This is arguably one of the finest shooters I have ever played, both online and off. The one aspect 
 of it that kept me from rating it a ten is the lack of a co-op mode. 
  The single player mode is one of the best campaigns out there right now, hosting a reasonably interesting 
 story and some of the best graphics to date. Moreover, while the campaign is a little on the short 
 side (6-8 give or take) , it is one of the most intense shooters I've played. 
  The multiplayer is often equally intense, if not more. I would consider it standard fair for online 
 FPS, but it has a plethora of game modes and a fairly deep reward system for meeting certain requirements 
 that helps keep it interesting and highly addictive. 
  As I said, the biggest drawback of this game is lack of campaign co-op. The competitive online 
 is stellar, but this is a game that feels made for co-op and the lack of such a mode is disappointing. 
 That being said, if you like first person shooters it doesn't get much better than this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stillmatic-
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 4, 2008 5:42 pm PT
Review:  I've been a fan of Call of Duty since COD 2, but that diminished when Call of Duty 3 came out, 
 as it was made by a differant company, which was a horrible mistake, but Call of Duty 4 changes 
 all that.
  
  Call of Duty 4 is action packed game, from the intense single player, to the wide variety multiplayer- 
 giving you plenty of hours of your time to waste on this game :) .
  
  Gameplay: With the new equip system, adding cog scopes, red dot, or silencer's to your weapon gives 
 you numerous choices to the type of FPS player you are- only adding more to the gameplay, and making 
 the expirience that much better. Everything Runs smooth, and is without a doubt, one of the best 
 FPS on the 360, in terms of gameplay (and many other reasons)
  
  Single Player: 2 words-INTENSE ACTION! That sum's it all up.
  
  Multiplayer: So many modes 
 to pick, it'll make you dizzy. There's no lag, which is a common thing these days online. Prestige 
 mode give's you a reason to play this game for hours and hours.
  
  Graphics: COD 4 has one of the best graphics on the 360- I'd say top five, although if you have 
 a great PC (with a 8800gt card for instance) , it does look a little better on the PC- but then again, 
 who really notices every little comparison?
  
  If your an FPS fan, this game will feed your needs, so go pick it up, or give it a rent at least! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KDoddsy
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 4, 2008 8:34 am PT
Review:  It took awhile, but Infinity Ward finally got the message that World War II is played out. With 
 modern times and international affairs becoming more and more, shall we say, interesting in recent 
 years, the 1940s just don't carry as much weight as they used to. Perhaps that's why Call of Duty 
 4 has a new subtitle, Modern Warfare. By bringing things into a fictionalized story that still 
 seems fairly plausible, the developer has made a much heavier game. But COD 4 is more than just 
 an updated setting. It's also an amazing multiplayer first-person shooter and a great but brief 
 single-player campaign with the visual chops to make it a standout shooter in an era filled with 
 seemingly dozens of standout shooters. 
  
  
  
  
  While the game may feel short, it covers a lot of ground.
  The only real catch is that the single-player 
 is almost shockingly short. If you've been keeping up with this style of game, you'll probably 
 shoot your way to the credits in under five hours. While you can raise the difficulty to give yourself 
 more of a challenge, the main thing this does is make the enemies frustratingly deadly, which sort 
 of detracts from the fun. 
  
  While it may have a lack of single-player quantity, it makes up for most of it with its quality. 
 The game tells its story from multiple perspectives, and you'll play as a new British SAS operative 
 as well as a US Marine. The campaign takes you from a rainy night out at sea on a boat that's in 
 the process of sinking to a missile silo where it's on you to save millions from an unsavory nuclear-powered 
 death. Along the way, there are plenty of jaw-dropping moments where you'll look around the room 
 for someone to whom you can say, "I can't believe that just happened." In a world filled with war 
 games in which the good guys come out unscathed and the world is left at total peace, Call of Duty 
 4 will wake you up like a face full of ice water. 
  
  The action in the campaign is usually very straightforward. You have a compass at the bottom of 
 your screen, and the direction of your current objective is very plainly marked. But getting from 
 point A to point B is never as simple as running in a straight line, as you'll be conducting full-scale 
 assaults in Middle Eastern countries by moving from house to house, taking out what seems like 
 a never-ending stream of enemy troops along the way. You'll also get an opportunity to raid Russian 
 farmhouses in search of terrorist leaders, disguise yourself as the enemy, and, in one sequence, 
 don a brushlike ghillie suit and crawl through the brush as enemy troops and tanks roll right past 
 you. It's a breathtaking moment in a campaign filled with breathtaking moments. Unfortunately, 
 it's about half as long as the average shooter, and there are plenty of sequences where you wish 
 there were just one or two more hills to take. 
  
  Of course, if you're looking for longevity, that's where the multiplayer comes in. Up to 18 players 
 can get online and get into a match on one of 16 different maps. Many of the levels are taken from 
 portions of the single-player and they offer a healthy mix of wide-open, sniper-friendly areas 
 and tight, almost cramped spaces where grenades and shotguns are the order of the day. There are 
 six game modes to choose from. The old standby is team deathmatch, though you can also play in 
 a free-for-all deathmatch, which isn't as much fun as the team modes. The other modes are more 
 objective-oriented, and a couple of those have you lugging bombs across the map to blow up enemy 
 equipment, or preventing the enemy from blowing up your base. Others have you capturing control 
 points. Lastly, you can change up the game rules a bit with a hardcore setting that makes weapons 
 more realistically damaging or an old-school mode that puts weapons on the ground as pickups and 
 generally moves away from the simulation side of things. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: phil1472
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 8, 2008 9:55 am PT
Review:  INTEL LOCATIONS LIST:
  
  1 - Prologue Crew Expendable - After taking out the bridge crew, follow the team
  down into the 
 ship. Investigate the bunker room where the drunk terrorist
  stumbles out of. Two sleeping terrorists should be inside.
  
  2 - Prologue Crew Expendable 
 - The team will use a flash bang in the cargo
  hold At the bottom of the stairs in that hold is the intel. It is out in the
  open and hard to 
 miss if you're looking for it
  
  3 - Act I Black Out - At the start of the mission, there is a shack to your
  left with two terrorists. 
 Check the shack's interior for the intel.
  
  4 - Act I Black Out - In the building where the informant is check the
  bathroom on the second 
 floor.
  
  5 - Act I Charlie Don't Surf - In the basement of the first objective
  building, Check the small room in the basement
  corner (marked with a Kalashnikov silhouette) 
 for the intel.
  
  6 - Act I Charlie Don't Surf - After clearing the first building and getting orders to retake the 
 TV station,
  there will be some intense house-to-house fighting. There is a wide street in front of the
  station; 
 before crossing it completely, head "map-east" and take out a terrorist sniping post. The intel 
 is on the scond floor of that sniping post.
  
  7 - Act I Charlie Don't Surf - After crossing the heavily guarded main road
  towards the TV station, 
 there is a building next to the pick-up truck with the
  mounted machinegun; head up the stairs of that building and check its second
  floor for the intel.
 
  
  8 - Act I The Bog - After evading the machine guns and entering the apartment
  complex, you head up to the second floor. Clear the area of enemies and look
  for a silhouette 
 of a Kalashnikov with two crossed sickles. Allied NPCs should
  breach the door for you so you can enter it. If you missed which door was
  breached, the room 
 in question has a checkboard floor. The intel is in there.
  Note, if you leave for the next block to rescue the tank, you have gone too
  far ahead.
  
 
  9 - Act I The Bog - After using the Javelin to destroy enemy vehicles, you
  proceed into a street market composed of narrow streets. From the broken
  fence, you make two 
 lefts to a central market that has an upright
  refrigerator; turn around from the fridge and march straight back towards a
  wall. The intel 
 is behind a stack of boxes.
  
  10 - Act I The Hunted - After the enemy chopper detects and springs an ambush
  on the team, you 
 go into a house that will get flashbanged and rushed by
  enemies. Once you survive that ordeal and leave the house, you will be in the
  middle of some 
 farm buildings; look for a dwelling with a Russian soda machine
  next to its entrance. The intel is inside that building. Note you should get
  the intel before 
 you encounter any attack dogs.
  
  ---
  11 - Act I The Hunted - After going through both greenhouses, there is a wreck
  of a building 
 to your left Work your
  way into that building and then go to the small section covered by a sheet
  metal roof; the intel 
 is in there. If you reach the barn to fight off the
  enemy chopper with Stingers, you went too far 
  
  12 - Act I War Pig - After your friendly 
 tank runs over the car, check the
  multi-level building on the inner corner (it will be on your right side if the
  objective marker 
 serves as map-north) . The staircase is in a multi-use
  building (commerical on the bottom, residential on the top) . Check the second
  floor of the building 
 for the intel.
  
  13 - Act I War Pig - Check the multi-level building on the outer corner --
  basically across 
 the street from the previous intel. This building's staircase
  is in a dry-cleaning store. Again, it's on the second story.
  
  14 - Act I War Pig - Right 
 before the enemy T-72, you have to storm a building
  with a machinegun nest. This nest overlooks a short alley filled with civilian
  cars. Investigate 
 the second story of the "machinegun nest" building for the
  intel.
  
  15 - Act I Shock and Awe - Once you rendezvous with the advance recon team,
  check the corners 
 of the room they were holed up in. The intel should be on
  the second level of their building.
  
  
  16 - Act I Shock and Awe - After jumping down from 
 the building where the
  advance recon team was holed up in, check the building directly straight
  ahead. Like previous 
 intels, check the second story of that building. It's in
  a closet if you're honestly lost.
  
  17 - Act II Safehouse - After clearing the forest (which 
 takes all the five
  seconds of your life) , check the first building you see -- it's next to the
  church and has a 
 satellite dish attached to it. As before, check the second
  level of the house for the intel.
  
  18 - Act II Safehouse - Check the building next to the 
 water tower. It is in
  one of the restaurant booths on the first floor.
  
  19 - Act II All Ghillied Up - Atop the ladder in the church. Let the allied
  sniper take the 
 lead so he can open the door for you. Otherwise, there's no
  way in. Get the intel quickly before the chopper appears, or you may not be
  able to get to it 
 later.
  
  
  20 - Act II All Ghillied Up - Mid-way through the container maze, a makeshift
  camp full of terrorists 
 will have intel on a table made from 55 gallon drums.
  If you want the intel, you may have to kill the enemies if you are not able to
  sneak by them. 
 Note if you enter the next area and start sneaking under the
  trucks, you may not be able to go back and grab this intel.
  
  
  21 - Act II All Ghillied 
 Up - After sneaking under the trucks, you come to a
  building with an enemy sniper on a fire escape. Brain (headshot) the sniper
  and check the top 
 of the fire escape for a small room with the intel.
  
  22 - Act II One Shot, One Kill - After downing the enemy chopper, you need to
  carry your allied 
 NPC to the extraction point. During this sequence, you will
  enter a building to attempt to lose your pursuers. Fight off the terrorists
  and attack dogs 
 inside. Once you leave that building, locate the gray fire
  escape on that building and grab the intel at the top. You need to hurry back
  down before the 
 timer (or your ally) expires.
  
  23 - Act II One Shot, One Kill - Carry the allied NPC "MacMillian" to the
  Pripyat ferris wheel 
 but do not place him on the highlighted spot on the hill
  yet; you need to scout around this area so you know where to go once enemies
  appear and general 
 mayhem occurs. Put the ferris wheel behind your character
  and look for a side street towards the southeast (use your HUD compass) . There
  should be a non-nondescript 
 (closed) door to a sad looking Communist Russian
  apartment building. This door will open later during the firefight (enemies
  are spawned from 
 there) . Place the allied NPC at the spot on the hill and
  prepare for hordes of enemies. Once enemy choppers appear to fast-rope troops,
  the aforementioned 
 door will be open. Head into that room now and grab the
  intel on the floor. If you are having difficulty grabbing this intel, you can
  always stage select 
 and use the easiest (Recruit) difficulty to survive the
  enemy onslaught.
  
  24 - Act II Sins of the Father - After securing the diner, you will enter a
  Russian diner. Immediately 
 check the tables to your left (upon entering) to
  grab the intel. Once the screen fades for "uniform change", you cannot get
  this intel.
  
 
  25 - Act II Sins of the Father - After the target flees into a Russian 
  village, the team stays behind to do rear guard while you pursue the target
  into a side alley. 
 Your chase leads to an area which is covered by several
  snipers and many terrorists on the ground. A red dumpster and a green car
  signifies where you 
 can go left (suicide) or right (flanking route) . Take a
  right at that fork and look for a side staircase leading up to a house room. A
  few terrorists 
 will be in there (it is a kitchen of sorts) . The intel is on
  the table. Grab it quickly and continue your pursuit.
  
  26 - Act III Ultimatum - After destroying 
 the power tower, your team will
  infiltrate a Russian base. Pass through the breach in the wall and follow the
  allied NPCs through 
 the motor pool. Across the base's courtyard, there is a
  large room where a majority of the enemies will come from (it's basically
  their spawn point) . 
 Fight into it and turn right. The intel is in a small
  partition to the side.
  
  27 - Act III All In - After destroying the first enemy BMP but before going
  past the silo's 
 gate, check the alleyway behind the building to the gate's
  right. The intel is at the end of the alley by some weapons.
  
  28 - Act III All In - Once 
 inside the silo base, there are three missile tanks
  (not BMPs - those are your targets) parked in the base. Align your map with
  compass (true) north 
 and use your main HUD compass to identify the
  southernmost missile tank. South of that missile tank, there are three
  buildings on your map 
 (when you pause and check your mini-map) . Investigate
  the center southern building (it will be an army warehouse) for intel just
  lying on the floor. 
 Quickly grab it and get out of there before the enemy
  choppers shred everything.
  
  29 - Act III No Fighting in the War Room - Follow the ally NPC "Price" and
  drop into the locker/shower/bathroom 
 facilities. Exit that area and you find
  you can take the left or right; take the left route so you come across a
  darkened meeting room 
 when the hallway starts to angle (the right goes to the
  base's kitchen and is a longer way around) . The intel is inside the dark
  meeting room (left 
 route) .
  
  30 - Act III No Fighting in the War Room - Once you breach the wall to get
  into the launch control room, go straight ahead, up the stairs to your left,
  and look for a 
 small meeting room that has the intel on a table within. Time
  should be tight, but a checkpoint occurs just before blowing the wall, giving
  you (technically) 
 infinite chances to re-attempt your search. Note you can
  probably abort the launch and then grab the intel, if time is really tight. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AmayaPapaya
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 3, 2008 11:45 am PT
Review:  When i first got COD4, (Call of Duty 4) I had gotten 2 other games. Those other two were Metroid 
 Prime 3 (Wii game) and, Assassins Creed. At first i just glanced at it and beat the other two games. 
 I didn't even open it un-till one of my friends on X-box live told me too! Within 10 minuets of 
 playing I thought it was twice as good as both those games! If it's single player or online play 
 you will play atleast 24 hours on each (I'm just saying that because of single player) . 
  The only bad thing about this game is single player. It is way to short. Once it ends you will 
 be upset. The story line was amazing, the action and suspense are unbeatable! So you start off 
 as a new recruit of the SAS (Special Air Service, the principal special forces unit of the British 
 Army [Wikipedia definition] ) . From your position you, run out of a Sinking Boat, Escape from a 
 whole army wanting to kill you, Save millions of lives, Experience an atomic explosion! Cry at 
 an epic ending! Every mission you play is one to remember! Everything in single player wants you 
 to replay it on a harder difficulty! 
  BUT! What about online play? Online play is much greater than single player. If your the type to 
 wait for your enemy in a corner and kill it, be my guest. If your the type to kill your enemy many 
 a distance away with a sniper bullet, be my guest! Or do you simply like to rush out there and 
 kill everyone you see! COD4 is suitable for everyone who will play a First Person! Before you start 
 your match, Choose your weapon, choose you perks , choose you grenade! Perks? As you play COD4 
 you raise in rank to up to 55 levels. As you level up you get these perks. They are the things 
 that make COD4, COD4. But what are they? You can have three at a time for starters. They are extra 
 things you can equip. For Example, Everyone knows that if you are a sniper there is a big problem 
 with people knifing you or shooting you in the back while your doing your thing. But in COD4 you 
 would think ,"Why not plant a few explosives,!". Thats right! In COD4 you have explosives. As your 
 enemy creeps up on you they think, "Easy Kill!". But that's when they hear a sort of tap. Then 
 BAM! An automatic kill from a Claymore! Thats when you think, "Easy Kill!!" But there is way more 
 to choose! You may choose up to, C4, Hold Three Grenades At Once, Increase Your Bullet Speed, Increase 
 Your Bullet Power! Choose That And WAAAAY More!
  
  Gameplay: 10/ Awesome Gameplay. Do so many different things in multiplayer. The control moves perfectly 
 with you!
  
  Graphics:10/ Think of Graphics better on the 360 or PS3! Go on try!
  
  Story: 9/ Excellent story mode but its too short! But everything else is nothing other than Amazing!
 
  
  Sound: 10/ The sound is unbeatable! Like real life.
  
  Worth Buying: Yes! A must have if you have online!
  
  Audience: Although it's rated M, its 
 content is closer to T. So it ranges from 13 up.
  
  Conclusion: Have it or your a too much die hard halo fan who is angry COD4 got all your rewards 
 and got more online play! So That tells you that COD4 is a game worth everything and more!
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: brightshadow525
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 2, 2008 8:40 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is hands down amazing. The single player mode is truly epic as it goes through the 
 story of "modern warfare" mainly focusing around the Middle East and Russia. Single player offers 
 4 different difficulties, however, also at the beginning, you are sent through a target practice 
 course which after completed, will recommend a difficulty for you. It helps you realize if you're 
 actually good or not. The single player isn't the longest game you'll play, but it was very satisfying 
 and to the point. There wasn't any drag, and every mission seemed different than the last. They 
 mixed it up fairly well the whole way through. The single player was solid and fun. 
  
  Multiplayer is where Call of Duty 4 shines above a lot of other games. The maps are great, and 
 it's rare that I find myself wanting to skip a map. They range from large to small, for whatever 
 situation. There are plenty of game modes to suit your needs, for whatever you want to play. Normal 
 team deathmatch, a counterstike-esque mode called Search and Destroy, Hardcore modes for added 
 difficulty, and old school modes for a more arcade like feel. I'm sure there are some I missed, 
 but most of the game modes build off of those few aspects. There is a vast array of weapons each 
 with different pros and cons. You'll find yourself switching back and forth between guns to find 
 just the right combination of guns and accessories. Perks are one of the biggest features in the 
 multiplayer. 
  
  Perks are special abilities you gain after becoming a certain level. These perks help you in different 
 ways and become very useful and further expands the possibilities and combinations with guns and 
 accessories. Experience points are gained for several things: kills, kill assists, calling in air 
 support, planting/defusing bombs, or completing challenges. Challenges are just what they're called. 
 They are certain tasks that require you to do certain things, sometimes with a gun, or special 
 things like killing someone when blowing up a car. Challenges help you earn experience as well 
 as add-ons to your guns. 
  
  Experience points cannot be lost, and you are able to level up to level 55. However, once at 55, 
 you have the choice to go into prestige mode. Prestige mode is when you restart everything, your 
 level, your guns, your perks, everything. You go back to as if you just started again. You can 
 then level up to 55 again. You can prestige 10 times. It's great to have had all the weapons and 
 perks and suddenly go back to nothing and show your true skill with your limited arsenal. 
  
  All in all, Call of Duty 4 is great, the single player is solid, and the multi player will 
 have you hooked for hours and hours. It's too fun to put down. I would recommend this game to anyone 
 who likes FPS's, and even people who don't. It is really a must have for any 360 owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BladeWolf12
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 2, 2008 5:32 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is good because it's realistic. There's no being sent off on your own "because one 
 man will have a better chance of surviving" (I'm looking at you AVP:2) , you're always with at 
 least one other npc ally, and because of this, it feels like like a much more friendly game. 
 
  
  The graphics are amazing, the first time I played it blew me away. The guns are created in imaculate 
 detail, and they feel as deadly as they should in real life. There is also a noticeable difference, 
 say between a MP5 sub-machine gun and a M16 Assault Rifle. The levels are well made and the objectives 
 are never boring or repetetive ( Assassin's Creed *cough*) .
  
  The story behind it is deep and full of shocks, twists and emotion. Yes you read that right, emotion. 
 By the end of the game, you feel like part of the squad, like Captain Price and Gaz are real people. 
 I'm not ashamed to say i cried at the end of Call of Duty 4, it was one of the greatest game endings 
 ever.
  
  The multiplayer, is where it really stands out, you can change and tweak your classes until you 
 create the perfect soldier . Want to sneak around stabbing the enemy players? Slap on a silencer 
 and a UAV jammer and off you go. Want to blow peoples' heads off with ease? Grab yourself a Barret 
 50. cal and watch the headshots roll in. There's no end to how much fun multiplayer can be, no two 
 games are ever the same.
  
  There is only one thing that is bad about Call of Duty 4. After you finish the campaign, you realise 
 it wouldn't have been a bad thing for a few more levels, because the end leaves you wanting more. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrgiggles24
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 16, 2008 7:35 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing! The graphics are superb, and very realistic. The sound makes you feel apart 
 of the action, bullets whizzing by your head, a flashbang grenade goes off and makes you deaf and 
 leaves a ringing noise in your head. Also the game has scripted moments that make it feel if they 
 are happening right now without warning. Just a few examples are, your helicopter getting shot 
 down, a bridge collapsing with you on it. This all comes together with great controls and gameplay. 
 I have never played a Call of Duty game because I don't like WWI or II shooters, and I beat it 
 on Veteran, the hardest difficulty. Also this game has offline, one thing few games these days 
 have. No co-op but great offline matches to be had with friends. Also this is one of the few games 
 I play online. The leveling up system is genius, I lost great deals of sleep reaching level 55. 
 If you are looking for a good shooter than look no further. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSBFan12
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 1, 2008 4:06 pm PT
Review:  In this game you are in the Iraq war and you switch between Americans and the British. If you are 
 the Americans you go out in the sandy cities of Iraq and you get hit by the atomic bomb and most 
 of them die. If you are the British you are in Russia fighting the Iraqs that captured Russia. 
 The game is really about killing the Iraqs and regaining land. Also you can the leaders of Iraq 
 you only kill two one in one shot one kill and the last one in the last level. It is rated M because 
 it if you shoot them in the head blood splats on the wall. Your main partners are Gaz, Capt. Price, 
 and Sgt Griggs they all die in the last level that they all get shot beside Capt. Price nobody 
 knows if he died or not. The game is very easy on the diffuculty settings of Easy, Medium, and 
 Hard. Then it gets hard on the Vetnary diffuculty setting. The bad of this game is that it is the 
 4th sequal to the Call of Duty series. The also good part is that the game is not during World 
 War 2. The bad is that the game is very short. This is why I rate this game 9.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supervegeta07
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 1, 2008 6:32 am PT
Review:  this game is so cool even the way that xbox live is i never get tired of it. its the best i would 
 keep playing if my xbox live didnt run out. but i still love it even the graphics is the bomb. 
 you have to buy this game, i had a golden sniper but then i lost it because i went prestige. you 
 decide if you want to go on prestige or not. i love this game buy it and never trade it in because 
 you will never get tired of war games. that's how good call of duty 4 is, its soo fun i love it 
 and you should love it next. the storyline is ok but its still fun especailly all the stuff you 
 can do but on veteran is ridiculously hard and only a true player can beat the game its dam hard 
 unbelievable. you have to try it. If you get it your gonna thank me for my persuading, its real 
 fun you have to try it dam, ok soo get it trust me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BeastEator
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 31, 2008 11:06 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is an AMAZING game. The graphics and sound effects are perfect. the gameplay feels 
 just right and the controls are spot on. Every weapon feels very different and feels powerful and 
 the recoil for each gun is well captured and portrayed.
  The single-player game mode is amazing and will leave you wanting more if you stop halfway through. 
 It is intertaining all the way through and really gives you the feeling that you are there. Each 
 mission is pretty short (about 20-40 mins. each) but there is a large number and variety of missions. 
 The AI are very smart and actually use their brains to try to kill you. Never will you have a moment 
 where you think to yourself "Oh, that was dumb" There are many difficulty levels to choose and 
 the easiest will have you breeze through the game with very few deaths. The hardest difficulty 
 level is ALMOST impossible. I have beat many of the missions on the hardest difficulty but cannot 
 manage a couple of them. It is a real challenge and will keep you busy for hours.
  The multiplayer, belive it or not, is even better than the singleplayer gameplay. It will keep 
 you intertained for days and days of gameplay. There are many strategies you can use and being 
 able to customize your abilities, weapons, and weapon loadouts allows for you to personalize the 
 gameplay even more. There are a huge variety of different maps and locations. Every weapon is tuned 
 perfectly and that includes weapons like the grenades, claymores, C-4, and many more aswell as 
 the guns themselves.
  This is one of the best games of all time and will keep you intertained for months. Everything 
 is perfectly designed and flows smoothly. It was a great idea to bring Call of Duty to the modern 
 era and I hope Activision continue on this trend of making AMAZING first-person shooters! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ssr1995
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 30, 2008 12:02 pm PT
Review:  The Call of Duty series Always cought my attention over the years, but when I got my Xbox 360, 
 I might as well get it, and when I started playing I realized I was missing out on war fun. The 
 graphics were so realistic, it may be more realistic than life it's self (Thats how good it is) . 
 The storyline is very strong and very cinematic, it was like the best stroyline I've ever seen. 
 Sadly though, your guy that you're playing as has the name of Soap. The voice acting might be as 
 good as real life game and the ending is great, its where you're saving the world from some crazed 
 terriost Anyways, the gun fires are more realistic than ever before. The controls to the game is 
 easy to pick up, but if I play Halo 3 after playing this, I think the reload button is a grenade 
 button. The online play is amazing also, the rank system is awesome mostly because of you earning 
 weapons, perks, and after all of that, you prestige and do it again like 10 more times. But the 
 single player's veteran mode is challenging and fun. Back to online play, there is a lot of online 
 modes to do like Team Deathmatch, Free-For-All, Domination, Sabotage, and more. But a bad thing 
 is that you can get martyrdom and get a cheap kill like the cheap person you are, last stand is 
 better than that stupid martyrdom, you actually have to earn your kills. Also while you're playing 
 the single player, you can find enemy intel and this earns you cheats and acheivemants (Yay) . This 
 is a very awesome game and because I loved this game so much, I bought 2 and 3 also, but the're 
 not as good as 4. If you don't like this game then screw you, its a wonderful game for first person 
 shooter fans. The bad thing about this game is... wait, there is no bad thing, and no, the whole 
 martyrdom and spawn killing thing is not that bad. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpideR_CentS
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 30, 2008 8:28 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 may be the best 1st person shooter I have ever played. I've played em all too (HalfLife, 
 Rainbow 6, Halo, Bioshock, Etc etc) . Everyother FPS its seems like I love the single player but 
 had the VS. or vice versa. Not the case with this game. It excels in everyway. 
  
  I will start with the multiplayer. When I bought this game I did so because so many people on my 
 friends list where playing CoD4 online. The leveling system offered here is second to none. As 
 you keep playing online you gain levels. As you gain levels you unlock new abilities & "perks". 
 The perks are evreything from more power in your shots to dropping a frag when you are killed. 
 There are many differant types of game modes, also. Very addictive and very fun multiplayer. The 
 community leaves something to be desired, but thats not the games fault. The only fault I give 
 multiplayer is that there is not Co-op mode. That is why I gave this game a 9.5 instead of a 10. 
 
  
  The single player on this game is also amazing. The are so many "Holy ----!" moments that I lost 
 track. Awesome immersion into the game. I could probally play through the single player 10 times 
 and still have fun. 
  
  If you are on the fence about buying this game just do it. Its 100% worth it, one of the best games 
 so far this gen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ghostradomas
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 29, 2008 8:09 pm PT
Review:  Before i get blasted by fanboys i probably should go ahead and say that Call of Duty 4 is a great 
 game, possibly the best in the series. However i have noticed flaws that have somehow escaped most 
 of the reviews ive read. First and foremost, the game has a great single player mode which is a 
 strong point in any fps game. That said the story mode is short and can be completed in a single 
 day of play time. Still it provides a good amount of entertainment and does more than suffice. 
 The multiplayer is where call of duty gets most of its attention from. Many have dubbed it the 
 halo killer and such, which is fine because the game does stand up to halo 3 in terms of quality.... however 
 the lack of cooperative story mode and split screen multiplayer do drag its score down a bit. In 
 this new age of video games, we all have pretty high expectations of new games, and rightfully 
 so. It is my belief that pretty much every fps game should include some form of cooperative play, 
 online, off, or both. I know the most fun ive ever had in an fps game is coop, and i found the 
 lack of coop in this game disappointing. Back to the online competitive multiplayer.... i really 
 do dig the cod4 multiplayer, but i do hate how some perks unbalance/screw up gameplay. For instance 
 Juggernaut and martyrdom, i just think the game would be MUCH better without those two perks. Also 
 the M16 kills in one burst with stopping power. With a little rebalancing, i think Cod4 could easily 
 surpass halo 3, but as of now ill stick to halo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: riotingfight
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 29, 2008 12:59 pm PT
Review:  Before I play any game online I first play the campaign. COD4 has a great story and is very interesting. 
 The graphics are stellar. The fighting intense. But in this game, it all comes down to its multiplayer. 
 It is the best online game I have ever played, (other then mmorpgs) , and will keep you playing 
 nonstop. When you play you rank up, when you rank up you unlock weapons, weapon mods, (such as; 
 red dot sight, ACOG scope, different camos, so on...) , and perks. These perks can really help you 
 out on the battlefield and give you a different gameplay style so the game doesn't get old. The 
 highest level you can get to is 55. But the fun doesn't end anywhere close to there. Once level 
 55, you unlock prestige mode, this is where you give up your general rank and go back to level 
 one, and from there its level 55 again. It is fun to do prestige mode because you can see how fast 
 you get up to level 55 this time around and how much you have improved. Also there are a bunch 
 of different modes of games like, team deathmatch, free for all, search and destroy, hardcore team 
 death match. Hardcore is a very fun game mode for those who like a challange, In this mode you 
 can not take like a clip before dying, its like there or five shots and your on the ground. Also 
 for each mode there is a different playlist of maps making the game fun for each game mode. There 
 you have it! Three cheers to Call of Duty 4!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spartanpride83
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 29, 2008 10:52 am PT
Review:  This game is great. Infinity Ward did a great job on making this game. If you have to own one shooting 
 game for the Xbox 360, let it be this one.
  
  The gameplay is nice and fast paced (especially in multiplayer mode) , but isn't too fast. 
  
 
  
  The controls are simple. You can pick up and learn the controls in less than 10 minutes of playing. 
 Also, if you don't like the default controls, you can go change then. Only problem is that you 
 can't fully customize the controls. You can only change between the preset controls that IW has 
 given you.
  
  The sound is good and it will come in handy, especially in heated combat. You're teammates will 
 shout orders, usually telling where an enemy is or when a grenade has been thrown. While we're 
 on grenades, if you listen close enough, you'll be able to hear the grenade hit the ground and 
 roll next to you. That way you won't be taken by surprise when the grenade explodes in front of 
 you. Also, another thing about the teammates, when they talk, the volume of their voice gets louder 
 when you are closer. So if you are far away, you'll barely be able to hear them, but when you're 
 next to them, you can hear them loud and clear.
  
  The single player mode is very in depth. You'll take control of one of two soldiers: one from the 
 USMC and the other from the SAS. As you progress through the game, you occasionally switch characters. 
 You're goal is to take down the Russian Ultranationalist. The game will take some time, but not 
 a real long time. As you progress, the levels get harder and harder, so you'll be challenged.
 
  
  Online mode is a blast. In a way, it's kinda like an RPG because when you first play online, you're 
 given a rank. After you complete a match online, you're given experience points. When you get enough 
 EXP, you'll advance in rank. As you advance more in rank and level, you'll unlock more weapons 
 and perks (which are little advantages you can give yourself) . Once you reach lvl. 55, you'll have 
 an option to go through Prestige Mode. If you do, all your unlockables, weapons, perks, etc will 
 be gone and you'll have to start from scratch at level 1, but in return you're rewarded with a 
 nice medal.
  
  
  Overall, this game is great. This is a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raptortank4
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 29, 2008 1:03 am PT
Review:  This game is amazing. You'll love the story to it. The story is short, but that won't subtract 
 from the high value of it. When you've finally beaten the game, after not being able to put it 
 down for hours, you'll feel the relief from the intense plot. 
  
  The multi-player will last you forever as you'll keep coming back to it. The nice balance of the 
 game and the large selection of weapons and customization is something to brag about.
  
  The game is well put together and has no major or minor flaws that take away from its value. The 
 only thing that could be done to Call of Duty 4 is improvements, not bug fixes. Too bad Call of 
 Duty 5 is being done by an entirely different team.
  
  The game is something that would sound too good to be true if I were to explain it in detail so 
 take the advice of the many 9 and higher player ratings and buy the game!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: freakyFRAGGER5
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 28, 2008 11:08 am PT
Review:  This is one of the best games I have ever played, even if I compare it to games from other categories, 
 such as RPG or strategy. There are so many things that this game does absolutely perfectly, that 
 the few flaws that it has are completely overshadowed. I'll start with the first thing you will 
 notice when you start to play this game: the graphics.
  
  This game looks as realistic as they come. In the first scene, as you're flying in a helicopter, 
 your commander is puffing a cigar across from you. His face lights up in the dark every time he 
 takes a drag and it looks absolutely amazing. And that goes for everything else in the game as 
 well; the explosions, the guns, the environments, everything.
  
  The gameplay is just a good. Every level is exciting and tense, making the overall game more than 
 just shooting the bad guys, although there is plenty of that too. None of the levels ever seemed 
 repetitive either, which happens a lot in FPS games. You go in, shoot the bad guys, disarm bomb/ 
 assassinate target/ protect target/ blow up target/ retrieve intel, escape. It sounds like a lot 
 of scenarios that are quite different, but when you're in there doing it, they all seem to blend 
 together. CoD4 manages to keep them separate and memorable by adding smaller objectives that stretch 
 out a mission as well as guide you through it, along with "interesting" ways of accomplishing them. 
 Oh, and by interesting, I mean totally freakin' awesome, like mini gun helicopter turret awesome! 
 
  
  All these things add up to a really cool game, one that you would probably want to get, but its 
 the online multiplayer that seals the deal. As you play online, youre player gets experience points 
 for winning matches, defendings areas, and the like. As you gain experience, you rank up and gain 
 access to different guns, gun attachments, and even abilities, such as dropping a grenade the moment 
 you die as a nice surprise for anyone unlucky enough to be in the area. This brings the experience 
 of an RPG to the modern FPS, which makes for one sweet game. 
  
  The only problem that I have with this game is that you can't interact with cover like you can 
 in other shooters, such as Gears of War and Rainbow Six: Vegas 2. This isn't so much a flaw with 
 the game as it is just a difference in style. However, having just played Rainbow vegas 2, I felt 
 absolutely crippled for the first ten minutes of playing CoD4. I just couldn't understand how a 
 shooter could not have this feature in the gameplay. I looked in the manual to check out the control 
 scheme and I couldn't find it anywhere. I was absolutely horrified! Ok, ok, I know; looking back, 
 I may have overreacted a little. But I challenge you to play Vegas and then CoD4 and not think 
 the exact same thing. 
  
  Even though I made a big deal out of it, the not environment cover thing is definitely not a big 
 deal. Most people might not even notice it. The only reason I mentioned it is because it is just 
 about the biggest fault this game has. This game is a step away from being a masterpiece and should 
 be owned by everyone alive (if you like shooters that is) .
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tigermanty
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 28, 2008 8:43 am PT
Review:  So this action fps is the most amazing game i have played and it is excellent. Okay i have many 
 points about this. Amazing sound which makes you believe in the game you are actually playing. The 
 guns sound like they were sampled by real guns. The graphics look almost real on the hd mode. The 
 game is full of hundreds of complex and fun mission's which you will enjoy over and over again. 
 For people new to fps there is different difficulty's. If you don't know what difficulty to choose 
 the level. The first level tells you what difficulty you should have by running a test . One thing 
 that i love so much is the controller rumbles when something happens it vibrates. When you are 
 dying it rumbles to your heart beat. The same happens when you steady your gun when snipering. The 
 online play is amazing and the story line rocks. What can i say about anything bad about the game 
 truly amazing. The controls is really amazing many pc fans are saying the controls on the console 
 is rubbish but seriously i can't see that. There are certain cheats that you can get by intel which 
 is everywhere in the game. I salute you infinity ward. Halo 3 douns't make me fell this way. A 
 truly amazing game.
  
  tigerman 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RPGisTHEbest
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 27, 2008 8:45 pm PT
Review:  First off, the graphics are probely the best you will see for a long time on a FPS. Second the 
 gameplay exedes every standard out there, the shooter mechanics are not your average "Aim and Fire" 
 you can aculy shoot and see where your shooting (in other words bullets dont just look like they 
 faded away) and the aiming is sooo realistic. The controlls are very fluid, and the online multiplayer 
 options for gamemodes is hudge, the create a class mechanic is well developed, you can select witch 
 weopn you would like to use, customize it with atachment, camofaulge, select your pistol, and have 
 up to three perks, the first is your invetory perk like claymores, RPG's and so on, the second 
 is your 1st special ability like extra damage, more health carry 2 weapons and more, the third 
 is your 2nd special ability like, shoot through deeper surfaces, drop a grenade before you die 
 and pull out your pistol to get more kills before you die. The online multiplayer is as intense, 
 exiting, and surprising as it will get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nicknees93
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 25, 2008 5:28 pm PT
Review:  Where do I begin? Should I start with the amazingly polished graphics? The intriguing storyline 
 which really sucks you in? Or maybe the incredibly deep multiplayer? I'll start with the graphics. 
 I've never seen anything quite like the graphics in Call of Duty 4. There are tons of guns and 
 each one looks and animates amazingly. Even the scopes on the weapons are sensational. Next, the 
 story. This game's storyline is short, however it is strikingly intriguing. The first scene really 
 sucks you in, and from there on out you really feel like 'Soap' McTavish. In the single player 
 campaign, you play as both the S. A. S or the U. S. Marines. Both experiences offer different characters 
 and a real-feeling battle experience. This game will make you appreciate what soldiers really go 
 through. Finally, this games multiplayer is amazing. Not to mention it is the most played on Xbox 
 LIVE. The multiplayer will take you through, if you choose, ten tiers of leveling. It is called 
 Prestige Mode. You rank to 55 to gain access to the next Prestige. However, this is an optional 
 feature. This is because every time you choose to Prestige, you must start over from the beginning 
 of the leveling system. Meaning all the guns, perks, scopes, attachments, and challenges you completed 
 and earned disappear. This leveling system is not for everyone and that is why it is an optional 
 decision. Overall, Call of Duty 4 is the best war shooter to date. It does have its downfalls in 
 a short campaign and a multiplayer leveling system which does not suit everyone. But even with 
 these few short comings, Call of Duty 4 is definitely a game which should be a part of everyone's 
 collection. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sack_of_Llama
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 25, 2008 5:51 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 took the cake this past year in gaming for me. Befor that i played Halo 2 and 3 
 and was blown away (literally) by CoD4. The game is much more fast-paced, the campaign is challenging 
 and fun, the multiplayer has some really good maps that keep the games as even as possible and 
 the matchmaking system seems to be pretty fair. the guns are all fun to use, everyone has their 
 own preference (i prefer to use the M4 Carbine, that does the trick for me) . There's really nothing 
 bad for me to say about this game. I love the arcade mode as well. For anyone that hasn't already 
 played this game, don't even bother renting it, go straight for the buy, you'll definitely get 
 your money worth. Simple as that, there's nothing else to say, the game is freakin' awesome! I 
 need 20 more characters so that i can submit my review so consider this my 20 characters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Frenzyd109
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 24, 2008 5:57 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare for the Xbox 360 is a sequel to the previous Call of Duty games. 
 You play as two characters, one, a British SAS soldier fighting Russian Ultra Nationalists. The 
 other, Marine Sergeant Paul Jackson, fighting in the Middle East. You only play as him for about 
 1/3rd of the campaign. The single player portion of Call of Duty 4 is only about 7 hours long, 
 very short, but very epic. I can't say much about it without giving any spoilers. 
  
  Multiplayer is where Call of Duty 4 shines. You start off slow, but as you progress and level up, 
 more options are given to you such as new weapons and attachments, new game modes, and perks. Using 
 perks enhances the game too keep things interesting. Such as more weapon damage, or more frag grenades. 
 When you get more experienced in multiplayer, kill streaks reward you with the ability to call 
 in a UAV, or radar, an air strike, or a helicopter. 
  
  The graphics and sound are absolutely amazing. Arguably the most photo-realistic game on the 360. 
 Controls are very sturdy, and the frame rate runs around 60FPS. 
  
  This is a great game for any shooter or military fan to get. 9.5 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chesiercat
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 24, 2008 2:31 pm PT
Review:  I bought it after I rented it and beat the single player in just under 8 hours. I wish I could 
 have had a better more detailed world to play in. The best level I thought was the sniper training 
 mission and if the game was just a bunch of those all rolled into one I might have given this game 
 a better score. My favorite part of the game and one of the most intresting turns in the story 
 came right at the end with the addition to a gun slide and a slow down of everyone's speed but 
 mine. The multi-player is the driving force of this game I hear and all I do is wonder what makes 
 it so great? There is no 4 person split screen and there are no vehicles. The only thing I think 
 people like about this game's on-line is the fact you can rank up as fast as you do. There are 
 no save films and no customization of your character. There is no online couch! Which I love about 
 Halo3 and the amount of camping has only doubled my disappointment to the fact that the levels 
 are only as big as Rumble Pit from Halo3. I hope the next Call of Duty has more to offer everyone. 
 I want to play had with my friend on the same 62" screen online. At least make the split screen 
 for 2 people! I just to hi a hope for liking this game. I wish I liked it more. I have it to play 
 with my friends but we haven't played it for about 7 months. Maybe longer. Oh well they can't all 
 be great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jc_nieves
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 23, 2008 6:37 pm PT
Review:  I asked my girlfriend to buy this game for me last year (2007) for christmas, and I heard it was 
 a good game, so that could be a good gift for me, and it indeed was !
  
  I started playing the campaing and I immediately felt the action right away. At the first time 
 the campaing looks a bit confusing since you start playing with one character and end up playing 
 with other, in other time, but that is clear the second time you play the game (in some other harder 
 levels) .
  
  I don't think the campaing is very short. I can say that if you play the game in the easiest difficulty, 
 enemies are dummies like this. But try to play the game in Veteran or Hardened mode and tell me 
 again the game was short buddy.
  
  I ended up all the game levels in all difficulties, including veteran and I could not stop playing 
 it. 
  
  When I finally could fix my internet access I started playing the multiplayer mode, and that was 
 the start of my vice. I just cant stop playing. I'm on the Prestige Mode 4, Level 52 while I write 
 this and I just got addicted to this.
  
  Let's add I recently bought a 37" 1080p LCD, imagine that, graphics are just amazing!
  I started 
 to play again the campaing sometimes just to enjoy again all the art, I agree the graphics are 
 near reality.
  
  The characters moves are near human moves, while they die, jump, get a shot, etc. Sometimes I laugh 
 when a granade hits a mate and the guy jumps, its funny.
  
  Another thing I appreciate are the REAL guns that are used on the game, I learned a lot about guns 
 there.
  
  The bad is not all the guns on the campaing are available on the multiplayer mode and some combos 
 are not allowed, for example Red dot Sight with Silencer, cant do, just one or the other, .. .but 
 thats fine, we dont want an unstoppable guy there killing us all the time :) .
  
  Another thing is the scenarios are real locations in Chernobyl, creepy, I did a search on internet 
 for the locations and they are near to real, they captured all the buildings, the ferris wheel, 
 etc., thats incredible, you finish the game over and over again and you realize those places are 
 real after a while ago, creepy, but amazing, thanks Infinity.
  
  I absolutely recomend this title for your console and play a lot on xbox live mate, I'll be there 
 to play with you, for sure :) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firebird024
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 21, 2008 6:39 pm PT
Review:  First of all lets start with the campaign. Yes I must admit it is a little short, but if you get 
 into it, it isn't short if you catch what I'm saying. The first mission is like almost every game, 
 teaches you the basics. Then, when you get to more of the campaign, it makes you use every ability 
 that you can think of. One mission teaches you the way of the sniper. How you use camouflage and 
 be unseen by the enemy. Then the sniper mission makes you make a shot up to 800 meters to 1100 
 meters, you have to judge the wind and aim to the opposite side of the wind or wait for the wind 
 to die down. Also, one mission your in a C-140 shooting a Gatling gun, a 20mm cannon, and a 105mm 
 Howitzer. Very fun =] 
  
  Also with campaign you play as Marine Recon, and the British S. A. S both special ops for two different 
 countries. But like the other Call of Duty's you have to do missions for both countries and might 
 take time to do but eventually you will get it. 
  
  This game is one of the best online games I have seen. 
  
  In multiplayer you start at level 
 one like most of the multiplayer games do, and when you move up in ranks you get more weapons, 
 more pistols, and more perks to have more grenades, more ammo, more damage, or holding breathe 
 longer etc. The highest rank you can go to is 55, but the cool thing about this game is once you 
 get there, you can prestige, meaning you got from 55 back to level 1. Now your probably thinking 
 why would I want to go back to level 1 when I'm level 55, whats the point? Well, the point is instead 
 of having a 5 star as a general you a get a new symbol instead of the 5 star. You can only prestige 
 only 10 times. 
  
  Overall the campaign is short, but also very fun on your perspective. Multiplayer is one of the 
 greatest things about this game and can be very addicting. The final conclusion about this game 
 is, its a great game, and if your thinking about getting it, get it, you'll play it and be amazed, 
 you'll just sit there and say it was worth every penny to get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yodathewise
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 21, 2008 7:03 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is an FPS (first person shooter) game centered around fictional near 
 future conflict set in both Russia and a small Middle Eastern country. You begin the campaign with 
 a brief introduction as the president of the unnamed Middle Eastern country, and after being dragged 
 through an unknown city, you are executed in a cutscene on Live TV. Afterwards, the real campaign 
 begins. You play through the campaign as two main characters, Soap Mactavish, an S. A. S soldier, 
 and Paul Jackson, a US marine, switching between the two during most of the campaign, going from 
 Russia to the Middle East. There are several different difficulty levels, the hardest of which 
 is Veteran. I would say that it took me between 5-10 hours to complete the campaign on Veteran 
 mode, although that was as a first time Call of Duty player. The Multiplayer features many different 
 maps and game modes, with a max of 18 players in one game. There is also a levelling system, and 
 as you progress up the ranks, you unlock new game modes, weapons, skills and challenges. You can 
 get experience to level up by completing challenges, getting kills and capturing objectives. The 
 level max is 55. So, to sum it all up.....
  
  
  The Good: Great campaign, good graphics, superb audio, great multiplayer and brilliant value
 
  
  
  The Bad: The campaign is a tad too short
  
  
  The Ugly (glitches) : To be honest, I haven't spotted any game wrecking glitches, although one or 
 two times my screen started shaking madly when I sprinted into another player.
  
  MY SCORE: 97/100, losing 3 marks because of the short campaign and... Well... No game is perfect 
 :) A must buy for FPS lovers.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fyre8892
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 20, 2008 2:14 pm PT
Review:  The best Call of Duty game to date! Feature an immersing and exciting single player experience 
 (even if it is too short) . Co-op play is unfortunately not available. Various difficult settings 
 are reasonable stepsup, and the game even suggests the appropriate difficulty setting based on 
 a training exercise at the beginning of the game. Veteran difficulty will prove a challenge for 
 even the most skilled players, while recruit can be beaten by even the most inexperienced player.
 
  Online experience is the best around as far as FPS games go. Playing with friends online can be 
 a lot of fun, but only one player can play on a single console. The perk system, which allows you 
 to fight the way you want, is quite ingenious. The weapon and perk roster is remarkably (though 
 not entirely) balanced. Lag is very rare, and deathcams which show the player how they died help 
 prevent player frustration.
  Looks, plays, and feels excellent overall! A must have for FPS fans! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Roular
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 19, 2008 10:24 am PT
Review:  The best FPS to date. It's the ultimate online shooter out today. Tens of thousands of people playing 
 on different consoles. Beautiful graphics, hooking gameplay. And a taught story. What possibly 
 more, could you want from a FPS.
  Firstly, it impossible for a 1st person shooter to get a perfect score, only because you can see 
 your own character, therefore the design isn't perfect. Call of Duty 4 has got the whole world 
 in it's grip and it has good reason too. 
  I realise that cod4 isn't supposed to be the most realistic game, but it can't be like that and 
 be the fast-paced action shooter that it was designed to be. But sometimes the unrealistic pieces 
 get on your nerves. For starters you can live through, being blasted almost to death and then be 
 right as rain within seconds. And if your the one trying to kill that person then you could sometimes 
 waste whole magazines just trying to kill that someone.
  Online mode it quick, sharp and requires full attention. It sometimes has graphical problems when 
 someone dies, but then again no game has perfect online play. Perks and customization, provides 
 a wide variety of choice so no one is the same.
  Overall I gave COD4 a 9/10 beacuse it's an excellent shooter but it isn't all that great.
  
 
  Roular. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ReviewKing
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 19, 2008 9:49 pm PT
Review:  The Call of Duty series didn't catch my attention over the year, but when I got my Xbox 360, I 
 might as well get, and when I started playing I realized I was missing out on war fun. The graphics 
 were so realistic, it may be more realistic than life it's self (Thats how good it is) . The storyline 
 is very strong and very cinematic, it was like the best stroyline I've ever seen. Sadly though, 
 your guy that you're playing as has the name of Soap. The voice acting might be as good as a Legend 
 of Spyro game (That is good, if you ever played a Spyro game you would know) , and the ending is 
 great, its where you're... wait, I CAN'T TELL YOU THE ENDING, PLAY THE GAME YOURSELF YOU CHEAP PERSON 
 WHO WANTS TO BE SPOILED!!! Anyways, the gun fires are more realistic than ever before. The controls 
 to the game is easy to pick up, but if I play Halo 3 after playing this, I think the reload button 
 is a grenade button. The online play is amazing also, the rank system is awesome mostly because 
 of you earning weapons, perks, and after all of that, you prestige and do it again like 10 more 
 times. But the single player's veteran mode is a pain in the butt just like Mario Kart Wii's 150cc 
 mode. Back to online play, there is a lot of online modes to do like Team Deathmatch, Free-For-All, 
 Domination, Sabotage, and more. But a bad thing is that you can get martyrdom and get a cheap kill 
 like the cheap person you are, last stand is better than that stupid martyrdom, you actually have 
 to earn your kills. Also while you're playing the single player, you can find enemy intel and this 
 earns you cheats and acheivemants (Yay) . This is a very awesome game and because I loved this game 
 so much, I bought 2 and 3 also, but the're not as good as 4. If you don't like this game then screw 
 you, its a wonderful game for first person shooter fans. The bad thing about this game is... wait, 
 there is no bad thing, and no, the whole martyrdom thing is not that bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xongu
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 26, 2008 10:14 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is one of the best FPS games to date, and there have been a good few games since 
 then and COD 4 beats 'em all (games such as Battlefield: Bad Company, Frontlines: Fuel of War etc) .
 
  The single player story is pretty short but not when you play the game over on Veteran Difficulty 
 which does take some time and also the achievements can be challenging to get as a lot of them 
 are acquired through completing missions on Veteran. But apart from the story being short, it's 
 amazing. Amazing graphics, incredibly realistic and i would recommend buying the game for single 
 player alone.
  Now on to multiplayer. All i can say is AMAZING and HIGHLY ADDICTIVE.
  I'm level 40 now (haven't gone through prestige yet) and spent about 20 hours online and yet the 
 game doesn't get boring.
  The reason for me is that you're constantly unlocking new weapons, challenges and perks and unlocking 
 enhancements for your weapons (red dot sight, ACOG scope, grip etc) which makes the game more fun 
 and engaging. 
  One thing that i really liked about the game was that the guns feel realistic... they feel like 
 GUNS unlike some other FPS games. They're solid and don't jump about too much.
  But, there are a few things that annoyed me about the game such as the single player being ONLY 
 single player. If you could bring in a friend from XboxLive to help you complete those impossible 
 Veteran missions, it would have been nice.
  Also, if there have been achievements for online like reaching prestige mode the first time or 
 getting 1,000 kills online, it would have made the game live a lot longer for many people.
  Overall, BUY THIS GAME NOW, you won't regret it.
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  Gameplay: 9.5/10
  Singeplayer: 
 9/10
  Multiplayer: 10/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xbox360progamer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 18, 2008 3:56 pm PT
Review:  
  Call of Duty 4 has got to be the best first person shooter of the year (tied with Halo 3) . Unlike 
 the other call of duty's which took place in world war 2 this version is current with awesome guns, 
 spectacular graphics, and a powerful storyline which makes you feel like your the one defending 
 the world from death by nuke. As in the other call of duty's you play as more than one person (as 
 the Americans and united kingdom) . But something happens in Call of Duty 4 that never happened 
 in earlier ones, something that will leave you with your mouth agape (and wondering oh my god!!!) . 
 Overall a perfect game. You can play it again and again and not get tired of it. Also the voice 
 overs were very well done. The controls worked very well. You might even start to cry after the 
 ending.
  
  COD4 offers a fantastic, gripping, and cinematic campaign and a ridiculously fun multiplayer mode 
 with depth beyond any I've ever played.
  
  UP SIDE
  - Fantastic campaign.
  - Deep multiplayer mode. With a ranking system that's beyond genius offering constant challenges, 
 and real time promotions, this will keep you busy.
  - Amazing graphics (framerate is silky smooth) and extraordinary sound which puts you right in 
 the battlefield.
  
  DOWN SIDE
  - Campaign is on the short side.
  - Multiplayer's learning curve is somewhat steep.
  
  650, SIX HUNDRED AND FIFTY, ranks! Customizable 
 character classes once you hit rank four, and countless ways to approach the online game honestly 
 make this a must buy.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster33
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 18, 2008 3:01 pm PT
Review:  After playing Call of Duty 2 and Call of Duty 3, I'd wished they'd get rid of WW2 and put the call 
 of duty series in a new and exciting direction. Was that wish granted? I think yes!
  
  Story -- most shooters don't usually have great stories, but this one does. Imran Zakeav and Al Asad 
 are trying to take over the West. Like today, they're terrorists that want to harm the U. S. You 
 play as two different characters through the game. Mostly you play as Soap McTavish, a new recruitment 
 for the SAS. He has two teamates -- Gaz and Cpt. Price -- who you'll get attached to throughout the 
 campaign. The other character being a U. S. marine named Paul Jackson, though you only play no more 
 than a handful on missions as him, and you'll find out why. For a shooter, the story is very well 
 done, along with the great ending.
  
  Graphics -- the graphics in this game are nothing short of superb. Everything from character models, 
 to the guns, to the buildings, to tanks, to helicopters, look excellent. The only problem I have 
 with the graphics are the faces, especially those of the marines, and dumpsters/trash cans. The 
 marine's faces look weird, and there isn't much enemy variety. Also, trash cans and dumpsters look 
 bad when standing right next to them. Some people may not notice them, but when seen, it is noticeable. 
 Other than that, there's nothing to complain about.
  
  Gameplay -- The controls are practically the same as the other Call of Duty games. There are some 
 new moves, like being able to knife someone when clicking RS, and being able to sprint with LS. 
 Besides those new control editions, there are new guns, as it is modern-day. Unlike the other Call 
 of Duty games, some guns have scopes on them, and to do that you hold down LT, which makes your 
 shots more accurate. You can also fire from the hip, but it is somewhat less accurate, though some 
 guns have great accuracy with that. The locations of the battles are Middle-Eastern countries and 
 in Russia. The environments are fun to have wars going on throughout, as there is heavy fire going 
 on while playing as the marine. There is no cover system like Gears of War or Rainbow Six Vegas, 
 so instead you'll use the "duck and cover" Call of Duty system. The AI is generally good, especially 
 on veteran difficulty when enemies chuck grenades back at you. For your teammates, their AI isn't 
 as good, since they don't really help that much. The campaign will take you around 5 hours or so 
 to beat, which is disappointing, as that length is about half of what a normal shooter's is. Boost 
 up the difficulty, and it'll take 10-15 hours because you die in about 3 hits. Not much has changed 
 with the controls and feel, but the changes are for the better.
  
  Multiplayer -- Like Halo 3, the multiplayer is class-based, meaning you're building up your character 
 as you go along. The first time you start multiplayer, you'll have default classes until you level 
 up, with a different icon next to your gamertag each time. There are 55 levels, and the XP requirements 
 go up the higher you rank. Once you get to 55, you can go to prestige mode, meaning start from 
 level 1 with a different icon through level 55 again, until the tenth prestige. As you level up, 
 you'll gain the ability to create a class, which you can have five of. You'll gain weapons and 
 "perks" as you level up. There are five different weapon categories -- sniper, assault, light machine 
 guns, sub machine guns and shotguns. Getting 25, 75, and 150 kills with a weapon will unlock a 
 silencer, red dot sight, and an acog scope. It's a bit different with light machine guns and shotguns. 
 You can also have a special grenade, such as a flash bang, stun grenade and a smoke grenade. There 
 are three classes of perks. Perk 1 is more for explosives, like more ammo, having RPGs, having 
 more grenades, claymores and C4. Perk 2 is increased weapon damage, more health, invisible on enemy 
 radar, and so on. Perk 3 is all around, like Perk 2. I wish they'd added weapons from the campaign, 
 and I wish the maps were a bit better, since i don't like 85% of them. There are challenges you 
 unlock, like shooting a helicopter down with an RPG, gaining you extra XP points. If you kill 3 
 enemies in a row without dying, you will see your enemies on radar for 30 seconds. Five kills is 
 an airstrike, which are fighter jets that drop bombs on where it's called in. And seven kills is 
 a helicopter, which goes around the map for a couple of minutes. There aren't any achievements 
 for online, which may disappoint some people. The multiplayer is excellent despite the maps and 
 they could've added some weapons, but the game sometimes lags and you sometimes do get disconnected.
 
  Story: 9.2/10 -- a great story for a shooter, some surprises and the end was brilliant
  Graphics: 9.6/10 -- there are minor glitches, trash cans and dumpsters look bad, and so do some marines' 
 faces, and there isn't much enemy variety, but the models, buildings, car explosions, guns and 
 so on look excellent.
  Gameplay: 9.8/10 -- the controls are great with lots of heavy fighting throughout the short but terrific 
 campaign.
  Multiplayer: 9.7/10 -- most levels I don't like, and they could've added some more weapons, no achievements, 
 but it is really fun, providing 100+ hours of just multiplayer.
  Final Thoughts: If you like shooters or heavy action games, get this game! If you liked the previous 
 Call of Duty games, you'll probably love this one. The achievements are easy if you like those. 
 Is this game inappropriate for younger teens? I don't think so. There's minor blood and language, 
 but that's all that separates this from the other Call of Duty games in terms of rating. This game 
 does have some issues like a short campaign, minor graphical issues, bad multiplayer maps and the 
 could've added more weapons, not much variety in enemies, the multiplayer lags sometimes, and some 
 of the faces (especially the marines) look bad. Despite this, this game is truly great and is an 
 absolute must play. It is worth $60, but they lowered the price, making it an even better deal. 
 Even with the short campaign, the multiplayer and single player combined will give you AT LEAST 
 150 hours of gameplay if you go to the tenth prestige. Call of Duty 4 is the best shooter and game 
 of 2007. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cdturtle13
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 17, 2008 10:35 am PT
Review:  I have rented this game many times. I have not bought it, because I am always hesitant of paying 
 $60.00 for a game, unless I know for sure that it stands tall amongst the millions of crap games 
 added to the landfill of video game trash that is growing exponentially by the day. There are only 
 probably 3 to 4 games on each console, per year, that really shine over this massive heap of trashy 
 games flooding the industry... and this is definitely one of them. The AI for the characters on 
 your team is just right, the action is intense, the sound and graphics are great, and of course... 
 the controls and game play are perfect, like most games in the series. This also seems to have 
 the best, and most intricate online multiplayer of all the games in the series, including experience 
 levels, ranks, and points added to your profile, similar to Halo 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TX360
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 17, 2008 2:16 am PT
Review:  I was wondering back when this was announced if it would be any where near as addictive as call 
 of duty 2 which was my favourite shooter until i played this and now cod4 is the best without a 
 shadow of doubt.
  
  The single player is top notch if a bit short but some missions are very memorable like the ghillie 
 suit in the mists one which is so much fun and shows how much IW put into this game and its also 
 pretty immersive. And did i mention the stunning graphics which puts other shooters like R6V to 
 shame or the fantastic voice acting and feel of the guns its all here.
  
  Cod4 has a very challenging campaign if played on the most feared in COD history VETERAN which 
 has some people beating their tvs once they try the most feared level MILE HIGH CLUB which is one 
 belter that i still need to beat but cod4 really shine in multiplayer with the perks which add 
 so much to this game its got to be seen to be believed its epic.
  
  pros
  stunning single player
  stunning multiplayer 
  stunning effort
  
  cons
  we want more 
 maps IW and guns
  Short single player 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameJunkieKyle
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 22, 2008 8:20 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is a damn good First person shooter. In fact, It's better than any Call of Duty 
 game that I've played. Before playing Modern Warfare, I always thought that Call of Duty games 
 were overrated, not because they were part of the WWII genre, but because they were boring and 
 had crappy stories. I'm glad to say that this is not the case for Call of Duty 4.
  
  Call of Duty 4's single player is fun as hell. Playing it on Veteran is no easy task. There are 
 some unbelievably hard parts scattered throughout the campaign that I still can't beat to this 
 day when playing on Veteran. i love that the game is that hard, even if it can get frustrating 
 at times, although I do wish that CoD4 would have included online co-op, but I guess I'l have to 
 wait untill the next one. The story is nothing amazing, but it's a huge step forward from the last 
 CoD games. 
  
  The multiplayer is fantastic. The weapons are realistic and fun to shoot. The player custimization 
 is better than any other online FPS I've played in a while. Choosing your weapons, grenades and 
 perks lets each player have thier own style of play. I do wish that the game had a decent ranking 
 system like Halo 3, but, for some reason, no developers want to learn from Bungie and make a decent 
 matchmaking system. I believe that any FPS fan will enjoy this title. It's addicting and if you 
 enjoy more realistic combat games over science fiction games like Halo or Gears, you'll love Call 
 of Duty 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: orb_03_2006
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 16, 2008 9:51 am PT
Review:  this game was truly amazing. I don't really like first person shooters the best out of all categories, 
 but this is the best one I've ever played. it's the best out of all four of them. everything is 
 so modernized and realistic. the graphics, visual, and the environment is beautifully done. the 
 weapons are REALLY kicks ass. some weapons take a little longer than expected to reload, but that 
 makes it all the more realistic. there are a few glitches here and there, but it's okay. there 
 were a few times the character wouldn't move right or something, but no BIG complaints. the thing 
 that made me a little pissed off was that the campaign was way too short. only three acts and the 
 prologue. if there were FIVE acts and the prologue, it would be a perfect campaign mode. so this 
 is the game you HAVE to get!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baltizach
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 15, 2008 7:31 am PT
Review:  I started to get into the campaign until my disc wouldnt let me do anything after 'all ghillied 
 up' which is my favorite lvl, but I've heard the campaign is very short but fun. The xbox live 
 experience is just phenomenal. A great variety of weapons, maps, and games. The weapon attachments 
 are also a great addition to the game. Also the air support is pretty good, even though you can't 
 fly your helicopter so sometimes its kinda stupid and just flys right over people but the helicopter 
 is most of the time helpful. The graphics are mediocre, I've seen much better but I play runescape 
 so I don't care too much about graphics. Another great addition to the game, I think, is prestige 
 mode. In which you can reset your rank, weapon unlocks, and challenges. This keeps you from getting 
 bored as fast. I recommend this game to anyone who enjoys a good first person shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gAmEmAn69
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 15, 2008 7:22 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty... the name can be familiarized almost instantaneously by its famous WWII franchise 
 base. Most of the better versions in the series were developed by Infinity Ward, such as Call of 
 Duty 2, and as you can see the variations in gameplay and WOW moments compared to its rival Treyarch 
 who developed Call of Duty 3. This game is the first in the series to utilize modern warfare and 
 stray away from the redundencies and monotous ways of WWII games.
  
  Gameplay:
  The gameplay is similar to that of the FPS genre, however the way it is implemented combined with 
 advanced warfare tactics and utilizing every aspect that a weapon or any piece of your ensemble 
 and arsenal to its fullest extent really seperates this game from its predecessors. The run and 
 gun tactics seem to whither away as you must strategize to attack your foes at the proper time 
 and ensure they have bit the farm or else a new system allows fallen adversaries to whip out a 
 pistol while on their dying breaths to aim at your unfortunate ass as you walk away from an apparent 
 victory. Truly brilliant gameplay is drawn out in this game and Infinity Ward delivers tenfold.
 
  
  Graphics:
  The animations and lighting mixed with state of the art motion capture really bring the characters 
 and environments alike to life and are more vibrant and vivacious than before. The first level 
 alone where you're on a boat on the stormfront ocean, the waves and tides spewing onto the ship 
 mixed with the proper shading and lighting on each individual contours on characters and the best 
 reload animations in a FPS game to date is something to come back for over and over again.
  
  Sound:
  As always the sound in Call of Duty delivers more than expected. Astounding bullet 
 ripple effects mixed with accurate explosive effects from grenades and RPG's and a real time feel 
 in a persistive dramatizing warzone make Call of Duty 4 soar beyond its competitors and become 
 its own unique game.
  
  Control:
  My two favorite words to use when I'm excited and thrilled in certain types of FPS games which 
 is "tight" and "responsive". Quick and to the point controls keep your crosshairs meeting the eye 
 of the enemy in no time. And with the 360 controller, it makes moving, aiming, and zooming in for 
 that money shot all the more juicy. 
  
  Overall:
  I admit I haven't gotten the full gist of Call of Duty 4, other than a few brief single player 
 missions I've tackled and the online play, which is solid. Online play consists of constant ranking 
 and team battles as well as deathmatches and objectives that really string out the life of this 
 already highly addictive game. Call of Duty 4 does indeed deserve the title as the best in series 
 as it stands and delivers what its previous installments failed to. Diversity and integrity to 
 achieve greater than a stalemate franchise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Supaza
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 15, 2008 2:32 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is the first step the franchise has taken out of WWII and activision certainly got 
 more than their foot in an already open door with a modern day first person shooter. Story wise, 
 COD4 has more than any other first person shooter to date. The simplest way to describe the single 
 player would be "short and sweet". The campaign is short with levels sometimes consisting of merely 
 working your way down a street. The fun comes at the intensity of fire and machinery that is thrown 
 at you in the process. Although short, the game is immensely diverse in mission structure and types. 
 There are full blown intense combat situations carried out by the US Marine Corp, while other missions 
 done with the SAS are have a more stealthy approach. COD4 feels like its redefined the term "fire 
 fight" as it throws everything in your face from start to finish. 
  While going modern is hardly an original idea, the sheer intensity of the game play makes the experience 
 miles ahead of its competition. Unfortunately the sheer intensity of the action has its downside. 
 The single player campaign is very linear. After being played through once the second time is much 
 easier, knowing exactly where and when certain events are going to happen. This decreases the intensity 
 of the game making it not quite so much fun. The bonus is, change the difficulty and the game changes 
 with it. Up the difficulty and in your second play through and you'll find your play style very 
 different to your first approach. Should you attempt veteran difficulty, you'll find the knowledge 
 of playing the game before as useful and as a spare magazine. Features such as returning a thrown 
 grenade and cooking your own before release prove essential at harder levels and provide a difficult, 
 yet rewarding experience. 
  The multiplayer is truly an awesome experience. Although the game only supports 16 players, as 
 opposed to the 24 in COD3, the intensity from the single player carries over. The levels are small, 
 and diverse allowing extreme battles to rage all game long. The perk system and weapon customisation 
 allows you to play the online games the way you want, going in to battle with whichever weapon 
 layout you feel is your best. There is no ranked and unranked games, everything is ranked under 
 points which are earned through kills, airstrikes, calling in choppers, headshots etc. The challenges 
 implemented into the game such as "get 15 kills through a wall" or "kill an opponent by throwing 
 his grenade back at him" gets you extra points. These add to the game play as you seek to combine 
 wining the game, with team work, individual kill count, and accomplishing challenges, all of which 
 pay off nicely in a satisfactory manner when you succeed. The downside to this, is once achievements 
 are unlocked, along with all the weapons, perks and challenges, the multiplayer is lost its charm. 
 Its takes an extremely long time to reach the highest rank and achieve all the challenges however, 
 and there is great potential for some truly awesome gaming moments in the process. COD4 has one 
 of the best multiplayer experiences to date. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jo2k14
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 13, 2008 1:48 pm PT
Review:  i dnt know where 2 start wit cod4 there is so many gd things to say and the odd bad one too. wel 
 i wil start with da campaign mode this is very short but detailed whilst within the lvls. if u 
 want a challenge then play this game on hardened or veteran becuase recruit is just too easy.
 
  Next the online mode - i like the way the developers have added a prestige mode but the mode does 
 last vri long and will take many months to get to the top. The maps are in detail so there are 
 many tactics to use around the game. I know alot of glitches on cod4 so jus contact me on my profile 
 if ya wanna no em. Lastly the multiplayer split screen mode is vri gd if u wana hav a 4-way war 
 or a team deathmatch so u and ur mates can hav fun shootin each otha online their are new maps 
 such as creek and chinatown im not too keen on creek but chinatown is an old classic as it is cod2 
 but jus new as it is modern warfare, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RilesCole
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 13, 2008 11:08 am PT
Review:  One if the biggest hits on the 360! Call of Duty 4 shows a lot, and especially in multiplayer. 
 The multiplayer seems to be the most enjoyable though with it's great ranking system, being able 
 to unlock weapons, and recording your stats and a lot of other options. The special ability to 
 go into prestige is also very fun. There are many multiplayer maps carefully designed for best 
 play, and new ones already out! The multiplayer system also gives a lot of gametypes you can go 
 through as you go up in your ranks. All of them are very enjoyable. Now for the campaign. The campaign 
 was very fun in its own way. It was much nicer how it switched you between the British SOS and 
 the American Marines. But a shame how the Americans weren't playable all the way through after 
 what happened (Can't spoil it) . It was defiantly different from the other Call of Duty's and it 
 was much more enjoyable how it went up to Modern Warfare. If you don't have this game, you must 
 get it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coltspwn
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 12, 2008 4:25 pm PT
Review:  After the release of Call of Duty 2, Infinity Ward realized that World War II was dead, thus, the 
 title Modern Warfare. While the time period has changed, the game play has not. Aiming down the 
 sight is the key, like any Call of Duty game. A few things have been added, however, like flash/stun 
 grenades, mounted-rifle grenades, rocket-propelled grenades, and modernized weapons. The single-player 
 campaign is rather on the short side, but it's extremely polished. As in the previous installments, 
 you'll play as more than one soldier, one named Soap from the British SAS, and Jackson, a United 
 States Marine. Not all the missions place you on your feet, though. One mission assigns you as 
 the gunner of an AC-130 gunship, which is one of the more thrilling missions. As mentioned in the 
 GameSpot review, the campaign is gritty and pretty dark at some points, hence the Mature ESRB rating. 
 The multi-player in 4 is one word: REVOLUTIONARY. The customizable classes/perks boost your soldier's 
 performance, but at the same time, they don't make you too powerful. There's a plethora of weapons 
 that you can unlock, and you can also apply camouflage and special sights to your armaments. The 
 ranking system allows you to level up to 55, and after that you can activate Prestige Mode, which 
 erases all of your unlocked weapons and challenges (but keeps your stats) and starts you out on 
 level 1. Prestige Mode can be done 10 times. The maps are well-done and offer a variety of locales. 
 There are 6 game modes, and I recommend trying them all. The visuals and audio is top-notch. Infinity 
 Ward paid close attention to the small details, and that's what makes this game gorgeous. Overall, 
 this is one of the best, if not the best first-person shooter out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZR1Racer87
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 12, 2008 8:00 am PT
Review:  This is the most addicting online game up to date, and has the highest online replay value of any 
 game ever created.
  
  The campaign is fantastic, but what really brings people back to their couches and turning on their 
 Xbox 360 everyday is the amazing online play.
  The online multiplayer is extremely addicting. Some of the game modes online require a bit of teamwork 
 (Search & Destroy, Headquarters, Domintation) , which is indescribably satisfying when you are communicating 
 with your teammates to accomplish a win.
  But the experience points, ranks, and prestige system really makes new and old players alike come 
 back everyday to improve their stats. Not to mention the extreme variety of weapons to choose from. 
 A lot of FPS's have one or two particularly dominant weapons. But in COD4, every weapon is just 
 as effective depending on how you use it and your personal playing style.
  If you are paying for Xbox live, then this one game alone will reinburse you for all the money 
 you have paid, by giving you the most fun online experience you will ever have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: naju890_963
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 11, 2008 6:15 am PT
Review:  It took some time to make the game and finally launch to the hungry war gamers. The game's timeline 
 is in 1940's as you all now in the time the world war two was at its best. But dont expect detailed 
 storyline its over in a blink of and eye. Lets see its goods and bads.
  
  Good: Story is very thrilling and you get very excited. A well made multiplayer that the game is 
 really based on the great multiplayer than the other features. A very entaintaining presatations.
 
  
  Bad. Campaign is very short than other war games like battkefied and medal of honor.
  
  The only fault is the short story line and then you jump to multiplayer to play some real shotter. 
 this game will boom your x360. it better graphics than the pc version and it is more easy with 
 wirless controller. i think this game is better than real war. 
  
  2404 - PC Gaming 9.5 / 10 
  My Gamer 8.4 / 10 
  Armchair Empire 9.5 / 10 
  Gamers Europe 
 9 / 10 
  Fragland 86 / 100 
  PC Gamer 91 / 100 
  PC Format UK 90 / 100 
  Gamers Temple 96 / 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: km1498
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 11, 2008 12:22 am PT
Review:  Infinity Ward really hit the spot with there new call of duty games. Not only does this game have 
 a great single player mode (although it is a short one) but it also includes possibly the best multiplayer 
 action in a game ever.
  
  Single player modes story is very simple, you play in modern times, the good guys (US or British) 
 and try to prevent the bad guys from being... bad. Obviously the story is better than that and there 
 are some nice moments to be had there but to tell you the truth I was so excited by the multiplayer 
 action that the single player really took a back seat for me atleast.
  
  The multiplayer part of this game is just great. There are some nice maps to be seen, great weapons, 
 and a healthy dose of modes to choose from with ways to make the game harder or easier, more simulation 
 like or arcade like. The multiplayer also has a fine rank system where you earn experience points 
 that help you move up in rank and unlock some stuff on the game. All of this helps to add a ton 
 of replay value to the game. 
  
  With great graphics and terrific sound design added to everything else I have stated, I see no 
 reason why you won't be just as addicted to this game as I am.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: demon_tracer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 10, 2008 11:18 am PT
Review:  We'll review it in Different ways :
  
  Graphics:
  
  Better than all the other call of duty's i have played, they look GREAT on HI-DEF and they STILL 
 look good even if you don't have a HI-DEF, they have more detail on the maps, the outlooks of the 
 characters and the weapons REALLY look metallic.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  This time ( unlike killing natzis ) We are in a Future world, MODERN WARFARE!. Great Gameplay this 
 time indeed, the action is even more fast paced and the game is very surprising and we can do alot 
 of impressive kills this time too and the melee attacks ROCK this time, we only hit the melee everytime 
 with a knife. Bullets pass through walls in this game :D . 
  
  MultiPlayer:
  
  Yeah, the multiplayer is GOOD this time but the fun is always in XBOX LIVE AND SYSTEM LINK never 
 in split screen, ( THANK GOD THIS GAME SUPPORTS LIVE AND LINK FEATURES! )
  
  Story Mode:
  
  It is better than the other C. O. D games and it is actually FUN to play, but the story mode 
 is very short however but still enjoyable! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dropster33
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 10, 2008 10:39 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is a next generation game that will keep players in to the action from dusk to dawn. 
 The campaign is short...... but action packed and you can resist playing it more than once. The 
 game difficulty ranges from easy to veteran, easy is just a walk through when veteran is a strain 
 on your skills. What draws most players in to this game is the online multi-player which allows 
 players to play from 1 on 1 to 8 on 8. The most interesting thing about this is the ability to 
 choose your own perks. This allows players to customize the way they like to play the game. The 
 game put the effort in to the maps that came with the game. The maps represent levels in the game 
 that you have gone through. Call of Duty 4 released DLC of new maps to play. These maps were as 
 interesting as the next!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mgcrider08
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 10, 2008 7:00 am PT
Review:  I like to write reviews after I've had the game for a while. It's kind of like buying a car and 
 waiting a year to write a review to let the new car feel go away. I bought the game at launch and 
 am still playing the multiplayer. The graphics, the feel of the game, the sound... it's incredible. 
 Unlike the other Call of Duty games that preceeded it (or are yet to come for that matter) , this 
 one takes place in a modern situation that almost somewhat mirrors the current situation in parts 
 of the Middle East; therefore, making it a very believable storyline. Many people will complain 
 that the single-player is too short in COD4, but if you play it on veteran, you will not notice 
 that, because it will take you a long time to finish it. Veteran difficulty will make you utter 
 words you may never use again, and it will drive you crazy. But, you'll find it's a fair difficulty 
 because the enemy is not any harder to kill. It's just harder for you to walk out in the open without 
 getting shot in the head. That's what makes the game so great. I won't give anything away to people 
 who haven't purchased it (which is like 4% of the population) , but you fight as a British and American 
 soldier in the campaign and what starts out as a pretty dull story snowballs with each mission 
 you pass. The single-player, while it may not have a huge amount of missions, has much substance 
 within the mission that will literally have you breathing harder by the end of the story.
  Now, if that's not enough, COD4 has arguably the best multiplayer arrangement to date, including 
 games that came out after it. You can go through many different setups, including team deatchmatch, 
 free-for-all, search and destroy, hardcore settings (no map, more damage) , and more. The maps in 
 COD4 are very good maps, and most of them are fair; you'll find some people have found good places 
 to camp and snipe people, but most maps allow you to have a chance. There's a reason why, after 
 nine months, the game is still $60. Seriously, if you have a 360 and have not picked up this game 
 yet, unless you don't like shooters, you MUST pick this game up. It is one of the few games you 
 will play over and over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hobbesxi
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 9, 2008 11:59 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty 4 is technically the fourth one that has a number at the end of it but who cares. 
 Any way, the game excels in what it has already done before and removed some flaws from previous 
 games and added something new. For the first time you aren't fighting Germans in WWII but you probably 
 could have figured that out by reading the title. This time its set in the modern world against 
 Russia. You play as two sides throughout the game the sneaky SAS and the big gun toting Americans. 
 The story is good and remains that way until the end of the game. Though i did find the nuclear 
 explosion death rather retarded and a waste of time though most people think its awesome. Any ways 
 the game removed those button sequences from call of duty 3 which was good because the first time 
 you do it its fun but then becomes tedious much like watching the president being assassinated 
 in cod4. Call of duty has always been difficult on veteran and will most likely continue to do 
 so but i believe that the A. I. being triggered and gunning me down as soon as i pas that invisible 
 line is completely retarded. Your A. I. however are slightly smarter than before and will not run 
 in front of you while you are shooting which saves you from going back to the last checkpoint but 
 they are still useless and only move when you move even when its clear. But it lacks co-op play 
 which is a serious downer but the single player is still good and is rather fun.
  Now Call of duty decided to extend the class option into custom classes so that now you aren't 
 complaining because you're on one side or the other and added perks. Which allow you to do something 
 extra like carry more ammo or explosives or increased damage. This was a good move but then they 
 slap you in the face by making the environment (grass and tree leaves) two dimensional. But i guess 
 that adds a challenge but i personally don't care for it. Now you can also achieve ranks and can 
 do so by killing the other team or completing challenges or doing objectives for certain game modes 
 (headquarters, domination, sabotage, search and destroy offer this) . Many game modes make returns 
 from previous games others altered. The multiplayer is solid, but i think arcade mode should be 
 multiplayer but co-op wold be needed to do.
  Overall its a great game but not quite good enough to receive a perfect score but it is solid and 
 is setting a new high for the FPS genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ikavnieks
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 9, 2008 12:27 pm PT
Review:  While the campaign is shorter than the average shooter, it offers great experiences, experiences 
 you wont believe! Play as Sgt. Paul Jackson, A U. S Marine. You also play as 'Soap' MacTavish an 
 S. A. S soldier, you will encounter many jaw dropping moments especially with a consistent frame-rate 
 of 60 frames per second, with this game you can't go wrong, I dont want to give away too much.
 
  As for the multiplayer, this has really set the bar for FPS shooters, the best online experience 
 I have had in a long time.
  It is a great way to test your skills, call in air support, including helicopters and air strikes! 
 Customizeable weapons is a brilliant feature! Players can also unlock 'perks' as well as weapons, 
 perks with effects such as: More health, faster reload, pull out a pistol before death and so much 
 more! Ths really is a jaw dropping game, I recommend it to anyone! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: riastar15
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 8, 2008 9:17 am PT
Review:  BEST GAME EVER but.... would u raver play the multiplayer then the single player... i played the 
 single player got past four levels then my friend said play the muitplayer play the multiplayer! 
 well i played it and i LOVED IT!!!! but ever sinced it have been playing the multiplayer more then 
 the single player and i think the multiplayer is very very addictive more addictive then world 
 of warcraft by now i have finished the single player but i toke me about 3 months to complete it 
 i could't take a break from the multiplayer it is one of my best game i have ever got.
  
  
  PS3 version: has any one getting these wired (downloading game settings) on the ps3 when they 
 are playing online on call of duty 4 (when u go onto the game lobby) i have had no problems with 
 the xbox 360 version so WTF!! anyway this game is very very very GOOD!!!!!!!!!!!!!! and is a must 
 BUY!!!!! 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: littlebrwnrobot
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 7, 2008 4:27 pm PT
Review:  In Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare, Infinity Ward treads water outside of World War II and into 
 a fictional conflict based loosely on the Iraqi Conflict. The Single-player campaign begins as 
 "Soup" Mactavish of the S. A. S. Through all S. A. S. missions you are accompanied by Captain Price 
 and Gaz. You also will become Marine Force Recon Sergeant Paul Jackson. At the beginning of the 
 game, Khaled Al-Asad assassinates a Middle-Eastern politician which lights S. A. S. and Marine fuses 
 which results in immediate pursuit of Sgt. Paul Jackson and the 1st Force Recon and eventual pursuit 
 of the S. A. S. and "Soap" Mactavish. Al-Asad is eventually killed when Captain Price realizes he 
 is in business with Russian dictator Imran Zakhaev who Price attempted to assassinate 15 years 
 in the past. I won't spoil any more than that but the campaign is short, about 5 hours. But what's 
 gonna keep COD4: Modern Warfare in your Xbox for months to come is the Multiplayer. With ultimate 
 customization choices and constant ranking promotions, the Multiplayer is what makes this the best 
 game of 2007. If you just start, you can't create a class yet but you are given the option of Assault 
 which is the M16, Heavy Gunner which is the M249 Saw, Sniper which is the M40, Demolitions which 
 is the W1200 Shotgun, and Spec Ops which is the SMG MP5. A certain amount of experience and you 
 will be promoted a rank and through each rank you are given a new weapon, perk, challenges. Call 
 of Duty 4 also boasts well done games including Team Deathmatch, Mercenary Team Deathmatch, Domination, 
 Headquarters, Sabotage, Search and Destroy, Hardcore Team Deathmatch, Hardcore Search and Destroy. 
 This game is awesome! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phil202mcr
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 7, 2008 11:23 am PT
Review:  The first three COD's are all very good games, developed by Treyarch, who made three great and 
 realistic World War 2 games. But none of these compare to Infinity Ward's COD4, they decided to 
 take a extreme risk by making the fourth COD set in modern times and it has paid off.
  
  The campaign follows a British Spec Ops Team and the US Forces in their fight against the Russians 
 and the Middle East. It excites you from start to finish but as every one is saying, it is short. 
 The campaign will last about 6 hours on the lowest difficulty and on Veteran about 10 hours.
  
  That doesn't matter though because you will be spending most of your time on the brilliant 
 multiplayer, the interface is much like the Halo 3 menu. There are many features and customisable 
 options including: An ranking system where you have to earn experience points through out a game 
 by getting kills, assists , completing challenges or activating the radar for your team, calling 
 in a airstrike and calling in a helicopter. Challenges to complete during a online match to unlock 
 new weapons, weapon upgrades or perks, Create a Weapon Class, Weapon Upgrading, Weapon Camouflage, 
 Grenade Types and Perks.
  
  The Perks are a clever way of upgrading a feature of your soldier, like one can let you hold your 
 breath for longer when you are sniping an enemy or you are able to spot enemy mines on the ground. 
 You are able to choose 3 different Perks to enhance your soldier in some way.
  
  Ever since the first Call Of Duty, the visuals haven't been revolutionary, but the explosions, 
 the scenery and the character models all mix up to create a great graphical game. As always the 
 audio is tremendous, with every shot you take giving you huge enjoyment.
  
  Overall COD4 MW is a huge and fantastic experience that you will want to keep playing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mariosonic91
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 11, 2008 5:01 pm PT
Review:  The Call of duty series has been a popular series. Entertainng us with great gameplay and online 
 play does well for the series but it never could make the huge jump because it always stayed in 
 World War II , that is till its most recent entry Modern Warfare. Its a strong attempt to bring 
 the series into the next generation.
  
  
  Story 9/10: You start off as the new recruit with the unusual nameSOAP". After receiving various 
 training, you begin your mission infultrating a ship to locate important data for fighting the 
 enemies. The story unfolds shortly after, when you are in the first person view of the leader al-fulani 
 who is about to get executed. You see several different sides of the story as you are assigned 
 characters for various missions all with the same goal of taking down the Russian ultranationalists. 
 It brings a completly new and entertaining story to the name Call of Duty.
  
  Gameplay 
  
  Single player 9.5/10: Its a game of war so you expect shooting enemies nonstop, but entering 
 modern times allows you to use better technology to destroy them including the grenade launcher 
 and night-vision goggles. The controls work great and are adjustible to your sensitivity. The screen 
 will flash red letting you know if your about to die. If you in this condition or just a little 
 to nervous on taking them all at once you can let your partners do some of the work for you which 
 is nice to know the the computers acutally do something in this game. The joy and sense of accomplisment 
 is always there whether you take down 1 enemy or the whole battlefeild. Youll be sniping, shooting 
 from hellicopters, destroying tanks, stunning, stabbing, and the action stays fast paced all the 
 way to the end of campaign mode.
  
  Multiplayer 9.5/10: Most people will head straight for multiplayer to team up or hunt down their 
 friends. The game offers plenty of modes that will spice up the match. You may have to dominate 
 the feild by capturing flags, be the last man standing, or do a classic team-death match. Along 
 with modes and youll have a large collection of maps to play them on as well as what type of gunman 
 you would like to be. Alot of customization can be done were you can create your own classes chossing 
 what guns you want and what special abilities you have. You are even allowed to change a few rules 
 offline to make sure this is one epic match. Everything there is to offer offline is also in the 
 online play. It works great, connects real easily making as little patience as possible waiting 
 for a match. Being the skilled gunman has help you recieve bonus points from your matches as well 
 as assistants during the match. Kill 5 in a row without dying and you can call in an airstrike, 
 Kill 7 and the your helicopter owns the feild. The helicopter feels a little like to much of an 
 advantage but luckily you can shoot it down. Even with all of this said, you never really know 
 how the match is gonna turn out leaving an urge to play over and over again.
  
  Graphics 10/10: The looks as good as it plays, which is great. We continue to build stronger technology 
 making what used to be polygons into now what looks like real life. Chracter, vehicle and natural 
 effects all give off a realistic feel and everything is richly detialed. One thing for sure is 
 that its presentation definitly gives you the feeling of war.
  
  The attempt to bring it to next generation was not only sucessful, It has delivered an experience 
 that rivals halo 3 to this day. Bringing it to modern war has become a great thing to the modern 
 gamers.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: yojoe153
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 6, 2008 2:10 pm PT
Review:  I've had call of duty 4 since it came out and ive played it non stoped for weeks stoped playing 
 for a month or so then start and stop again. Why is this? Well in the begining the story mode is 
 great but it ends shortly. Then The online will keep you entertained for hours. Why did i stop? 
 Well i stoped because the story mode ended the 2nd day i had it and the online was just the same 
 thing over and over no coustomiziation of levels (like halo) no replay theater (like halo) and 
 no driving vehicales (like cod3) Well that isn't saying that the online is bad its just you need 
 to take a break from it once and a while because you will probably get bored to. And ive been playing 
 this game online again and i still am but not non stoped.
  
  
  Overall Very nice game mabey a short story but very fun online best in series
  
  
  Pros 
 
  Fun Online
  Fun single player (while it lasts)
  
  
  Cons
  short single player
  no level coustomization online
  
  
  Why not add
  driving tanks or stuff like in cod3? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lnehme
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 5, 2008 3:45 pm PT
Review:  I know that everyone said it already, but I have to say it.. Call of Duty is awesome. I mean... 
 really really awesome. Amazing graphics, amazing storyline and creative. That is call of duty.
 
  
  The campaign is not THAT short.. but I finished it in two days. But who needs the campaign if you 
 have the most insane game online. Its even better than counter - strike, and better than gears 
 of war. There is always someone playing and its up to 16 players, what is good. So you can only 
 buy this game for its online modes. But the campaign is also insane. There are times that you say 
 OH SH! T, how can this happen! So you can buy this game only for the campaign also.
  
  do i need to say more?? Just go and buy it. If you dont have the xbox LIVE you should really consider 
 in buying it. Just play this game, and you will be happy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brysterdude
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 5, 2008 1:51 pm PT
Review:  Let me first start out by saying Call of Duty 4 has some of the best graphics I've seen in my life 
 (A step below the real thing) !
  
  I give this game a 9.5 because there is just one thing wrong with it, and it might just be me, 
 but. It's too dang hard! I was never one for first-person-shooters, but it grabbed my attention, 
 I had to try. But it's so realistic you can't get shot that much XD and in first-person-shooters, 
 I get shot a LOT!
  
  But I love everything else about it. All the modern weapons add a spicy zest that hasn't been seen 
 before, and the action is truly first-rate. The cut scenes are awesome, and the normal gameplay 
 is just as cool because it all looks like a cutscene!
  
  The multi-player is also something this game REALLY has going for it. Local 4-player matches are 
 great when you're hanging out with your friends, and online play is much more fun, and with a lot 
 of variety. But sometimes it can get a tad to serious -_-. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PolishedSamuel
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 5, 2008 5:56 am PT
Review:  Call of duty 4 is the best call of duty so far by a long shot. The campaign is brilliant in detail, 
 but once played, gets a bit boring. To combat this thought, Veteran difficulty is certainly a challenge, 
 and with arcade mode and unlock able cheats, there is still an incentive to come back and play 
 again.
  The multiplayer is addictive with a whole ten prestige modes to complete and plenty of play sets 
 and unsociable. There are plenty of weapons to unlock including golden weapons. It's a big upgrade 
 from COD 3. Graphics are picture perfect, but I'm sure we all want a few more physics based gameplay 
 like we see in Halo 3. It's a pity that COD 4 hasn't got any vehciles, which is a shame, as modern 
 combat vehcles isn't a common sight, unless your playing battlefield. COD 4 has a wide variety 
 of weapons, including assault rifles, SMG's, shotguns and snipers. Overall, a very good game, and 
 it deserved to be game of the year 2007. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LeBrunz
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 3, 2008 10:24 am PT
Review:  I used to play Call of Duty and Call of Duty 2 on the PC, and they were both fantastic games. The 
 CoD gameplay was incredibly intense - the sounds particularly made the games feel like a warzone. 
 
  
  While those games were great, I was hesitant to pick up CoD4 because I didn't want to play just 
 a rehash of the first 3 games. 
  
  Luckily, Call of Duty 4 not only is a great improvement over the previous games, but it is also 
 the most addicting and deep experience I've seen in a tactical shooter. 
  
  I haven't gone through the whole single player campaign, but what I have played is excellent. The 
 missions are really exciting; its like playing through a high quality war movie.
  
  But where the game really shines is the multiplayer. The gameplay itself is about the same if not 
 better than previous CoD games, which is really solid. Its nothing revolutionary, but it doesn't 
 have to be - it's just plain fun. 
  
  Though the action is really good, its the experience points and ranking system that keeps me coming 
 back for more. Players are rewarded points for accomplishing certain feats in game. After you reach 
 a certain amount of points, you're premoted to the next rank. New ranks unlock new perks, weapons, 
 and challenges. It sets CoD4 above Halo 3 because it rewards players for reaching ranks, and gives 
 a lot of motivation to keep fighting through the multiplayer.
  
  I haven't been addicted to an online FPS since the glory days of Counter-Strike, but Call of Duty 
 4 has captured my attention for quite some time now. If you're a shooter fan and haven't picked 
 this game up, I don't know what you're waiting for.
  
  I was going to give this a 9.5 rating, but I thought about it, and I can't think of a single bad 
 thing about it. Perfect score it is! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Losarii
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 2, 2008 10:11 pm PT
Review:  Realistic.
  Stunning.
  Competitive.
  
  Now, don't get this game for the single player. The single player is training for the online multiplayer. 
 The online is what makes this game. It is very competitive and you will always find players that 
 are insanely good at the game. You may find yourself yelling out loud when you first play and everyone 
 is killing you the second you spawn. 
  
  Now the graphics are amazing, better than anything I've seen thus far. The game also brings a fairly 
 wide variety of weapons to fight with. This game gives you a reason to rank up (more weapons... and 
 of course *glory*) 
  
  This game is for the competitive type who really knows how to play a first person shooter. 
  
 
  Tip (The M16 is the best weapon. Equip it with the perk that makes your damage higher and get ready 
 to be MVP) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xFuryx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 2, 2008 1:24 pm PT
Review:  Story 7/10 - Nothing too epic happening here, some dudes are trying to destroy the world or some 
 mess like that, and you play as two/three soldiers who try and stop them.
  
  Gameplay 9/10 - DAMN this game is fun. The blazing fast 60 FPS really gives the game a sense of 
 realism as bullets are whizzing by you and cars are blowing up, though when I played through the 
 Campaign (bout 6-7 hours on regular difficulty) I noticed that there wasn't a variety of weapons, 
 I know this is supposed to be realistic, but I just saw about 3 versions of the same gun, and a 
 couple of snipers here and there.
  
  Graphics 9/10- Game looks good, I noticed some pop in textures from time to time, but that was 
 very minimal.
  
  
  To be honest, I'd say this a rental, though the multiplayer definitely adds to this game making 
 it a buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chriss0608
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 2, 2008 12:15 pm PT
Review:  Forget the semi-short single player campaign. It's a mere appetizer in comparison to the all out 
 thrill ride the multiplayer brings. Now, that's not to disparage it at all. The action is fast 
 and the firefights are as close to combat as most of us will ever come. I bought the game when 
 it came out and it has constantly been played since. I love the variety that the multiplayer brings. 
 The weapons are accurately portrayed and the graphics are stunning. It has high replay value and 
 the added maps only increase its value. Gripes are fairly small (some small glitches and continuity 
 errors) for a game of this magnitude. If I could change one thing it would be some of the perks, 
 such as martyrdom, which are just simply a pain in the rear. All in all, it will rival Halo 3 as 
 a genre-defining game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: makchady
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 12, 2008 3:50 pm PT
Review:  First let me start off by stating that this is entirely my opinion. I understand millions of people 
 love this game, but i for one absolutely hate it. If you are offended by this review, well get 
 over it because its simply an opinion, but i may make it seem like fact.
  
  Call of Duty 4 is not worthy of the #1 spot for most played xbox live game. Call of Duty 4 is not 
 worthy of all its critical acclaim. Call of Duty 4 is not worthy of your 65 dollars and it sure 
 as heck is not worthy of game of the year. Call of Duty 4 is however worthy of most overrated game 
 to ever have been released.
  
  Why such harsh statements you may be asking right now. Let me assure you that there are very obvious 
 and good reasons behind aforementioned claims. 
  
  Games today run for 65 dollars new. That is the equivalent of 7 trips to the movie theater or a 
 full tank of gas or 12 games of laser tag or 20 games of bowling. The way i break it down and justify 
 my purchase when it comes to games is this, if i divide the amount of hours i spend with a game 
 by the price i paid for it and it comes out to be around $5 dollars an hour then it is justified. 
 That means i have to put in just over 12 hours into a game. Call of Duty 4's single player lasted 
 5 hours. Yes, 5 measly hours. That is ridiculous. 5 hours of single player gameplay is unacceptable. 
 I don't care what you say, its simply unacceptable.
  
  People praise call of duty 4 as being, basically, the second coming and at the same time trash 
 halo 3 because they feel it is a rehash of halo 1 and 2. Well, last time i checked there have been 
 more games in the call of duty series than in the halo series. On top of that, the core gameplay 
 mechanics of call of duty have not changed one bit. 
  
  Recipe for a call of duty game- numerous enemies at one time firing everywhere to cause a sense 
 of chaos, attempt at climactic set-pieces, using sights to fire weapon accurately and generic multiplayer. 
 Bake in oven for a year and out comes another call of duty just like the previous. But in 2007 
 we got a fresh set of frosting called modern warfare.
  
  Back to the main point though. You cannot ridicule halo 3 for being the same thing as halo 2 when 
 call of duty 4 is essentially the same game as 1, 2, and 3 just with a new setting. 
  
  Quantity over quality is proven to not work, but somehow it miraculously does in cod4. The enemies 
 in this game are brain-dead. They know how to squeeze a trigger and duck, that's about it. Infinity 
 Ward relies on sending double digit amounts of soldiers at you at once to compensate for their 
 lack of intelligence. The best analogy for this game is that it truly is whack-a-mole with humans 
 and bullets. 
  
  Seriously there is nothing miraculous about the core mechanics of this game. In fact, many times 
 i became desensitized to the chaos and became bored with cod because i knew i would just be running 
 into another fire fight. 
  
  You may read my review of resistance fall of man and say I'm contradicting myself, but at least 
 resistance had a redeeming factor in its shooting by having extremely diverse weaponry. Cant say 
 the same for cod. Plus resistance is a lot more original than cod, which is about as far away from 
 original as you can possibly get. So, while resistance felt like a fresh experience, cod ends up 
 feeling like the same thing I've been doing for the past 6 years because oh wait i have been playing 
 the same game for the past 6 years.
  
  The graphics and sound are phenomenal but i could careless when its all over in a single sitting. 
 Playing a game twice is like reading a book twice, you already know what is going to happen therefore 
 its just dull the second time around. Thus, on single player merits alone this game gets a 5/10.
 
  
  But wait, this game has great multiplayer right? Why would you say such a thing? Is it because 
 it is horrendously unbalanced? Is it because it has nothing unique about it, other than perks which 
 make it unbalanced? Is it because there arent that many modes to play? Is it because the matchmaking 
 system is atrocious?
  
  I like to compare this game to halo 3 because they are the 2 most profound AAA fps titles out to 
 date, both of which focus heavily in multiplayer. Halo's greatest reason it has succeeded is because 
 it is accessible to anyone and everyone and is entirely balanced when it comes to guns and abilities. 
 No weapon overpowers another weapon. For example the sword can be beaten by the hammer which can 
 be beaten by the shotgun which can be beaten by an assault rifle which can be beaten by a sniper. 
 Rock paper scissors, one beats the other the other beats it. Cod is not balanced. One ring to rule 
 them all is how cod rolls. One gun, one perk to top them all.
  
  But honestly, the biggest trumping card halo has over cod is in its diversity. Do you know how 
 many variants there are in halo? its endless. from juggernaut to rocket race to indoor football 
 basically to territories and on and on i could go. Hey, you can even mix and match game types or 
 completely change them to fit the way you want to play, its all customizable. Cod, not so much.
 
  
  On top of that, cod doesn't incorporate a level editor mode in which you can create levels and 
 share them with your friends. You can spend over 5 hours easily just creating a single level in 
 forge thus being more play time than cod's entire single player.
  
  Halo is a perfect way to show how meager cod's multiplayer really is. Call of Duty 4 gets a 7.5/10 
 for average multiplayer. It really is nothing to brag about.
  
  Overall, call of duty 4 is indeed the most overrated game of all time. There is absolutely no reason 
 to love this game. The people who praise this game are the people who root for the underdogs just 
 because they dont want to see the better team win. For example many rooted for the giants just 
 because they didn't want to see the undefeated patriots win another superbowl. Same is the scenario 
 here. People looked to find something to like outside of halo 3 because they didn't want it to 
 succeed. Well, call of duty 4 just isnt that great of a game.
  
  For the record i would like to re-emphasize that, while i used to thoroughly enjoy halo i no longer 
 play it and am glad the series is wrapped up for a while. I wish call of duty would throw in the 
 towel also because its time is over just as Halo's is. So, thankfully halo is in cryogenic freezing 
 and hopefully call of duty will be soon too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wattss78
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 1, 2008 9:23 pm PT
Review:  when i first got it LOVED IT!!!!!!!!!! it has been such a amzaing game. i mean  
 the story gose how the terrist kill the present on tv and got to kill the 4 guys that did it .now 
 tell me that not amsome. this game dosent let you drive cars and trucks on here but dont let that 
 get in the way. this game online is the best game i have ever seen and best owner game. if you have 
 not got this game then you must be mentille or your plan stuiped. so if you want to stop being stuiped 
 then get this game. online is so fun last year we got it and we cant stop playing it ever sens. well 
 when you get online rank 55 is the highst but the fun donst end there. there a thing called preistge. there 
 are 10 preistge and when you get up to 55 that your first preistge then do it 10 more times. this 
 game fun never ends. so if i recomend it to you well i see you. later!! -wattss78 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Halo2_fan391
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 1, 2008 8:09 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: First the campaign is very good although pretty short, so if you don't have online I wouldn't 
 reccomend buying this game but is definatly worth renting. The campaign puts you as an American 
 Marine or a British soldier. You do missions on varied environments which all look good. The weapons 
 are all very fun to use, so for a FPS this game is very high quality (quality over quantity) . For 
 replay value there is collecting all the intel item located in all the levels and there are 4 difficulty 
 levels. As well all the achievments are for offline so that adds to more value. Now online gameplay 
 is the heart of all the fun, you can creat your own class such as selecting your primary, secondary 
 and perks. What makes it so fun is that you can upgrade your weapons by using them more often in 
 matches. You can select your scope, silencer, camo, and much more. There are also a lot of "in-game 
 achievements" for online. When you complete these you get a big bonus in EXP. Now when you kill 
 enemies you get +10 EXP, and that is what levles you up. If you lose a game you will still get 
 some EXP. 
  
  Graphics: The graphics are very good, but no rag doll : (
  
  Sound: Very good
  
  Overall buy this game if you have online but not if you don't. At least 
 rent this game if your into FPS games or military games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gedz16
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 1, 2008 3:27 pm PT
Review:  this game is so belivable when i play it which is all the time it feels like im not just playing 
 the game but experiencing it also the graphics are so realistic it looks like im looking out side 
 my window. Also the explosions, the guns firing also are realistic too becausxe it makes the acutual 
 sound and noise. The campain is cool to. the missions are awesome . The last level was my favorite 
 because its so intense the way you have to shot the guy, jump off the collapsing bridge in time. 
 The online play was my favorite part of the whole game though because its so crazy when it comes 
 down to those final seconds when one of the teams are about to win. i love the whole game period. 
 Now its even. better with the new maps Broadcast, chinatown, kill house. i think this is one of 
 the best games of the year also i think its better than all the other call of duties put together 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jason2guy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 1, 2008 8:01 am PT
Review:  I got to admit this is one of the best shooters for the Xbox 360!!! Amazing Visuals give this game 
 heads up with mind blowing action. Call of Duty 4 has given us tons of weapons selections to choose 
 from like a Marksman or a Warfighter and tons more. Oh yeah and I forgot about the sound effects. 
 Hands down on the sound effects 10/10 one of the best sound effects I've heard in years. When the 
 planes soar over by it felt like there was one over my head. This game had tons of climax to it. 
 I'm thinking right now whoever liked FPS ( first person- shooter) should never like this???? NO 
 WAY this is a crazy game. All the realism is placed into this game it felt as if I was in the war 
 myself and it's a better idea to place it in a modern warfare for once since COD always stick with 
 World war 1 or World War 2 but now they changed the topic and enhanced the quality of it. It's 
 also great that you can also unlock things during multiplayer battles which means there is a lot 
 of replay value on the game. The ONLY bad thing about this game is that I thought that the single 
 player mode was kind of cheap, it wasn't really complete because I finished the game so quickly 
 which made me disapointed but that didn't slow down my replay value since there was online battles 
 for up to a reasonable amount of players, althought... there wasn't much maps to play from either 
 but the good thing about COD:4 is that they found that there were a few maps so they extended more 
 maps for people to play in. Thank you Call of Duty 4 you made my day!!!!!!!!!!!. I love this game 
 so much and I recommend for all those who like FPS games (especially) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jonny7892
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 30, 2008 9:49 am PT
Review:  COD 4 takes a risky leap into the present leaving behind the old but reliable World War 2 setting 
 this means better technology and different enemies to kill. When I first saw COD 4 I thought it 
 was a good move to bring it forwards as World War 2 has become a very tired timeline in video games 
 but i was unsure whether I. W could pull it off. But i'm happy to say they have, the storyline is 
 relevant to current world affairs and the technology is bang up to date without being too crazy.
 
  
  The storyline is split into two parts, one follows 'Soap' an S. A. S soldier who, with his team, 
 must put a stop to a civil war in Russia and the other follows Sgt. Paul Jackson of the U. S. M. C 
 who fights during the invasion of, not Iraq, but a small Middle-Eastern country near the Persian 
 Gulf. After the death of Sgt. Jackson and many other soldiers the two forces merge for the big 
 finale. The U. S campaign is short but enjoyable. You fight through near identical desert streets 
 with explosions, tanks, helicopters and bodies flying all-over the place. The battles are on a 
 very large scale and it really feels like a war. You come to your death at the end of Act 1 but 
 at least you're a hero. The S. A. S campaign is slightly more stealthy as you sniper from cliff tops 
 and go back in time to assassinate evil terrorists. Both sides of the campaign are fun and there 
 is a good contrast between the styles of action.
  
  Unless you're crazy and started the campaign on veteran you probably had a relatively easy run 
 through the single player side of things. But for people making the move up in difficulty it can 
 seem like a whole different game. some of the missions become near impossible because of the enemy 
 AI's amazing accuracy and friendly AI's inability to kill more than one person per mission. Heat 
 on Veteran anyone? Maybe a cover system or squad system would have helped to remove these problems 
 but I think I. W fear that this would make the game very similar to rivals such as Rainbow Six Vegas. 
 The ending of the story also feels quite cheap to me. After stopping the end of the world you are 
 just about to escape and then every surviving main character is killed except for yourself. This 
 leaves a bad memory for people remembering the campaign as it is the last thing that happens.
 
  
  The gameplay is basic FPS but this works very well. You can shoot, aim and throw grenades with 
 the shoulder buttons and the face buttons are used for other actions like jumping, climbing or 
 swapping weapons. During the campaign you progress by getting to checkpoints but as I said in my 
 Gears of War review this is not a feature I like something more open ended would have suited me 
 better. I understand they cannot alter gameplay too much but different endings to missions and 
 split paths would have been appreciated. For example in the mission 'Shock and Awe' you're squad 
 attempts to rescue a helicopter pilot even though this results in your characters death. Also at 
 the end a bridge is blown up while you and your squad are trying to escape death, this results 
 in your whole squad dying. Earlier in the mission you are told to blow up the helicopter with an 
 RPG but because of the high speed of the helicopter and inaccuracy of the RPG you cannot. If you 
 could have decided not to be a hero or actually shot down the helicopter the game would be vastly 
 improved.
  
  The multiplayer is the game's redeeming feature. It has many parts but nothing feels forced upon 
 you and there are many things to do in multiplayer such as a set of challenges ranging in difficulty 
 and the sheer amount of game modes and variations. Prestige mode is one of the features of multiplayer 
 and it means once a player has reached the highest rank they can then reset their stats and start 
 again until they reach the tenth prestige. This is a choice left up to the player and means if 
 you want to keep all your weapons and attachments and other unlocks you can. The perk system also 
 allows players to customise their classes with abilities such as dropping a grenade as they die 
 trying to catch their killer in the blast or reloading faster or having steadier aim. Nearly all 
 these perks have a counter perk so this means the multiplayer experience is as fair as it can be.
 
  
  Any FPS fan should buy this game if they don't mind a average single player experience 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Snip3rPr0digy
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 29, 2008 2:04 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: 10/10: Well, basically, you can't go wrong with the graphics. Extremely high quality 
 and very descriptive. The levels are works of art and each player / AI is very accurately detailed.
 
  
  Gameplay (Campaign) : 7/10: Although rather short, Call of Duty 4's Campaign is entertaining and 
 has a very good storyline. Not something you would repeat over and over again but still lots of 
 fun. It puts you into the shoes of both an SAS operative and a U. S. Marine, giving two different 
 points of view in the game.
  
  Gameplay (Multiplayer) : 10/10: Call of Duty 4 has an intense and amazing multiplayer setup that 
 will keep you addicted long past the first few weeks. It starts you off with several gun and perk 
 (power-up) options and lets you unlock more by earning experience and ranking up, thus unlocking 
 more guns and perks. There are 16 levels you can play on and huge arrangement of guns and even 
 attachments you can put on the guns, as well as perks that can make your person either more powerful 
 or more defensive.
  
  Gameplay (In All) : 9/10: For the past several years all of the Call of Duty shooters have been 
 focused on a World War 2 era. Needless to say the brand new modern style of warfare is much more 
 appreciated by a larger range of Call of Duty gamers. I mean, come on. How can you go wrong with 
 flashbangs and claymores?
  
  Sound: 8/10: Not quite as good as it could be, but still one of the main reasons to buy this game. 
 Each gun has a nice and accurate sound to it and explosions sound very real.
  
  Replay Value: Extremely High
  
  Notes- Remember this is just my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrhappy4
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 29, 2008 11:49 am PT
Review:  Cod 4 is the 4th installment in the well known call of duty series, built upon the engine from 
 cod2 the game boasts very nice looking visuals, the singleplayer campaign is good for a play through 
 but gets tedious on the 3rd or 4th time through. with achievements in the xbox 360 version it has 
 included drive to gain those last few cases of intelligence or complete the game on veteran, but 
 for pc and ps3 gamers, that drive to replay isnt as clear.
  now for the multiplayer, the system of unlocks and guns and challenges is great, but the multiplayer 
 portion lacks scale for my style of gaming, cod 3 had better multplayer because of vehicles, but 
 thats just this reviewers opinion call of duty world at war will be alot better with vehicles added.
 
  Call of duty 4 isnt the best fps out there on xbox 360 but is definately worth a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BoringGlorioso
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 28, 2008 3:37 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4s graphics are probably the most realistic you will see in a game nowadays. Now, 
 the campaign is may be a little short, but its also really deep and also has a good storyline. 
 Using cheats in the campaign is really fun too, like the Ragtime cheat. Theres intel, which unlocks 
 those cheats (intel is just enemy laptops hidden everywhere) . The only thing the campaign lacks 
 is co-op, which would give it way better of a rating from me.
  On Multiplayer, theres splitscreen, and Xbox live. Live is awesome on this game, cuz you get perks 
 as you level up, and the more you use a weapon, like say you get 25 headshots, you unlock camoflauge 
 for your guns. Or new scopes or grips and stuff. The highest level you can get to is 55, and then 
 you can make 1 gun golden (i think 1 gun atleast, im only level 40) .
  The map variety is great to, plus the new map pack that came out a while back adds even more fun. 
 Also on the game, you can shoot thru cover, like concrete, wood, or sheet metal. Cars blow up, and 
 windows break. If anyone likes a good FPS, then you should go out and buy this! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ugikogaru
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 27, 2008 3:54 pm PT
Review:  Well the Call of Duty series has been around since 2003 and this one has to be the best. Instead 
 of fighting the world war, you are fighting in a modern time with modern weapons.
  
  Lets cut this short with the good and the bad.
  
  The Good: Graphics are excellent, and the 
 sound is just great. It would be a sin not to play this without surround sound. The mixture of 
 objectives and setting in everyone mission makes this game non-repetitive. Multiplayer is another 
 great part of this game. Wide spread maps with different scenarios of gameplay like Search And 
 Destroy, your regular Team Deathmatch and Deathmatch. Or something new and fun like domination 
 and headquarters. You can also unlock ranks by playing to earn experience which also gets you new 
 weapons. You also get challanges for example get 25 kills with the m16 - which gives you red dot 
 sight. Making it easier to use. Once you hit the max lvl (55) You are also given the choice to 
 presitge which gives you a new ranking symbol and resets all of your gear which puts you at level 
 1.
  
  The Bad: Story Mode was way to short. If you have a whole day to yourself you; ll be beating this 
 game in 3 -4 hours. The classes in multiplayer arent exactly balanced. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CVM_123
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 27, 2008 2:43 pm PT
Review:  this is the best game you will ever see it has short story but is the best of all the story of 
 the call of duty games not to say that it has awesome graphics a great gameplay the story its that 
 you have to find a guy named imran zakaev well i think that name but its like to find bin laden 
 or a super terrorist is just an amazing story plagued with action and a lot of replay value even 
 when you finish the game you just go back and go for more, the multiplayer of call of duty 4 is 
 amazing i enjoyed playing with friend it has alot of modes like deathmatch etc. when you kill people 
 in multiplayer you gain points that let unlock arms, new bomb etc. nevermind this is just one for 
 not to say the best call of duty game ever it will gave a lot of gameplay, replay value and an amazing 
 multiplayer that you will enjoy with your friend and a lot of people. if youre a fan of fps you 
 really need to buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Just4pool193
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 27, 2008 1:39 pm PT
Review:  I will be honest, I was really looking forward to this game, got the Beta, dowloaded all the trailers, 
 etc. But when I finally got it, it didn't last as long as I wanted it to. The multiplayer gets 
 old fast, with most people using cheap and nooby tactics. Random grenades are encountered far to 
 much, and M16's are stronger than they should be, as well as getting them too early. Campers, Juggernaut, 
 and noobs are encountered more than more than you'll like. Campaign is a great ride, but is over 
 far too quickly. A. I. isn't all that smart, and can be very glitchy at times. Multiplayer has its 
 fair amount of glitches as well, and Infinity Ward seems to neglect them. Nice try with the new 
 maps, but one of them was recycled, and the rest aren't very interesting. I hope that the next 
 Call of Duty will be a bigger step forward, in hopes that they will take enough time to make sure 
 that the glitches are addressed properly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gomes83
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 27, 2008 1:11 pm PT
Review:  COD4 was the best in its series and Activision made a wrong move to turn the series back over to 
 Treyarch. COD4 made them more money than any other COD game. MP mode is still at the top of the 
 online charts. My addiction to this game is almost unstable at this point, for every free minute 
 I get I want to just tear it up in Headquarters matches. let's see if you can call in airstirkes 
 and helicopter attacks in the new COD. Probably NOT! Further more, besides the excellent multiplayer 
 based mode... the campaign is unreal. They put a lot of thought into the story per each level. Usually 
 these types of games you only want to play the single player once through, but with this you can't 
 help but to attempt the story mode on veteran all over again for both achievement points and pure 
 adrenaline rush! I'm going to play right after this review is finished... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pepperman33
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 26, 2008 11:44 pm PT
Review:  I recently purchased the game after most of my friends began to play it religiously; Never could 
 I drag them away from it to play Forza or any other games. Tired of being friendless online, I 
 scoured the High Street high and low to find the cheapest price - a Whopping 45 for the Game of 
 the Year Edition. I do not think this is an appropriate price for this game, seeing as it has been 
 out for a long time.
  So the first thing I did was jump into the multiplayer. When you get kills, you gain experience 
 which goes to your Rank. There are other, harder ways to get more experience, but for now I will 
 not go into that. There are 55 levels, after which you can start again, which is known as Prestige 
 Mode. There is no benefit to this other than as a status symbol. The online maps are well designed 
 and the lighting is very good. It offers a sense of reality not shown in many First Person Shooters.
 
  However, I wish the same could be said for the Single Player Campaign. Although it is well designed 
 and very immersive, it will leave many people feeling swindled because of its shortness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hicksyniall
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 26, 2008 11:10 am PT
Review:  this game is easily the best game of the call of duty series due to it's immersive single player 
 campaign and highly popular multiplayer gameplay. i felt the single player campaign's difficulty 
 was just right and with a good tale of modern day warfare. however i felt it was too short and 
 it left me hungry for more. it took me around 12 hours to fully the complete the campaign on veteran 
 and normal. this game's multiplayer gameplay is still very popular but for me i felt it was lacking 
 something. it was great at the start but after about 2 weeks i began to get very bored with it. 
 i feel it is possibly lacking innovation evev though it had air strikes etc. I also felt that for 
 a realistic shooter it lacked gore. i love fantastically gory games such as gears of war and i 
 would have loved to have seen some 8 year old noob get eaten alive by the bloodthirsty german sheppard 
 dogs from the campaign for that added element of excitement. all in all this game is a good buy 
 and i give it 7.75 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: srdjo_123
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 25, 2008 11:17 pm PT
Review:  This game is good i gotta admit that before anything i had a little fun on the single player campaign 
 but mostly borad. Everyone syays its short and it is i saved the world in about 2 hours. The reason 
 fo this shortness you might ask is because every previous title was so long it got boring and repetitiv 
 so activision dicided to make this one short. On the box it says modern combat so you know your 
 gonna be fighting iraq or iran or whererever it is lets just say the middle east k. so here is 
 how it gose kindo like a move they start off with a dramatic boom which is good where you discover 
 nuclear weapons and the story is basicly stop this iraqi from blowing up cities in america during 
 WWIII yup WWIII count them 3 so you kill him like playing a ww2 game and killing hitler. After 
 you finish the mission you can play through hard and veteren difficulties and a new feture called 
 arcade mode where you rack up points also a level called mild high club where your on a plane and 
 gota find a vip in time that is the hardest level on veteren difficulti because you gotta find 
 the vip in a minut then you got about 30 seconds to get off the plane ok ok enough about the good 
 and lets get to the draw back that gives this game a 5.0. MULTIPLAYER. Ok so its sopposed to be 
 good well duh its not called game of the year for a reason but its not and at the top what i said 
 it not gonna be a gameing revolution because the multiplayer is way way way to fast its nothing 
 like bad company on cod4 you go in die and come back in a sec take out 2 guys die and repete. And 
 you level up with ranks and prestige once you reach level 55 i think you start over with prestige 
 it sucks its just like rambo style push your way to the top so there you have it if you like this 
 honest review check for more of my review and im gonna have a new review for battlefield bad company 
 on sunday probobly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheesytaco69
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 25, 2008 10:54 pm PT
Review:  Alright, it's been a while since the game has come out. I must say that after all this time, I'm 
 still playing it. 
  
  Single Player
  Gameplay: It'll keep you hooked until the end, but it doesn't take long to get there.
  
  Story: 
 The story is good enough to keep you guessing what you get to do next.
  
  Replay value: Only a few chapters have replay value such as Gillies in the Mist.
  
  Downfalls: 
 it's very short.
  
  
  Multiplayer
  
  Gameplay: It's different every game you play. Different styles and guns impact how you go about 
 winning the game. 
  
  Replay value: I'm still playing the game! It is the most fun I've had with a first person game 
 online.
  
  Downfalls: Some of the perks make it an unfair advantage but that's why they are called perks.
 
  
  
  Overall
  
  Graphics: Splendid graphics make this game feel realistic!
  
  Sound: The sound and voices make this feel like an actual war.
  
  Replay value: this isn't 
 a game people would trade in. the multiplayer is too fun. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: M4Marl
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 25, 2008 10:01 pm PT
Review:  Call Of Duty 4: Modern Warfare has everything you need it a nice action game: The guns, the killings, 
 and so on, but it just doesn't meet the hype for me like everyone was telling me about. Everyone 
 told me I should get this game and they were bugging me! I finally gave in and borrowed it from 
 my friend. At first the game seemed fun... but aggrvating. I mean it had everything i was looking 
 for in a shooter, but something just doesn't feel right about it. This game has nice controls, 
 great action, amazing graphics, and intense skills, but the constant uproar and getting killed 
 SOMEHOW even though you're like no where in sight from the enemy can make any man run and scream 
 "THIS SUCKKSSSS!" Towards the ending, you'll realise that you should've never quit anger management 
 classes back when you were just a small boy. This game will also make you hate the middle east 
 and all of war after you die from grenades like a 100000 times because you're too busy firing instead 
 of seeing the icon that tells you there's a live grenade near by. All in all, this is a very fun 
 game though. And the ending just amazes me. So rent this game or buy this game, but once you beat 
 it, go outside and play... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ProSmeg
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 25, 2008 5:51 am PT
Review:  call of duty, callof duty... tch tchtch.. so many over the years and call of duty 4 has perfected 
 it the multiplayer however was not what i expected, when i reached level 50 i was bored then when 
 i finally got prestiged i had to start again with some crappy new badge, its novelty went fast 
 and be came like all other average shooters id seen it all before and this wasnt even as good as 
 battlefield and all other games, the UAV the helicopter the airstrike, its not its all cracked 
 up to be its overrated the story was good but multiplayer is to run and gun with stupid kids shouting 
 in your face OMG YOU ARE CRAP and idiotic americans screeching racist comments and ridiculous claims 
 of "we saved you all from the germans... blah blah.." and other rubbish i dont really care about.
 
  
  back to the run and gun aspect everyone i played with just did there own thing most i was moving 
 around looking for people and trying not to get shot when some one runs out a house and shoots 
 me, everyone is just running around and its really annoying the matchmaking was crap because people 
 woh had just started the game were against gold cross level 55 it was ridicoulus and boring and 
 was nothing interesting execp the storyline and even that was to short.
  
  to many new gamers started on COD4, like my friends who have only just started all the talked about 
 was COD this COD that i managed to win them over with the bad company demo, experianced gamers 
 like games but dont play the crap out of them.
  
  good points: good
  perks made gameplay a bit more enjoyable
  unlocks fun
  
  bad points: got to repetative
 
  which meant it was boring
  which meant it gathered dust as i played the battlefield demo
  
  where is it now: on a preorder shelf in gamestation
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GT_Drag
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 24, 2008 5:05 pm PT
Review:  Graphics:
  The Call of Duty 4 engine is an amazing piece to create something like this. Environments, people, 
 weapons, you name it. Just like it says on the back cover, everything is incredibly photo realistic. 
 Sure, environments aren't destructible [I'm sure that is one concept that would've made these graphics 
 perfect for this period of gameplay] , but everything else works just fine. The only glitches I've 
 noticed are the occasional body hanging by an ankle from a guard rail on a balcony of a house. 
 But something like that won't take anything away from the breathtaking environments.
  
  Concept:
  Threats of Ultra nationalists and terrorists threaten the world. Play as a British 
 S. A. S. Commando and American Marine to stop them. A very welcome change from the overdone [but 
 don't get me wrong, exciting] WW II era. Modern enemies, modern weapons, and modern threats. I 
 think its perfect.
  
  Gameplay - Controls and Learning Curve:
  The controls are like other FPS games. Theres the shoot trigger, aiming, melee, reload, grenades, 
 and everything else you need to save the world. You pick up the controls fast. The very first level, 
 if you can call it that, is a training level. Your S. A. S. squad puts you through training. Not 
 like other training levels, though, this one isn't long, and isn't annoying. Its simple to pick 
 up and finish. Now knife the watermelon.
  
  Enemy AI/Difficulty:
  Theres your Easy difficulty, Normal, Hard, and then you've got Veteran. The enemy AI reacts how 
 you would think with every one. On Easy, the AI is... easy, what do you expect? Normal is good for 
 starters, Hard will give you a challenge. On Veteran is where you'll see the jump in difference. 
 I still haven't concluded if the enemies on Veteran are smarter, or the damage you take is just 
 more realistic. Probably both. No matter how you are with FPS games, this game will give you a 
 challenge. 
  
  Multiplayer:
  Now don't get me wrong, the storyline of this Call of Duty is my favorite, but Multiplayer is where 
 this game shines for most people. Perks, unlockable weapons, Prestige mode, incredible maps, good 
 game modes for anyone, and a community that you would expect from a game like this... moderately 
 annoying. Ignore the jerks on this community. Just enjoy the game for what it is. Now, there are 
 many things to do in Multiplayer. Elements from RPG games hit home here. You gain experience for 
 getting a kill, planting a bomb, defusing said bomb, recovering or destroying headquarters, completeing 
 weapon challenges, etc. This experience helps you to level up. Leveling up gets you more weapons, 
 with new challenges to help you level up farther. Once you hit 55, you can make the choice of going 
 up in rank with Prestige Mode. Start back at Level 1, lose your weapons, your challenges, everything. 
 All for the Prestige of saying you did so. The choice is your's. Multiplayer for Call of Duty 4 
 is an amazing experience, and I personally, can admit that I almost gave up my social life fort 
 it. 
  
  Sound EFX/Voices:
  One of the important things I love of this game is the dead on sound efx. Each gun its distinct 
 sound to it. Not one gun sounds the same as another -cough ARMY OF TWO cough-. Grenades, airstrikes, 
 helicopters, everything blends to make one thing: the noise of war. And its an experience in its 
 own with good speakers. The voice overs for the storyline, in my opinion were flawless. Don't what 
 else to say about them.
  
  Replay Value: Fairly High - 
  There is plenty to do here in this game. You can collect all the Intel in the Storyline, which 
 unlocks amusing in-game cheats. Then you've got Arcade mode, or you can turn your sights on Veteran. 
 Multiplayer will offer you just as much, if not more things to challenge.
  
  I highly recommend giving this game a try if you haven't already.
  I know this review is late 
 in the game, but I thank you for reading, and hope that its helped.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Icetray86
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jul 9, 2008 10:36 am PT
Review:  ------------
  Pros:
  -------------
  The first mission is cool.
  -------------
  Cons:
  -------------
  Short.
  Weapons suck.
  Storyline is pointless.
  You ARE FORCED 
 to be SAS.
  Multiplayer is rip-off.
  Annoying british voices...
  Crap envirourments.
  -------------
  
  
  
  Before you mark this review unhelpful before reading it, I'd like 
 to point out that I played COD2, and COD3 only.
  
  
  COD2 wasn't that great, but COD3 was pretty decent. Now this...... is aweful.
  
  
  
  My 
 cousin recommended me to get this peice of garbage.
  
  
  Considering he likes halo, unlike me, I knew that was a bad idea. I was completly right. I should've 
 not listened to him.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  For starters, your play as an SAS soldier named Soap.
  
  
  Ok, first of all, what kind of 
 retard names their baby Soap? Next thing you know, his sister is Water, and his Aunt-Dishwasher, 
 but moving on...
  
  Unlike past CODs, you ar FORCED to be SAS IN EVERY boring, plain, mission. Missions that envolve 
 running around in a city, not knowing what the heck your doing, yet relying on your compass to 
 do the work for you. The graphics are "Been there, done that", but the Controls are Horendous. 
 A good majority of movement is WALKING, unless you click the thumbstick, you walk. You need only 
 2 sucky weapons at a time. The reason why I like the other games is that, yes they have only 2 
 weapons, but they were awesome in depth. COD4 hasn't any depth in weapons at all.
  
  
  
  No, lets skip to the other part....
  
  
  
  
  
  The worst thing about COD4, is, 
 despite its new storyline and Modern warfare, it's THE SAME AS LAST COD. The levels have you go 
 to point A to point B, except now your forced to overcome some more headache magnet objects. The 
 guns are still mostly, 60 machine guns, and a few pistols and rocket launchers. The A. I. is just 
 as bad as before. It's all coming back to you like a boomerang.
  
  
  
  The story wants you to take down Alan... sombody, some dude who's terriorising what looks like a 
 sketchy Iraq.
  
  
  
  
  After the first level, it shows a cutscene of you being a civilian, get excuted.
  
  
  Which 
 is also where they show the pre-credits.
  
  
  But another thing, YOU CAN'T SKIP IT!!!!!!!!!!
  
  
  
  And if that weren't enough, the Multiplayer 
 is a rip-off.
  
  
  
  
  The Multiplayer says you can have like an online battle, where 20 players on each team fight each 
 other on a battlefield.
  
  
  You will not see such things in COD4 Multiplayer.
  
  
  Multiplayer is as simple as the classic, 2 player run around in the boring level, find each other, 
 and fire at will.
  
  
  
  
  This reveiw sucks, but the game sucks even more. Don't waste too much money on it, my friend.
 
  
  
  
  AND PLEASE DON'T NAME YOUR BABY SOAP. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sensei_hEnRY
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 23, 2008 10:11 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty series are famous for its excellent story of world war 2. The realism, the graphics, 
 and the tense of real war really make this series the best fps in video game history.
  
  Now, Call of Duty move to next generation as it change the time setting. Call of Duty come to the 
 modern warfare. Play as SAS British and US Marine force, the game takes FPS to a new standard of 
 next gen FPS.
  
  Most of the story told during the brief during the loading process (loading process never this 
 interesting!) Although the story is quite simple (how many times we see movie or game telling a 
 story of lunatic Russians try to bomb US with nuclear? millions i'm sure) but Infinity Ward can 
 make it really intense and interesting, great work!
  
  Call of Duty 4 Modern Warfare is an evolution of fps graphics. everything that goes on your screen 
 are amazing! The dust, smoke, fire, surfaces, everything looks perfect. The AI movement are realistic! 
 The best in FPS game! Too bad the environment doesn't respond the movement the characters, we can't 
 see our body, legs, and our shadow too (what a shame)
  
  The gameplay is the best! Full of action! The game provides the latest advance weaponery from the 
 latest M4AI with grenade launcher m203 and laser scope, hk G36C, M249, spas 12, mini uzi, mk 19, 
 glock, rpg, AKM, AK 74, AK 47, C4, javeline, stinger, night vision, hk mp5, fn P90, and many more! 
 (too bad XM8 is not an option this time) unfortunately, the campaign story is too short although 
 it gives me the most interesting gaming experience.
  
  So, Call of Duty 4 Modern Warfare is an iconic game of next gen console. Everyone who have Xbox 
 360, ps3, or pc must have it! (don't worry about the rating, the language pretty clean and the 
 blood is quite little) .
  
  Note: at the end of the first phase, you'll be able to see how it looks like to be in the middle 
 of a nuclear blast. Believe me, you don't need other game after you see this part. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lespaulT
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 23, 2008 7:28 pm PT
Review:  This Game Wus Fun But I Had 2 Take A Poopy So My Bruther Played Some And I Missed Half of The Game. 
 But After That Big Poopy I Played Some More. Yea!!!!!!!!!!!!!! Super Big Poopy!!!!!!!!!!! It Rocked 
 My Socks!!!!!!!!!!! This Game Wus Fun But I Had 2 Take A Poopy So My Bruther Played Some And I Missed 
 Half of The Game. But After That Big Poopy I Played Some More. Yea!!!!!!!!!!!!!! Super Big Poopy!!!!!!!!!!! 
 It Rocked My Socks!!!!!!!!!!! This Game Wus Fun But I Had 2 Take A Poopy So My Bruther Played Some 
 And I Missed Half of The Game. But After That Big Poopy I Played Some More. Yea!!!!!!!!!!!!!! Super 
 Big Poopy!!!!!!!!!!! It Rocked My Socks!!!!!!!!!!! This Game Wus Fun But I Had 2 Take A Poopy So 
 My Bruther Played Some And I Missed Half of The Game. But After That Big Poopy I Played Some More. 
 Yea!!!!!!!!!!!!!! Super Big Poopy!!!!!!!!!!! It Rocked My Socks!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlAsiaNxStuD
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 23, 2008 12:23 pm PT
Review:  This game is based on the two world wars. The story is great because you get to play both sides 
 of the story by being a U. S. Marine or a S. A. S Russian Assassin. The campaign seems to be short 
 for some players because they are obligated to beating the game, but for those basic players like 
 me, it was pretty hard and worthwhile to play. In fact I'm still on the campaign. Then once you 
 beat the game and you wanna show off your skill, go play multiplayer on Live. The multiplayer may 
 be the best experience in the game. It has so many different game modes to your liking, and it 
 has 2 difficulties to most of them regular or hardcore. hardcore meaning only sing your instincts 
 for all you hardcore gamers. In mulktiplayer you get to customize your guy by giving him any gun 
 that the game has to offer, and adding attachments, pistols, and types of grenades. Also in the 
 game you can customize your guy with perks that allow you have special skills, but theirs only 
 3 so that you can have equal play with everybody. Finally you have multiplayer and you met some 
 people you play with all the time, you can make yourselves a clan with your own abbreviated name, 
 next to your gamertag name that everybody can see, and represent yur clan. To end my review this 
 game is the best even if you say theirs flaws there is always something to make up for it. Its 
 worth the money and you'll be playing this forever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anima066
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 23, 2008 11:06 am PT
Review:  I think this was great idea to bring the call of duty to the modern wars.
  You play a great game and great gameplay and great story in this game .
  the only thing that 
 you will miss in this game is destructable envirment and this is one of the weakness of the game. 
 Graphic of the game is fantastic and realy realy great . in the multyplayer game you must be quick 
 if you want to survive and a lot of modes of the multyplayer game make it great for online playing. frame 
 rate of the game is constant even in places that there is a lot of enemies there and this is great 
 and lets look at the sounds of the game the sounds of the game is great and you think that you 
 are there.
  dialogues of the game is great . I think this is great if we have call of duty 5 in modern wars.
 
  if you played this game you must remember the last episode of the game that you are under siege 
 of a lot of enemies and you must kill that russian and this is one of the greatest scenes. you 
 injured and you have a pistol to kill three enemies anybody didn't play this game must try it and 
 when you are a sniper and you must follow another sniper this is great scene you must croos the 
 squad of enemy without any alerts and they pass away from you above your head........ YOU MUST 
 PLAY IT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aBathingApe_
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 22, 2008 7:23 pm PT
Review:  Granted, there are many more that it could compare to, however, the sheer length of online play, 
 the amount of depth this game has makes it a very attractive and addictive game for gamers of all 
 ages. It has the role-playing feel with an experience points unlock system, with different perks, 
 weaponry, and other features unlocked at each level. This is before mentioning that you can activate 
 prestige mode and start all over again with a new and improved rank. Not to mention the opportunities 
 to unlock golden camos for guns and many other fun toys, Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare, has took, 
 and will take some time to be topped. Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare has totally revamped the series 
 and is a must-have for any Xbox 360 or Playstation 3 owner. 
  
  Controls are immaculate, with the slight edge going to the 360, mainly due to it's controller's 
 design. The graphics are almost identical between the two systems and therefore provide very little 
 to compare. The online is clearly going to be ultimately better on the 360 due to its paid service, 
 constant updating, superior communication through live chat, and etc.
  
  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is a gem in any gamer's lineup, whether you enjoy shooters or not, 
 you're bound to have a good deal of fun with this game.
  
  The campaign was rather disappointing in its depth, as it was fairly short, however the online 
 play more than makes up for it. This seems a lot like a game that was geared for multiplayer with 
 a campaign tacked on to it. Despite that notion, the multiplayer easily runs circles around anything 
 else that one might play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChronosWolf
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 22, 2008 4:46 am PT
Review:  Wow, what can i say. I'm not into FPS games much. But I played COD4 and beat single player and 
 then tried multi.
  
  I was hooked right away. Even to this day I still play it. Heck I'm on my 2nd Prestiege. Just means 
 I'm levelling to the max level a second time.
  
  I love the weapon choices you get, the abilities you get and the whole massive player idea. There's 
 even voice chat for the team your on. You can shoot people, stab them, blow them up.
  
  You can even kill them, take their weapon and kill them with it. Pure magic. Not to mention you 
 can blow them up with their own claymore's and even throw back their own grenades. This FPS has 
 snipers too. It's actually feasable to be a sniper, unlike some other FPS games that are online.
 
  
  You unlock the other classes and weapons as you level up. You also unlock "challenges" that give 
 you extra experience and they add to the overall replayability of the game.
  
  My only complaing and it's a small one. Is all the kids and people who think the voicechat is there 
 for them to sing offkey, insult and harass people. I'd be so much happier if people used voice 
 for teamwork.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MTB_rider
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 21, 2008 9:48 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty has been a very popular franchise of games set in WW II times. This time Infinity 
 Ward decided to go for a different approach and set COD4 in modern times. and it is a good change 
 from WW II keeping the game fresh. The campaign on this is quite short and can be beaten in around 
 7 hours, but they explain so much which makes the campain so good. However most of your time spent 
 will be playing online which is very addictive. During onine play you will gain exp to level up, 
 doing so allows you unlock new weapons and challenges. the only problem with this game is that 
 there is no co-op for campain, which would of made veteran easier for others. Also on online you 
 usually join a match half way through if not later. Apart from that this game is a nice change 
 from WW II, that you will spend most of your spare time playing.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BreakingSpecter
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 14, 2009 2:20 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best Call of Duty yet. The graphics are amazing and so is the gameplay. I am not 
 a big Call of Duty fan but when this game came out and when I first played it I was like "I have 
 to have this game". The only real bad thing about this game is that there are only five missions 
 but they are long. That why I am giving it a 9/10. The online play it pretty good. There are different 
 ranks, weapons, class's and skills but some of the skills are cheap. To get the weapons you have 
 to rank up but you start off with weapons already. The highest level you can get to is 55 and when 
 u get to level 55 you have a chose of keep playing or start over. And if you start over ull go 
 to first prestige. And the max u can go to is 9 or 10. This game is good overall but it could have 
 been a little bit better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sallyherz
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 20, 2008 4:25 pm PT
Review:  
  there really isnt much to say about this game it's just a very good looking game with modern warfare 
 guns. they finally left from world war and moved it to modern warfare and have made the game addictive. 
 the guns are very good but the gun you start of with at the start of each level is probably the 
 gun you should sick with, this game comes in a couple of enviornment mostly in the city of iraq 
 and in the plain grass areas of russia. you start off with a guy named soap who will mostly play 
 in russia and laster on move to sargent jackson in iraq but he later on dies. this game is a game 
 you will probably beat under 5 to 6 hours. there are also 4 choices of play which i would play 
 in either hardend or veteran. the mulitplayer in this game is really fun. its just it has room 
 for improvement , and the biggest one is the length of the game. but the really good thing about 
 this game is you can easily get achivemets points whick you should be able to get about 700 to 
 800 achivement points.
  also after the credits there is a little 2 minute game that is kind of fun and your trying to save 
 the V. I. P.
  
  over all this is a good game that i would buy but not be my first choice but this is still a good 
 game that you will enjoy
  
  THE AHMED MAN OUT!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: eriz2727
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 20, 2008 1:13 pm PT
Review:  When I first got Call of Duty 4, I couldn't stop playing it. It's filled with lots of action and 
 fun, and online multi-player never gets old. The graphics for this game are absolutely amazing, 
 they're so realistic and life-like. Call of Duty 4 is just a great game with lots of action and 
 intensity, and is a great addition to the Call of Duty series. The only thing I didn't like so 
 much about Call of Duty 4 was the length of the single player campaign. I mean I'm not much of 
 a hardcore gamer and I didn't finish the campaign in one sitting, but I finished it pretty fast 
 compared to other first-person shooters. Although the single-player campaign is short, all of the 
 exciting content makes up for the length for the most part.
  
  Overall I think Call of Duty 4 is a great game, and it's worth the money. I honestly regret renting 
 it, because I know I should have just bought it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Moo00oose
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 20, 2008 12:10 am PT
Review:  To begin, I have to admit that I was never really a Call of Duty fan. I'm not really a fan of any 
 World War II shooter. Even when I heard about Call of Duty 4, I was skeptical. But I took my chances 
 and bought the game; and I found it to be more than worth it.
  I don't really like going into multiplayer before I finish the single player; therefore, I booted 
 up the campaign. From the first level - excluding training - I was engulfed into a very realistic 
 shooter. The absolutely stunning graphics helped in that department. As I progressed through the 
 campaign, I became more and more immersed into it. Especially the level which the warhead goes 
 off.
  Eventually, I found myself stuck on a level. I hate to sound like a pansy but keep in mind that 
 I was more familiar with Halo - a shooter with shields. And I was playing on a difficulty not recommended 
 for a novice CoD player. This lead me to the multiplayer. I got fed up with the stump that I was 
 in and decided to join the chaos of multiplayer.
  When I joined a match I noticed that the level was taken directly from the single player campaign 
 which I thought was pretty cool. I really enjoyed how smooth everything ran as well. But the thing 
 about the multiplayer that really grabbed hold of me was the ranking system. Although it can get 
 a bit annoying to not have a gun that you're really good with right away, I still enjoyed how you 
 unlock weapons and such through leveling up. Another thing I liked were the Prestige modes. Wanting 
 to get to my 10th Prestige really got me addicted to the multiplayer. I'm still not there. And 
 to tell you the truth, I don't have as much motivation to get there but every now and then I attempt 
 it.
  After getting over the multiplayer experience, I went back to the campaign but started over on 
 an easier level. I beat the campaign and by the end, I really enjoyed everything. That last level 
 was interestingly fun.
  Overall, I loved the game. And I still do. I don't play nearly as much as I used to but I still 
 get urges to go on. I gotta give this game a 10. It's good like that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ironbat25
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 19, 2008 9:58 pm PT
Review:  This game is very good. The game has some of the best first person shooting you can find on the 
 xbox360. The single-player campain is very short you can beat it in about 2-3 day if you really 
 play it. The multiplayer is very great. you can upgrade you weapons by getting higher ranks from 
 playing online matches. There are alot of online matches to play. The higher you rank the more you 
 unlock weapons and diffrent things to customize your weapons. The online multiplayer is lag free. the 
 graphics are some of the best on the system. The weapons and charater animations are great. This 
 game is for people who have xboxlive beacuse the single-player campain is short but the online 
 great and very fun of you liked the campain mode. Althoght the game has a great multiplayer its 
 not worth full price if you cant play on xboxlive beacuse the single player is short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cdkee
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 19, 2008 8:01 pm PT
Review:  Okay I will make this simple - this game is excellent.
  
  However, it is not for everybody. I have read numerous posts on various boards / forums about people 
 complaining that CoD requires "no skill" compared to Halo 3. This is not true at all. While these 
 games are both FPS games, they are very, very different and cannot be compared. Halo is a Sci-Fi 
 game, with colorful characters jumping 20 feet into the air shooting glowing particles at each 
 other. CoD is a high tension realistic military shooter where yes, you will die with one bullet 
 or two when shot in the chest. The games are completely different. I cannot emphasize this enough. 
 Halo is a great game in its own regard, and the same with CoD. So stop comparing.
  
  And now for campaign :P
  
  Campaign is amazing. I actually read the script for the game was 
 originally intended for a full length feature film, and if you play through, you will see why. 
 You become attached to your squad as you progress through the game, and make emotional bonds to 
 each one. However, many people complained that the campaign was very short. This only occurs from 
 people who did not play the game on either Hardened or Veteran. Yes, the game is very, very hard 
 on these difficulties, but I thought the game was much more fun when I went through my first play-through 
 on veteran. I did not experience any self regret when it ended, as the ending was touching and 
 very emotional. 
  
  Multiplayer is amazing and addictive, there are numerous game types, the most popular being TDM 
 and Headquarters, a sort of territory like game type. People can create their own classes, with 
 this being the backbone for the very deep experience system with which you rank up, thus unlocking 
 numerous guns in the Assault, SMG, LMG, Shotgun, and Sniper category. Each map has different requirements 
 for each person, and each class is very well balances in regards to others.
  
  So in summary, go buy this game. Play campaign on Veteran, and it is very satisfying. Play multiplayer 
 in between and rank up. 
  
  10/10 in my book, an instant classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedEyeNinjai
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 19, 2008 6:13 pm PT
Review:  Now here is a game that has been around for a wile. Its all ways been about ww1 or 2 but now we 
 got modern warfare. That takes place overseas in the middle east. Amazing the story line the graphics 
 the guns the scenery its all amazing it was just done really well. hats off to all that helped 
 in the making of this game. I really liked the fact that they made the sniping more real you half 
 to hold your breath. My favorite level I can't remember the name but its the one were you play 
 as the captain of the British S. A. S its basically a flash back your a sniper and your mission is 
 to take out Al Asad. Your both in enemy territory and you half to sneak to a old abandon building. 
 The beast part is the second half of the mission were you half to get to a pick up point that's 
 fun let me tell you especially on veteran. It took me a a long time to do a review I beat this 
 game 3 days after it came out i started off on veteran I beat it on veteran. Its a really good 
 game most people will enjoy it. I know I did i think this call of duty 4 did batter than all the 
 rest. But that's my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fear_Oblivion
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 19, 2008 5:47 pm PT
Review:  This game is worth the buy. The guns are awesome, the sounds are awesome, and the voices!!! This 
 game is realistic and offers a lot. The maps on Live are awesome and well played out. The games 
 on Live are fun and very entertaining. The new weapons you can unlock are just phonominal! The 
 storyline OWNED except for the ending when like all of the people died, but "Hey!" Its still a 
 great game. 10/10. Because of the gameplay, maps, weapons, length, graphics, and voice and sound. 
 Get it now. You won't be sorry because this game is very very very very fun. One thing I forgot, 
 its also very realistic which is a BIG part of the game. Reality makes games better because that 
 means better graphics. The sounds sound real and so does everything else. The levels are long (atleast 
 some) and the maps are HUGE! Get this game NOW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alterbridge9
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 19, 2008 5:10 am PT
Review:  I was wondering when the CoD series was going to progress past WW2 and was pleased to see that 
 at last they have. CoD4 is simply the best, in my opinion, FPS on the market.
  
  First the graphics are superb and especially in HD. The details in the environments is brilliant 
 and really brings the game to life. The gameplay is intense with fast paced action mixed with stealth 
 based missions. The pace can be difficult at the start especially on multiplayer but you quickly 
 get used to and realise how slow other games are! The story itself is again intense and rather 
 alot of twists and turns occur as you progress.
  
  Finally the multiplayer is again the best FPS multiplayer to date. The ranking system really promotes 
 lengthy gaming streaks to unlock various weapons and modes. The only downside to the multiplayer 
 is that at the start you have fairly poor guns and get beat quite alot by the higher ranking players. 
 However once the early stages are over it quickly becomes addictive as you get better weapons and 
 attachments.
  
  Overall I would say that CoD4 is the best FPS on the market and although the single player campaign 
 is short it is brilliant and the multiplayer is amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: airsoftGI
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 18, 2008 5:07 pm PT
Review:  I have just gotten this game today and play it for ten minuets and fell in love with it. Everything 
 in the game is completely realistic way you take out the mag, the way the rail system lines the 
 top ,sides ,and bottom of the gun it's all perfect so you know someone down at Microsoft is doing 
 their job. They mean modern warfare it has everything from the P90 to the M14. The way you design 
 your character is completely revolutionary compared to all the other first person shooters out 
 on the market today. They use things other games couldn't have done like using flash bangs and 
 laser sights. The mags even have the right folds in the metal to look like the real thing. With 
 the gillie suit it may seem like you could never get that close in real life but you'd be surprised 
 I've gotten that close in real life without them realizing me. They even have radiation meter that 
 sounds like the real thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: taino1128
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 27, 2008 6:20 am PT
Review:  The Good:
  Both single-player and multi-player are intense. Perfect audiovisual presentation. Best controls 
 and gameplay seen in any shooter. Great storyline and varied, cinematic missions. Online options 
 are endless. Smart enemy and teammate AI.
  
  The Bad:
  Campaign ends too soon.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Call of Duty is been known for being the king of WWII shooters. But, let's face facts. Everybody 
 is sick of WWII. WWII shooters are so outplayed and in this country, almost everyday, everybody 
 heres somebody else mention or reference WWII. Infinity Ward knew that modern warfare was the way 
 to go, and what a way it is. This is the best shooter ever made.
  The only problem people have had with CoD was that there was never a true storyline in its campaign. 
 That problem is easily fixed. This time you actually feel like you are part of the storyline instead 
 of observing it. You play as a U. S. Marine and British Spec Op. There is a problem out in the Middle 
 East. You must eliminate the leaders of an international separatists group. Aside from the action 
 in the shootouts, the storyline and cutscenes also have this intense feeling. It's that feeling 
 like you want to keep playing so that you find out what happens. Not that many storylines in games 
 have that feeling. You also get an "Oh my GOD!" feeling when watching the cutscenes, especially 
 since they are all in first-person. At the beginning of the game, you are given the view of a person 
 who will be killed by a separatist on national television. You are thrown into a car and you are 
 given control of the camera view. So much happens in this car ride that is only a few minutes. 
 You are driven through streets with dogs running, people hiding, people being lined up and shot 
 in the back, and more. In the end, nothing feels like getting shot in the face with a first-person 
 view. I don't want to spoil the entire storyline, but this storyline is better than any other seen 
 in a shooter.
  The only flaw with this campaign is that it is short. If you have been playing FPS for awhile, 
 you can beat the campaign in about 6-8 hours. There are times when you wish that a mission can 
 be just a bit longer. But Infinity Ward decided to use the concept of quality over quantity. Even 
 though it's short, it covers so much ground. As stated earlier the storyline is amazing. The missions 
 take place in a variety of locations that never get repetitive. The action in those missions is 
 the most intense and visceral action seen in any shooter. Now, there are also a few stealth sequences. 
 Raising the difficulty, as usual, always increases the length. The variation and action in the 
 campaign makes up for its short length. And the incredible AI is still here. On normal difficulty, 
 your enemies will punish you if you aren't smart about what you are doing. Your teammates are still 
 some of the most valuable people around.
  Most of the replay value in this game will come from its multiplayer, which is also the best seen 
 in any shooter. In most shooters, you improve your rank only for reputation. CoD4 actually rewards 
 you for improving your rank. As you go up, you unlock new weapons, equipment, and challenges. Completing 
 challenges also helps unlock new things. The challenges consist of things like getting 25 kills 
 with a certain weapon, killing 10 people while prone, and others. The highest rank in the game 
 is 55 and after that, there are still more things to do. There are also perks. Perks improve they 
 way you play by increasing your health, helping you sprint longer, and others. Now, you can even 
 create your own class. You get to select your weapons attachments and 3 perks. All of the options 
 make this feel like an online RPG.
  The action in those multiplayer battle are just as intense as the campaign. Aside from the shootong 
 mechanics there are also other things that set this shooter aside from the pack. When you get 3 
 kills in a row, you get to call in a UAV Drone. 5 kills and you get to select and area of the map 
 from an airstrike to occur. 7 kills and you get to call in a friendly helicopter to take care of 
 you enemies. It is possible to shoot down the helicopter. These things make this a great way to 
 change standard shooting gameplay. The multiplayer is also loaded with modes and 16 maps. There 
 is always auto-team balance so you never have to worry about being on a team of 5 against 12.
 
  In addition to all of this action and options, CoD4 also has an amazing presentation. These are 
 some of the sharpest and detailed visuals in any game to date. All of the colors are just right 
 and the shadowing looks amazing. And it runs at 60 frames per second. The frame rate never drops. 
 The sound effects are just crazy. It would be a sin not to play with surround sound. You here gunshots 
 coming in a bunch of directions and they are appropriately changed when you get closer to the gun 
 being shot. Your teammates also help when they point out where your enemies are and when there 
 is a grenade near. The background music is the typical action movie music you would expect. In 
 others words, it's amazing. The rap song in the credits is great. It talks about how this is Infinity 
 Ward's 3rd CoD game. It probably intends that CoD fans forget about Treyarch. It's pretty funny.
 
  This is easily the best first-person shooter ever. Yes, the campaign is short, but everything 
 else more than makes up for it. Plus that campaign is more intense and more satisfying than any 
 other shooter. This is also currently the best online game out there. If you were never a fan of 
 shooters, this game will change your mind very fast. This is one game that belongs in everyone's 
 library. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BadSushi
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 18, 2008 8:13 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is the first game in the COD universe that departs from the normal 
 WWII genre. This game takes the near future, close to now making it seem extremely realistic. Speaking 
 of realistic the graphics of this game are superb, not Crysis strong, but still they are possibly 
 the best console graphics to date. The lighting and shadows are all realistic giving an eviornment 
 that makes it feel alive. When there are outside sources for light like movable spotlights, helicopters, 
 and fires, the shadows dance around the landscape and the buildings that you are trying to take 
 or protect. Even the light from the tip of a cigar has shadows dance off of a characters face, 
 showing how much detail the developers really put into the game. While the graphics are a huge 
 deal in the game the frame rate tends to stay fairly high, even during firefights. The only time 
 some lag may rear its ugly head is during some multiplayer play and when airstrikes mixed with 
 other explosions happen at once. None of these lags are terribly game threating, but they can be 
 annoying at sometimes. There are some graphical glitches that normally follow the falling of a 
 dead body, having it get stuck by its ankle or fall halfway through a solid wall. This normally 
 does nothing to the gameplay, except sometimes having a person laugh at the way the body hangs. 
 During these glitches the rag doll physics still stay intacted. 
  
  The one thing that every reviewer tends to bash into COD4's skull is the length of its singleplayer. 
 COD games have always had short singleplayer campaigns, but none of them actually had a good storyline, 
 until now. Without spoiling much you play multiple parts of the fight against 'evil', this time 
 instead of Nazis you are fighting the Ultranationalist Russian Party. you fight as both a mute 
 American and a mute British soldier. By playing these two parts you meet new characters that build 
 a sense of commradery. The single player is short, but it still is the same length as other FPS 
 shooters, like Halo and it still is longer then the GeoW singleplayer. The single player has some 
 amazing moments that will have you talking about them with other players of the game for years 
 to come. The one dissapointing thing about the singleplayer is the lack of coop. If it was implemented 
 into the singleplayer the game would even closer to perfect. 
  
  The AI in the game is extremely smart, and the tougher the difficulty you play on, the smarter 
 they get. On the two lowest difficulties the AI is normal FPS smart. They know they have to kill 
 you and they throw little grenades. On the higher difficulties the AI somehow knows where you are 
 at all times, they shoot at you first, and they throw their grenades to put you into hiding, so 
 they in turn can flank you. The game becomes longer on harder difficulties due to the fact that 
 you will most likley die much more. The AI in this game is superb, and puts other FPS AI to shame. 
 
  
  Even if you only bought this game for only the singleplayer, you should at least check out the 
 multiplayer. This is where the true gold lies. COD4 now uses a small RPG element. A player grows 
 levels on the amount of kills, wins, etc by gaining experience. When the player levels up they 
 unlock new guns, challenges, and perks. Challenges are another way to make the game fun, they give 
 you insentive to go after headshots to gain experience or new skins for your guns. The challenges 
 keep the acheivement-happy xbox people at ease as there are no acheivements for online play. The 
 perks are the new babies for COD deveoplers. They are little abilities that a player can give to 
 their characters. These involve the Maytrdom perk, where everytime you die you drop a grenade, 
 the Double Tap perk, where you shoot twice as fast, and even the Last Stand perk, where before 
 you die you lie on the ground with your pistol out and you can shoot a few more times before you 
 die. There are more perks, that are unlocked are gained at the begining of play, but they are used 
 to pick up the pace of an already quick moving game. 
  
  The multiplayer, since it is the biggest reason to own this game has a lot of depth. With already 
 a good selection of maps and gametypes to play (such as Search and Destroy, Headquarters, Team 
 Deathmatch, Free-for-all, etc.) , they are already adding new maps, four new ones. While at the 
 moment they cost ten dollars for the map pack it is worth it for people who play COD religiously. 
 While playing the game people go after challenges, or the objective of the game type. Some go for 
 kill streaks. In COD4 they add something that they tried for in COD: UO. The more kills you have 
 the more stuff you unlock for that game. They took some of the ideas they had and made them more 
 'realistic'. When you get three kills in a row (without dying) you may call in a UAV. A device 
 that shows your entire team on their HUD where the enemies are. In other words its a radar. There 
 is a perk that one can use to hide themselves from the radar making this game evenly matched. You 
 may also get five kills in a row, which allows you to call in an airstrike anywhere on the map, 
 but be carefully as though friendly-fire is normally off your airstrike can kill yourself. And 
 if you can live for long enough, seven kills in a row earns you the right to call in a Helicopter. 
 These can be shot down with two RPGs or a boat-load of bullets, but sometimes the helicopters won't 
 even help expand your streak even more. After the helicopter your streak can keep rising, but you 
 unlock nothing else. 
  
  There is sadly no character customization, but you can can create your own class. Making it easier 
 to choose the best weapon for the map you are on. It would make it better if you could modify your 
 class in game, but the only time you can change what is in your class is by waiting till the game 
 is over. The single player is short, but is forgiven by the sheer greatness of the story. There 
 are some graphical issues, but nothing terrible. And the lack of coop makes for a dissapointing 
 find. Overall this game is a gem that must be bought, for either 360, PS3, or PC. And deserves 
 every award it has won. It says a 9.5, but if I could, I would give the game a 9.8. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gearsofwar1221
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 17, 2008 6:24 pm PT
Review:  First : This game was the Game Of The Year of 2007. It's Great. You start on campaign and play 
 5 hours to beat the game. One of the little problems the game have it is the little campaign. But 
 you play again and again becase of the intels, achievements, arcade mode for points and championships 
 of friends, and for fun. It have perfect graphics and an nice history, with terrorism and steal 
 of nuclear weapons, which makes you tuned in the history - immersive by the way - and when you 
 see you broke your bet that you won't see any "movies" of games. It's just great.
  When you tune online, you play on big and well-done maps, with americans againts terrorists and 
 SAS against Spetsnaz - which means maps on Middle East and on Russia. Almost all the maps were 
 get off the campaign, if you pay attention, which didn't made Infinity a lot of Work. The Variety 
 map Pack comes with 3 refreshing new maps that will make you tuned up for not less than 2 months. 
 The Create-a-Class , with weapons, perks, names married with the prestige and the fun makes you 
 playing 'til the 10th prestige. The only complain about this it's that don't have any vehicles. 
 But this game is just nice best game ever my favrate 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Z3phyrBR
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 17, 2008 5:30 pm PT
Review:  First : This game was the Game Of The Year of 2007. It's Great. You start on campaign and play 
 5 hours to beat the game. One of the little problems the game have it is the little campaign. But 
 you play again and again becase of the intels, achievements, arcade mode for points and championships 
 of friends, and for fun. It have perfect graphics and an nice history, with terrorism and steal 
 of nuclear weapons, which makes you tuned in the history - immersive by the way - and when you 
 see you broke your bet that you won't see any "movies" of games. It's just great.
  When you tune online, you play on big and well-done maps, with americans againts terrorists and 
 SAS against Spetsnaz - which means maps on Middle East and on Russia. Almost all the maps were 
 get off the campaign, if you pay attention, which didn't made Infinity a lot of Work. The Variety 
 map Pack comes with 3 refreshing new maps that will make you tuned up for not less than 2 months. 
 The Create-a-Class , with weapons, perks, names married with the prestige and the fun makes you 
 playing 'til the 10th prestige. The only complain about this it's that don't have any vehicles. 
 But this game is just nice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kwijiibo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 17, 2008 3:56 pm PT
Review:  COD4 is great. Lets just get that out of the way its amazing in every aspect. You name it the game 
 executes it perfectly. I only had 2 problems and they arent even that big a deal.
  
  +Visuals
  +Controls
  +Singleplayer campaign/ Missions
  +Voice Acting
  +Guns
  +Everything 
 else
  
  -No online achievements
  -Story is short, but very compelling while it lasts
  
  Its great. If only there woulda been more missions, and online achievements, we'd be looking 
 a 10 right now, but oh well. Buy this game. NOW. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . . . . .. . .  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steve-og
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 17, 2008 8:54 am PT
Review:  OK I'll start off with the gameplay... AMAZING it's just so smooth and I didn't experience any personal 
 problems during the game. The difficulty is pretty easy on the first 2 difficulties, but does feel 
 a bit harder on the higher difficulties. But you'll probably beat the game in a few hours. The 
 story line is great... (not going to spoil it) ... ANYWAYS this game is a must add too your collection.. it's 
 truly amazing it's EPIC! lol oh yeah and the online play is really fun and it'll keep you hooked 
 for several hours. I recommend if you don't already have this game GET IT! ok get up right now 
 idc what you're doing lol go to the store and go get this game you want be disappointed ok thats 
 all GET IT! ok get up right now idc what you're doing lol go to the store and go get this game 
 you want be disappointed ok thats all BYE 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheJayDaddy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 16, 2008 5:32 pm PT
Review:  You sit down, turn on your tv and surround sound... you place the game in the console and Sit back 
 in your favorite chair and grab the control. As you start to play you can hear the bullets whipping 
 by you in the rear, noises around you of suffering and chaos. You start to feel like your really 
 there.... This is what makes gaming what it is. An outstanding game that has not only a great story 
 but great online play. You can get lost in the combat in the story mode and go thru each turn on 
 the edge of your seat to find out what happens next. With outstanding audio and visuals you will 
 enjoy each moment as it unfolds. Or.. you and a team can take on the enemy and show them who is 
 the best solider to answer the CALL... No matter which you perfer this is a must have on everyone's 
 list. So, if your looking to show your skills and have a great time doing it, this game is for 
 you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darknessviper
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 16, 2008 5:30 pm PT
Review:  This game is what next generation is all about. with dozens of weapons to your disposal it really 
 becomes what is ur style. The single player is in someways short but I tend to look at it in a 
 different way. It packs just as much bang as those long shooters and yet doesnt get dull so in 
 many ways makes it more enjoyable. the story shifts several time from the stealthy tactical british 
 S, A. S experience and the more mindless Marine experience. what ever your style there is some thing 
 in this game for you.
  
  The multiplayer is without a doubt extrodinary. with a solid 60fps and 18 player capabilities the 
 action becomes very real. with the perk system players may adapt to the game the way they want. 
 i often find myself spectating games and constently being impressed by the realistic animations 
 and gamplay. I found one issue with this game and it is hardcore mode. I felt that this game had 
 players living a little too much of a fragile shortlived life. I played several rounds and i see 
 that there isnt very much skill to it. its more of who sees who first thing. I hate it when whiney 
 12 year olds brag on thier "l337" skills when all they do is camp in hardcore. aside from hardcore 
 this game has really become the next socom on gamebattles and i think that speaks for itself 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EdwardsFan99
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 16, 2008 8:43 am PT
Review:  Call Of Duty 4 is the greatest game I've ever played. Also my favorite game that I have. It does 
 crush Halo in all categories (hands down) . Single player and multiplayer are excellent. The guns 
 on the game look real, they also function the same way that they would in real life. The graphics 
 are the simply the best. It's also very realistic, with actual guns and grenades- no bubble shields 
 or needlers, or anything like that. It also never gets boring, you'll always find something to 
 do. Online play is extremely fun. Even after playing for hours and hours, nothing bores you. There's 
 lots of different kinds of games you can play, and challenges to complete. It would be a huge suprise 
 to me if COD4 didn't win Game of the year. I didn't really see a game that could even challenge 
 it for GoTY. If you're debating whether or not to buy this, it is a definite YES. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: God_Emporer
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 16, 2008 4:22 am PT
Review:  In COD4, you alternate between British SAS and USMC fighting some future conflict in the middle 
 east and parts of eastern europe. A nice change from COD2 (tho nothing beats shooting nazis) , the 
 modern weapons effective for the most part. the story is good, not great, not long enough, and 
 sadly lacking a coop experience. the attack dogs felt cheesy and extraneous, and on the hardest 
 difficulty, the game is damn near impossible. i'd give the single player portion of the game an 
 8-8.5.
  
  The multiplayer is where this game really drops the ball. there isnt even a pretense of matchmaking, 
 so rookies and first timers are playing in matches with people who have had the game since day 
 one, and have every bell and whistle for their weapons, and every stupid Perk available. Once in 
 your unbalanced match, you will very likely be blown up by someones grenade, who just flings them 
 around (lucky lobbers, a friend of mine calls these people) randomly. the killcam shows your murderer 
 running around, then looking straight up to pitch his grenade. Respawning is TERRIBLY done in this 
 game- whoever is responsible for that portion of the game at infinity ward should either kill themselves 
 or be rendered sterile in order to save future generations of humanity from being strickend with 
 their obviously defective genes. In every game, you will inevitably be respawned right in front 
 of an enemy, who will happily gun you down. this doesnt just happen to me, or my friends- I CONSTANTLY 
 hear other players **** about this reprehensible spawn system. if you dont respawn in front of 
 an enemy, you may very well respawn ontop of a grenade or under an airstrike- it is possible to 
 be killed twice by the same airstrike, and it is infuriating. if you manage 7 kills without dying, 
 a helicopter will fly in to kill for you. this helicopter unbalances the game by staying around 
 for ever, shooting through almost any kind of cover, and even shooting straight down if you are 
 underneath it. an additional- annoyance, problem, pet peeve- is that you are unable to select which 
 map you want to play on a la Rainbow 6 V. instead, you will play on the same 4 or 5 maps, as if 
 in a loop. is it so hard to give us the choice of what map to play on? other games do it. (and 
 for those of you who are saying "just go play R6V! "- screw you, i'm the consumer, i have every 
 right to demand that game publishers give me as much control over my gaming experience as possible) . 
 this game could indeed be a 9, if more attention were paid to the Multiplayer aspect. instead, 
 that portion feels broken and ofttimes unbalanced. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkrogue87
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 15, 2008 12:39 am PT
Review:  Well I used to play Halo 3 until my friend told me about Call Of Duty 4. I've always knew the Call 
 of Duty series and I kinda liked the games. He said that it's better than halo. I thought no way. 
 So I tried the game and I was impressed. I just didn't know that there would be an FPS (within 
 07 to 08) that would be better than halo. I've also heard that this game was the best FPS on the 
 market. This game totally crushed Halo. This game is better than halo, the best FPS I've played. 
 So then I decided to buy the game.
  
  Good: The Graphics are great, Gameplay's awesome, upgrades and customization for weapons on XBox 
 Live, Good Multiplayer, ranking system, inspiring/philosophical quotes.
  
  Bad: Kinda short story, Not that realistic, a little hard.
  
  So if you like First person shooters, 
 than this is the game for you. I'd give this game a 9.5/10.0. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bostonwii
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 14, 2008 9:03 pm PT
Review:  This is the best shooter to date. The online mode is great and the story mode is really enjoyable 
 too. Although the story mode is a little short it is very thought out and compeling. The story 
 mode keeps challenging but not so challenging as to want to quit. It also has a greatcharacter 
 development. But the best part of the game is the online mode which is where the game defenitly 
 is better than any other shooteer thus far and definitly the best of the Call of Duty series. The 
 ranking system on the online mode keeps you wanting to always get the next rank and the prestige 
 part keeps it fare for beginers too. There is also a huge variety of guns that are ulockable. Anyone 
 that is a fan of shooters and/or the Call of Duty series should defenitly get this game. Even if 
 you are not a huge fan of shooter games you should at least give it a try. The only room for improvement 
 would be to bring back the vehicles from Call of Duty 3 and a little longer story mode. The only 
 people thatshouldn't try this game is peple that don't play any type of multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hellknight13
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 14, 2008 11:26 am PT
Review:  I only bought this game a couple of days ago because all of my mates made me feel bad about not 
 having Call of Duty 4 and felt left out about it but there you go I finally got enough money to 
 pay up for it :)
  
  When I started Call of Duty 4 I went straight on campaign to learn how this games works so that 
 I won't suck on multiplayer and the training mission was straight forward and I got the hang of 
 the game in a couple of hours. When I was doing the cargo runthrough during tutorial it recommended 
 me to play on hardened difficulty and so I did because I may find veteran too difficult (but eventually 
 I reached veteran rank after 10 tries after I completed the game) anyway I found the campaign tense 
 and deep and found some levels difficult such as 'One shot one kill' where you have a legion of 
 Russians coming to attack you and trying to snipe the leader as well as reading the flags to make 
 sure that you shoot their leader (I forgotten his name was) .
  
  Overall it took me about less than a day to complete the campaign and found all 'Ghilled out' very 
 interesting because you silently make your way to the building where you snipe that leader however 
 I walked onto this feild and find myself in the middle of an Russian Army's path which made me 
 nervous because I thought that if I get tread on or get spotted then im doomed and so it took me 
 3 attempts to nail that part of the mission.
  
  Moving onto multiplayer; its great because you get to customise your own class and store them into 
 different slots so that you can use them for each match you play. I made different classes for 
 each map so it would make the game easier for me. The only problem about the multiplayer though 
 was that you face other players online who are more experienced than you are and have a big advantage 
 over you guns and skill wise so making your way up to bigger promotions can be hard until you reach 
 a specific level where you would be capable enough to take on anyone. Its also a pity that game 
 types are also locked so you have to progress your way through online gaming of Call of Duty 4 
 to unlock all these.
  
  So there we go =]
  I'll break this down to say what I liked and disliked about the game:
  + Great Multiplayer (Varient 
 modes, Create a class and Lifespan)
  + Good campaign
  + It grips onto you
  + Great performance as well as descent graphics
  
  - Playing multiplayer for the first time 
 can be rather difficult as you are limited to weapons, game types, challenges and other unlockables.
 
  - You will also find that you could be challenging skilled/ experienced players online as well 
 especially that they have a higher rank than you and have unlocked more stuff than you.
  
  Overall; I give it 8.5 to be honest I say this has the most gripping campaign so far and on the 
 other hand Call of Duty 4 would be more fun after I unlock more stuff that I can use =] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hikaru_Isamu
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 12, 2008 3:18 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare finally gets rid of the tired World War II setting, and sets you 
 in a modern setting bouncing back and forth between Russia and a war-torn middle east. You play 
 as either "Soap" McTavish, a soldier in the British military, or some soldier in the American military.
 
  
  The characters each have different personalities, which is nice. It makes you actually feel like 
 a part of the squad.
  
  As far as the game play goes, this is game is nothing short of amazing. .50 caliber sniper rifle 
 missions? Yes. Stealth missions? Yes. Helicopter gunner missions? Yes. It's all there, and the 
 game play is flawless in all of the scenarios you're placed in.
  
  The only thing that keeps this game from a 10 is it's short campaign. You'll soon forget about 
 that once you start multiplayer, though.
  
  Multiplayer over Xbox Live is great fun. You can form clans (clan tags are available once you get 
 a higher ranking) , play different game modes (although people usually tend to stick with the deathmatch 
 modes) , and customize your character. This is possibly the best aspect of Call of Duty 4's multiplayer. 
 You can choose what traits your character has (do you want him to have more health, do you want 
 your bullets to do more damage, it's all available) , what weapons you use, what add-ons you have 
 on your weapons, and even what your weapon looks like. It really makes the game a nice change from 
 other online shooters.
  
  In closing, this game is well worth the purchase, especially if you have Xbox Live. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedneckGamer87
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 12, 2008 12:28 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: No developer has had more success in recreating the tension and terror of a battlefield 
 than Infinity Ward. Its founding members helped define the World War II genre with the groundbreaking 
 Medal of Honor: Allied Assault while the first title developed under the Infinity Ward label, Call 
 of Duty. Set in modern times, the title breaks the mold of previous CoD titles in other ways as 
 well. Instead of facing down Nazi Germany or Imperial Japan, terrorists are the order of the day. 
 The game avoids any uncomfortably weighty questions of nationality by placing the conflict in fictionalized 
 nations, but the themes will be familiar to anyone who has read the newspaper lately. What makes 
 these confrontations even more meaningful is that, like in previous Infinity titles, we get to 
 see the conflict from multiple angles. In this case, by swapping between British and American troops 
 as they work to quell the epic conflict boiling on the edge of the Middle East and former USSR. 
 Finally you are not only using WW2 weapons but finally get to use more current weapons such as 
 the G3 rifle. I felt the characters were better developed in CoD 2, you'll find yourself appreciating 
 recognizable voices and names over the course of the game. There is a multiplayer part of course. 
 It's very addictive to play and you get to play all the maps that were in the single player game. 
 Of course there is the usuall deathmatch, team deathmach and so on. But most intriguing is its 
 online 'character' development system, which takes some of the great ideas used in Battlefield 
 2 to the next level and the multiplayer portion rivals that of Halo 3.
  
  Graphics: Graphics are top notch in this game. Everything is well detailed and colored that it 
 is just eye candy to watch. What eles is there to say about the graphics? Well also the cut scenes 
 are nicely done too. Like one of thoughs modern war flick movies.
  
  Sound: The sound is really well done in this game, The gun fire, explotions, soundtrack and everything 
 in between are very well done in Call of Duty 4.
  
  
  Value: All in all this game has a high replay value in both the single and multiplayer parts of 
 the game and It's very addictlive. I would highly recommend this game for first person shooter 
 fans. I give this game 9.0 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ben_8790
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 11, 2008 4:32 pm PT
Review:  this game that it seems everyone is on is just as good as expected, if not better. The levels, 
 the upgrades, must i say more. I think that the funnest part is the fight to get prestige all the 
 way, and to get red tiger and gold on all of the guns. Now they have new maps and for the pc you 
 could make your own maps. this is one of the best games of its year, and i can't wait for the next 
 one of the saga. If i could some this game up for you , it would be a masterpiece. The online multiplayer 
 is the best part about this, the story line is good, and i think that some of the upgrades that 
 you get in the campaign should roll over to multiplayer. The single player is also a treat, with 
 some very unique levels. this game will be played for many years to come, and it will probably 
 stay in the leaderboards for the next few years, or until something like far cry 2 rolls around=) 
 , 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tinkertown
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 11, 2008 3:11 pm PT
Review:  Ever since i played the 360 i was excited to see if they would put any COD games on the console 
 which they did bringing us Call of duty 2-3. The previous COD games were based in WWI and WWII... 
 though this time round there has been a change. COD 4 takes us into modern warfare... obviously 
 by its name and plunges us into one of the finest stories ever. 
  
  The story starts on a cargo ship only for you to find that there is a nuclear threat on board proving 
 evidence that there are ties between the Russians and the Middle east. Your job throughout the 
 game is to stop the russian Imran Zakhaev seizing a nuclear stockpile after he finds a safe haven 
 with an middle eastern oil company owned by Khaled Al-Asad. Al-Asad executes president Yasir Al-Fulani 
 on a live president broadcast. 
  
  Your goal is to find out what Zakhaev is doing, then to finally stop him.
  
  The Good - 
 
  - One of the most addictive online shooters ever made.
  - Pretty good graphics.
  - Excellent sounds and attention to detail
  - Good storyline
  - Great Sequel
  
  The Bad 
 -
  - Short campaign
  - Unsatisfying ending
  
  Nothing ugly....
  
  though a good thing is... the games campaign is short enough not to get to repetative. 
  
  
 Overall - absolutely excellent.
  
  Difficulty - Varied, depends what difficulty chosen
  
  score - 9.7
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: coco900
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 11, 2008 2:37 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 Modern Warfare is definately the best in the series. The single player has a good 
 story and is very fun to play. While it is short the single player mode is simply amazing. But where 
 the game really shines is the multiplayer mode. For the first time if you get enough kills in a 
 row you can call in an air strike or a helicopter attack. Plus online mode is a blast to play. But 
 I did have a really big problem with this game and all of the Call of Duty games. The button to 
 reload is also the button to pick up weapons. So sometimes when I try to reload I pick up a weapon 
 and sometimes when i try to pick up a weapon I reload. I hope they fix this in future Call of Duty 
 games. Overall Call of Duty 4 Modern Warfare is a fantastic game in multi and singleplayer mode 
 that should not be missed by anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Camper_On_Creat
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 11, 2008 3:04 am PT
Review:  Let me get this out the way first, I love the game, and you probably wont be basing anything off 
 of my review, so I wont e delving into the game that much. All you need to know is what everyone 
 else is telling you, you need to buy it. 
  
  I have played CoD4 for a while now, and I must say, no game for the Xbox 360 has stayed in longer 
 then CoD4, and it looks like it plans to stay there for a while. I absolutly love the search and 
 destroy mode. Dont get me wrong, I have played other games for the 360, but CoD4's vacation from 
 my disc tray is never a long one. It is simply the best next gen game to date. 
  
  Now let me get on here to start the real reason on why I am reviewing this game now. As you can 
 see, I gave this wonderful game a 9. The thing is with a few very easy to add features, this game 
 is a perfect 10. Cod4's lacking features are an outline for this so called "next generation" of 
 gaming. I mean cmon, we are in this supposed technically superior generation but we cant have 4 
 player splitscreen online, or bots. RETARDED. I am so tired of being screwed over by the gaming 
 corporation's money hounding ways, so tired. Call of Duty 4 should have been given a 10, it really 
 should have been. 
  
  The next thing I am going to complain about is the complete lack of a clan system. Except, here 
 is where I feel dumb because I cant tell you why this is not in any of these "next gen" games. 
 I know there is probably a reason that has to do with money, but I cant think of it. I know why 
 the splitscreen thing gets rubbed out, but I cant explain this. 
  
  This is how I want to explain this next generation so far: Lots of positive things, but where is 
 the tradtional things that should have been kept? Ya know, the things that made gaming FUN. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kennykaos317
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 10, 2008 5:55 pm PT
Review:  World War II first-person shooters have a strong presence on consoles to the point of super-saturation. 
 And for years, the Call of Duty series has led the pack. Infinity Ward last developed Call of Duty 
 2, with Treyarch taking over on Call of Duty 3 and offering a nearly identical experience to COD2. 
 With the fourth game in the series, Infinity Ward retook the helm and delivered a game featuring 
 the same high quality gameplay and production values of earlier games in the series, while notching 
 up the intensity of the single-player game and adding depth and breadth to the multi-player game. 
 COD4 is simply the best first-person shooter available on the Xbox 360.
  
  The single player game places you in the role of "Soap" MacTavish, a rookie soldier on his first 
 day with the regiment. The first mission takes you through the paces of the game's controls, and 
 any FPS veteran will be instantly familiar with them. Movement is fluid, aiming is accurate, and 
 the weapons just feel right in the player's hands. Once the player finishes the tutorial, the "real" 
 first mission begins, and the action never lets up. There is never any downtime, and no areas that 
 feel like "filler" content to pad the length. The player is always given specific missions, and 
 every action works toward of completing that mission.
  
  The single player game features a surprising variety in its gameplay. While it offers plenty of 
 old-fashioned shooting action, it also offers missions where you will flee a sinking cargoship, 
 crawl through an enemy-patrolled field, fire on the enemy from a helicopter, and chase down an 
 enemy on foot through war-torn city streets. You will also fill the shoes of multiple characters 
 all over the world. The variety and tight action helps keep the game fresh. There are surprising 
 moments that will leave you, mouth agape, staring at the TV in amazement. The various difficulty 
 levels offer some replay value. The easiest level, Recruit, offers little challenge at all, while 
 Veteran will test your patience in addition to your shooting skills. A single run-through on Veteran 
 difficulty will unlock most of the Achievements, especially if you take the time to search for 
 the collectible Intel scattered throughout most levels. Though the campaign is quite short, even 
 when compared with modern shooters, it will offer an intense experience that should not be missed.
 
  
  As good as the single-player game is, however, most players will concentrate on the multi-player 
 game. New to the series is a leveling system that constantly rewards the player with new weapons 
 and perks. The perks are special abilities that enhance the player's performance. These perks range 
 from the obvious (increasing the player's hit points or the damage the weapons cause) , to the more 
 esoteric (allowing the player a final shot with his sidearm after being killed) . The perks are 
 well-balanced and add to the player's powers, while never making the player overpowered. A level 
 1 player can compete with a level 55 player, if the two are of equal skill. The levels and rewards 
 come quickly, adding an incentive to keep playing.
  
  The leveling system complements the core multi-player experience. Several maps come with the game, 
 most of them inspired by locations in the single-player game. The maps are well designed. Sniper 
 positions always have multiple points of entry, preventing players from camping in the best spots. 
 The level design encourages player movement, keeping the tension and player interaction high. The 
 matchmaking system contains the standard Xbox Live offerings of ranked and player matches and leaderboards. 
 The game also offers many different game types, most of them team-based. The games work well with 
 the lobby system, making it easy to form a group of friends and keep them together. Once a match 
 begins, your group stays together, with maps randomly changing. If you decide to change matches, 
 the team can easily move on to another match type. About the only thing multi-player does not offer 
 is appearance customization. These options are dictated by the team (either Arab or U. S./British) 
 and the load-out of weapons and perks.
  
  The graphics are detailed, allowing further immersion in the world. The frame-rate holds steady, 
 allowing for smooth gameplay. Weapon and explosion sounds are satisfying and realistic. The overall 
 production values add polish to the already excellent gameplay.
  
  While Call of Duty 4 does not exactly reinvent the wheel, it presents an intense and exciting single-player 
 experience, and a robust and addictive multi-player experience, adding up to one of the best FPSs 
 to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: connor52
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 10, 2008 4:58 pm PT
Review:  This is the coolest mst real most beutiful game that has ever been  
 it has every thing the weapons are so awsome that you would just want to go into combat just to 
 use them and the AI is so great! your temates and enemies act and look so real that it looks like 
 they were real people just photographed and put into the game!!!!!!!!!!!!!! the enviorements are 
 so realistic its like you can just step into them!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! its just amazing so if you 
 want to get this game well get it!!!!!!! if you like FPS than you should get it and if you are 
 a true FPS fan than you totally need  i hope this 
 review was helpful  
  
  
  A Connor 52 review
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  1 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bcooper56x
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 10, 2008 4:17 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare Review
  
  Well, I have to say, Infinity Ward went a long way. This game is absolutely amazing, from graphics, 
 to sound, from game play, and of course the Multi-Player, that is phenomenal. Now if you don't 
 know exactly what the Call of Duty series is, I will explain it to you. From all of the Call of 
 the Duty games, they have all been based in WWII. Now in Call of Duty four, it goes modern, it 
 is surely different, and I mean that in a good way. I think there are actually too many WWII games, 
 and I enjoy unique games. So in this game, you are a S. A. S. soldier named "Soap" Mavtavish. You 
 are also a U. S. M. C. member too, named SGT. Jackson, so you play as two different people, however 
 they are allies. In previous Call of Duty games, you played as different countries, so it is a 
 little similar.
  
  Graphics
  
  Okay, the graphics are absolutely amazing in this game. One of the best I have seen, ever in a 
 game. So you ask, what makes the game have such good graphics? Well, first let's talk about lighting. 
 The lighting in this game is very good, as in the shadows, for example, say a character is in a 
 light space and he goes just near the shadow and only shows part of the shadow, also certain textures 
 are only lighted on the character. The Shadowing and the lighting is very good for the graphics 
 section, now let's talk about the textures. Okay, so everything looks really realistic in this 
 game, as in the colors seem lighter or darker depending on the shadows. Also if it is, say wet 
 out, or raining, the textures look as if what they would look like in real life. Okay, so now we 
 can just talk about, how real or good the game really looks. Now I think I will just narrow with 
 down, say when you shoot a window, it gets a bullet hole in it, now sometimes it always doesn't 
 break in one shot, so you need to shoot it again, now that's also realistic, also just from shooting 
 things like the ground, dirt comes up, or if you shoot water, it looks as if an actual bullet was 
 hitting the water. Now these things are normally in these next generation games, because all games 
 in the next generation are looking really good. Now there is one more thing to talk about in the 
 graphics department, and that is how clear this game is, it is once again excellent, you can see 
 everything very clearly, the previous Call of Duty games were also very clear.
  
  Sound
  
  Sound in games is normally very well done, including COD4. Every gun sounds life-like, now 
 I don't know what every gun normally sounds like in real life, but the sound is of every gun is 
 unique and well done. One thing I always found cool is that when you shoot something it really 
 sounds like it, now it most games it does, however every gun sounds different on the same object, 
 now not completely different, but not similar. For example, say you shoot a window with a pistol; 
 it may just put on bullet hole in, and not break the glass, and that's because it's not as other 
 weapons that you would carry for your primary. So then say you take a shotgun, and shoot the glass, 
 it will completely destroys the window, and have a little louder noise of the sound of glass breaking. 
 Also for another example, a M16 shooting metal compared to a sniper shooting metal, the metal getting 
 hit will sound different. So everything down to the sound of explosions, all different guns, characters 
 walking or running on different surfaces sounds different as well. Once again, the sound is really 
 great in this game.
  
  Controls
  
  Controls is normally never a big factor, but you also don't want controls bad in a game because 
 then it will be hard to play. So you have the standards right trigger for shooting, and that's 
 always a great spot for shooting games. One control I like is right down from the shooting trigger 
 is the right bumper, and this is the grenade button, which while shooting you can easily throw 
 a grenade. So most of the other controls are good, most of them are the same to the previous COD 
 games. Also another easily maneuverable control is the sprint button, and that is you have to click 
 down on the right stick, so while moving you can easily just click down and start sprinting. The 
 controls are great in this game, and easily maneuverable.
  
  Story
  
  Okay, either I like this game a lot, or it's just really that good, because I thought the story 
 was, like, really, really good. So, like I said in the Introduction you are two different people 
 this game. A S. A. S. soldier and a U. S. M. C. soldier. You go through all different missions, and 
 I think that the missions on the S. A. S. are pretty different from the U. S. M. C. missions, just how 
 a lot of the missions in the S. A. S. are in the dark and the U. S. M. C. are in the day light. Until 
 the two join and go with Joint Operations, later in the game. So the story is really just immersive, 
 and you can get really into it. Not only is the multi-player awesome, but the single player is 
 really great to.
  
  Game play
  
  Okay, so game play is (in my opinion) , the most important factor in a game. So let's start out 
 with talking about just how it plays so say you're in a fire fight with someone, it runs pretty 
 dang smoothly just how you see bullets going right past your face and you just may get hit, your 
 screen is turning red and you need to take cover. There are snipers hiding in their ghillie suits 
 trying to pick you off. Just the feel of the playing this game is so amazing, it runs very smoothly 
 like I said, there is really no lag or slow-moving play either. There's, I think different ways 
 to play also, for example. You can be a stealthy person, and keep a low-profile, like a sniper 
 or ghost would. Like use your knife or silencer on your gun, to not show up on people's radars. 
 Or you could be a person who likes to just get right into the action and shoot anything that moves, 
 unless their teammates of course. Also another awesome feature they have put into COD4 is that 
 you can shoot through a lot of kinds of walls, so you could shoot someone on the other side. You 
 would also have to watch out as to where you take cover. So I wouldn't take cover behind something 
 that an enemy could easily pierce though with their gun. Here's a tip: Hide behind concrete, you 
 can't shoot through something that thick, also thick metal would work as good cover to. 
  
  Multi-player
  
  Now finally, probably one of the most talked about multi-player games in 2007. 
 So first I will start out that the multi-player is absolutely phenomenal. There is so much to do 
 in this; there are Leader boards of kills, accuracy, wins, and much more for single player game 
 too, like who beat this certain level in this amount of time or something like that. There are 
 many ranks to journey or your way through, 55 to be exact. There is also "Prestige Mode", which 
 is where you reset your rank back down to private when you reach the highest rank, however this 
 is optional, and you will get a special insignia for beating "Prestige Mode". When you journey 
 your way through different ranks you will also unlock all sort of weapons to try out.
  
  In the Multi-player of COD4 there are also different attachments for guns that you can unlock for 
 getting a certain amount of kills with that weapon; you can unlock different camo for the gun too 
 for getting a certain amount of head shots with it. There are also ways to gain EXP faster than 
 playing games by doing certain things in the multi-player, for example blowing up 5 vehicles while 
 in the game, you will gain EXP to get to higher ranks. Now one more thing in the multi-player that 
 I would like to tell that I thought was very cool, and that is the "Kill cam". Now the kill cam 
 shows how you got killed in multi-player, and what I mean is that every time you die in the multi-player 
 it shows the guys screen who killed you and how they killed you. So now you won't be like, "wait, 
 how did that guy get me"? I thought that was an awesome feature in the game. So yeah, again Infinity 
 Ward nails the multi-player section and does a fantastic job.
  
  Conclusion
  
  Alright, so Infinity Ward did a phenomenal job on Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare, everything down 
 to the single player, to the multi-player, the graphics are amazing, and they've just really done 
 a great job on this game. And hey, I think it's got what it takes to take Halo 3 down, because 
 I actually think that it's better than Halo 3, but that's in my opinion. I suggest you buy this 
 game, and not rent, because if you like FPS, then you will love this game. Infinity Ward has stepped 
 it up a huge notch, and I hope they continue with Call of Duty 5. Keep up the Great Word Infinity 
 Ward! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skolezy
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 10, 2008 3:47 am PT
Review:  After the long wait, Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare was released last November and is still the 
 most played online XBOX 360 game after 8 months! This tells us something, not only that the online 
 play is thoroughly enjoyable but also unbelievably addictive. The amount of game modes is staggering, 
 with unlockable weapons and upgrades for weapons with frequent use also available to the player. 
 
  
  Oh, and the singleplayer campaign? The missions see you play as 'Soap', a member of the SAS and 
 another american squad (but who cares, those missions aren't as good anyway) . The singleplayer 
 is pretty short, but one of the best of 2007, around 6 hours to complete give or take. Some of 
 you may want to repeat missions in order to find pieces of intel to unlock cool extras, but then 
 again, I don't think anyone would be that sad? Ahem........
  
  Bottom line is Call of Duty 4 is an excellent game with some great features and an online experience 
 that ties with Halo 3, THATS RIGHT!!!! A fine game that proves the Call of Duty franchise can escape 
 from that now rather dull WWII experience.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tiner27
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 9, 2008 11:52 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty four is hands down the best shooting game thus far. Cod4 should be the measuring stick 
 for shooting games. This game is unblievably good you will not be able to put down your controller 
 it has amazing content and features that you wont find in any other game. The online gameplay is 
 truly amazing and gives you unblievable freedom. This is the best shooting game you will ever experiance. 
 There are multiple war tactics to choose from. From Team death matches to bomb the base. There 
 are alot more as well but you will have to get it and see for yourself. There are also nmeral great 
 wepons to choose from that are made for total destruction and chaos. I guarntee you will never 
 get bored of this amazing game. I recomend this game to anyone who likes to have a good time and 
 gaming expericne. This is definatly the best game of the series. This is the best shooting game 
 ever seen on the face of the earth!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kupala123
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 9, 2008 10:58 am PT
Review:  the game is the best shooter and the best game i have ever played. it looks so realistike. it is 
 the best game on xbox live. the game is its best game in the seris. the game has amazing guns. 
 on xbox live i think it better but not by much. the cheat codes are pretty cool for the game. my 
 favorite one is win you shoot someone they change into tires. the game was the years best game 
 for 2007 and i can see why. there are some noob guns like the m16 and the carbine. my favorite 
 gun is between the M16 and the ak- 47. you can download 4 new maps. the maps are chinatown, broadcast, 
 creek and kill house. or you can just get call of duty 4 game of the year edition. i think the 
 game is best on xbox 360. but not everyone does. CALL OF DUTY 4 IS THE BEST GAME IN THE  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: demonicwolf1942
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 9, 2008 9:24 am PT
Review:  they really had no shortage of bang in this but its lacking the game play can be pretty repetitive 
 and the weapons can be a little weak or a little too strong at time i think and sometimes people 
 well plan get lucky :D lol
  
  all in all its fun and if your a COD fan i don't think this will let you down i hope they make 
 another modern combat and have a spot more fun with it because this game is fun and is even better 
 when you have more then one friend playing...
  
  one idea i think the shouldve done is add more weapons and better accessory's to the weapons, if 
 you haven't play this game i wont ruin the fun but i think the should've added more scopes and 
 other grenade options etc that could make it more fun to really play for the challenges.
  
  also some of the weapons kinda lack i think they could've had alot more weapons and more variety 
 of maps. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tizmond
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 13, 2008 7:08 pm PT
Review:  After reading some of the slightly generous scoring from both the press & other gamers, I felt 
 the need to retort......
  
  Being a big shooter fan & after months of enjoying Gears of War, Halo 3 & Rainbow Six Vegas online, 
 I was really looking forward to Call of Duty 4.
  
  As with all shooters, I tried the campaign first.
  I have to say, first impression was wow, this 
 is intense..... then after that initial impression...... the campaign was over.
  Yep, on default difficulty the campaign took me just 5 hours to complete. I read in other reviews 
 that the campaign was short, but I didn't think it would be laughably short.
  Don't get me wrong, a couple of the missions are really well done: "Death from Above" when you're 
 in an AC130 gunship using nightvision & 3 badass guns to take out the enemy below will definitely 
 make you say "Oh Snap !" at some point.
  Also "All Ghillied Up" when you're part of a 2 man sniper team, dressed in full camo "Ghillie" 
 suits sneaking up on & sniping enemies is great fun. This is probably my favourite mission, especially 
 the intense conclusion, which was the only part of the game I found challenging on default difficulty.
 
  Sadly though, while the rest of the campaign is intense & with lots of enemies to kill, it is 
 very samey: Get from point A to B, kill everything in sight & blow up some stuff.
  
  Now on to the multiplayer:
  
  Like I said, I played through the campaign before tackling multiplayer, 
 so off I went only to find that everyone else had more powerful weapons than me, they all had scopes 
 for their rifles & they all had better "Perks". It wouldn't be so bad if the game could find you 
 a match, where you play people of similar rank (Like Halo 3) but in some rooms, I was playing against 
 a load of Generals, which normally wouldn't bother me, because I like a challenge & I am pretty 
 decent at shooters in general.
  But with the case of Call of Duty 4 which has this daft reward system, that unlocks weapons, weapon 
 attachments & better "Perks" the higher you rank up.
  "Perks" include: "Sleight of Hand" which decreases your reload time by up to half. "Double Tap" 
 which increases your rate of fire. "Overkill" which allows you to carry 2 main weapons i. e. 2 assault 
 rifles or assault rifle & shotgun or assault & sniper etc. etc. "Eavesdrop" which allows you to 
 listen in on the other teams comm chatter. "Dead Silence" which allows you to move silently.
  Unfortunately the really useful Perks aren't unlocked until you're ranked really highly, so if 
 you're in a room full Generals you'll be playing against better players, with better weapons & 
 all the good "Perks" which really unbalances the multiplayer a great deal. It's not too bad once 
 you unlock the reflex & sniper scopes. Aiming becomes easier & you'll be nearer the top end of 
 the kill rankings after a game, especially if you start getting kill-streaks to call an air-strike 
 or chopper support. You also have the ability to lay traps, so if you're sniping from a rooftop, 
 you can plant a claymore mine, so if an enemy tries to sneak up behind you, they get blown to bits 
 !
  
  But despite these fun & interesting additions, it lacks the innovation, shown by games like Gears 
 of War & Rainbow Six which both utilise a simple, but well executed cover system to break away 
 from the standard run around & shoot everything technique & allows you to be a bit more tactical. 
 Or in the case of Halo 3, vehicle combat, which is just plain fun. Or even going as far back as 
 Ghost Recon A. W. - issuing squad commands (In Single player)
  COD4 doesn't utilise anything like this other than deciding where you want to place your airstrike 
 & as a result the pace of the game is almost breakneck, so you either end up just running & shooting 
 or staying in one place, picking people off, which was fine 10-15 years ago, when multiplayer shooters 
 were still in their infancy, but nowadays, you expect a bit more.
  
  COD4 might be the most polished "Run & Gun" game available, but it really doesn't bring anything 
 new to the table & the unbalanced multiplayer might put a lot of rookies off the game.
  The campaign is great in places, but disastrously short.
  The graphics & sound are good, but 
 nothing special.
  I still don't understand why this won so many Game Of The Year awards, especially when you look 
 at other games that could have won: Halo 3, Bioshock, Mass Effect, The Orange Box, Crysis, Warhawk, 
 Forza 2, Assassin's Creed & The Darkness. All of which offered new innovations & had a lot more 
 depth.
  
  Ultimately Call Of Duty 4 falls short on both campaign & multiplayer. To put it simply, there are 
 just better shooters out there. Although it is well polished & the controls are sharp, it does 
 nothing new & plays just like a straightforward shooter. But this hasn't stopped it becoming hugely 
 popular, which shows what you can do with a well-oiled Hype Machine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Priemachine
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 8, 2008 12:54 pm PT
Review:  This game is at the top of my list for 360. The in-game mode is intense on more difficult levels 
 but it really prepares you for the on-line play, which is a blast. I love the ranking system and 
 the process of unlocking weapons, perks, and challenges. This game is action-packed, you'll look 
 at the clock and then before you know it, an hour or two went past. There are a few hosting problems 
 that are very annoying. Once the host leaves the game, the match ends and sometimes you will lose 
 your progress. One can not tell if they are the host, so this problem is caused unknowingly. The 
 other unfortunate part is that this game is rated M, which means you have to be at least 17 to 
 buy, but the on-line is filled with annoying little whiners, with extremely high-pitched voices 
 that spend more time trying to irritate other players through the headset than actually playing 
 the game. Overall, the game itself is amazing and a must buy, which backs up my high rating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doglipstik
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 8, 2008 8:55 am PT
Review:  This is one of the better Call of Duty games, because of the variety on online game modes and ranking. 
 It will keep you playing even after you have completed the single player campaign. Unfortunately 
 that won't take you a long time, the campaign mode is short, however it still is packed with gameplay 
 and makes you want to keep playing. The single player may be short on a lower difficulty but on 
 the highest it will keep you on your toes. The online portion of the game seems to be the main 
 part for this FPS, it has an agreeably ranking system and you have the ability to customise your 
 weapons after earning XP or doing challenges. There are many different types of game modes varieing 
 from deathmatch to headquarters where you have to hold a checkpoint for he longest. I highly recommend 
 this game for people enjoy playing alone and mostly for the people who play in a team. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkElf2112
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 3, 2008 8:30 am PT
Review:  Re-inventing a great and established franchise and actually improving it is virtually unheard of. 
 Yet, that's what Infinity Ward has done to create simply the best FPS to date. The graphics are 
 state of the art and the game play is easily learned but a challenge to master. The fun of the 
 single player campaign is worth the price alone. It's the multi-player however, that places COD4 
 on a level that only the Halo series can even approach. Even if you only enjoy a first person shooter 
 occasionally, make this the one you get. There are easily 80 hours of entertainment between the 
 two game types, especially if you are an achievement hunter like me. Playing COD4 through on Veteran 
 difficulty will give you all you can handle. It's tough without being absurdly hard like it's World 
 War II predecessor, Call of Duty 2. Make no mistake though, this is still a very hard 1000/1000 
 to get. In short, if you don't have this all-time great shooter, drop whatever it is you're doing 
 and go get it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wildcat37
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 7, 2008 8:55 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is everything Call of Duty games are known for, but unlike in previous games, there 
 is much more variety in the campaign mode. The story is good in which you switch between two marines 
 in a hunt for a terrorist leader. The story takes you from a sinking ship to an atomic explosion 
 where the climax of teh story takes place. The game remains true to CoD gameplay and has the same 
 duck and cover system as in previous games. The best mission "All ghilled up" is truely amazing, 
 because you must use stealth to go into an enemy city and attempt to assassinate one of teh antagonists. 
 The change from WWII to terrorist warfare is well made and feels refreshing. Occassionally it will 
 be hard, but not frustrating, because of many enemies firing at you from all sides. The gameplay 
 is solid and the graphics are incredible. The multiplayer is another great part of CoD 4. You get 
 to create your own class by choosing its weapons and perks, which are liek increased health, bullet 
 damage, and dropping a ive grenade when you die. You enter a Halo-like matchmaking system in which 
 you gain experience to level up and earn a new rank. You gain experience for certain things you 
 do like killing the enemy, capturing objectives etc. Overall CoD 4 is one of he best shooters you 
 will find on any console. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KarelTheSword
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 6, 2008 12:28 pm PT
Review:  This may look like your average first-person shooter but it is far from it. Call of Duty 4 redefines 
 the fps with fantastic gameplay and great graphics. The short yet exciting single player campaign 
 is Call of Duty's best yet and features a great and completely surprising storyline (no military 
 clichs here) . But the crux of the Call of Duty experience is its multiplayer.
  The multiplayer in CoD 4 features a level system. You level up by gaining experience which can 
 be achieved by killing opponents, capturing objectives and defusing bombs. There are multiple game 
 modes available from your regular Team Deathmatch, to Headquarters and Sabotage. As you level up 
 by competing in matches you unlock different weapons, attachments and skins for your weapons. This 
 is a nice degree of customization and is one of the reasons the multiplayer is so sucessful. You 
 can also create your own class, selecting a main weapon, perks and a secondary weapon. You can 
 team up with friends and join the fight almost instantly, not having to wait a long time like in 
 games such as Halo 3. 
  Overall CoD 4 is a brilliant game and one you wouldn't want to miss, definitely worth buying if 
 you have Xbox Live.
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  Graphics: 9/10
  Sound: 10/10
  Value: 9/10
  Tilt: 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NaturalXX
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 6, 2008 12:04 pm PT
Review:  Okay so let me point that Call of Duty has been a World War II theme but now I think they realize 
 it is time to come into the present for the fourth installment. Call of Duty 4 Modern Warfare is 
 probably the greatest of the series. No more of the lame assault rifles, time for the weapons we 
 use today. You play as characters from the U. S. Marine Core and the S. A. S. trying to defeat the 
 Russians from destroying the United States with nuclear missiles. But the bad part of the single 
 campaign is the that it is really short. It is basically six hours long. But besides that, you 
 will have a great time playing it. The graphics are amazing and the enemy AI is very superb. Especially 
 in the higher difficulties, you have to act like a true soldier to get to the next checkpoint. 
 But of course the Call of Duty 4's multi-player is very intense. You have rankings which will make 
 you feel like a true soldier. You get better weapons, perks and can compete challenges as you level 
 up. If you have the PS3 or the Xbox 360, I highly recommend this game to everyone 13 and up. The 
 language is very minimal and there isn't a lot of blood in Call of Duty 4 Modern Warfare. It isn't 
 an instant classic but still a great game to buy if you haven't already. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TehAssassin8
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 6, 2008 7:50 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty continues to be given the rank of the best game ever. It's phenominal campaign and 
 illustious online play rank it that highly. It competes with GTA IV and many others for that top 
 spot and I would certainly give it to it.
  
  To compare it with Halo 3, i would say it is better in every way, shape and form. There are twice 
 as many levels in COD4 and they are all twice as exciting and fun. All the achievements are for 
 Offline play which is great for all those without Xbox Live, but I little disapointing for us Online 
 Gamers. Now to the online mode. Online Call of Duty is top notch, you battle with gamers from across 
 the world and it never seems to get boring (where as in Halo 3 you get bored) every rank is attainable 
 though. If you play call of duty a lot you would choose to prestige once you reach rank 55 where 
 as if you don't you would sit at that rank. 
  
  Call of Duty is one of the worlds most recognised games and prior to release there was no hype 
 compared to that of Halo 3 and GTA IV. COD4 in my opinion beats them every day of the week. So 
 I would say it was the best game ever! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: voxstellarum
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 5, 2008 7:46 am PT
Review:  I have played all Call Of Duty games except PSP version of COD. Call Of Duty and COD: United Offensive 
 were masterpieces; Call of Duty 2 was a total disappointment, CoD 3 was OK, CoD: Big Red One was 
 pretty good...
  
  My hopes for CoD 4 were not high. My last meeting with CoD on PC (COD2) was bad that's why I wasn't 
 expecting a game better than CoD2's standars. Finished CoD4 20 minutes ago and I'm totally amazed.
 
  
  I'm not sure if I watched an action movie by Hollywood or played a video game. The story line, 
 battles, even loading screens, from bottom to top CoD 4 is an awesome game.
  
  I can easily say that Chernobyl mission is an epic. I'm pretty sure I'm going to play that chapter 
 again and again!
  
  The only minus side of the game is that the game itself is too short. But I think we can turn this 
 minus into a plus with playing multiplayer mode! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HeartBroken13
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 5, 2008 6:51 am PT
Review:  This game certainly has it's sweetspots and yet has its points too. Some missions seem to be way 
 too hard, such as one shot deaths and an overwhelming number of people that really could not and 
 should not be there. One mission in particular, I was laying down as the guys were passing me and 
 if I was with the Captain, I was fine, but anywhere else was noticeable, and I'm pretty sure I 
 was well hidden. (though I did lose him for the 1st 12 times hahaha)
  
  All in all, campaign is pretty great. Gives you plenty of gamerpoints for doing thing you should 
 be doing anyway, such as saving your partner on the stairs before he gets knifed. etc etc. For 
 those of you who played Area 51 for the PS2, and were upset about going from a group of people 
 to a single person killing everyone, i felt your pain, and that why I liked this game. You kept 
 with the people you were playing with. Granted your men can die in a mission and it'd be best to 
 keep them alive because THEY DO KILL PEOPLE!!!
  
  Online gameplay is not too bad. There are those people who are really good and those who are not 
 so good. And there are weapons that people have used for the wrong reasons such as the Grenade 
 Launcher (n00b~tube) or the RPG (n00b~rocket) and then there are those who have actually hacked 
 the game. And to you, I say leave the good games alone. Go play with your self in the bathroom 
 as your mom showers. (SERIOUSLY!)
  
  Online Gameplay is great ~ Campaign is Great ~ Game is Great
  ~9.5~ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drgrady
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 9, 2008 9:18 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 (COD4) is a very good game but not quite up to the hype. It is a new look for the 
 franchise, but it is not all that different or original. Really, I was surprised at how much it 
 felt like COD2 when playing the campaign (I didn't play much COD3, but what I did play was not 
 as good as COD2 or COD4) . That is not a bad thing because I did like COD2, and if a franchise has 
 something good, it should not be thrown out simply to have something new. However, I was expecting 
 a more drastic change in game play to accompany the move to "modern warfare". As it is, though, 
 COD4 is still the same COD with a new look, better level design, and better AI.
  
  The campaign is not incredibly long, but it is also not incredibly short. It could probably use 
 two to four more levels to be my ideal length for a shooter, but I can not really fault the game 
 on its length. The story is decent but not great. Infinity Ward had some great potential with the 
 story they wrote, but they just did not fulfill that potential, and the only thing stopping them 
 was a lack of cohesiveness between levels. Games like Halo have a very engaging story because the 
 levels are separated by cinematic cut scenes that help develop the story and show how the character 
 moves from one level to the next. COD4 does not do this, so most levels feel disjointed and completely 
 separate from the preceding levels. Where the campaign does get good are in the times when they 
 either have some form of cut scene or some impressive visual event taking place in the distance, 
 but those do not come often enough. Instead, we get the usual briefing for each mission where we 
 do not even see the characters but instead watch fairly random satellite imagery that supposedly 
 shows the area of the next mission, but it is not very accurate for some of the levels (The Bog, 
 for instance) . So while many people absolutely do not care about this, it is a fairly simple fix 
 that would significantly improve the story. Also, while it is sometimes very good to have the player 
 controlling multiple characters to get multiple perspectives on the story, it almost always contributes 
 to the lack of cohesion in games like this. I think the story would have been better if they had 
 set up the AC-130 level and the sniper levels just as they did, but then rewrite the rest of the 
 story to follow a single character through the entire conflict.
  
  The difficulty is exactly what it needs to be. Veteran difficulty is challenging but certainly 
 not impossible. My only complain with Veteran difficulty is that the enemy AI is impossibly accurate. 
 I get slightly frustrated when an NPC that I am shooting, who is running with his head down and 
 his gun pointed to the side (so it is not pointed at me) , can shoot me without pausing, looking 
 up, or even pointing his gun at me. It is even worse when he gets a headshot on the first shot. 
 Another annoyance was having NPCs on gun turrets shooting me through very dense foliage at night 
 over long distances. I know line of sight can be difficult to properly define for the AI, but those 
 were the primary annoyances on Veteran difficulty, and neither really detracted much from the game.
 
  
  The graphics, sound effects, and music are all done very well and help to make the game much more 
 enjoyable.
  
  I have mixed reactions about the multiplayer portion of the game. It is very fun, and I know many 
 people think it is the best multiplayer game available. While I like it, it is not as addictive 
 to me as other multiplayer games have been. There are more than enough playlists to try out once 
 you level up a bit, but there may actually be a few too many. Some of the playlists have so few 
 people that it can take several minutes to find a game, but I do like the variety. The complete 
 absence of a skill-based ranking system is both a blessing and a curse. It is nice to just get 
 thrown in with anyone and everyone because it gets players into the matches faster, and it is relatively 
 easy to level up regardless of skill. Naturally, it takes longer for some people than for others, 
 but everyone can get leveled up eventually just by playing a lot. And that is where I have the 
 mixed reaction. Without a skill-based ranking system, I can be more relaxed when I play, and that 
 makes it more fun. However, it means I am not nearly as engaged in the game, and I am more likely 
 to put my controller down to do something else for a few minutes instead of finishing the match 
 and then leaving the game. Another part of the lack of engagement is that I grow bored with it 
 more easily. After only two weeks of playing both the campaign and multiplayer, I had attained 
 all of the achievements and was already ready to try another game. I think my attention span would 
 last long with a skill-based ranking system, but I also understand that the current system is loved 
 by many, many players. Furthermore, I don't see that much originality in COD4 multiplayer, but 
 again, that is not necessarily a bad thing. The perks, air-strikes, and air-support are about the 
 only truly original concepts here. That being said, the multiplayer portion of the game is extremely 
 fun for a while.
  
  I would definitely recommend any FPS fan to play COD4, but I would suggest to anyone who is undecided 
 about the game to try borrowing it or renting it first. You might be able to get your fill after 
 only a week, or you might decide that it is a game that you want to own so you can come back to 
 repeatedly.
  
  Edited June 9, 2008
  After playing a bit more of the multiplayer mode, I have come across two more things that I do 
 not like about the game. The first is only a minor annoyance, but I will mention it anyway. The 
 challenges that unlock new camo patterns and attachments for guns (as well as the challenges that 
 do not unlock anything) have to be unlocked by gaining enough experience. If someone can complete 
 the harder challenges at a low level, why should they be prevented from completing them based on 
 their XP? It does not make sense to me. As for the weapon specific challenges, I think the kills 
 you get from a weapon that you pick up should count towards those challenges even if you do not 
 have the weapon unlocked on your profile. But as I said, this is a minor thing that does not really 
 detract from the game.
  
  The other problem that I came across is the complete inability to use split screen in matchmaking. 
 I can live without coop mode for the campaign, even though I generally really like playing cooperatively 
 with friends, but there is no reason to limit split screen to local games only. So while my friends 
 and I do enjoy COD4, we are resigned to playing Halo any time we get together because that is the 
 only game that we all enjoy that will allow multiple players per xbox to get online. I would venture 
 to say that this is a significant enough problem that it needs to be fixed before I purchase another 
 Call of Duty game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hades10_29
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 2, 2008 7:57 pm PT
Review:  This game is a bomb! I really felt as a SAS agent (or Marine Corp) while playing this. This game 
 has a very decent history-mission line and represents a good challenge. You know exactly what your 
 mission is and this game makes very clear the fact that the key to success is Team Work. 
  I have heard lots of comments regarding the length of the game, after playing Gears of Wars and 
 Halo 3 I have to tell that this one is on the middle (I really thing that GOW was too short though) . 
 I think - based on the difficulty in veteran - this game is about right regarding length. 
  Talking about difficulty, you may want to play this in normal difficulty just to start and then 
 go as Veteran. This last difficulty can be very frustrating but rewarding at the same time, without 
 spoiling I just have to say that enemies are very good at head shots!
  The story line is very lineal and you wont get lost, you will have a map and a team that will 
 be there to show you the map. The team (Marines, SAS or combined) are essential to succeed, my 
 personal opinion is that the Marines are much better at helping you out than the SAS (after all 
 this is a special ops commando and you are the new kid that have to show what you got) .
  Maybe the most appealing factor of this game is the multiplayer maps and competitions. This is 
 almost addictive but so enjoyable at the same time. You and your friends are really going to enjoy 
 this! 
  Summary: This is a must have in your collection you wont regret. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Corvan
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 1, 2008 6:10 pm PT
Review:  When I first started playing the game i was just amazed at how beautiful the game looked. Everything 
 from the buildings to the Character Models were just beautiful. From the first mission on the ship 
 to the ending at the bridge I was just amazed at the quality of the game. 
  
  A real downside i found in the game was the fact that the Campaign was short. My first time playing 
 it on the normal setting only took around five hours to complete. Another one was that going past 
 the Normal difficulty setting, the enemy got real hard to play against. At that point all you can 
 really do Trial and Error. 
  
  Were the game really shines though is the online multiplayer. 55 levels to go through which each 
 level unlocking a perk or a new weapon or a new set of challanges. Even after reaching 55 you wonder, 
 Is this it? Nope, once you reach the max level you can infact start over from level one with a 
 new icon. You can restart over about 9 or 10 times. And once you do it the last time you have the 
 highly wanted Golden Cross. Ive only seen a few of these in my times playing on Xbox Live, and 
 let me tell you, these guys are tough. 
  
  All in all if you play First Person Shooters, you must get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Norshad
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 1, 2008 12:19 pm PT
Review:  Infinity Ward may be on to something with the release of Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare. They have 
 moved into the modern area with no problems and have captured the beauty of the modern battlefield 
 with stunning realism. Call of Duty 4 promises to bring anyone holding the controller into the 
 world of combat. 
  
  I. W. has increased the standard for all shooters on today's market with their graphical perfection. 
 The immense time and detail to the environments has paid off, it will be hard to compete without 
 the amount of detail to equal or better this game. 
  
  The single player mode brings the player into the world of a British Special Air Service (SAS) 
 operative, Sgt. "Soap", and a United States Marine, Sgt. Jackson. From raiding ocean cargo ships 
 for information to saving the world from nuclear holocaust, the single player offers a variety 
 of combat simulations that will keep the interest of all that play it. It makes up for the painfully 
 short single-player campaign with theatrical cut scenes and an amazing online experience.
  
  Perhaps its most sought out feature and easily its best, is the multiplayer mode. Players find 
 themselves starting out with a variety of options which have yet to be unlocked : Create a Class, 
 Barracks, Challenges, and Leaderboards. The online play allows the player to customize their load-out 
 with their choice of Primary Weapon, Side Arm, Special Grenade, and 3 slots of perks for a variety 
 of combinations. Not only does the player have the ability to customize their gear, CoD4 has a 
 large variety of game types: Team Deathmatch, Domination, Search and Destroy, Headquarters, as 
 well as options for hardcore players. 
  
  Infinity Ward has outdone themselves with the release of Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare. 10/10. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilJohnnyboy
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 1, 2008 2:45 am PT
Review:  This is a very well thought out game That I enjoyed very much throughout
  the entire game. It is good that Infinity Ward has finally realised WW2 is out and Modern day Warfare 
 is in Everyone is so sick of Nazis in all our shooter games well now we have A new aproach Koreans, 
 Russians and
  Muslims (Terrorists) Call of Duty 4 shows us the brutality of war in Iraq
  And just how Russians can be in the military
  
  The story line is quite interesting but sadly 
 short. There is a couple of suprises and unforgetable things that happen the graphics are very 
 good
  for today's standards not the best but still great the gameplay is enjoyable
  and forces tactics on higher levels of difficulty
  
  There has been pretty much bug free gameplay 
 and no real glitches which is very good there is hardly any crashing or anysort of lag. There is 
 a large variety of guns in the single player campaing and that expands into more guns in multiplayer 
 from RPGS to airstrikes to your heavy machine guns
  which gives multiplayer a great experience the only bad part of multiplayer
  is martydom (not 
 sure if it's spelt correctly) it's when when they die they drop a live grenade the most annoying 
 part about it is that almost everyone has it on so when ever you kill somebody you will have to 
 expect a grenade going off
  
  Overall A Fantastic game that will not be soon forgotten because of it's great multiplayer
  9 
 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: I-AM-THE-G-MAN
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 31, 2008 11:58 pm PT
Review:  this particular game surprised me in many ways among playing it, firstly, it has the best graphics 
 seen in a warfare shooter to date, the locations are completely plausible as are the characters 
 but most of all, this game created the tension of actual warfare, particuarly at the end. the single 
 player is quite short but up the difficulty and soon 6-7 hours turns into 13-14 on your first playthrough 
 at least (up-ing the difficulty to vet is also quite frustrating your first time so use the guide 
 at the start of the game and it should indicate where your at) , but in those hours the tension 
 gets going and some truly awesome scripted scenes will wow you into playing it at the very LEAST 
 once more. the multiplayer is fun and frantic and has some unique features that make it seem like 
 warfare multiplayer should, although for me it gets quite rushed and i would have appreciated a 
 more thought-out experience that makes each kill an adrenaline rush, but scince over 7,000,000 
 people own this game it is perfect. gameplay wise it is the best GAME full stop, when firing a 
 weapon into the head of an adversary it just feels right (maybe more importantly, real) , moving 
 is as easy as it should be and the camera work is fantastic (even though this is a FPS) . te cons 
 are; the fact that enemies spawn a bit too much in certain areas and the triggers are annoyingly 
 obvious, the enimies are inclined to do something that not too many games grasp the concept of: 
 grenades, but it seems as though cod4 has this well and truly down, and often its just annoying 
 that you have too move because of a grenade and then get shot dead, or worse, go to throw back 
 the grenade and it explodes in your face, slightly annoying as they swamp you with almost as many 
 grenades as bullets, and finally the lack of co-op, this bieng a game that seems BORN for co-op (as 
 in every bit of the single player campaihn you are accompanied by a team) , has absoloutly none. 
 all those aside, the simple gameplay factor in this reighns supreme over all other games and, i 
 think, will for quite some time. 9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Godan200
Rating: 10
Date: May 31, 2008 7:45 pm PT
Review:  The thing to say is not what can i say... Its what CAN'T i say! This game is the best shooter in 
 the world today. There are alot and i mean ALOT of shooters that i like. But this one with all 
 the guns and tech and ranks that actually mean something.... Its just overwhemingly good.
  
  I just can't stand it its just the greatest game ever. But they should have made the story 
 line longer. It was only like 2-4 hours of gameplay and was very easy! The online is just the most 
 amazing thing in the world.
  
  So many people playing and the ranks aren't just for bragging rights. WHen you go up in a rank 
 you actually get perks and guns. You can mod ur guns how you like with a wide selection of Scopes, camo, 
 and installments.
  
  The Perks really help alot during a match. YOu can have extra ammo, RPGs, eavesdroping, radar gammer, 
 and MUCH MUCH more. If you really dnt believe me (which you prolly do b/c almost everyone has this 
 game that has a 360 or PS3) go out and buy it or rent it. 
  
  WHAT ARE YOU STILL READING FOR GO OUT AND GET IT NOW NOW NOWWWWWW!
  
  -Godan200 
::::::

::::::
UserName: damned_beast
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 29, 2008 6:04 pm PT
Review:  Good: Great story mode, Amazing multiplayer. Over all great graphics
  
  Bad: Some textures are bad to look at up close. 
  -----------------------------------
  Call 
 of Duty 4 is clearly the 4th main installment in the CoD games. This is the first one to go modern. 
 What does this mean for the game? Well it opens up for new tools of war, and what feels like a 
 full of fun package.
  
  The story in Call of Duty is simple yet very enjoyable. A rebel group in the middle east has ties 
 with a Russian ultranationalists group. The leader of this Russian group wants to seize a nuclear 
 weapon stock pile and use it against the other power of the world. after the rebel leader executes 
 the president of the middle eastern country the american army steps in. While the S. A. S are in 
 Russia to rescue their informant which has information that would change the out look on the war. 
 After the Americans are caught in a nuclear weapon detonating, they are pulled out and formed together 
 with the S. A. S to take out the leader of the Russian group and avoid another world war.
  
  The gameplay in Call of Duty is just like any other FPS game. It place similar to the rest of the 
 CoD games, so if you have played those, you will feel right at home here. The modern cmohange doesn't 
 change the take on gameplay to much, besides adding additional support like helicopter and jets. 
 Over all the feel of this game is fluent and is outstanding of almost any FPS on the market today.
 
  The biggest change in gameplay lies with the bullet penetrating. You can shoot through sheet metal 
 and thin wood, which adds a new and interesting element to gameplay in singleplayer and in multiplayer.
 
  
  The graphics in call of duty are some of the best of this gen. Every thing is nice to look at. 
 With realistic guns and character models. It add a believable atmosphere to the game. The only 
 problem with this is the bad textures of some walls when you get to close.
  
  The sound in call of duty is truly some of the best of any FPS. With great voice acting which add 
 another believable element to the game. Great sounding weapons. And just any sound in the game, 
 just sounds right.
  
  The multiplayer is probably the best part of the package. It alone is worth the purchase. It has 
 a leveling system that includes challenges that will unlock you experience and new stuff for your 
 weapons. With every rank you unlock more challenges or new weapons or perks. Perks are these things 
 you add to your class in create a class, these give you a element of new gameplay. They range from 
 more health to more grenades. 
  The multiplayer will keep you hooked for a long time, and certainly reviles Halo 3 
  
  If you 
 do not own Call of Duty 4, you should go out and pick it up. It is worth every penny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AsianDynasty
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 29, 2008 3:25 pm PT
Review:  The story mode is awesome although it is short and its worth it. The multiplayer online is like 
 so awesome. There are lot of types of game you can play like Team Deathmatch, Search and Destroy, 
 Free For All, and Team Hardcore which is like team death match but friendly fire on. You have your 
 own ranks, they can keep track of all ur kills and accuracy. You can customize your own weapon along 
 with perks and stuff. And theres Prestige mode which is unlock after 55 levels. You can choose to 
 start over again and earn a new rank. You can do this like 10 times. Another thing i like is you 
 can also call in airstrike and helicopter in online multiplayer which make this game so fun. Best 
 CoD ever. Hope CoD5 is better, but cant think of anything that need improve. So i suggest that all 
 people have a 360 should get this game. Its worth it. Well cant think of anything else to write 
 and this is my first review text. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Untame_Zerg
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 28, 2008 8:33 pm PT
Review:  If I had a quarter for every time I heard someone recommend Call of Duty 4: Modern Combat, I'd 
 be filthy rich. 
  
  Call of Duty 4, with its impressive list of features, easily tops my list of games I've played. 
 I'm sure it will stay there for quite some time, too. The graphics are great, the story makes sense, 
 and the AI is incredibly intelligent. This is one game you do not want to stop playing, but you 
 do because you realize that you should have eaten and gone to bed 12 hours ago.
  
  The game starts you out giving you a quick military-esque rundown of the controls and basic tactics. 
 You start by taking a weapon and shooting at stationary targets. Then you are introduced to the 
 sidearm and the knife. Afterwards, you meet the Captain and go through an assault course where 
 you learn to quickly acquire targets and move quickly. Throughout the game, you will be switching 
 from 'Soap" MacTavash of the British SAS and Jackson of the USMC. 
  
  Personally, I think the AI could use a little more tweaking and this game would be perfect. The 
 game is set in a modern environment (hence the Modern Warfare title) and is a long-overdue release 
 from the typical World War II FPS games.
  
  If you have a chance to buy Call of Duty 4, do it. If you don't, do it anyway. You will not be 
 disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bad-wolf-2k8
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 28, 2008 11:53 am PT
Review:  call of duty 4 is a great first person shooter. the story mode is amazing to play through as it 
 shows to some what the world is like today. the online play in the game is a who new thing for 
 online gaming, with the new ranking system and the weapons and perks that you unlock through the 
 game. there is a lot off fun in the game with privet matches so you can chill with ur friends and 
 mess around and get partys started. the way that you play the game is up to you on the online section 
 as you can play form 5 main classes asault, spec op, light machine gunner, demolishion and sniper. 
 for each off the weapons on online you unloch parts and camo for that gun for example a red dot 
 sight with red camo. there is 3 camos for each gud starting with didital whick u get after 25 headshots, 
 then blue camo for 75 head shots and red camo for 150 headshots. after ur get all the gead shots 
 for each gun in that catigory you get a gold weapon for example a gold AK47. its the same idear 
 with the parts for the guns 25 kills for a red dot sight, 75 kills for a scilencer and 150 kils 
 for an Acog scope. this is diffrent with the sniper rifles as you only get a Acog scope for 100 
 kills. the game is one off the best first person shooter out the and will be for another few months
 
  
  peace 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KamikazeDonut
Rating: 10
Date: May 27, 2008 2:50 pm PT
Review:  Ok Call of Duty 4 is perhaps one of the best shooters on the market and unlike most FPS's it has 
 a great single player and muyltiplayer. Gameplay: The game play is simply fantastic even single 
 player is fun to come back. The single player plays the story of American and British forces trying 
 to prevent World War 3 (Although it does not say anything about World War 3 just hey stop those 
 Russian suckers) however it is played out great with tons of intense battles however it focuses 
 more on squad verseus small armies then the huge battles from previous Call of Duties. However 
 what will mainly sap your lifeforce is the multiplayer that allows you to customize your character 
 with the weaponary and special abillities called perks. While appearence customization would have 
 been a welcome feature it is also something I could live without. All in all gameplay is simply 
 fantastic with plenty of white knuckled intense moments (my hands actually swetted during a multiplayer 
 match) . Graphics: The game moves extremely well at 60 frames per second along plenty of lush enviorments 
 in single player along with geniusley designed multiplayer maps. Even little things such as fire 
 and smoke look fantastic and the guns look almost like the real thing. Sound: This is another big 
 selling point of CoD4 I mean you can't have a war game without great sound the guns sound fantastic, 
 the enemies will yell out orders in Russian. Everything just sounds great in this game. Controls: The 
 Controls are extremely natural and really responsive in fact you might even forget you have a controller 
 in your hands. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamergeek545
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 27, 2008 9:18 am PT
Review:  When I first picked up this game I was disappointed about it not being set in WWII, not because 
 I love WWII shooters it just because that is the one that was my favorite of that genre. But after 
 I picked it up and was playing the first mission I forgot all about the Nazis and the old Thompson. Well 
 start off with the Single player, it is really good and you are always in really good action, but 
 that action goes by to fast. You could probably beat it in about 8 hours combined together. But the 
 weapons are varied and there are so many of them. The enemy/friendly AI is good but you might find 
 some hicups along the way. The level design is beautiful and varied. The story is nice and it has 
 a great ending. It was like sad but in a way you are just so satisfied. Of course the graphics are 
 as beautiful as any game I have saw before. They are just like the second one, smooth and really 
 realistic. The quotes after you die are still there and are very interesting to read.
  
  
  
  Multiplayer: This could be the best multiplayer I have ever saw. Better than Halo, Gears of War, and 
 Smash Bros. Brawl. Because the ranking system is exacuted so well. It is tough to go through it all 
 again when you are doing prestige but when you get to the top it is great... but then you start 
 all over again. The perks are all useful unlike the camo you put on your guns I guess that is to 
 just make it look better. It has a lot of people online so you will have no trouble starting you 
 up a game and playing for hours at a time.
  
  
  
  Re-play Value: This game is going to take away a lot of hours of your life. I loved the story mode 
 although it was short. So I've replayed the story about three times. You will become addicted to 
 the online like every other person in the world is.
  
  
  
  End It! With loads of weapons, amazing perks, addicting online, and a decent story mode, you will be 
 entertained for weeks no forget that months at a time. This is a definite but, so much fun.
  
  Real Score:9.8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Echonian
Rating: 10
Date: May 27, 2008 6:46 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4, or CoD 4, is one of the greatest first person shooters I have ever played. And 
 not because of any one part of it, but because these parts blend together in a way to make you 
 think you are actually a true soldier.
  
  The single player campaign has you fighting against crazed leaders of middle eastern and Russian 
 areas, and their large masses of soldiers. But the actual story is far more deep than that, and 
 is a great work of art, if a bit short. Along the way, you use shotguns, assault rifles, sniper 
 rifles, anything you can get your hands on. You get to shell enemies from above on one mission, 
 snipe enemies on others, attack fortified positions and survive attacks from helicopters, armored 
 vehicles, and swarms of intelligent soldiers who use cover and tactics superbly.
  
  The graphics are great as well. Grass sways in the wind, bullets blow things to pieces in grand 
 fashion, and bullets can pass through thin materials as well adding another dimension to the combat 
 and new strategies.
  
  The multiplayer is what truly makes CoD 4 great, however. You can make your character anything 
 you could want and play with him through game modes ranging from attack and defense to team deathmatches 
 and more. Perks, which you can have 3 of, allow you to customize your character beyond just the 
 weapons. For example, you can get one to increase your health, one to give your bullets higher 
 damage or penetration through materials, one to make you invisible on radar, or one to give you 
 motion activated claymores you can set up. The possibilities allow for a lot of variation. Weapons 
 and perks are unlocked as you play through multiplayer, which is annoying at first but really not 
 that bad either. 
  
  Overall, CoD 4 revolutionizes the first person shooter genre, combining fast paced gameplay with 
 innovative combat options and a great multiplayer and single player experience in one package. 
 This game is definetely worth a buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: a9IronShaolin
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 26, 2008 6:48 pm PT
Review:  Right from the moment I put the game in my disc tray I had a feeling I would be in for a treat. 
 I was right. Let me start off by saying that this is one of the most phenomenal games that ive 
 played in a long, long time. The story is compelling and really allows you to enjoy the characters 
 that surround you. While the campaign is short, the levels have enough difficulty and replay value 
 that you will find yourself playing again and again. However if the campaign itself wont push you 
 to play again, then the achievements should do just the trick. On my first play of the story mode 
 I chose the difficulty of Hardened ( There are 4 different Difficulty levels) . Most of the achievements 
 ask for a 2nd playthrough of the game on Veteran if you have not already done so, and I must point 
 out that while difficult, playing on Veteran will give gamers just the challenge they want.. A 
 few minor complaints about the campaign, these consist of no Co-Op, and shortness. But other than 
 that I really could not find any flaws. Now onto the 2nd draw of the game, the multiplayer. The 
 multiplayer off xboxlive can seem a bit boring on 1 console, this is because there are only 2 players. 
 But i must recomend that if you pick up this title that you pick up Xbox-Live along with it (which 
 is what I did) . The online multiplayer supplies players of all kinds with the challenges and fun 
 expieriences that they would want out of a game with this much detail. The online lobbies are accessible 
 to all, and the Create a class system allows players to upgrade their weapons before and after 
 every match. There is a good number of different combinations for players to try out.. Perks, which 
 can be added to Create a Classes, are a fun way to add difficulty to online games, but for gamers 
 who want to go a bit old school, perks can be dissabled. Now for those veterans of COD there is 
 an old school mode along with a variety of other online game types, Team deathmatch, free for all, 
 Search and destroy, etc. These exciting game types are matched with a good ammount of maps, and 
 a variety map pack is available for download. The maps range in sizes from big to small and there 
 is a radar that can be turned on and off in the rule menu for more challenging map interaction. 
 The bottom line, COD 4 is an award winning title with immersive gameplay and a fun expierience 
 waiting for all who play it. I must suggest that players pick up the "game of the year" edition 
 because it comes with the variety map pack download for free. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Exiss
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 25, 2008 11:40 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is the best FPS for the realism-seeking gamer today. Well beyond the limits of its 
 World War II siblings in terms of quality, COD4 is the type of game that can bring new people into 
 a genre that they might have otherwise not considered. 
  
  The visuals are crisp, clean, and stunning. Environments and NPCs are rendered impressively with 
 careful attention to small details and photo-realistic coloring. From the smallest leaf on a birch 
 tree outside Chernobyl to the hairs on Captain Price's moustache, Modern Warfare raises the bar 
 for player immersion. It does for today's gaming community what the first Call of Duty accomplished 
 in 2003. 
  
  A storyline thin enough to avoid detracting from the game's atmosphere but intriguing enough to 
 quietly ask questions about current events paints Modern Warfare's single-player campaign. You 
 jump between the British SAS in Russia and U. S. Marines in the Middle East. Their paths twist and 
 converge as they work together covertly against a threat of nuclear proportions. 
  
  Explosions, barked orders, gunshots, screams and more compliment the game's soundtrack which draws 
 upon suspense more than action to maintain an atmosphere of secrecy. You are not storming the beaches 
 of Normandy this time around. Now you are on a black op, the only line of defense that the world 
 has. One careless step into a Russian Ultranationalist's sniper sight and everything goes to hell. 
 
  
  The multiplayer is among the tightest and most competitive available on Xbox Live. There are numerous 
 gameplay modes to choose. From Team Deathmatch to Free-for-All, Sabotage to Headquarters, Capture-the-Flag 
 to Cage Match there are more possibilities here than most other games come close to offering. 
 
  
  Call of Duty 4 is the every man's shooter and the thinking man's shooter. More serious and strategic 
 than Halo 3, it just might be the best all around FPS of the decade. So, where to now? Put away 
 that M1 Garand and start polishing your Desert Eagle, Modern Warfare waits for no man. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rocco544
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 23, 2008 3:31 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is basically a fresh, new begginning for Infinity Ward, they started from scratch 
 only knowing that it would be a First Person Shooter like its predecessors, but what they ended 
 up with would become the most intensen FPS of 2007. 
  
  Gameplay- A completely new gameplay redisgned for this game. It redifines the FPS meaning of a 
 game. The gameplay is straightfoward, simple and most of all very, very addictive. From begginning 
 to end its an amazing rollocoaster of modern warfare. There is a great sellection of weapons to 
 wield in the game that you can never be sure wich one to pick. From AK-47 to MP5 and even the Barret 
 .50 Caliber Sniper Rifle, frag grenades, stun grenades, etc. All of this puppies will keep you 
 entertained during the storyline. What really shines about this game is the online multiplayer, 
 you can have so much fun with your friends. A great option is the abillity to create your own weapon 
 set that includes: A primary weapon (assault rifles, shotguns, light machine guns, etc.) , a handgun, 
 one out of three special grenades, and 3 perks (more ammo, more health, 3 grenades) . The games 
 and maps will keep you entertained thru your advancement in rank to unlock newer weapons and perks. 
 This is what Call of Duty stands for. 
  
  Story- A thrilling and exhilirating storyline, only problem is that it can be finished in a couple 
 of hours (6 to 7 hours, depending on the difficulty you select) but your going to enjoy every minute 
 of it. 
  
  Graphics- The best the graphics world can bring you, rich in detail, it will be like pure gold 
 to your watering eyes. The characters are very detailed and so is the enviorment, it didnt win 
 the best looking FPS of the Year for nothing .
  
  Music- Great musical score that fits perfect with the game.
  
  Value- Call of Duty 4 has a 
 great value, its thrilling but short storyline, its intense and non-stop aciton online multiplayer 
 and beautiful graphics make this game a great package. Youll have so much fun that they should 
 make it illegal . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tking1293
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 22, 2008 11:08 am PT
Review:  I guess I'll start with some of the negetives first, the few that there are. The single-player 
 campaign is merely average spanning with different groups of soldiers to fight a terrorist group. 
 It gets kind of confusing after a while and serves a purpose of only giving it a story. The controls 
 are good and the developers made sure to give you a wide selection of weapons in-game. The voice 
 acting is also very good. The actors don't sound overly excited or anything like that. The real 
 selling point of COD4 is its multiplayer. The level up process is kind of similar to that of Halo 
 3's, except instead of getting experience for being in a game you get different numbers depending 
 on your skill. The more kills you get, the more points. There are also things called "Challenges" 
 in the game. They are specific things that you need to do in a multiplayewr match to earn extra 
 experience. They range from things like a certain number of kills with a weapon to shooting down 
 helicopoters or even killing more than one person with an explosive devise. All of these give you 
 a kind of sub-objective during matches. The addition of creating your own classes (like choosing 
 your own weapons and perks, which are different effects that take place if you have them equipped) 
 really adds an extra layer of depth to it. There are so many different weapons and perks that you 
 can craft a class to the way you play. The best part, at least in my opinion, is the Prestiege 
 mode. The max level in the game is 55 and once you get there you have the option to go back to 
 Level 1 and re-earn all of the weapons and perks again. This way it never gets boring. COD4 is 
 a must-play for console owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aceball69
Rating: 9
Date: May 21, 2008 2:32 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4, in my opinion, is the best COD hands down. Instead of the usuall WWI or WWII, we 
 get a new type of threat. Terrorism. Taking present issues and turning them into a game was and 
 is a great idea. COD 4 takes modern weapons and actions and turns them into a game. We get to see 
 awesome graphics aswell as awesome gameplay. Throughout the course of the game, you play as American 
 and SAS forces. The way the story goes is you are a special task force and you are trying to bring 
 down the terrorist leader once and for all. You play through different levels as either the SAS 
 or American and you have to utilize different strategies to take down the enemy AI. Another great 
 aspect of this game is the Xbox Live features. You can play with your friends in a private game 
 or just team up with people all around the world. You can also play games such as Free-for-All, 
 Capture the Flag, King of the Hill, and much more. The more you play, the more levels, or ranks, 
 you gain. Higher ranks means better weapons and abilities... You get the picture. This game is 
 awesome whether it be single player or on Live. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordWaspy
Rating: 10
Date: May 21, 2008 9:43 am PT
Review:  I rented this game out for a week, maybe not long enough you make use of this amazing game! 
  
  I thought that all of it was amazing, the story mode makes sense, the battles are intense and 
 the gameplay is basically awesome. I have also heard that the online capabilities are great but 
 i cannot confirm this because I did noy have a chance to try out the online mode. 
  
  My favourite part of the game are the big battles that take place throughout the game. For example, 
 in one of the first levels there is a huge fire fight between the allies and the terroists. Also 
 when you have you defend your tank whilst it is stuck. 
  
  I would reccomend this game to anyone with a strong stomach, this is because there is sometimes 
 seen of gore. Like when you see people being lined up against the wall and shot.
  
  So please try it out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vgfanr
Rating: 10
Date: May 20, 2008 4:25 pm PT
Review:  (Fluff First)
  I must be honest.... I never really bought into the 1st person thing! I played Doom, Quake, Duke 
 Nukem, Ghost Recon (1st person) , Rainbow SIx 3 blah blah and even the Call of duty series (1,2&3... you 
 know the pre-prime titles!) oh and I forgot Halo (but see my Halo review) . Now some of the games 
 mentioned are or were considered great games and the thing is some of those are games i kinda enjoyed 
 , but none were strong enuff to make me a FPS believer. UNTIL last summer when the beta came out 
 and the NOVEMBER 07 the BOMB hit and even H3 fans couldn't get away from.....
  
  .... Call Of Duty 4: MODERN WARFARE!!
  
  COD4 is probably the only to date that will not tire 
 in my eyes... I can play it at the drop of a dime. Most games I would have to be in the mood for 
 if asked to play but that's not the case with COD4!
  
  This review is not to explain the features about Call of Duty.... but to share the impact this game 
 has on the industry of gaming. Being declared 07's "Game of the Year". COD4 has without doubt raised 
 the bar for FP shooters that most developers will have to work at for years before catching up! 
 
  
  If this review is helping you decide if COD4 is a future purchase or not..... good.... 
  
  
 ... because, if you don't have this game then you probably ... no you are a "NOOB" and are scared 
 to get powned!
  
  southwestairlin. wordpress. com
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: soufan123
Rating: 10
Date: May 20, 2008 4:14 pm PT
Review:  Seriously, this game is outstanding!! Ok, so for awhile now I've been ignoring this game and playing 
 tons of Halo 3, well now that got boring and I needed a new game.. So I went out and bought this 
 baby and WOW, It is one of the best game's I 've ever played! First of all, the campaign is INCREDIBLE!! 
 The graphics could not be better and are probably the best on the system.. The campaign itself 
 will take around 5-6 hours on Regular or Hardened and about 7-9 hours on Veteran, it is filled 
 with amazing dialogue and by the end of the game you'll feel as if you have a deep realtionship 
 with the characters.. Now the multiplayer, which is the best part of the game. It is filled with 
 ranks, levels, weps, perks.. Everything!! It is incredibly addictive and very fun!! This game has 
 a total of 12 modes, each with a very important objective.. From Team Deathmatch to Search and 
 Destroy, it has everything! My final score for this game is 10/10, it is truly amazing and I think 
 everyone who owns a 360 or ps3 should seriously check it out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Desalbert-
Rating: 10
Date: May 20, 2008 2:36 pm PT
Review:  Where to even start with this? Well, Perhaps I should begin with a bit of a back story. I've never 
 been a Call of Duty fan. Truth be told, I owned Call of Duty 3 for the 360 hoping to get a great 
 shooter experience out of it, but was immediately disappointed. Maybe it was the over done world 
 war 2 theme, the weapons, the fact that I don't do well in shooters; I don't know, but the game 
 never appealed to me. No game in the venerable series did. Until Call of Duty 4.
  
  Honest to anything you hold holy, I did not expect this game to be good. When I saw previews, I 
 shrugged my shoulders, because for me, it was just another Call of Duty game "So What?" I said.
 
  
  Oh, how wrong I was.
  
  This game, is so well done. It's campaign, although it's been called short, I found to be absolutely 
 perfect. In fact, through the course of this game I had forgotten my usual attitude towards shooters 
 and became engrossed in something far greater than just a shooter, or just a war game or what have 
 you. Call of Duty 4, for me, was an experience. It isn't just another game in my collection, but 
 THE game. Coming from a Call of Duty 'hater', for me to say that it is currently the best game 
 I have ever played, is saying something. Believe me.
  
  As I was saying, the campaign is tremendous. Shells going off, nuke threats, the world on the brink 
 of chaos. Joint SAS and Marine operations, great dialogue, ally bots that actually die horrible 
 deaths God. This game is something else. Indeed, I found this game to be ridiculously exhilarating. 
 I can't count how many times I've developed sweaty palms, and even a slightly sweaty brow whether 
 online or off, running down a hallway to try and disarm the nuke or save a hostage before the plane 
 blows up When you're playing Call of duty, and shells go off beside your head, causing your character 
 to fall to the ground, forcing your superior officer to pick you up, and come face to face with 
 you telling you to "Man the bloody hell up solider, we gotta move! NOW!" amid mass chaos You know 
 you're in for something amazing. 
  
  Indeed, I was engaged from mission oneIt actually provides the sensation of being a solider, in 
 my opinion, and when you see those non-important men die (IE private so-and-sothe guys who randomly 
 come up to provide fire support) and die in unscripted, even I was like. NO! Man down! Before my 
 AI superior officer said so himself. And although the AI can be a bit annoying in that your squad 
 sometimes forces you to move up before they will, I generally had the feeling, for the first time 
 in a long time, that I was far better off, lucky even, to have captain Price lending his arm to 
 my cause Or, I was lucky enough to be in HIS squad rather. And that's another thing I wanted to 
 comment on. During the campaign, I actually felt like I was part of an elite squad of SAS troops 
 that took no B. S. and I could generally say that I felt attached both in an odd state of 'friendship' 
 (to the extent that I was sucked in to believe I was Soap, or Jackson) and intimidation, with comrades 
 like Price, Gaz, Griggs and so on. On that note then, the game becomes emotional. Over the course 
 of 8 hours of play time, you and your AI squad goes through hell and back, and I honestly felt 
 the whole range of human emotions throughout the course of the campaign. Boy, what an experience.
 
  
  
  All in all, as far as the campaign goes, I have never (read: NEVER) played a better single player 
 experience than Call of Duty 4, if only for what the great characters, storytelling, and effects 
 offered. Truth be told, if you let yourself really get into it, I'm sure you'll say the same. Hats 
 off to the developers for their sheer artwork in creating such a brilliant and moving experience 
 as it was.
  
  As far as the multiplayer, I'm sure you've heard how great it is And indeed, it is. They have 
 a great 'prestige' system which makes it extremely competitive and fun, as well as a whole whack 
 of game modes which put a decidedly different spin on the experience. For me though, where multiplayer 
 REALLY shines, is in the ability to team up with friends and get tactical. It rarely gets better 
 for me than to be able to take cover with my buddies, and yell "Got one! Sniper, top roof, Take 
 cover!" while providing suppressing fire. Honestly, you might realize by nowBut I get into my 
 games. And for someone like me, there is no better experience than Call of Duty 4; both online 
 and off.
  
  A Truly wondrous experience, deserves a wonderful score.
  10/10. To date, the best game I've ever played, and the only 10 I've given
  
  Written May 20th 
 2008 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bbgambini420
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 20, 2008 11:48 am PT
Review:  Ok Now, after 100million player reviews what can i SAY that is diff. and new!??
  
  Lots, :D COD4 is a Modern Warfare Combat Game!
  
  *Lets start off with the CAMPAIGN, the campany 
 is short but good and interesting. Like in ANY OTHER GAME once you complete the 'story mode' once 
 or twice, your pretty much done with that! But you'll have fun doing so in COD4!!
  
  *Multiplayer! Damn! This game has one of the BEST multiplayer games out there!! Create A Class 
 feature is a great way to personalize your Weapons Of Choice and the added Perks are great!! Select 
 a Sniper and sit back and pick off your opponents as they run around! Select a big Support Gun 
 (LMG) and go RAMBO on some poor guy or building!! lol, SMGs are fast for that close combat style 
 of play!! Killer at close range!! So kick a$$ that you'll hate facing a P90 face to face! lol. 
 Assault Rifles are always great, Shotguns are fun also! Their are lots of guns to choose from in 
 each category all with different Abilities!
  
  *Perks/Attachmens - the perks are great!! sure some are 'noobish' but then again, every game has 
 that unaviodable 'noobish' thing. Extra Ammo, Deeper Bullet Penetration, Running Faster, Claymores, 
 Extra Granades, Extra Bullet Damage, More Health, Steady Aim, are JUST A FEW of the Perks that 
 are Available for ALL THE CUSTOM GUNS of your choice! The Add Ons to your guns are also kick a$$!! 
 All Guns have unlockable Attachmetns that you unlock as you 'rank up' a gun. Red Dot Sites, ACOG 
 Scopes, Grip, Granade Launchers, etc. The attachments available vary by Gun Class!
  
  *Golden Guns - These are fun and hard to get but once you are done 'ranking up' at whatever Prestige 
 you want, once you COMPLETE all the Challenges for a Class Of Guns (IE, all Sniper Challenges) 
 you will receive a GOLDEN SKIN for certain gun in that class. The Golden Guns that are unlocked 
 are: GOLDEN AK-47 (assaults) , GOLDEN Mini-UZI (subs) , GOLDEN M-60 (LMGs) , GOLDEN Dragunov (snipers) , 
 GOLDEN M1014 (shotguns) , GOLDEN Desert Eagle (reach rank55) .
  
  *Online Maps vary from Small All Out War Types, to Sniper Type Maps, to simply Big Anything Goes 
 Maps! New Downloadable Maps are fun also, Creek is my fav. because its a SNIPERS MAP, lots of open 
 shots and angles to get an advantage. Their is a map for everyone playing COD4!! At times you might 
 Struggle in one map but then you might OWN on another Map, thats the beauty of COD4... and thats 
 Changing (Adapting) to any and every map style!!
  
  *Game Types - Once online you have LOADS! of playable Game Types! From Team Deathmatch, to Free 
 For All, to Search And Destroy, these are just 3 of the MANY playble game types, their are Objective 
 Based Types (Sabotage, Headquarters, etc...) Their is a Game Type for everyone!! Some might like 
 Deathmatch others Domination. Overall, you'll have FUN and thats the whole point of playing ANY 
 GAME!!
  
  -Their are lots of other thinks to talk about like the Awsome Graphics, The Gameplay that is Off 
 The Hook!, Online This and That, Strategies, Guns, Maps, Other Players, etc... but it would take 
 awhile LOL. This is a MUST HAVE MUST PLAY for any Shooter Game Fans!! Its a BIG WORLD in COD4 but 
 you will have an EQUAL opportunity to take down even the most Experienced Players!!
  
  COD4 is one thing and one thing only......... BAD A$$!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nahmean187
Rating: 10
Date: May 19, 2008 3:53 pm PT
Review:  i could talk about the sound, graphics, story, but that would be boring. the sound, graphics, all 
 that is really great. what sets this game apart is the intensity. Its the gameplay. its getting 
 online running around in maps and shooting people. cod4 isnt mgs where u think about what ur going 
 to do. u run around, shoot ppl in the face. sounds like any other shooter right? cept not. cod 
 is fast, u die, u get back in the action. the guns are really realistic compared to games like 
 rainbow six. they just feel more real, iono its weird. what sets cod4 apart the most in terms of 
 mp though is the leveling up system. you get exp, gain levels, unlock weapons. u reach 55, click 
 on prestige mode, repeat. 
  
  i havent talked much about anything but the mp mainly bc that is whats gonna keep you playing. 
 the single player is great, arcade mode is fun, but the mp is where its at. this is the first game 
 i was truly addicted to.
  
  the bottom line of this whole review is that you will have fun with this game. if you are compeititive 
 you could spend 5 hours a day w/ the mp like i did for a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: INFAMOUSHAVOC
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 19, 2008 12:33 pm PT
Review:  WELL HERE MY HONESTY REVIEW OF THIS GAME CALL OF DUTY 4. 
  GRAPHIC 10/10- NICE SMOKE EFFECT NICE GUN DETAILS NICE LEVEL DETAIL EVERYTHING YOU EXPECT FROM 
 HI-DEF GAMING YOU WILL EXPERIENCE ON THIS GAME.
  
  GAME PLAY 10/10- CALL OF DUTY 4 DELIVER SOME OF THE MOST TENSE MOMENTS IN A GAME YOU WILL EXPERIENCE 
 FROM HEAVY GUN FIGHT IN A HALLWAY TO GETTING CHASE BY A CHOPPER OR TRYING TO ESCAPE AN AREA ABOUT 
 TO BE NUKED.
  
  MULTI PLAYER 9/10- IT EXCITING IN EVERY WAY BUT YOU WILL CAMPER HERE AND THERE NOT COMPLAIN ABOUT 
 BUT I KNOW THERE I CERTAIN PEOPLE WHO DO TO ME IT PART OF THE GAME.
  
  CONCLUSION- WELL I DIDN'T REALLY GIVE ANY BAD THING ABOUT THIS GAME AND HERE IT GOES FIRST OFF 
 SOMETIMES IN A FIRE FIGHT WITH THE ENEMY YOU SEE GUN FIRE COMING FROM EVERY DIRECTION AND IT LIKE 
 NOT NOTICEABLE FROM FAR RANGE EVEN WITH A SNIPER RIFLE SCOPE SEEM KINDA WEIRD IN SOMEWAY I THINK 
 IF YOUR GETTING FIRED AT YOU SHOULD SEE IT. ANOTHER THING THE AI IN THERE IS VERY STUPID IN ONE 
 MISSION NO FIGHT IN THE WAR ROOM HERE COME ACROSS A HIGH WITH HEAVY GUN FIRE NOW I TRY TO LET THEM 
 TAKE OUT THE ENEMY BUT THE FUNNING THING ABOUT IT IS WHEN THEY WERE FIRING THERE WEAPON THEY WERE 
 FIRING AT NOTHING NOT EVEN HITTING THE ENEMY IT ONLY WHEN I SHOT AND HIT THEM THERE ROUND START 
 KILLING THE ENEMY LIKE THERE SHOTTING BLANKS. ALL IN ALL I DON'T SEE WHAT THE BIG BUZZ WITH THIS 
 GAME IT REALLY DIDN'T SURPRISE ME I KNEW THEY WOULD COME TO MODERN WARFARE SOONER OR LATER BECAUSE 
 THAT WORLD WAR 2 CRAP GOT PLAY ED OUT QUICK IT LIKE HOW MANY WORLD WAR DID WE HAVE HOW MANY TIME 
 ARE YOU GOING TO MILK A FRANCHISE. TO ME ACTIVISION JUST DID THE LIKE TWEAKING HERE AND THERE ADD 
 A NEW STORY MODERN WARFARE THEN SPIT OUT CALL OF DUTY 4 TO ME ALL IT WAS CALL OF DUTY 2-3 BUT TOGETHER 
 NO DIFFERENT ALL THE SAME BUT IT WAS GOOD FOR CONSOLE GAMER ME I'M NOT A CONSOLE GAMER THIS GAME 
 DIDN'T STUNT ME AT ALL. TO ME THE BEST MILITARY SHOOTER GAME IS BATTLEFIELD 2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swiper990099
Rating: 9
Date: May 19, 2008 9:39 am PT
Review:  The graphics, are stunning. They really bring out the feeling of real life where if the NPC cannot 
 see you, it will not act towards you. Consider how the missions follow through, and how it cliffhangers 
 or spots that make you really feel like "I'm so screwed". 
  
  Forcing you to overcome amazing obstacles and problems, fighting off hordes of oncoming enemies. 
 All while trying to keep your cool. The fact that COD4 also had two perspectives in which you could 
 play on, SAS/USMC for the campaign, was an excellent addition to the gameplay. Seeing how each 
 sides point of view was affected as the other carried out its actions.
  
  The multiplayer online feature of this game, including the option of customizing classes, completing 
 challenges, and a massive ranking ladder, forcing you to rely on your ability to use the weapon, 
 rather than the power of the weapon itself.
  
  On the hardest form of the campaign (Veteran) , the game becomes a slaughter fest, with you being 
 sent to near death on a moments notice if you decide to not pay attention. Multiplayer, shares 
 this feeling, should you go away for even a second, theres always that sniper ready with the shot.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpartanLink
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 18, 2008 7:15 pm PT
Review:  I have recently just beat 'Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare' on the 'Veteran' difficuly and I have 
 to say it is a well programmed game. The one thing that kind of had me disappinted was that they 
 ended the WWII thing that Call of Duty had feature in Call of Duty 1-3 but also surpirzed at how 
 well the game was programmed and how the tory line leaves for a second as you play as S. A. S soldier 
 to a USMC soldier and how they both had the same goal. There were some disppointments to the game 
 as alot of the weapons had a serousi recoil such as the LMG, and no dirving, but there was hadly 
 any though. The graphics are really good, not as good as Crysis, but it is net to Crysis though. 
 As for helicopters, buildings, cars, and explosions from a frag grenade it really makes you seem 
 your at that area. The story seemed abosoulutly flawless in my opinion and how they explain it 
 thourghly and without question. Multiplay was also a very good feature for the game as you can 
 go through two parts of leveling up, as you start out on multiplay, and then you go to Prestige 
 mode. It really keeps you occupied if you are just bored and want to pass the time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HammerOFdawn
Rating: 10
Date: May 18, 2008 8:23 am PT
Review:  the campaign is really good... online is perfect and very addictive... the graphics are also really 
 good.. i jsut really love it! the weapons are very cool especially the g36... and my favorite sniper 
 is the barret... theres just so much to do online!!! if your bored u can just go 1 on 1 with a 
 friend or sumthin or just replay lvls. the rewards online rr also rly cool like a gold desert eage, 
 a gold uzi, red tiger and blue tiger... and some new guns. campaign is fun but in the middle u 
 cant play as the americans anymore so u have to play as the others... but that doesent really matter 
 i just think overall that it deserves a 10...  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowsniper177
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 24, 2008 2:13 am PT
Review:  i start with the campaign
  
  the campaign is fun and enjoyable yet it can be hard and challenging, the missions feel almost 
 real as you blast or stealth your way through, however one bad point is that it was slightly short 
 and i personaly wuold have preffered more sniper oppurtunities so i give the campaign 4.5/5
  
  onto the multiplayer
  
  the COD4 online is fantastic, it is very addictive as you find 
 yourself playing until you prestige and then doing it all again, the game types are fantastic but 
 i feel there should be more hardcore options, the added perks were a nice idea and the guns are 
 great online play gets a deserved 5/5
  
  all in all the game is addictive and will have you gripped from the start from the campaign to 
 multiplayer a thouroly deserved 9.5/10
  see you when you get hooked
  gamertag-shadowsniper177
  xbox live
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jbfunky
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 17, 2008 8:37 pm PT
Review:  Best Call of Duty game. Supports awesome online with a quasi-rpg element that doesn't confuse the 
 player. Best current generation game. Super graphics and sound. Best played on a high def tv with 
 surround sound. The ability to choose your character, 4-player split screen online and vehicle 
 support is the only thing that should have been added. Controls are absolutely phenomenal. Single 
 player campaign is short but engauging. Do not pass up this game! The game is awesome, awesome, 
 awesome, awesome, awesome, awesome, awesome, awesome, awesome, awesome, awesome, awesome, awesome, 
 awesome, awesome, awesome, awesome, awesome, awesome, awesome. 'Nuff said. What is with the 100 
 word minimum review. I put everything you need to know in the first paragraph. Why is there a limit? 
 Now it says that the minimum allowed size for a review is 800 characters. Oh well, buy this game 
 please. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninjamaster62
Rating: 9
Date: May 16, 2008 12:00 pm PT
Review:  There are very few bad things about this game. Almost every single aspect of it is perfect. The 
 game has so many hours of playability built into it , so the value is great. Its pretty rare that 
 such a great game comes along. The graphics are flawless, the control is pretty close to perfection, 
 and the gameplay is incredibly smooth. The cutscenes are great. The sound is fantastic, both the 
 music and the voice acting. The characters are very well done, and believable. The story is very 
 cool. The single player campaign was a little short, but it makes up for it by having so much multiplayer 
 content. This is where the game really shines. Playing online is so much fun. There is so much 
 to do, so many maps, and now even more with the new map pack. I love the xp system that goes along 
 with the online multiplayer, it always gives you a goal. This game is probably one of the best 
 shooters I have ever experienced. I really like the fact that COD is set in modern times now, cuz 
 the ww2 setting was getting kinda old. Hopefully they stick with this for the next one. Anyone 
 who enjoys FPS or the COD series should DEFINITELY buy this game. It is awesome and not to be missed. 
 Do yourself a favor and pick it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Funkadima
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 14, 2008 7:07 pm PT
Review:  I'll start with the campaign. Recruit is too easy and Veteran will make you swear a WHOLE lot, 
 but it can get interesting trying to find new paths to go. The cutscenes are visually fantastic 
 and voices are great. The campaign also gets a much-needed and seldom-seen dark aspect to it with 
 a big twist. Amazing, but short.
  
  If it weren't for it's amazing multiplayer, I wouldn't get it. If you don't have an internet connection, 
 don't bother, the campaign wouldn't save it. The multiplayer modes are awesome and the leveling 
 up process doesn't get old because you can go back to level one once you get so far. The kill cam 
 is cool but will also leave you swearing when you see how if a person threw a grenade just 1 inch 
 to the left it wouldn't bounce perfectly at your feet. My only problems are the M16, the first 
 and most powerful gun in the game and how people abuse it like crazy. I also don't like the fact 
 that there aren't any achievements for the multiplayer, but it can be looked past easily. GO GET 
 IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cowb0ysFaN15
Rating: 10
Date: May 13, 2008 7:58 pm PT
Review:  call of duty 4 is one of the most sophisticated and fun games i have ever played the story mode 
 may be a little short but that dosent matter because the online play will have your mind wrapped 
 in for weeks. no joke when i got this game i thought i wouldnt like it but i played and i fell 
 in love with it. the weapons are cool and the knife is awesome. The online play is really fun and 
 you will spend about a week locked up in your room playing it non-stop its just that good and very 
 addicting. Ranking in the game is probably not the most accurate because u can be a level 2 and 
 do better the level 55's but other than that the game is amazing. as a matter of fact i think this 
 might be the best game i have played so far. All in all that is why i give COD4 a perfect 10-10. I 
 reccomend if you read this you should buy cod4 and if you dont already have xbox live buy that 
 so that you can sit down and have hours of frustating fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MisterSinister6
Rating: 10
Date: May 14, 2008 2:09 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best games I've ever played! Everything comes together perfectly. The story 
 line, the controls, and OMG the multiplayer is the best I've ever played on a video game. The thing 
 I like most about this game is that it feels so real, like it literally pulls you inside the action. 
 The story line to this game can possibly happen in real life. Another thing that can bring me too 
 love a video game is that it's not too easy or not too hard. This game is soo realistic it's like 
 it brings the real life experience straight to you. For me the real thing is better than the average 
 arcadey-type shooter. This game will leave you at the edge of you seat from beginning to end. People 
 say the game is too short but with a story as good as this one it doesn't how matter long the game 
 is. Call of Duty 4 is a must have and if you don't already have it you are missing out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Percypoo
Rating: 9
Date: May 13, 2008 12:20 pm PT
Review:  Let's face it, developer Infinity Ward have milked World War 2 for all it's worth. It's no surprise 
 that they chose to set their latest game in a modern setting. Now how their latest game measures 
 up to modern warfare hits like 2005's Battlefield 2 I don't know, but it is certainly my favourite 
 game of that particular sub-genre.
  
  What you may be wondering is how much better are the graphics are compared to Call of Duty 2. Did 
 that game make full use of the Xbox 360's horsepower? I assure you it did not. Things have changed 
 since then. Call of Duty 4 has sharper, more detailed graphics than it's predecessor and looks 
 very beautiful in HD. It may not have such an incredibly high polygon count as gears of War, but 
 if it did, we wouldn't get to see such large scale, intense battles. These battles are stunning 
 and play out fantastically. No two levels in the game are boringly similar. They are all uniquely 
 exciting and rarely frustrating. Just remember, COD 4's single player is short, one of the shortest 
 single player campaigns I've ever played through.
  
  Now even if you don't usually play online multiplayer very often, this game's multiplayer is worth 
 checking out. You simply should not pay the full price for this game if your not going to play 
 it online. It wouldn't be worth it and you would miss out on all the fun. Gaining XP points is 
 easy and gaining higher ranks is satisfying, because it unlocks new classes and great new weapons 
 which you can combine to make your own perfect class. The incentives for killing as many enemies 
 as you can are very attractive and the more options available to you, the more fun you can get 
 out of the multiplayer. A lesson for online RPG developers is to be learned from the online part 
 of the game. That is that the process of gaining XP and levelling up should be fun and I mean fun 
 every time. Someone tell that to Blizzard for me please. 
  
  If you are wondering what the hell I'm on about never mind. Most people who have played this game 
 love the single player and the multiplayer and admire the games outstanding design. I am one of 
 them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Twobyfour2
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 13, 2008 11:18 am PT
Review:  After playing all of the Call of Duty games on XBOX and XBOX 360, I feel that COD 4 is the best 
 first person shooter next to Halo 3. I really dont have any complaints about the game except I 
 wish after Halo 3 came out, the next COD game would let you save parts of online game, review, 
 collect data and post them on a website where you can compare different stats with everybody. I 
 know you can do it through the online menu. I also like the achievements better then in COD 3. 
 I hate trying to get online achievements because there are so many ways you can cheat to get them. 
 I also ike the ranking idea when your online and the options you can control when you unlock certain 
 perks as you get more involved in online battle. I think the only complaint I have is you can not 
 do coop with multipalyers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skudd78
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 13, 2008 8:01 am PT
Review:  I'll start off with it's looks... amazing. I thought Halo 3 looked pretty real until I started 
 playing cod4. But now Halo looks like a cartoon. Next off is the story, It is pretty long but with 
 some missions in helicopters it kind of shortens it. next off is the idea. The idea was brilliant 
 and the story was very interesting so I enjoyed the story a lot. The gameplay is amazing and the 
 different choices of guns and perks makes the combinations seem endless. The multilayer is what 
 bought it for me though, how many choices and unlocking the weapons? you are brilliant Infinity 
 Ward for coming up with the idea. It is so addicting trying to get gold weapons and perks and it 
 seems impossible to do 10 prestige's. The one major flaw though is when two people are playing 
 on the same 360 you can only play them. I mean in halo you can do everything but ranked match's 
 but in call of duty you can do nothing... NOTHING! so if they fix that then hopefully it will become 
 my favorite game but for now it's halo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: codezer0
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 12, 2008 6:21 am PT
Review:  This review is coming from someone that particularly doesn't care for multiplayer, so my review 
 will be focusing on the singleplayer portion of the game.
  
  I initially came to this game with skepticism, largely due to the fact that everyone kept raving 
 about the multiplayer aspect, much in the same way that people were raving about Halo 3's multplayer 
 component. Having already been burned by Halo 3, I was not looking forward to having another game 
 where the devs basically bastardize the SP component in favor of the MP component.
  
  Much to my relief, that does not appear to be the case with Call of Duty 4. Another welcome change 
 is that CoD4 doesn't have any of the "star-spangled" jingo-ism that is so prevalent with other 
 wartime FPS's (particularly WW2-based FPS's like the prior Call of Duty games) . At least here, 
 we are aware that there are plenty of capable soldiers in countries with names other than America, 
 and that US soldiers are just as capable of blundering a mission as anyone else. And that the british 
 soldiers are actually quite capable of messing you up.
  
  The thing that stood out for me is that while I have seen games with very detailed graphics like 
 this before, it's fairly uncommon to see games with this level of detail and playing so fluidly 
 at all times. It was very hard to even be able to find spots in the campaign where the game actually 
 felt like it was running at less than 60fps, which is good, because you'll need all the help you 
 can get if you want to run through at Veteran difficulty like I did. Bravo to Infinity Ward for 
 being able to make such a fluid playing game. And even though I was technically only using the 
 composite audio cables and don't have a home theater setup to be able to use the digital audio 
 capabilities of the Xbox 360, I was quite impressed with the immersive, surround-sound nature of 
 the audio in Call of Duty 4, with being able to make things sound like they are properly "surround 
 worthy" even on just stereo audio cables.
  
  And while I'm sure that I could get more precise aiming and reflexes with a computer keyboard and 
 mouse, CoD4 played quite well on the Xbox 360 controller; and in my case, having played FPS's on 
 consoles well before I'd got to enjoy them on a computer, I find that the turning with analog controllers 
 (when done well) can be much more natural and true-to-life than your keyboard/mouse 360-degree-midair 
 spins. And IW did a great job in making the controls feel responsive and helpful even in the hardest 
 combat situations you'll encounter.
  
  About the only thing that I found a peeve were due to parts of the campaign that felt "too hard 
 to do". While these were relatively spread out between easier parts of the campaign, they were 
 no less annoying. And without the ability to select which check point to start from in the mission 
 (always starting out at the latest one every time you die) you may find yourself trapped in a situation 
 where you are stuck going in a suicide route and cannot go the route you needed to without restarting 
 the whole level over again. While it was possible to then gird thine loins and make it through 
 with perseverance, more oft than not I found myself restarting a mission from scratch because of 
 the fact that there was a screwup which I could not get out of any other way.
  
  Few franchises are capable of completely reinventing themselves in most media without losing something 
 in the translation. With the case of CoD4, Infinity Ward ditched the oldey-timey World War 2 stuff 
 that some of us got tired of and focused on a more "ripped from the headlines" current affairs 
 of urban combat. And while the story uses common cliches, the quality of its execution more than 
 makes up for it.
  
  From a single player standpoint, Call of Duty 4 may not have the longest campaign, but its quality 
 experience makes it a standout. And if you decide you want to jump into the online, I hear that's 
 pretty good, too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tommat119944
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 12, 2008 5:25 am PT
Review:  So anyone who owns games like Halo 3, The Orange Box or any other great games from 2007, I can 
 tell you right here and right now that this game is a strong competitor.
  
  Let's start off with the campaign. The campaign, which I beat on easy and veteran, can be fun depending 
 on how good you are at the game and what difficulty you play on. I found easy to be quite boring 
 compared to veterans intense gameplay. Playing on anything easier than veteran can take you from 
 7-15 hours to complete and on veteran 15-30 depending on how good you are. A tip, stay behind cover 
 if you get in the slightest bit hurt.
  
  I wouldn't reccomend this game to anyone that doesn't have live however, since the online multiplayer 
 is really where it's at. This game is too fun online. It is epic battles comprised of only infantry, 
 no vehicles, but that doesn't detract from the fun you'll have on it. There are plenty of maps, 
 from the close quarters shotgun action in Vacant to the long range sniping action in maps like 
 Bog, my personal favourite.
  
  There is also some downloadable maps off XBox Live and costs about 8 dollars i believe. It contains 
 4 maps named Creek, Chinatown, Broadcast and Killhouse. They all look great, but I can't comment 
 on them since I don't have them yet.
  
  If you were a fan of the previous Call of Dutys, you'll find that much is still the same in this 
 modern warfare based shooter. Game modes, for example, have some of the ones that have been a staple 
 in the series. Free-for-all, Team Deathmatch, then the more varied ones like Headquarters, Domination, 
 Search and Destroy ect. The only thing fans will find new is the game types like Ground War and 
 Team Tactical.
  
  But I have only scraped the surface on this great online achievement. There is also a leveling 
 system which awards you with new itims to help make your "Custom classes" unique. There is the 
 expected like new weapons, but there is also "perks". Now when you start off your online career, 
 you'll find that you have 3 classes. There is the classic M16 assault rifle, the MP5, one of the 
 more popular guns in the game and the M249 Saw LMG.
  
  Below you'll see more slots though. When you enter games and get kills, you are awarded with expierence, 
 which, in turn, level you up and gets you rewarded. On top of those 3 classes you get the Demolitions 
 with a shotgun and a sniper class with the M40A3 sniper rifles, one of the more accurate and favoured 
 sniper rifles. With the maximum level being 55, you get guns every 3 levels. If you level up one 
 or 2 more times, you get the 5 custom slots which let's you customize everything except for things 
 like armour.
  
  Now the perks are just little bonuses you get when you level up. For each class theres 3 perk slots. 
 Perk slot no.1 is based on things like explosives, ranging from 3 grenades rather than the typical 
 one, to C4 explosives. The other 2 slots are really varied out, with slot no. 2 having things like 
 Sleight of Hand, halving your reload time, to stopping power, which just makes your bullets hit 
 alot harder. And slot no. 3, I find, is just a slot to give you that little boost that makes the 
 difference between life and death.
  
  Now I hear what you're saying. "Surely a level 55 would be extremely overpowered in comparison 
 to a, say, level 24?!" Wrong. They designed the classes the be amazingly balanced out and they 
 start you off with a good loadout so I wouldn't worry about that.
  
  The guns are labeled under Assault Rifles, Like the AK47 and the M4 carbine to name some of the 
 more popular.
  The Submachine guns (SMGs) like the MP5 and P90 which are just designed for close to medium range.
 
  The Light machine guns (LMGs) Which have a huge ammo capacity but aren't too accurate.
  The shotguns that are pretty useless unless you're playing on the smaller maps.
  The sniper rifles, 
 pretty self explanatory, a scoped gun for strictly long ranges.
  
  For each gun there are marksman and expert challenges. Let's take the AK47 as an example. If you 
 just started out with it, you're going to start off with just the iron sight and, if you choose, 
 the grenade launcher that takes up slot one. Now if you get good with it and get 25 kills, you'll 
 unlock a Red Dot Sight (RDS) . These are just designed for players who find the iron sights to be 
 a bit of a nusance and want better accuracy. Now if you get 75 kills you get a silencer for your 
 gun. Without a silencer you'll come up as a red dot on your enemys radar every time you shoot. 
 And finally, 125 kills that gives you an ACog scope which just enhances your vision to let you 
 see better at longer ranges.
  
  The achievements disappointed me though, as they were all Single player only achievements. I think 
 the developers thought they made up for it by giving us challenges, but I still would've liked 
 to see me unlock achievements whilst playing online.
  
  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is, plain and simply, a must own for any XBox Live fan. The online 
 expierence is truely authentic and will leave you wanting more every time you step away from it. 
 All the above listed would leave anyone crazy to give it below a score of 8. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mtilley690
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 11, 2008 6:15 pm PT
Review:  There really isnt that much to say about infinity wards next title in the CoD series. Except revelutionary. 
 The change to modern times is extremely good for the series and helps a ton to immerse you in the 
 game. The campain was ammazing and very immersive. I loved every minute of it and found it hard 
 to stop playing it cause i was having so much fun. Now, since i have to complain about something, 
 its short. it takes only about 6 hrs to beat, but its so hard hitting it doesnt matter. The online 
 also makes this game unbleievable. Your options grow as you level up and there are many upgrades 
 for you to strive for. The action is very cinematic and amazing. Best game ever played, hands down 
 , , , , ,, , , ,, , , ,, , , ,, , ,, , ,, ,, , , , ,, , ,, , ,, , ,, , ,, , , ,, , , ,, , , ,, 
 , ,, , , ,, , ,, , ,, , , ,, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rotary101
Rating: 10
Date: May 11, 2008 12:35 pm PT
Review:  What can I say? This game blows me away. The campaign is full of action, yet has a great story, 
 the graphics are superb, gameplay better than any shooters I have played and the multiplayer makes 
 you come back for more.
  
  The controls are different at first for me because this was the first CalI of Duty game I played 
 on the x360 but ten minutes into the game I got the hang of it . 
  
  The campaign as I mentioned earlier is great because there are so many amazing moments in it (especially 
 in the American part of the campaign) , and the story is quite sad.
  
  The graphics are brilliant and show the graphical capabilities of the x360 and PS3. The most impressive 
 part of the campaign to me which showed off the games graphics was the nuclear explosion at the 
 end of act 1. 
  
  The difficulty was just right, but I felt Hardened difficulty was really satisfying.
  
  All 
 in all this is my the favourite game in my collection and a brilliant game overall 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Master_Chic531
Rating: 10
Date: May 10, 2008 10:34 am PT
Review:  This game is one of the few xbox 360 games I have immensely enjoyed. 
  though I havent beaten the game yet, i have gotten far enough to write a review.
  
  i prefer 
 to play as the americans in iraq because it is literally so great with graphics and gameplay, that 
 it makes you feel like you're there. and it gives you such an adrenline rush, making you want to 
 get farther and farther into the game.
  
  when i first played it, i was a little confused with the controls, because i am so used to playing 
 halo. but the beginning, and the little training thing in the camp really helped me learn how to 
 play.
  
  the music, though very seldom heard (unless i cant here it.. over the explosion and everything :D) 
 is very good. 
  
  all in all, this game is a classic, and one that.. for me... will always be considered a favorite
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: qwertyoip
Rating: 10
Date: May 10, 2008 4:24 am PT
Review:  When i bought Call of duty 4, what i got was much better than what I expected. The graphics where 
 clear, the gameplay was smooth, there was bullet penetration and bullet lag, and there was one 
 of THE most intense single player campaigns I have ever experienced in my life.
  The multiplayer is also great, since all the graphics and gameplay is still there, something all 
 the other games seem to throw away in MP.
  While there are many good points to this game, there is no perfect game. Problems with the melee 
 system make MP frustrating, and, oh yeah, some guns take so long to reload you may as well order 
 a new one by AirMail.
  Also, the SP campaign is short, but now im just nitpicking.
  All you need to know is this: In the era of great games, Cod 4 is at the least one of the top 5 
 to come out this year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cracker_Austin
Rating: 10
Date: May 10, 2008 5:14 pm PT
Review:  This game has the feel of all of the previous Call of Duty games, which is a great thing! Graphics 
 look better and the storyline is great. You play more than one character throughout this game and 
 you see different perspectives. It is very cinematic which makes the game even better.
  Playability: 5 out of 5/Graphics: 4.5 out of 5/
  Controls: 5 out of 5/Audio: 5 out of 5/Story: 
 5 out of 5
  Overall the game is very entertaining and worth the purchase. However, if you do decide to purchase 
 the game, go ahead and try it on Hard or Veteran difficulty. It is mildly easy on hard, and I don't 
 play too many first person shooters myself. Veteran will give you a good match throughout the game. 
 Some annoying things that occurred throughout the game was dying from enemy grenades. At times, 
 literally, bullets would stop flying at you and what seems to be 20 grenades fly at your feet surrounding 
 you. I don't know if this is a life like reality or not, but it sure was annoying after the first 
 2 campaigns. A very disappointing aspect for me personally was the loss of 2 player co-op. Everyone 
 loves to sit down with a buddy and blast away with enemies, working as a team and helping one another 
 out. But Call of Duty decided to take that away from the previous version as they created this 
 version. Overall, the game gets a 4.5 out of 5. It is still an excellent game and really fun. If 
 you don't mind a short game and single player campaign, this is a great game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simian92
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 8, 2008 12:23 am PT
Review:  story - 9
  while the story is pretty basic for a shooter, CoD uses its usual flair by switching players during 
 the campaign, in this game, you switch off between sgt. "soap" McTavish of S. A. S and lt. Jackson, 
 of U. S. M. C.
  the story is entertaining, and puts you all around Europe and the Middle east.
  
  control - 
 10
  the controls are the same as controls in other CoD games, and most other FPSs.
  
  graphics - 9
  while everything looks great, some of the scenes can be pretty grainy if not played 
 on an HDTV.
  
  Achievements - 8
  CoD4 has all of the obvious achievements, from beating the game to beating it on veteran (no small 
 feat i may add) , to killing an enemy blind, etc. the only downside to the achievements is ALL OF 
 THEM ARE CAMPAIGN! however infinity ward has challenges, but more on that later
  
  live - 10
  great map selection, great gametype selection, from your average deathmatch to hardcore 
 assult, and everything in between
  the real pull of its live however is the challenges and exp. system. in live, you start out with 
 virtually nothing. you have 3 preset classes. but get kills and win matches, you level up. with 
 leveling up comes challenges, from the basic, get 150 kills with a specific weapon to kill an enemy 
 with their own claymore. completing challenges nets you exp. which, in turn, gets you new weapons, 
 perks, and challenges. while it doesn't sound great in text. it is executed amazingly well in the 
 game. another great part of live is prestige. as you level up, (from level 1 to level 55) you gain 
 new things, but also a new medal (like in halo 3) . however, once you reach level 55, you come to 
 a decision. start all over with nothing but a new medal? or keep everything?
  
  all in all. to complete the campaign on veteran, leave yourself 15-30 hours, depending on your 
 skill in FPS's, but get this game for the live, ive already put in over 50 hours worth and still 
 i feel like ive barely scratched the surface of this fantastic game. if you own an XboX 360 and 
 have live. there is simply no excuse to not owning this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jarodx4
Rating: 10
Date: May 7, 2008 5:49 pm PT
Review:  The effects and gun sounds of the game are awesome. A big improvment from the previous call of 
 duty games. I like the war-type story and everything they are doing and i find it very enjoyable. 
 The best part about it is playing online with other players that enjoy the game too. I think they 
 should make a COD 5 in like 2009 that would be way better then COD 4. I can't wait till i get this 
 game and i will play it ALL day. I would definetly rate this a 10/10 even though iu have played 
 this for like only 3 hours. Absolutey perfect game for everybody. I just can't explain how good 
 this game is. I would say that if you compare Halo 3 and COD 4, it would be evenly matched. Halo 
 3 i would say is like an warm-up for COD 4. COD 4 is more high tech with the guns and the more 
 army type of way. I like it when you can customize your guns and everything, its gun system is 
 better than Halo 3. I would suggest you get Halo 3 first and then get COD 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RANGER_6
Rating: 10
Date: May 7, 2008 3:00 pm PT
Review:  The game is so much fun it gets addicting after the first time you play it online, but i think 
 the campaign could have been better. The game is very cool that you have to get higher ranks to 
 get new guns and attachments. The perks for the gun was a very good idea. There are some parts 
 that are not realistic, but for the most parts, it makes the game more interesting and fun. the 
 game online is great, but i think they could have worked a little longer on the campaign to make 
 it more fun and you not be overly out-numbered the whole game. This is a game that has it's up 
 and downs. I would consider this to anyone that wants a new online shooter for Xbox Live. One warning 
 though, if you play it once, be expected to get addicted to it for a long time. The idea of the 
 guns and material was a good idea and i give big thanks and congratulations to the makers of this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkpiggy17
Rating: 9
Date: May 6, 2008 5:32 pm PT
Review:  DUUUUUUUUDE... Wow. This is a truly magnificent game. I mean it. WOW. The single player campaign 
 is rewarding on so many levels. A great story coupled with fantastic gameplay makes the whole thing 
 seem so perfect. If only it were longer... but it isn't. Sad. : ( 
  Oh well. Everything but the length of the campaign is indescribable. The multiplayer is even more 
 phenomenal. It's intense, it's addictive, it's fun, it's fully customizable, and when you start 
 tearing through the competition like butter, you start to feel really just plain awesome inside. 
 So yeah, go buy it. NOW. No joke. Do it. Are you doing it yet? GO!! I'm not going to stop this 
 nonsensical ranting until you go buy it. So go. NOW. Seriously, go right now ya jerk. How about 
 this- EVERY SECOND YOU SPEND SITTING HERE AND NOT GOING TO BUY THIS GAME, A KITTY WILL DIE. So 
 get moving. kthxbye. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hippiehunter
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 6, 2008 4:38 pm PT
Review:  COD4 is probably the best FPS I've played so far. The single player campaign is remarkably short, 
 which in my opinion (as a more RPG oriented player) is totally unacceptable. The amount of fun 
 is simply no excuse, I'm sorry to say. With that out of the way, I must say that it has an almost 
 perfectly executed multiplayer. The shooting is great, it has plenty of truly exciting moments, 
 not to mention the level-up system is an excellent way not only to start trash talk but to keep 
 you going. The maps almost never get boring, although like any game it has its share of crappy 
 ones **cough, Crossfire, Overgrown, cough**. Graphics are great, too. However, I must mention that 
 the rocket launcher is a big, stinking piece of what my dog left in my front yard. Basically, though, 
 if you haven't yet played this game or think that Halo is somehow better, you need to rush out 
 and buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CDFowns
Rating: 10
Date: May 6, 2008 9:49 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is the most intense game ever!!! The story maybe short [under seven hours] but is 
 soooo intense and action packed! Levels like blackout and Charlie don't surf or war pig and shock 
 and awe make this game what it is, amazing! The multiplayer is fast paced and intense. i love killing 
 my best friends on split screen or strangers online. Call of Duty 4 is the best game ever! Amazing 
 !!!!!! fun !!!!!!! intense !!!!!!!!! great !!!!!!!! perfect !!!!!!!!! realistic !!!!!
  
  Call of Duty 4 is the best game ever! Call of Duty 4 is the best game ever! Call of Duty 4 is the 
 best game ever! Call of Duty 4 is the best game ever! Call of Duty 4 is the best game ever! Call 
 of Duty 4 is the best game ever! Call of Duty 4 is the best game ever! Call of Duty 4 is the best 
 game ever! Call of Duty 4 is the best game ever! Call of Duty 4 is the best game ever! Call of 
 Duty 4 is the best game ever! Call of Duty 4 is the best game ever! Call of Duty 4 is the best 
 game ever! Call of Duty 4 is the best game ever! Call of Duty 4 is the best game ever! Call of 
 Duty 4 is the best game ever! Call of Duty 4 is the best game ever! Call of Duty 4 is the best 
 game ever! Call of Duty 4 is the best game ever! Call of Duty 4 is the best game ever! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xXxSoCalxXx1234
Rating: 10
Date: May 5, 2008 9:21 am PT
Review:  COD4 is one game that i can see myself playing for a long time. I know the singleplayer campain 
 is not long at all but its the multiplayer that keeps getting me. first let me talk about the singleplayer. 
 i love the story, the way it dosnt end up being all nice and pretty at the end of the game like 
 all these other shooters. I like that the characters have there own personalitys and are funny 
 at times. the A. I. is very smart. they wont do the same thing twice. they will flank your position 
 and keep you pinned down by AK fire and gernades (on Veteran) . now to the multiplayer. this is one 
 of the more fun multiplayer game on the 360 right now. the way you can customize your weapons is 
 a great feature. i just wish you could customize your character. with face and body structure. i love 
 all the maps and i hope they keep coming out with more. I Love that the sniping has been the same 
 the last three games. i happy they didnt change it just because of the modern weapons. thats it 
 i hope you liked my review.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryeinkazamoto
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 4, 2008 11:57 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty has always been a well known series for its impressive war games. But its change from 
 world war 2 to something more modern is probably the best idea they have ever had. 
  
  Graphics: alright, we can start with the graphical quality. WOW!! The graphics are off the scale. 
 Some of the best on the 360. The rain effects, the lighting and the character models are photo 
 realistic. Everything looks how it should. The animations are top notch and the way that everything 
 stays in 1st person, even during cinematic scenes makes you feel like your always apart of the 
 action.
  
  Gameplay: Every FPS plays around the same... right? Well wrong. The way an FPS is tweaked totally 
 changes the way it plays. The addition of the run feature (Which COD always had) is just the best. 
 This time they've also added a knife attack. A sort of sneaking instant kill at close combat. They've 
 done everything you'd want in a FPS. 
  
  The story mode missions have tons of variety. From stealth missions to all out war missions, where 
 your comrades die out just like the terrorist you are fighting. 
  
  Story: FPS' arent usually known for their story. But this one is different. It involves the player 
 and makes things genuinely interesting. 
  
  Mulitplayer: You come for the story and you stay for the mulitplayer. The mulitplayer is better 
 than ever with a new level up system. It gives you neat new abilities such as... running a longer 
 distance or having more gernaids to throw at your enemies. 
  
  All in all Call of Duty is one of the best games on the 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abczby
Rating: 10
Date: May 3, 2008 8:26 pm PT
Review:  When I read the reviews of websites and such I get confused as to why Call of Duty 4 only got 9.0s 
 and not 9.5s or 10s whenever almost every game site gave it game of the year for 2007. Call of 
 Duty 4 truly is a great game that has a great single player and one of the best multi-players of 
 any games I have ever played. The online leveling up is pure genius and makes you keep wanting 
 to prestige over and over until you get a golden weapon or get to level 10 prestige where you cannot 
 prestige anymore. It is a game that will keep you going for weeks if not months and maybe even 
 years if you are a hardcore fan of the series. The graphics in Call of Duty look photo-realistic 
 from a distance and still look amazing when you are close. The single player campaign is amazing 
 and would have been one of my favorite ever if it had co-op. Call of Duty 4 is a great game that 
 if you don't already have it you must go buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MixMaxDancer
Rating: 10
Date: May 3, 2008 3:31 pm PT
Review:  This game was my first person shooter for the Xbox 360, and I have to say i have not stopped playing 
 it since I got it.
  
  You may notice that you die pretty fast while playing online, I was surprised too but hey, it will 
 grow on to you and you wont care as much.
  
  I have been playing this till Christmas 07' and have not dropped the controller one day and not 
 play it.
  
  The Campaign, I don't think it is that short as the Final Review says, but it is sure hard on Veteran 
 Difficulty. I still haven't beaten it yet.
  
  The Weapons, Pretty evenly thought out
  
  Multiplayer, Very fun, Funny sometimes as well.
  
  Graphics, Speechless
  
  Game play, Easy 
 to work with.
  
  Multiplayer Maps, Worth Getting
  
  The Cheats, Very Funny Turn Dead bodies into Tires, Different Colors, Make the Campaign Level a 
 Old movie. There is more to it as well.
  
  There are some small flaws to the game but still amazing. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: unknownman25
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 2, 2008 7:58 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best games I have ever played the story is just so imersive and well planned 
 out it really sucks you in and makes you feel like you are in the shoes of these two soldiers. 
 Couple that with the fantastic multiplayer and you have a best selling game (which this has) there 
 is quite a bit of variety in the online as well with team deathmatch and free-for-all and numerous 
 stratigic game types as well.
  
  However this game does have several things that weren't as good as they could have been like the 
 campaign could have been longer it is pretty short and it really doesn't take that long to beat 
 on the lower difficulty settings and the fact that you jump back and forth between two soldiers 
 is a bit confusing as well. Also the annoying occurrence of when you shoot a bullet or RPG and 
 you get killed before it reaches its destination it seems to dissapear. These are the only two 
 things holding this game back from being a perfect ten. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tobkinator
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 22, 2008 9:36 pm PT
Review:  I will be honest with you I have always loved the Call of Duty franchise. From playing the first 
 one at my grandfathers house when I was younger, to getting my own versions for my consoles. So 
 naturally I was dissapointed when I heard it would be leaving the WWII setting thinking it would 
 be a disaster. I was wrong, dead wrong. COD4 is in my opinion the best in the series. Where do 
 I start, i mean there is nothing bad about this game. Lets start off with the single player campaign. 
 The campaign will mainly take you from Russia to the Middle East [dont ask for a country the game 
 never says] as well as a flash back sequence to Chernobyl [one of my favorite parts of the game] . 
 The level designs and graphics [this counts for multiplayer also] are simply stellar, the graphics 
 are top notch online and off [some of the best I have sooon] . the audio aspect of the game is also 
 superb. The guns sound extremely realistic, whether your shooting or being shot at. The voice work 
 is also very well done for everyone whether it be for one of the Russian extremists, an American 
 marine, or a British S. A. S. operative. If you have played any other Call of Duty from Infinity 
 Ward, you should feel right at home with all the controls and game mechanics. The game even offers 
 some fan service in the form of Captain Price's return. The story isn't the reason that you'll 
 be playing the game but that doesnt meen that it isn't good. My only problem with the game is that 
 the campaign is a little to short. Though that is probably because of how much work went into making 
 the rest of the game so good. Now on to multiplayer. before I played this game I was sure that 
 its online was overated and that Halo 3 was better. Oh My God was I wrong. after playing my first 
 match I could'nt quit. the game uses a ranking system that is far better than the one in Halo, 
 for example in Halo you can only get one XP for every match at the most, but in COD4 every kill 
 gives you points just like in Rainbow six vegas 2. These pointsare used to gain promotions to unlock 
 weapons and gain perk [more on those later] . Another way to get points come from completing in 
 game challenges [ranging from blowing up a car to shooting down a chopper] which start simple but 
 will eventually become really difficult. One really cool feature to the game is the create a class 
 system, this lets you choose your primary, sidearm, and three perks. you can think of perks like 
 special powerups or abilities, they can give you extra health, or let you drop down to the ground 
 with your pistol to get one last chance at killing your killer, or even drop a live grenade when 
 you die. You can even customize your gun with different attachments and camoes after you unlock 
 them letting you create your own custom class. for example my main class is like this,
  
  Primary: G36c
  Attachment: a red dot scope
  Secondary: M1014 shotgun [semi-auto shotgun = awesome]
 
  Perk 1: two RPG's
  Perk 2: overkill [allows you two have a second primary instead of a pistol
  Perk 3: Martyrdom 
 [lets you drop a live grenade when killed]
  
  Once you hit the highest rank in the game [commander, level 55] you can enter prestige mode making 
 you give up everything and begin all over for a nice little rank insignia. The maps in the game 
 are vary good allowing for up to 16 people to duke it out at the same. The game features several 
 different game modes. Let me tell you this, the multiplayer portion is excellent, and extremely 
 intense. Like I said earlier Call of Duty 4 doesnt revolutionize the fps but it just about perfects 
 it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Deepblue
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 1, 2008 4:21 pm PT
Review:  So maybe you don't do Xbox Live? Maybe you're interested in Call of Duty for its single player 
 campaign and split screen multi-player options alone? Is Call of Duty 4 still worth your purchase? 
 My answer would be a resounding yes! Call of Duty 4's campaign is exceptional and worth your while 
 despite extremely short. 
  
  So what's so great about Call of Duty 4? For one thing, Call of Duty 4 is probably the most realistic, 
 best looking game I have ever laid eyes on. Character models, lighting effects, shadow effects, 
 animation, and everything in between equals up to one of the most gorgeous looking games you will 
 ever lay your eyes on. You will be amazed and very appreciative of all the little detail and graphical 
 touches that the developers decided to go through with. Call of Duty 4 also has an outstanding 
 musical score and top notch notch sound quality as well. Activision & Infinity Ward decided to 
 stray away from World War II and bring war in the series to the near future. Hence the name "Modern 
 Warfare". The environments in the game all look amazing and up to date. 
  
  Call of Duty 4 also focuses very well on the story, which is surprisingly very interesting and 
 very well done. Switching between American and British military forces, you will come to grow close 
 to your allies who all have unique attributes and personalities. While most of the game is played 
 on foot, you will also take control of helicopter weaponry, gun turrets, and many other powerful 
 weapons to take down your enemies. There is not one single weapon in Call of Duty 4 that I personally 
 disliked. Each weapon has its advantages and disadvantages, and each weapon is very satisfying 
 to use. The single player campaign can probably be completed in one sitting if you dedicate an 
 entire day to Call of Duty 4. In other words, up to 8 hours could be enough time to accomplish 
 your mission. Call of Duty 4's campaign is enjoyable from the beginning until the very end. After 
 completing the campaign you will unlock a new game mode called "Arcade Mode". Arcade Mode doesn't 
 offer up any new missions, but you will be able to play through the single player campaign with 
 a limited number of lives, and with a high score setting. You are rewarded points for your kills. 
 You are also rewarded points depending on how you make your kills. Head shots and multiple kills 
 within seconds will definitely help boost up your score. "Arcade Mode" is a great and welcomed 
 touch to make you want to play through the campaign all over again. If you're looking for a great 
 single player first person shooter, look no further than Call of Duty 4. The game is very short 
 however, and you may feel a bit unfulfilled if you're not planning on taking advantage of the game's 
 online and multi-player gaming options. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luke89330
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 23, 2008 6:29 am PT
Review:  CoD4, as everybody know, its a modern shooter, unlike the previous WWII series. for a good modern 
 shooter, most importantly is that when you shoot a gun, u have a feel that u r shooting a gun. 
 the recoil, the vibration, the sound that can make u feel like u r in the real battlefield. realistic 
 gameplay made cod4 the best modern shooter so far. with great single-player story, as infinity 
 ward always does, and plus the great concept of multiplayer that makes cod4 deserve to be an editor's 
 choise. multiplayer is the best about this game, not only the gun engine is so realistic, it allows 
 u to lvl up and customize your class, u can customize what kinda gun u use (such as rifles, smgs, 
 light machine guns, snipers, shotguns) , what attachment on the gun u want (such as silencer, red 
 dot, grenade launcher, scope) , what grenade u carry (such as frag, smoke, flash, c4, claymore, 
 rocket launcher) , what special ability u have (such as run longer, higher damage, fast reload) . 
 it even allows u to paint different type of camouflage on ur gun. the varied customization added 
 pure fun into the multiplayer. this game is like counter strike, but far much more, better and 
 realistic. if u like modern shooter multiplayer, or if u like counter strike, NO DOUBT that THIS 
 IS YOUR GAME.
  
  the bad parts:
  1. single player can be frustrating, because the enemy keep respawning if you dont push forward, 
 and ur friendly AI wont push unless u take the lead. Also, the single player is actually not that 
 short, its ok, but unlike other great shooters, no co-op : (
  2. even tho the gun engine is realistic, but kinda unbalanced, such as the m16 is too cheap, that 
 makes the high lvl guns completely useless and therefore nobody would get it.
  3. the offline splitscreen multiplayers lack of customizations, u cant customize any of the classes, 
 choose guns or perks for your own choice like the online multiplayer, u can only choose from the 
 limited classes that already provided if ur playing splitscreen 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LebaneseDude
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 30, 2008 1:47 pm PT
Review:  Now even though I gave it a ten, its not perfect. It is how ever as close as you can get to a perfect 
 game. This game is absolutely superb. I do however feel that the 360 version has better controls. 
 Its not much, but its a much more solid feel. Any way, like games such as ocarina of time and the 
 original metal gear solid (which both got 10s) this game will be the one to stick out in its series. 
 The campaign mode is unbeatable, and the online is great. This game is the best shooter possibly 
 ever. Now like I said before, its not perfect. Heres why.
  For one the online is great, but only supports one player, and when you play 2 player off line, 
 you cant do co-op.
  
  So my final say is that its a great game, Pick it up for 360, PS3, DS, PC, or mac. All are great. 
 Make it your next game.
  
  PS. For wii owners I highly suggest games like Call of Duty 3, and especially Metal Of Honor Hero's 
 2. Its one of the best metal of honor games ever. I give that a 9.0. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mdmalone
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 30, 2008 1:12 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty reminds me of a book I read. "Inside Delta Force", a true story of the creation of 
 the first Army Delta team. The things that these guys are able to accomplish both physically and 
 mentally is astounding.
  
  Similarly, this game gives the same feeling of awe and excitement. It is a true FPS that creates 
 the illusion of you being in the heart of a fierce and intense battle, with the baddest MFs on 
 the planet.
  
  The graphics are superb.
  
  The gameplay is wonderful.
  
  Replay value is high.
  
  And the story is like a multi$million budget film.
  
  In addition 
 to all of that, the multiplayer is fantastic AND the online play is even better. This game did 
 what Halo 3 could not do. Create an awesome multiplayer game that Also has a superb campaign.
 
  
  All in all, a perfect 10 in my book. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: keith1504
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 30, 2008 12:02 pm PT
Review:  i love this game a aaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa ddgggggg f f f f f f f f f f f f f f f d d dd 
 d e e e e e r r r r r g g g a a g g g e g g g fhjguoeiu ggh; laga ig igoi iiii i ii i ii ii i iii 
 ii i i i ii ii i i i i i d d d d d d d d d d d d d d dd d d d dd d d d d d d dd d d d d d d dd 
 d d d d d d d d d d dj jjj j jj j jj j j jj j j j j jj j jj j j jjj j j j jj j jj j j j j j j j 
 j j j j j j j jjj j jj j j j j j j j j jjjj j j j j j j j j j jj j j j j jj jj j j j jjjj j jj 
 j j jj jj j j j jj j j jj jj j jj jj j j j j jj j j jj j j j k kk k k kk k k k kkk k k k kk k k 
 kk k k k k kk k kk kk k kkk k kk kk k k k k k k kkk k kkk kk kk k k kk kk k k kk k k k k kk k kk 
 kk k k k k kk k k kk k kkkk k k k kk kk k kkkkkkkkkkkk kkkkkkkkkkkkkk kkkkkkkk kkkkkkkkkk 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FPS_Gamer123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 29, 2008 6:08 pm PT
Review:  The Call of Duty series takes its first step out of the WW2 genre. For fans of modern warfare, 
 Call of Duty 4 moves into modern warfare, but WW2 gamers would likely cry in dismay, as one of 
 the best WW2 series has moved on. Gamers, who have not experienced the CoD series, should likely 
 check Call of Duty 4 out, as it is one of the finest FPS games has been executed... beautifully. 
 Also Infinity Ward has stepped back into the developer's chair, since they did not develop Call 
 of Duty 3. 
  
  Gameplay: 9 out of 10
  
  Call of Duty 4 doesn't change its gameplay mechanics much and Call of Duty 4 isn't different. Its 
 controls are recognizable if you have played the series before, and simple to learn if you are 
 new to the FPS genre, and or the CoD franchise. Everything is still here, except for the exclusion 
 of the binoculars. The option of throwing away grenades is still available here in Call of Duty 
 4. The big new things about Call of Duty 4 are the ability to sprint for short distances, and to 
 shoot through thin materials, but more on that later. 
  
  The game Call of Duty 4 Modern Warfare takes place in possibly the year of 2006-2007. You play 
 as a S. A. S (Special Air Service) recruit named Soap Mactavish, and a U. S. M. C (United States Marine 
 Command) Sergeant, Paul Jackson. You fight the OPFOR terrorists serving under leader Khaled Al-Asad, 
 and the Russian Ultranationalists serving Imran Zakhaev. The campaign portion of Call of Duty 4 
 can be finished in around 5 hours, which doesn't seem like much when you first think about it, 
 but the story is an excellent work of art, sacrificing quantity for quality. 
  
  Weaponary in Call of Duty 4 matches what real world S. A. S and U. S. M. C use, such as the M4A1 and 
 its variants, G36C, and the MP5. They all can be equipped with attachments like Grenade Launchers, 
 red dot sights, silencers (suppressors) , and much more. Suppressors however, dull the damage of 
 your weapon but still can be used to deadly effectiveness. In the Campaign you don't necessarily 
 choose which weapon you go in with, which is traditional in with most tactical shooters. 
  
  Call of Duty 4 is very realistic, but not so much that realism is heavily depended on. How 
 you fire affects your accuracy, the range of your target also affects damage, and the where you 
 aim affects damage distributed. All weapons have different damage, accuracy, speed, and weight. 
 Weight especially affects the ability to sprint depending on the weapon. The MP5 for example is 
 extremely lightweight so it allows you to sprint quicker, than let's say your M60E4 Light Machine 
 Gun. Pick your cover wisely, as in Call of Duty 4 bullets penetrate weaker materials so don't think 
 your home free if you step behind wood, plaster, and sheet metal. Different guns can penetrate 
 harder than others. A Barrett .50 Cal Sniper rifle would easily kill anyone even through wood. 
 
  
  You might want to clear your calendar for a few weeks as Call of Duty 4's multiplayer is as addictive 
 as any other first person shooter game. It allows you to play through 20 different maps that are 
 based off the campaign levels against 15 other people. Some maps make you play as either the Spetsnaz 
 Vs S. A. S, or the U. S. M. C Vs the OPFOR. There isn't a dramatic difference between any of the teams 
 you play as, except for the audio recordings that play during gameplay. Something new in CoD4's 
 online multiplayer is the fact that you can call in U. A. Vs which finds out the enemy team location 
 for 30 seconds and can be extended. You can also call in Airstrikes which blow 3 airstrikes onto 
 a selected location. Still haven't had enough? Then you can summon a Helicopter which can do A 
 LOT of damage. Helicopters are only stopped if they reach their time limit, or if they are shot 
 down by the opposing team. U. A. Vs is received through a 3 kill streak, Airstrikes through 5, and 
 Helicopters through 7. What really disappointed me was that once you got them once, you couldn't 
 get them again until death. Why couldn't they have let you get U. A. V again at 10 kill streak and 
 so on? It's almost encouraging death. 
  
  The ranking system is what a majority of FPS games should use. It doesn't matter if you win or 
 lose in CoD4 to get XP, but it's what you contribute to the team. Depending on the matchtype, Kills 
 are worth 5 or 10 points, Assists are 1 or 2 points, summoning U. A. V, Airstrike and Helicopter 
 gets 10 points each, and in an objective game, you get 15 points for completing the objective, 
 or capturing the positions. Based off of your team's performance in the end, you get a Match bonus 
 regardless if you win or lose. 
  
  The newest feature of Call of Duty 4 multiplayer that sets aside realism is the perks. They are 
 gameplay enhancers that anyone has access to when they unlock them when they reach a specific level. 
 They turn Call of Duty 4 into a more arcade style of game, and can change the tide of battle. Call 
 of Duty 4 allows for 3 Perk slots which each having their different perks. 
  Weapons are also unlocked at certain levels and can be equipped with only one attachment. They 
 probably limited the attachments to one so that it would be balanced, and nobody would be going 
 in with a grenade launcher, red dot sight, and silencer all at once. To unlock attachments, you 
 have to do challenges which give you skins for your guns, XP bonuses, and attachments. There are 
 a variety of challenges to choose from, and you unlock challenges by ranking up. If you can manage 
 to complete all the challenges for a type of weapon like Assault Rifle, one weapon will have a 
 gold skin, but you don't get to choose which one.
  
  What if you've ranked up to level 55? What's there to do afterwards than rack up kills to move 
 up positions in the leaderboards, and improve your listed Kill/Death Ratio which is viewable in 
 the Barracks. Infinity Ward has provided you with the option to enter Prestige Mode, where you 
 reset all of your weapons, perks, attachments, challenges to level up to 55 again whilst being 
 rewarded a new icon next to your name each time you prestige. If you don't want to waste your hard 
 earned weapons, then you probably wouldn't want to prestige, but if you want, the option is always 
 there. You can only prestige 10 times. 
  
  Want to play organized with your clan? You can insert a clan tag next to your name after you hit 
 level 11 to play with a clan. All the clan does is allowing you to play with the people who have 
 the same tag as you do automatically. This happens in all playlists except for Mercenary Team Deathmatch. 
 This can be really good practice with your clan.
  
  You won't always want to play multi-player, so what can you do after? Call of Duty 4 has an Arcade 
 mode where you can earn points. It works exactly like any Arcade game, where you can earn point 
 multipliers which are extended when you kill more people. There is a leaderboard determining how 
 you stack up against the world. The Arcade Mode in Call of Duty 4 really doesn't seem as though 
 it was as good as it could have been, but it is still a welcome feature within Call of Duty 4.
 
  
  The achievement set in Call of Duty 4 is completely offline so that people who do not own a Xbox 
 LIVE subscription can still get the whole set of achievements. This is how achievements should 
 be played out, because not everyone has LIVE, and how is it an "achievement" where friends can 
 just help you get it online. The set of achievements is quite similar to the one in Call of Duty 
 2, with training, and finishing the game on Veteran gets you points. Infinity Ward has also added 
 a bunch of filler achievements that can be achieved during gameplay. Mile High Club specifically, 
 is one of the hardest achievements to get, and does take a lot of skill to earn. Mile High Club 
 is easily one achievement where you can boast about.
  
  Call of Duty 4 was really lacking in features, and things to do after you were done the single 
 player and tired of owning other people on multiplayer. It could have used many other features, 
 but multiplayer is addictive and may keep you hooked for quite a while. It could have added vehicles 
 to the multiplayer and include bigger maps would have been nice. Anyways Call of Duty 4 is great 
 in gameplay!
  Graphics 10 out of 10
  
  As for graphics in Call of Duty 4, they are no short of amazing. One of the best looking console 
 games that have ever come out! The photorealism is unmatched with actual locations from the real 
 world, like Chernobyl. The character models in Call of Duty 4 are brilliant, and try the best it 
 can to match what real Marines and S. A. S look like.
  
  The usage of particles in some situations makes Call of Duty 4 look visually stunning and some 
 eye candy for anyone. Explosions are great, although smoke still needs a bit of work, even though 
 they are a vast improvement over the smoke from Call of Duty 2, the previous Call of Duty game 
 that Infinity Ward developed. Gun models in Call of Duty 4 are brilliant; despite the fact that 
 only a couple of guns look blocky. The fonts used in the menus look terrible, and the same font 
 is used in the multiplayer when you kill someone. It just doesn't look good, and I want to slap 
 whoever chose the font. 
  
  The animations and physics used in Call of Duty 4 only make it look like one of the most realistic 
 looking shooters that are on the market, and Infinity Ward has brought us a fabulous looking shooter! 
 
  
  Sound: 9 out of 10
  
  The music in Call of Duty 4 really helps you get a sense of what's going on. It turns on dramatic 
 music when something bad is going on, and such. The voice acting is top notch, and the sound effects 
 are nothing short of amazing. The gun and explosive audios are also some of the most realistic 
 sounding. 
  
  Value: 9 out of 10
  
  Despite the highly addictive and fun multiplayer, Call of Duty 4 has a serious lack of modes. There 
 are only a few to choose from and the Arcade mode doesn't work to what one would expect. There 
 is enough fun in the game to make it worth buying over renting, but for those who are looking for 
 many features and modes to try out, Call of Duty 4 might not be your bread and butter. For whoever 
 wants a fun shooter, that you can just pick up and play whenever, Call of Duty 4 is exactly what 
 you should get.
  
  Tilt: 10 out of 10
  
  After Treyarch brought us a quite average Call of Duty game, in Call of Duty 3, who isn't excited 
 that the original developer of Call of Duty is back in the driver seat. If you have watched a trailer 
 from E3, you knew that this game was going to be something special. Whether it is the graphics, 
 or the gameplay Call of Duty 4 doesn't quite bring a whole load of stuff that will revolutionize 
 the FPS genre, it comes damn close to perfecting what we already have in the genre. Infinity Ward 
 has delivered with one of the finest Call of Duty experiences that you will play for quite a while.
 
  
  True Score: 9.5 out of 10
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hatake_653
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 29, 2008 1:04 pm PT
Review:  One of those games that when you play it, you just say "Holy crap..." because it's so good. Way 
 better than any game you can think of. And you feel like you accomplished something great when 
 you beat the game, like you saved the world from something horrible, unlike GTA where youu feel 
 as you just killed alot of people. Woohoo...
  
  But anyway, this game is AMAZING!!!!!!! The storyline is great. You are a soldier for both the 
 US and British armies and have to stop a dictator from his rule, but discover tht the real terrorist 
 is Imaran Zakahav, and you have to kill him too. This game deserves alot of respect due to its 
 amazing graphics that make you feel right in the middle of the battlefield, Sound that would make 
 you think the buildng is under attack, and a storyline that kept me sucked in for hours. I could 
 not stop playing, no matter how much I wanted to stop. And when the game didn't work (it was my 
 friends, that's how e gave it to me) , I got so mad that I didn't get to see the ending. Anyone 
 with half a brain and an ounce of pride and respect should choose tis game over any other in the 
 store, especially GTA. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agni_1
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 29, 2008 12:20 pm PT
Review:  Every now and then there comes a game that doesn't revolutionize the gaming world but has enough 
 in it that it is an instant hit. Call of duty 4 is such a game. Right from the onset on the game 
 you will find yourself immersed in it. I had more fun in the first couple levels (The prologue) 
 than I have ever had in a FPS before and that is saying a lot. The game makes you feel as though 
 you are part of a team and what you are doing and experiencing is real. 
  You play the game through the eyes of an SAS member and a Marine Force Recon soldier. While you 
 don't learn a whole lot about them, the way the game is designed and the way the other characters 
 interact with you makes you feel for these characters. This is achieved through a good Story line 
 that has it's share of surprises and then some. I wont ruin anything for anyone but I have to say 
 that the set pieces in the story are some of the best. "Walking" through a city that had just been 
 nuked is probably one of the best experiences that I have ever had in a game regardless of its 
 genre. While the first half of the story is unpredictable and will literally have you grabbing 
 the edge of your seat the game's story line does become somewhat lackluster later on. However it 
 still remains a visceral experience that will be enjoyed by many. The game still has a lot of sequences 
 where you Run and gun in a manner of speaking but it also includes sections where you can get the 
 real feel of an spec ops soldiers as you sneak around and shoot up people with your sniper rifle 
 and your silenced rifle. My only complain would be that these parts are not too often and were 
 much more enjoyable than the arcade style run and gun. However infinity ward has done an excellent 
 job of throwing in multiple stuff in the game such as the AC-130 you get to control which was a 
 lot of fun. There is also an arcade mode in the game and you can track your scores over XBL and 
 compare them with your friends and people all over the world. 
  Online is probably the biggest part of COD4 and it rivals that of Halo3. Infinity ward has nailed 
 the formula for success with COD4's online mode which has everything from customizable/unlockable 
 weapons to unlockable perks.
  It is easily one of the most deepest online modes on the planet. Also on a personal note it seems 
 that there is a lot less of the immature kids on COD 4 compared to Halo 3 which makes the game 
 that much more fun. The weapons react the way you would expect them to and you will feel as though 
 you are a real soldier when you are playing this game. This is a must buy for anyone looking for 
 a good game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Josoz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 28, 2008 9:14 pm PT
Review:  This game. Is. Wow. It is amazing. Let's start with the campaign. The campaign is short. Not as 
 short as some Medal of Honour games, but it should take you about 3 days of playing to beat. It's 
 a very good campaign. It is realisitic, and pumps you with adrenaline like no game can. The AI 
 is very smart. Enemy and Allied AI are quite intelligent. I do have a complaint that the enemy 
 AI is just a tad too smart, but unless playing on veteran you shouldn't experience a problem. It's 
 a very well made campaign, exhilarating. it starts out with an easy mission, but all missions are 
 very well thought out and you are never going to know what is going to happen next. 
  
  Online play. The online is mostly what this game is well.. for. It's an amazing and well thought-out 
 online. There are perks, weapons, 16 player games. A lot. The weapons and perks and ranks are a 
 very good addition to the game. As you level up with experience, you can get different weapons 
 and perks that go from getting more health to jamming the enemy's radar. Some perks get annoying 
 sometimes, and of course, you can't stop the ranting 10 year-olds on xbox live. But, eh, the greatness 
 of this game surpasses it. I would say, get it. Get . it . Nao. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wheelman112
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 27, 2008 8:40 pm PT
Review:  okay lets see, where do i start, its hard to find out because theres so many great things. i bought 
 this game before i started playing live, so lets begin with campaign. basicly like all the other 
 call of dutys, following a storyline you dont really care about because its not to exciting until 
 the end, and having guns you wish you could have online but you cant because this is where infinity 
 ward dropped the ball and completely missed the point. why cant i put more than one attachement 
 on my gun?!?! anyone remember the mission "Safehouse"? you get this kickass M4 SOPMOD with a silencer, 
 red dot, laser sight, and M203? that was awesome, but why cant i put them on live? and another 
 thing is why do they have these sweet attachements on story mode and not live? remember "The Bog" 
 with the M16 with that crazyass scope thing? that really pissed me off when i first started playing 
 online, but it didnt disapoint me completely. the online has some wonderful, unique, and genious 
 ideas. like the perk system and prestige mode. the online maps are amazing, but once you get to 
 know them, guess what, you know them! you know where everyone is, where to throw the grenades, 
 and where they spawn. the online game modes are great as well. once again we got the standard team 
 deathmatch and my personal favorite free-for-all, headquarters, ground war, search and destroy, 
 hardcore team deathmatch and search and destory, domination, sabotage, team tactical, cage match 
 and old-school free-for-all, each completely different with its own way of having fun. story mode 
 can be a little longer, but when you finally get enough guts to switch from recruit to veteran, 
 prepare for a long road of death after death after death and after death, which makes it frustrating 
 and youll never get bored of it. all around, this is a great game (probably the best of 2008 so 
 far) , but could use a little more small extras like more customization and maybe a co-op story 
 mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GaMeR4Life93
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 27, 2008 5:14 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty for is a very good game. I bought it when it first came out and I haven't stopped 
 playing it since. This games Story mode is excellent but it lacks length. This is the first modern 
 war game that I have ever played that had a storyline that actually made sense, If the story mode 
 were a little better the game would be perfect. I honestly have to say that the best thing about 
 this game has to be the online play. The online play makes up for its short Story line. The online 
 feature includes Death match, Team Death Match, Team Objective, and many more. /// When playing 
 this game please expect that you will be encountering really fast gameplay. Depending on the skill 
 of your opponents, your lifespan would be very limited. So if you don't like fast paced and action-packed 
 games, I suggest that you avoid buying this  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeadlyPlatypus
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 27, 2008 8:41 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare refreshes the WWII series by plucking the player from the 1940s 
 era to modern day. You play as two different characters: one is a British S. A. S. agent and the 
 other is a U. S. marine. The story focuses on battling extremists and saving the world from a nuclear 
 threat. 
  
  As you progress through the campaign, new level concepts and new challenges are thrown your way. 
 By the end of the fun, action-packed story-mode, you are left wanting more. There is a good chance 
 that most players will go back and try a higher difficulty setting. 
  
  The xbox-live multiplayer battles are fun and immense. You can choose a class that has two exclusive 
 weapons and must serve your team in any way you can.
  
  The frame-rate is smoothe and the graphics are very, very realistic. You get the feeling that you 
 are actually battling terrorists. All in all, this game is really spectacular, and whether or not 
 you are a Call of Duty fan, you should pick up this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arbysauce
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 27, 2008 7:04 am PT
Review:  Call of duty 4 is the best game ever. It is a masterpiece. I think the guns look better than any 
 other game. I also like the flash and smoke grenades. The ranks are really cool to get. One of 
 my favorite things that help get ranks are the challenges. I myself like hardcore team deathmatch, 
 and Search and destroy. If you disagree its fine with me. Alot of people don`t like what I like. 
 I think the best level is the bog. Alot of people don`t like the bog. I think Call of Duty 4 is 
 the best game ever. The 50 cal. is a good weapon and so are the other snipers. The gun you first 
 start out with is stupid, you can barely get kills with it, but I like how you earn things and 
 how it tells you if you earn a rank in the middle of the match. I love the ak-47 with either red 
 dot or 2-0-3 round. I hope you like Call of Duty 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darksithlord123
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 26, 2008 9:40 pm PT
Review:  Well, what else can I say? Infinity Ward kicks ass... This game is just plain awesome. The storyline, 
 short, but still fun, teaches you the main parts of a fps game. Playing through the campaign mode 
 on Veteran (like me ;] ) prepares you for multiplayer games, which is a whole new ballpark. Once 
 you get the widely respected Mile High Club achievement, you get a sense of invincibility, which 
 is soon shot down as soon as you join your first multi player game. Your options on Live are limitless, 
 from ACOG scopes to the red tiger camo, and eventually, the golden guns. The Online play for COD4 
 is addicting to say the least. The experience system on multiplayer just makes it all the more 
 fun. I spent almost 8 hours straight playing this game as soon as I got it on live. I highly recommend 
 this game to anyone with some spare time and money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lazyplayer-187
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 26, 2008 10:08 am PT
Review:  i have played every single call of duty game ever since its first appereance on the PC back in 
 2003. when i first heard that Cod was being set in current day, i though they'd gone and ruined 
 the series, but when i actually played it i couldnt belive it. it was so much better than i thought 
 it was going to be.
  the single player is a little short but the missions are brilliant from being a sniper in the grass 
 to being the gunner of a stealth bomber. 
  the place where this game really takes off is the multiplayer side, ive been playing it now for 
 over 4 days and it hasnt gotten boring. the weapons are brilliant but the addition of perks is 
 genius, and example of the perks are last stand where just before you die, you can fall to the 
 floor and pull out your pistol and kill the dude who killed you, another perk is called martydom, 
 which makes you drop a live grenade when you die so now one can tea bag you.
  Overall this game is simply one of the greatest games i have ever played and i would recommened 
 it to everyone.
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  Sound: 10/10
  Gameplay:10/10
  single player:9/10
  Multiplayer: 11/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fleasfleas
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 25, 2008 7:31 pm PT
Review:  Let me start by saying this is the best first person shooter out there. Halo does not even come 
 close to the fun you will be having with Call of Duty 4.
  COD4 story feels like a big epic film playing in theatres. Once you pass the game you want to play 
 it again. Playing this game with family and friends on Local area Network is very fun and you can 
 pass hours and hours playing. Playing this game on XBOX live is a must you will be pulling allnighters 
 the maps are great and there is no such thing like a map that sucks they all have great things. 
 One thing they could of added is names to the streets on the maps so if you are playing teams you 
 can tell your team mates on what street you spotted enemies or other things that would be great, 
 For example there is three snipers on the corner smirnoff and vodka dr. That would help out instead 
 of trying to explain on how the building looks like and what cars surround the area. But other 
 then that this game rock and if none of you have it yet to get it you will not regret this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiixx3
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 25, 2008 2:35 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty is by far one of my favorite games that I have ever played in my life. It has a very 
 good campaign. Some people say it's very short, but I say its the average length for an fps games. 
 I mean Halo 3 only has 9 levels but C. O. D 4 has more levels than that. I really like the change 
 from WWII to a setting that almost feels like the Iraqi War that is happening right now. The Weaponary 
 feels very good too especially when you pull out a headshot on a enemy iraqian soldier. The Online 
 Multiplayer is fantastic giving new and hardcore players to play for months at end with new players 
 playing something like team deathmatch or hardcore players playing something like search and destroy 
 or better yet Hardcore Search and destroy. Anyway, what I'm trying to say is that Call of Duty 
 4 is an amazing treat to anyone who buys it and should be bought by anyone who has'nt bought the 
 game yet. Well, WHAT ARE YOU WAITING FOR?!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flipyap28
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 25, 2008 1:57 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is probably one of the best multiplayers ever in the history of all gaming, even 
 the single player in this game is good.
  
  Game play: Singleplayer has a short but interesting and fun to play story which will teach you 
 the basics and keep you playing for a good time, the story has four modes which are recruit, regular, 
 hardened and veteran. There are some cool things to do in the story such as collect intel to mess 
 around with cheats. The multiplayer is probably what makes this game the number one choice for 
 any first person shooter lover, mutiplayer contains many different modes such as free for all, 
 team death match, and Search and Destroy. You go up in ranks up to level 55 in Call of Duty 4 and 
 once you get there you can prestige which sets you back to level 1 to get a new badge (you can prestige 
 10 times) . The multiplayer on Call Of Duty 4 is hard to explain in what makes it fun since you 
 have to have experienced it to understand, there is only one minor issue with mutiplayer which 
 is that all ranked matches choose a random host, if that host leaves or loses connection the game 
 ends and a new host must be selected. Other than that Call of Duty 4 has very good solid gameplay.
 
  
  Graphics: Call Of Duty 4's graphics are one the things which make Call of Duty 4 just seem brilliant. 
 The graphics are an example of what all shooters should aim to be like. The only time the graphics 
 have problems is when it lags in mutiplayer.
  
  Sound: Loud explosions, bullets busting holes in metal sheets, heart beating as you are about to 
 sniper an enemy, the sounds of Call of Duty 4 help make this game even more wonderful.
  
  Value: Call of Duty 4 is worth more than its price in every shop on earth so i would go out and 
 buy this anyway because once you do, you wont remember what you did instead of playing Call of 
 Duty 4 before.
  
  Call of Duty 4 is one of the most addicting games ever made and if you are looking for an awesome 
 multiplayer, look no further. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RoyalTactics
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 25, 2008 7:49 am PT
Review:  When I first heard all the hype for COD4, I thought it was just going to be another cookie cutter 
 first person shooter. To my suprise it wasn't.
  
  Although many people skip single player and go straight online, COD4 shines in its campaign. One 
 of the most most well thought out and immersing stories I've ever played on on FPS. The missions 
 were fun, challenging, and exciting. The only grief that can be brought against the single player 
 aspect is that it could be longer. This problem though is erased because trying to beat the game 
 on Veteran will have you preoccupied for a good amount of time. Also the fact the all the achievements 
 are based on single player, will have you replaying missions plenty of times. Another small grief 
 I had with the game was the lack of online and even local co-op mode. The only thing you can do 
 with more than one person on a box is play deathmatch, which is no fun with only two people.
  
  The multiplayer though is where you'll be spending the majority of your time. The same fast 
 paced COD action returns with additions to keep you playing into the early hours of the morning. 
 The level up system is fantastic. Getting kills gets you points as well as challenges for killing 
 opponents a certain way. Leveling up unlocks you new weapons and perks which will help you customize 
 your character. Trying to get new weapons and perks will keep you addicted to this game for a long 
 time. 
  
  Call of Duty 4 is defiently well deserved of its awards, and is one game no 360 owner should be 
 without. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JJpenguin
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 24, 2008 9:54 am PT
Review:  The FPS genre is a mixed bag in our current generation. It has the biggest market, the most gamers 
 hooked on it, and as such can come out with at least 3 'must plays' a year. However, it also brings 
 with it the pretenders, the shamelessly derivative imitations, the wannabees. Sadly, for every 
 one of these 'must plays' 10 'meh's' are released. But our lot being fans of mindless brutality 
 means we need a fix, either a great game has to hook us, or we end up scraping the barrel for hope 
 of a good time.
  
  So thank you Infiniy Ward. Now, like a desperate addict wandering into an opium farm, i have everything 
 i could ever want to satisfy my fix. The question i used to ask was 'should i buy this game?' now 
 i ask 'will this get COD 4 out of my disk tray?'
  
  So what does it do right, what makes it so standout from the crowd? Well, to be frank, nothing. 
 Everything here has been done before somewhere (with the notable exception of perks) but this game 
 has refined everything. The single player game is bursting with tension, exictement and pace, while 
 the multiplayer is addictive and rewarding. 
  
  Single player offers the perspective of the British S. A. S and Marines as they attempt to neutralise 
 a dangerous middle eastern uprising. The story has been done before, but it's cinematic and well 
 put together. The plot itself may not be the most engrossing but it feels a lot like a war movie. 
 It feels like a movie. Now, don't get me wrong, video games can rival the best of stories (Bioshock 
 comes to mind) but the general calibre of writing tends to dip in favour of flashy graphics and 
 gameplay. So saying COD 4 could pass as a war movie feels like more of a complement than anything 
 else i can think of.
  
  What i really like were the Britsh characters. While they all exhibit simmilar characters, a mix 
 of terrific voice acting, a great script, and nigh on impeccable AI makes these characters memorable 
 and believeable. The only other game where i felt this much empathy for a character was Alyx Vance 
 from Half life 2: episode 1. Really, these characters take the centre stage. (and Captain Macmillan 
 is just...)
  
  People like gamespot have critisised the SP for being short. I'm at a wierd place here. Yes, it's 
 short, but it has tons of replay value. You'll want to go through it once, then again for the veteran 
 achievements, then you can try arcade mode, then finding the intel. Then playing with cheats. Then 
 spending forever on Mile High Club. Really, I don't want games to get shorter, but what's there 
 is of top quality and it has tons of replay value.
  
  As usual the sound and graphics department are on top form, this game easily takes the top spot 
 for graphics, nowadays all FPS's have great sound, but it still works phenomenally. 
  
  Coming up: MP 
::::::

::::::
UserName: butlerboy145
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 24, 2008 8:31 am PT
Review:  Call of duty 4 is one of the best games i have ever played and the reason i think this is because 
 the graphics of the game are really good and the levels are action packed and does not have an 
 over the top story line which i have noticed with other C. O. D games such as were it is just you 
 by yourself storming into a nazi headquarters and killing everyone so to speak.
  But this game you have team mates that acthually kill other people which does not happen on other 
 games.
  Online Play.
  This game online is one of the most popular and outselling and playing halo is a big achievemnt 
 in my eyes becayse everyone sees halo as the dogs ******** and the reason i give this am 9.5 is 
 because when you have prestiged it a couple of times it starts to get boring and the dlc which 
 i thought was a good cost but i think that they could be other free downloads such as other prestiges, 
 weapons and challenges because that would take the game to a higher level.
  anyway call of duty 4 one of the best games of the year and maybe all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bloody_hippyuk
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 24, 2008 2:50 am PT
Review:  Now i'm not saying that the others were bad in any way but WOW! is this one good! And when i say 
 good i mean GOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOD.
  Anyway enough of all that hype.. lets get down to the bad bits.. it wont take long there isnt many.
 
  
  1) Sometimes the servers really suck and you end up being dropped out of game after game after 
 game... gets a bit annoying but soon enough you will be back in another game so not too bad.
  
  2) The main campain is a little short.
  
  3) NO SPLIT SCREEN MULTIPLAYER ONLINE!! Halo 
 3 has allready pulled this out the bag and they were released very close to each other so it's 
 not like it's impossible or anything. me and my girl love to play COD4 when friends around but 
 being able to jump online aswell would have been fantastic!!!!
  
  And thats about it, the rest is just too good to write about.. seriously this game does rock but 
 i thought it about time someone disscussed the bad points although only minor they need to see 
 the light of day.
  
  Great game, a must for all XBOX 360 owners ESPECIALLY IF YOUR ON LIVE!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dusty10
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 23, 2008 4:39 pm PT
Review:  If you own a 360 and a live account, and are of the correct age to play games with a M rating, 
 there is no reason for you not to have this game. Easily one of the best shooters to date, and 
 the online component is everything XBOX Live was meant to be. If you play shooters, you need to 
 be playing this one.
  
  The single player campaign is crazy fun. Challenging and engaging. the story is easy to follow 
 and the transitions between the American and European forces is smooth and obvious. The AC-130 
 gunship level is something to see as well. The amount of firepower you can throw down is mind boggling. 
 Crazy fun game.
  
  This is the game all other multiplayer shooters will be compared to in the years to come, at least 
 until Infinity Ward releases the next in the series.
  
  BTW - if you are not old enough to buy an M rated game - you are not old enough TO BE PLAYING AN 
 M RATED GAME!!! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Codemonkee
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 23, 2008 7:47 am PT
Review:  If you own a 360 and a live account, and are of the correct age to play games with a M rating, 
 there is no reason for you not to have this game. Easily one of the best shooters to date, and 
 the online component is everything XBOX Live was meant to be. If you play shooters, you need to 
 be playing this one.
  
  The single player campaign is crazy fun. Challenging and engaging. the story is easy to follow 
 and the transitions between the American and European forces is smooth and obvious. The AC-130 
 gunship level is something to see as well. The amount of firepower you can throw down is mind boggling. 
 Crazy fun game.
  
  This is the game all other multiplayer shooters will be compared to in the years to come, at least 
 until Infinity Ward releases the next in the series.
  
  BTW - if you are not old enough to buy an M rated game - you are not old enough TO BE PLAYING AN 
 M RATED GAME!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hizam_samsudin
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 23, 2008 4:56 am PT
Review:  The king of FPS. Job well done to infinity ward! Call of duty 4 is one of the best FPS games I 
 have played in any console I had. If you love FPS games this games is a must have.
  
  This game offer excellent audiovisual presentation which you can see in every angle of its maps 
 the graphics are just fantastic, buildings, grassy fields, smokes, cars, explosions and lots more 
 seem real as everything looks as it should. Not all superb graphic games can reflect an enjoyable 
 game play, but infinity ward surely took that challenge and make everything as details as they 
 can. Even your team in the campaign mode moves and covers their grounds just like in a real world. 
 This shows that they really seek professional advice on this matter to make it lively. The sounds 
 and background music make each situation become more suspense as you feel that you acting in an 
 action movie but not knowing what going to happen in the next corner.
  
  The only bad is that the single player is short but yet if you replay the game with different level 
 you will definitely feel as you just start to play it for the 1st time. That because most of the 
 time in each level of the campaign mode you could not expect the same enemy will be waiting for 
 you in corner. Now that makes it addictive. Well for me this game rock all time!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sauronss
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 22, 2008 9:38 pm PT
Review:  awsome, puts Halo3 to shame uber shame, really really uber shame i thought halo was the best till 
 CoD4 10/10 and that's all folks: I'm just wrighting this because it says my stuff is too short... 
 ?
  awsome, puts Halo3 to shame uber shame, really really uber shame i thought halo was the best till 
 CoD4 10/10 and that's all folks: I'm just wrighting this because it says my stuff is too short... 
 ?
  awsome, puts Halo3 to shame uber shame, really really uber shame i thought halo was the best till 
 CoD4 10/10 and that's all folks: I'm just wrighting this because it says my stuff is too short... 
 ?
  awsome, puts Halo3 to shame uber shame, really really uber shame i thought halo was the best till 
 CoD4 10/10 and that's all folks: I'm just wrighting this because it says my stuff is too short... 
 ?
  I hope that's good enough for it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xile2
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 22, 2008 9:24 pm PT
Review:  This is the newest iteration of the Call of Duty Franchise - and probably the best one. This game 
 is set in the modern era around 2011 (Chernobyl Nuclear Reactor Disaster occurred in 1986, Capt (then 
 Lieutenant ) Price said that the mission to assassinate Zahkeav happened roughly 10 years after, 
 and the level 'All Ghillied Up' says ' 15 years earlier' After the Death of Al-Asad) . In the First 
 part of the game, after training, you assault a Cargo Transport in the middle of the Bering sea, 
 killing all of the Security personnel and crew on board, and finding a Russian Nuke aboard in the 
 Back of the Transport. Grabbing the Manifest, you rush out of the Ship after it was hit by MIG 
 missiles. Thus begins the Campaign.
  
  Several levels later, you play as a Marine, part of the first batch of Troops hitting a coastal 
 Town/city in what looks like present day Saudi Arabia, and pushing up to modern day southern Iraq 
 ( i might be mistaken however, so I'll check again) then something i think no-one even suspected 
 happens. it's shocking.
  
  I'm Leaving the rest for you to figure out.
  
  On to the Multiplayer, aside form having no online achievements, it is the one of the best multiplayer 
 games out there. You start out as a Private, and for the next 4 levels (about 10-20 minutes of 
 playtime later) you are stuck with the default classes. after gaining level 4, you can make you 
 own classes, naming them and so on. on you get to level 55 yo can hit the Prestige mode option, 
 which demotes back to level 1, takes away all your weapons, perks, and camos and gets you to start 
 all over again. you can do this 10 times, each different time cycling you through 9 new icons. 
 but other then giving you a new icon, it represents little. if i wanted to lose all my stuff 10 
 times, only for a new (and Useless) icon next to my name, i would do it. however, i like the variability 
 of changing up my classes to fit the job needed to be done. and plus i like my camos for my guns, 
 so i don't want to lose them for a little vanity.
  
  The multi player has faults - like the fact that most people ignore most weapons and stick with 
 the Following: M16A4, M4 Carbine, MP 5 or P-90, M21 or Dragonauv SVD or Barret .50 Cal Sniper rifle.
 
  I however have seen an influx of people using Ak-47s, Mini-Uzi's, and the Bolt Action Sniper Rifles 
 (the best snipers i the game) .
  
  So enjoy yourself, stay off the higher difficulties if you don't want to die repeatedly because 
 of the AI not Risking it's self in the Attacks on enemies ( readily apparent in the higher difficulties, 
 put the give you a good sniping workout if your training your self - and don't forget to aim high 
 With a sniper rifle and line up head shots instead of just body shots and then pulling the trigger 
 4-5 times
  
  +++DIFFICULTY+++
  On Recruit and Regular, the difficulty is almost too easy unless your running around like an idiot, 
 but on hardened or veteran difficulties, the aggressive enemy AI will pound on you mercilessly, 
 until you cry uncle or runs into your sharpshooting compatriots some distance behind you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattgame999
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 22, 2008 4:15 pm PT
Review:  call of duty 4 is one of the best games ever on the xbox 360 and the ps3 i played since number 
 one to now. it's tight when u go online with other people and face them cuz i beat call of duty 
 and play for like 8 hours every day .
  
  what really interested me into this game was that its like your actually in the army with a real 
 gun in your hand facing people my favorite lvl is all ghilled up when u sneak up on people and 
 kill them to find that one dude who u snipe thats tight though itsawesome to use the new guns and 
 grenades and more adventure to the game that surprises me.
  
  all i have to say is that the creators of call of duty are the best people ever with talent and 
 cleverness trying to make this game fun in every way i know with all the action and muiltiplayer 
 and of course shooting people 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LiquidSnake2212
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 22, 2008 7:07 am PT
Review:  The only real catch is that the single-player is almost shockingly short. If you've been keeping 
 up with this style of game, you'll probably shoot your way to the credits in under five hours. 
 While you can raise the difficulty to give yourself more of a challenge, the main thing this does 
 is make the enemies frustratingly deadly, which sort of detracts from the fun. 
  
  While it may have a lack of single-player quantity, it makes up for most of it with its quality. 
 The game tells its story from multiple perspectives, and you'll play as a new British SAS operative 
 as well as a US Marine. The campaign takes you from a rainy night out at sea on a boat that's in 
 the process of sinking to a missile silo where it's on you to save millions from an unsavory nuclear-powered 
 death. Along the way, there are plenty of jaw-dropping moments where you'll look around the room 
 for someone to whom you can say, "I can't believe that just happened." In a world filled with war 
 games in which the good guys come out unscathed and the world is left at total peace, Call of Duty 
 4 will wake you up like a face full of ice water. 
  
  The action in the campaign is usually very straightforward. You have a compass at the bottom of 
 your screen, and the direction of your current objective is very plainly marked. But getting from 
 point A to point B is never as simple as running in a straight line, as you'll be conducting full-scale 
 assaults in Middle Eastern countries by moving from house to house, taking out what seems like 
 a never-ending stream of enemy troops along the way. You'll also get an opportunity to raid Russian 
 farmhouses in search of terrorist leaders, disguise yourself as the enemy, and, in one sequence, 
 don a brushlike ghillie suit and crawl through the brush as enemy troops and tanks roll right past 
 you. It's a breathtaking moment in a campaign filled with breathtaking moments. Unfortunately, 
 it's about half as long as the average shooter, and there are plenty of sequences where you wish 
 there were just one or two more hills to take. 
  
  Of course, if you're looking for longevity, that's where the multiplayer comes in. Up to 18 players 
 can get online and get into a match on one of 16 different maps. Many of the levels are taken from 
 portions of the single-player and they offer a healthy mix of wide-open, sniper-friendly areas 
 and tight, almost cramped spaces where grenades and shotguns are the order of the day. There are 
 six game modes to choose from. The old standby is team deathmatch, though you can also play in 
 a free-for-all deathmatch, which isn't as much fun as the team modes. The other modes are more 
 objective-oriented, and a couple of those have you lugging bombs across the map to blow up enemy 
 equipment, or preventing the enemy from blowing up your base. Others have you capturing control 
 points. Lastly, you can change up the game rules a bit with a hardcore setting that makes weapons 
 more realistically damaging or an old-school mode that puts weapons on the ground as pickups and 
 generally moves away from the simulation side of things. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: justinjohns0n
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 21, 2008 1:22 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best modern combat shooters that I've ever played. The single player campaign 
 is worth playing more than once and the multiplayer is just straight addictive. This game has got 
 my money's worth and I was lucky to still have it after buying the new rainbow, I was glad I was 
 able to come back to playing this. The campaign had a good length and tied the story up nicely. 
 I won't forget playing with the AC-130 gunship, that was insane. They did a great job w/ this game 
 and Im interested to see how they're going to top it w/ COD 5. They need to input a VOTE To Kick 
 system just the BF: MC had in the multiplayer. Not where the host can boot a certain person but 
 where everyone votes to kick a certain player, sometimes you get those annoying people that just 
 enjoy acting like an A**, and while playing hardcore some folks just get on there to team kill. 
 Just a point that needs to be pointed out. Overall I was extremely pleased w/ this game and still 
 enjoy playing it. Not until the new Battlefield comes out will I get off this game. More than likely 
 though, every now and then I will go back to enjoy a couple of good games of some search and destroy. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sdutill23
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 21, 2008 12:04 pm PT
Review:  Rare is it when I can honestly say that there is a better on-line shooter than any of the Halo 
 games. Call Of Duty 4 however has done it. Simply put, I have had more fun playing this game than 
 I ever did playing Halo 2 or 3 (in fact I don't even own those titles anymore) . Although COD4 lacks 
 some punch in the single player mode, it more than makes up for it with its multi-player frag fest. 
 COD4 has a perfect mix of customization, gameplay, unlockables, and graphics (for those of us that 
 believe graphics ARE an important part of a great game) . The game runs smoothly at 60fps and there 
 is never an issue of finding a battle ready room on-line to play in. The rank up system is just 
 right. It never appears impossible to get to the next rank which only serves to make you keep playing 
 (all night sometimes) . I highly recommend this game to anyone for any platform, although you may 
 be best served playing on Xbox Live. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: quiquebabel
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 21, 2008 9:15 am PT
Review:  The perfect warfare one person shooter, the first war game that I like, I rather que race games, 
 but the graphics are really almost-real, the time of the way of journey history and missions are 
 pretty well done and going good, getting you into the real tra ma of the game, losing track of 
 time, I can't wait for the Fifth part, the new maps, and the different type games like free-for-all 
 and hardcore in live, it's perfect and never-ending fun, I can spend 8 hours in-game I never get 
 bored, the difficulty in legend mode gets you pretty mad but after a several minutes you can beat'em 
 all as easy as in halo, the only thing that this game needs is just a better true-skill finder 
 and there's a little issues with the lag in sme of the cases... Well that's all that I can say 
 and I'm sorry for my bad English, it's just a little rusty, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sgeiger
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 21, 2008 8:39 am PT
Review:  Okay, if you're looking for a fast-paced, kick-butt, graphic charged FPS, look no further. This 
 game has a TON of great perks, especially now there is a new map pack download. However... there 
 are some drawbacks. 1. There are no vehicles for players to operate (kind of a bummer) . 2. Also, 
 during mulitplayer, Hardcore Team Deathmatch has a timer for respawns, where Regular Team Deathmatch 
 has a forced respawn by pressin the "X" button, wtf? I like playing Hardcore, but it would be awesome 
 if I could just force respawn rather than waiting 15 seconds. 3. How about Microsoft having a dedicated 
 server for on-line play? That way when you're winning, and a host leaves, it won't kick you back 
 to the lobby. All of us are paying $50 a year for Xbox live, so how about Microsoft showing all 
 of us a little love??
  
  Overall, it is an awesome game and if you don't own it, you're missing out. Oh, and for everyone 
 who is comparing this game to Halo 3... knock it off. You are comparing two completely different 
 styles of FPS.
  
  Oh, now when Battlefield: Bad Company lands..... Call of Duty better take notes, from what I've 
 been reading, it's on track to be the next top shooter!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KV_2
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 20, 2008 5:32 pm PT
Review:  Ah Call of Duty, so many nazis and to lit-
  
  Opps! Wrong era!
  
  Call of Duty 4, Still haveing that single player shine. But thats not what I'm here for, I'm here 
 to talk about the multiplayer and why I think its revolutionary in my eyes. As long as I could 
 tell, there was very littie a player could do to make himself stand-out from the crowd of KAR and 
 BAR or what not players all useing the same weapons becuse they have too.
  
  As I see it, COD4 enables you to stand-out becuse of your style of play. Are you a Mini-Uzi freak? 
 (like me?) Then get the Bandolier perk and the Stopping Power perk, or the Double Tap and Sleight 
 of Hand perk, or what ever! You decide! And it really shines no matter what! Ive seen some interesting 
 setups while playing online. (RPG + Sleight of Hand + Sonic Boom = A Anit-Tank Cannon) And thats 
 why I see it Revolutionary, makeing everyone there own person. Not just a a bunch of clones with 
 the same gun.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: darthcanucks
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 20, 2008 4:11 pm PT
Review:  I found this game the most realistic game i've ever played and its just so so so so fun This is 
 my 3rd favourite game of all-time behind bioshock and gears of war. Many people say online and 
 multi-player is what the game is made for, I say **** the multi-player isn't anything special, 
 its fun but not brilliant this is why I am in love with campaign its interesting, its fun , its 
 amazing special effects its just amazing. I know like 90 gamers are gonna disagree with me saying 
 the multi-player isnt fun, but i think its nothing special. Its agreat game and I hope the next 
 call of duty is Future warfare (even though it would be gay no the next should be call of duty 
 5 modern warefare 2! yaya that would be  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tljjjr99
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 20, 2008 11:25 am PT
Review:  This is probably the best Call of Duty game and best first-person shooter game ever made. Single-player 
 is great but it is a tad-bit short. However it takes a bit longer when you try to complete the 
 campaign on Veteran difficulty (the hardest difficulty setting) . Infinity Ward places all the heart-pounding 
 moments in thhe most perfect parts of the game. Excellent storyline makes feel like you're really 
 in game. Multiplayer is addicting and extremely fun. The Variety Map Pack from the Marketplace 
 adds more intensity to the multiplater action. Playing with friends is fun online aswell. Love 
 everything about the single-player and multi-player. The only negative aspects about Call of Duty 
 4 is that reaching level 55 wasn't as long as I thought, and there is no split-screen action when 
 playing online or in systemlink. Call of Duty 4 in far-by one of the best games ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Adam-XT
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 20, 2008 12:34 pm PT
Review:  The much hyped Call Of Duty 4 is the latest installment that has been published by Activision on 
 Xbox 360, PS3 and the PC where the games started out on. The series has gone in a new direction, 
 the past games in the series were all set in World War 2 but now the developers Infinity Ward who 
 also developed the first two games (the third was developed by Treyarch) have decided to bring 
 Call Of Duty into modern times, this is certainly a welcome change that defiantly gives the series 
 a much needed different feel. The story is set in a fictional near-future war between the United 
 States, United Kingdom, and Russian Loyalists against Russian Ultra nationalists and Middle Eastern 
 rebels. The game has you playing as Sergeant "Soap" MacTavish who is the first character you play 
 as and for the majority of the game, the second character named Sergeant Paul Jackson is part of 
 the U. S Marines, the player never sees or hears the playable characters in the story speak much 
 like games such as Half Life. The story in general is quite good for a game of this type the squad 
 mates for the SAS are memorable characters. It shows that Infinity Ward have put a lot of effort 
 into making this game in every aspect. 
  
  The game again plays entirely in a first person perspective where you can aim from the hip or pull 
 in the left trigger for a more accurate shot although this time around the player can attach various 
 scopes for much greater accuracy such as ACOG scopes and Red Dot sights. But if you don't like 
 scopes then the player can opt for a grenade launcher or a suppressor for the more stealthy approach 
 . Call Of Duty 4 has many various additions that defiantly make the game feel a lot different from 
 its predecessors most obvious of these is the inclusion of all realistic modern day weapons used 
 by the actual army's. These weapons include all different classes that you'd expect such as sub-machine 
 guns, assault rifles, light machine guns, pistols, snipers, and shotguns. All these weapons are 
 incredibly accurately modelled and have a excellent feel to them the animations of the guns are 
 also impressive. Call Of Duty 4 also has a has explosives such as fragmentation, smoke, and flash 
 bang grenades that all have there uses, Claymores and C4 are also included and are a fun way to 
 lay traps for enemies. The games melee has changed from hitting enemies with the butt of the rifle 
 to a swift stab with a knife which is useful attack in close quarters. The two great and most noticeable 
 changes include the ability to sprint for a brief time, this doesn't let you shoot while running 
 which is a good thing because it wouldn't be partially realistic but a worthy addition nonetheless. 
 The second is that if you ever see an enemy go behind a thin wall or sheet metal you can actually 
 shoot through it and realistically the bullets slow down a great way to kill someone especially 
 online. 
  
  The single player offers a lot of variety in mission structure and never stops impressing until 
 the bitter end. The game takes you to many different locations one of the most memorable levels 
 is where the player is in a AC Gunship where all you can see is a black and white screen and shoot 
 down on enemies to escort your team mates and civilians to extraction. Another time your shooting 
 down guys on the streets the next your blowing enemies off of roofs tops. But the best level of 
 all has to be where the game takes the player back 15 years where you play as Captain Price, this 
 level requires the player to wear camouflage suits to stay hidden in tall grass in the Ukraine 
 with suppressed snipers. Call Of Duty 4 has a great campaign although they are a few short comings 
 for one the campaign only lasts around the eight hour mark on the medium difficulty level maybe 
 less than that for some people. There are also parts of the game where enemies infinitely spawn 
 out of the same place which can make some parts of the game on the higher difficulty setting become 
 frustrating. It would also have been nice is the game included some kind of spilt screen campaign 
 mode or online coop but it has neither of these which is disappointing since most high profile 
 shooters include one or the other. But even with these short comings the campaign is worth seeing 
 through to the spectacular ending.
  
  Call Of Duty 4's presentation is nothing short of amazing from both a technical and artistic perspective. 
 The game runs at a high 60 frames per second and never has any slow down where most games only 
 run at half the frames. Also the levels have a lot of atmosphere and have lots of detail and great 
 looking textures the levels are also free from texture pop-in and the scale is quite impressive. 
 From an artistic perspective the game looks great the design of the environments, weapons and characters 
 looks superb and all animate in a convincing way. The sound is just as impressive, the music is 
 composed by British composer Stephen Barton and additional music and the main theme by Harry Gregson-Williams, 
 both have done a great job of making Call Of Duty 4 a more impressive and epic sounding game. The 
 sound effects match the high quality music the weapon sounds in particular are great, they sound 
 very distinctly different from one another and realistic. 
  
  Even with the excellent campaign and presentation the best thing about Call Of Duty 4 is the online 
 multiplayer. The online mode is very deep and rewarding it constantly rewards you with unlock able 
 weapons and perks. The game has what is called a create a class where you select the weapons, scopes 
 and perks for that class, you can have a maximum of five slots and rename them as you see fit. 
 Perks are different abilities and there are different slots to pick from the first is different 
 kinds of explosives like C4's, claymores, grenades etc, the second has perks such as more stopping 
 power, more health etc, and the last slot has perks such as "last stand" where you get shot you 
 have one more chance to shoot with a pistol while on the ground to take someone out before you 
 die, and there is one that drops a live grenade when you die. As you progress through the ranks 
 you unlock more of these perks for use in multiplayer. The game uses a matchmaking system like 
 Halo although it is actually much faster at getting you into matches and the game includes a generous 
 16 maps with a lot of match types. These include objective team games such as defusing the bomb 
 in the "Sabotage" or "Search and Destroy" game modes, standard death match and team death match, 
 and new modes where there is more realistic weapon damage and another where weapons are pick ups 
 and there is no regenerating health. When playing in multiplayer you get awarded with assistance 
 for killing sprees, 3 kills calls in a 30 second UAV which shows where all enemies are on the radar, 
 5 earns you with an air strike, and 7 sends in a helicopter. Call Of Duty 4 does not have and lag 
 in general and doesn't suffer from any bullet lag either which makes it even more fun.
  
  Call Of Duty 4 offers an excellent single and multiplayer experience that you should make a purchase 
 if you haven't already.
  
  Reviewed by Adam XT (Gamertag)
  Score: 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: byngx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 20, 2008 4:03 am PT
Review:  This game has everything, the best graphics, gameplay, multiplayer and is the most realistic game 
 ever made. With so many guns, classes and customization possibilities, you can really make the 
 game yours. The online multiplayer is perfectly endless, having to finish tens of challenges, some 
 not easy. The maps are detailed to perfection and the ability to shoot through thin walls increases 
 the realism. The sniping is, in my opinion, the best feature. Like what would happen in real life, 
 your character is breathing and the sight sways. To steady, you must press a button, holding your 
 breath. Also, realisticly, after you shoot, it takes up to a second for the shot to reach the victim 
 so you must shoot in front of a running victim. I love this about it. The only one downside is 
 the shortness of the campaign. This is fine if you have live though... Through and through, one 
 of the best games ever made. Deserves more than a 9. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gta4_2112
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 1, 2008 10:48 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 Modern Warfare is the first CoD game that is not in WWII. CoD 4 takes place in modern 
 day. It takes place in Eastern Europe.
  
  The campaign is really deep and realistic. The characters that you play as are Soap Mctavish a British 
 S. A. S. and Sgt. Jackson an American Marine. The AI characters that work with you are Cpt. Price, Gaz, and 
 Griggs.
  
  The campaign is realy intense but realy short. You will probably finish it in about 4-5 hours. But 
 every moment of the campaign is so enjoyable that you will want to play it over and over again.
 
  
  The best part about CoD 4 is the online. It is one of the best games online. Almost everything you 
 do gets you EXP. which will rank you up. If you get 3 kills without dieing you can call in an uav 
 which shows where your enemies are. If you get 5 kills without dieing you can call in an airstrike 
 which you can wipe out your enemies with. If you get 7 kills without dieing you can call in a helicopter 
 which will help you take down your enemies.
  
  The multiplayer modes are really fantastic they got everything from Team  
 War, Sabotage, Free-For-All, and my favorite Search and Destroy.
  
  There is alot of weapons and perks online. Every weapon gets 3 perks which you get to choose. You 
 get to choose from explosives to making your gun more powerful or adding extra health.
  
  The graphics in Call of Duty 4 are one of the best if not the best on the market. They will make 
 your jaw drop. The lighting effects are excellant and the sound effects are superb it all fits into 
 place.
  
  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is a must have game 
  
  Gameplay-10/10
  Graphics-10/10
  Storyline-9/10
  Sound Effects-10/10
  Multiplayer-10/10
  Controls-10/10
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dartheggs973
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 19, 2008 4:41 pm PT
Review:  There really is no way of explaining how fun and amazing Call of Duty 4 is. There are two main 
 reasons Call of Duty 4 is awesome.
  
  We will start out with the single-player campaign. Call of Duty 4 is an almost completely scripted. 
 Now when you think of it, most scripted games are bland. Good, but a kind of game thats good the 
 first time, then you really dont play it that much anymore. Call of Duty 4 does something that 
 no other game does. It makes the scripted campaign a really fun experience. The replay value on 
 it is really quite large. Although the campaign only takes 5-7 hours, depending on the difficulty 
 and type of player you are, it may be the best I've ever played.
  
  More importantly is the multiplayer. The multiplayer is really what makes the game what it is. 
 The concept of where you can customize your own classes to your playing style is enough to appeal 
 anyone. Plus you have the amazing gameplay that has kept me hooked for a really long time. You 
 have a ranking system where you go from 1-55 (private to commander) . Plus, once you hit 55, you 
 have a choice to make. That choice is whether or not to go into prestige. Prestige is where you 
 go back to rank 1. All your weapons and challenges are taken away but you get this cool little 
 emblem where your rank would go. You can do this ten times, and you get a different emblem each 
 time, all the way up to the GOLD CROSS. along with the ranking there are the many game types. You 
 got Search and Destroy, where one team has a bomb and has to set and defend it so you can blow 
 something up, and one team defending the bomb plant sites. Then theres your plain team deathmatch, 
 plus there is something ne. This is called hardcore mode. In hardcore mode your hud is taken away 
 and you bullets do extra damage. Its fun when you want a more tactical team deathmatch.
  
  Hopefully you can now see where I am coming from for how great Call of Duty 4 is. Dont even bother 
 renting it, just go buy it... now.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rozencruse
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 19, 2008 2:04 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is, in my opinion, the best in the Call of Duty series and the top shooter for the 
 360 from 2007. I reccomend this game to everyone who wants something fun the play. The multiplayer 
 is great in ever aspect, the perk system elimates the whining of overpowered classes from people 
 who can't play the game. The singleplayer campaign is pretty good, but a bit short in my opinion. 
 The difficulty settings are pretty true to what they say, Recruit being very easy and making the 
 game playable by anyone, Normal being for the experienced casual player, Hardened being for those 
 who are good at shooters and are playing through for the first time (though can be played by everyone) , 
 and Veteran being for anyone looking for a challenge and the achievements. I"m giving this game 
 a near perfect 9.5 because it is a great game with amazing multiplayer but the single player campaign 
 is just too short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RLARA
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 19, 2008 7:52 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 modern warfare is a amazing game , a good history , the engine: i never see a better 
 engine , the shots pass trough the wall , so if your enemy is hiden in the wall : shot the most 
 you can ,and get more one enemy dead with easy , soo this new mecanic gives to the game a interesting 
 competitiv , now ,when you are hurt , you won't go to behind the car , you go to the flor , and 
 wait to your life get full to back to war , and the life is not a bar , now when you are hurt your 
 screen beginn to be red in the boards , you die when the screen is full red , in the online game 
 you have so many guns you can choise , assault rifles , machine guns , smg , snipers , pistols 
 , you can chose many abilities for your character , the game is very short , you control two characters 
 a S. A. S and a Marines , you do misions in cargo ships , iraq , russia , shernobil in the past , 
 and in a plane in flight , your Marines character dead and your S. A. S. character i don't if he 
 deads , i think he live , the AI is not the best but you can do what you want with no worrie
  The game is amazing online but i thing is too short if hasn't got a XBOX LIVE gold membership 
::::::

::::::
UserName: n3ck
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 18, 2008 12:18 pm PT
Review:  I'll keep this short and sweet, this is a fantastic game but Halo3 is better and more skillful. 
 Martyrdom is for noobs, Helicopters are annoying and you seem to Rank up no matter how rubbish 
 you are at the game, in fact the ranking is useless and does not show really who is better. I have 
 totally owned players who are on the 7th round of prestige (I am still on 55EXP as i refuse to 
 prestige :D) I can fluke a lot of kills in COD4, in Halo every kill counts and the Rank system 
 is very good, if someone is higher rank they will beat you on Halo as your Exp goes down as well 
 as up. 
  Overall i'd say this is a fantastic game and different enough from Halo to be able to Enjoy both 
 games. The character customization is the best in any online game and i believe is the reason to 
 why its so popular. You can make a sniper specific to how you play and that is a massive +
  The new map pack is good and a worthy addition to this game as the standard maps are too crowded 
 and sometimes you'll get killed by too many random grenade throws. This is my biggest grip with 
 the game as grenade spamming is too common. Infinity Ward should change the 3x grenade perk and 
 change Martyrdom, Head shots should stop grenade dropping for example. The game Lacks Co op modes, 
 the one player is as good as Halo's but is lacking Co op, such a shame as with co op i reckon the 
 1 player would beat Halo. The Main reason i say Halo3 is better is that its a more rounded package 
 and is a better game if your into hardcore online frag fest. Cod 4 is better for the casual gamer 
 you'll get kills even if your crap. In Halo3 if your lame you will get owned and score nothing. 
 On the 360 this is a fantastic must have game, on the PS3 this is the best game out on the system. 
 COD4 is a fantastic game and should be part of anyone's collection, but it has minor flaws, which 
 stop it from being the greatest game ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sir_Quej
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 20, 2008 4:00 am PT
Review:  This game is stunningley good. It is without doubt the best game I have played. Not for the single 
 player campaign (which is very good but a bit short) , but for the multiplayer side. I have spent 
 hour after hour on the multiplayer game. It is so addictive, so frustrating, so engrossing, so 
 annoying, so....... brilliant. It is about as good as multiplayer action gets and has everything 
 you would want. It takes ages to get throught 55 ranks that you can progress through, which gaves 
 your days and weeks worth of targets. On top of that, you also have to perform numurous tasks to 
 unlock different weapons, perks and equipment. You can spend hours of frustration or fun just trying 
 to do one task like killing two players with one sniper shot (Trust me I know, I STILL have not 
 managed that) , and yet you can fulfill some tasks completely by accident (like killing two people 
 with one claymore) . The miltiplayer side will keep you engrossed for weeks & months.
  
  Lets not totally forget the single player side. The single player campaign is good. It is just 
 a little short. The gameplay is fast and realistic, the physics are spot on and the graphics and 
 environments are visually up to scratch. 
  
  You will enjoy the single player campaign, but this game is more for the mutliplayer. If you are 
 not online then borrow the game of someone so it is not sitting in you cupboard after 4 days. If 
 you are online, buy the game, divorce the wife, let her have custody of the kids and the dog and 
 play it to death.
  
  And remember, that's me staring at you down the scope of my Barret 50Cal. and you wont even hear 
 the shot................ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MadCoin
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 16, 2008 3:28 pm PT
Review:  The Call of Duty name has always been one of the golden gems of gaming, mixing everybody's favourite 
 pastime with everyone's favourite World Wars. Through every part of each COD game, you felt you 
 were a part of the war, fighting for the greater good, and having a load of fun at the same time. 
 And now Infinity Ward have breached the door, cleared the trash and kicked us in the face with 
 one of 2007's, and arguably 2008's, best games, Call Of Duty 4: Modern Warfare.
  
  From the get go, Modern Warfare's single-player campaign pumps you with a syringe full of adrenaline. 
 Jumping into the shoes of Soap, a new recruit to the SAS, the first few levels sees you perform 
 one of the most addictive tutorials ever conceived, infiltrate and destroy a cargo ship, and rescue 
 an informant amidst a full scale revolution. Talk about a head rush! But for all you British haters 
 out there, don't worry, you'll also play as an American soldier launched into war against a Middle 
 Eastern foe in order to stop a threat to world peace. Sound familiar?
  
  In my honest opinion, COD 4's campaign has to be some of the best time I've ever spent in front 
 of my television. You'll experience highs and lows, infiltrations and brazen run 'n' gun situations, 
 nuclear explosions, and even stalk your way across the radioactive land of Chernobyl in one of 
 the best levels I have ever played.
  
  But to talk solely about Call of Duty's single-player campaign is to eat the cherry and throw the 
 sundae away. Quite frankly, Modern Warfare's online multiplayer is above and beyond all that has 
 come before, and has set the standard for sheer entertainment. With a game mode for everyone (ranging 
 from Team Deathmatch to a 1 on 1 cage match to classic Capture-The-Flag) , a levelled class system 
 with progressive awards, and some of the best gameplay the FPS genre has ever seen, I believe you've 
 got one highly potent Molotov Cocktail there, which will suck you in and only let you go when you've 
 been riddled with bullets.
  
  And amazingly, I don't believe I have a moderately bad word to say to COD 4. I mean, sure, the 
 game has a few minor problems, such as some annoying checkpoints and difficulty inconsistencies, 
 but these are really just nitpicking when taken in the broader picture.
  
  Overall, Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is one of, if not the best, game of 2007, and with it's 
 unbelievably entertaining and addictive multiplayer, Call of Duty will keep ringing all through 
 2008 as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JUE2000
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 16, 2008 2:10 pm PT
Review:  In my eyes the story mode wasn't as good as the previous games, it must because you know that this 
 hasn't happened yet whereas the previous games make you feel like you are creating history. I liked 
 the way that they brought back captain Price though, and they changed his accent to! The game play 
 is great, i like the way Infinity Ward made all the action that you do extremely realistic for 
 example, the way that you climb a wall, or the way you pierce someones heart with your knife as 
 they try to shoot your brains out, these are the things that make this game fun. All of these things, 
 by the way you can do in multiplayer mode. The way that it has been made is just spectacular, it 
 makes a very good little detail, how you when you get a 3 kill steak you get a UAV, a device that 
 puts all the enemies in the match as red dots on the map. When you get a 5 kill streak, allied 
 jet pilots fly in and rain death from above, wherever you choose. Last of all, the most effective 
 gadget of all in my point of view, the Helicopter, i don't think i need to explain that do i? The 
 other two great things about multiplayer is the classes, and the perks. The perks (except juggernaut!) 
 are really handy and let you get special little... well perks! And the classes lets you choose 
 which weapons you want to start the match with. i thought and still think that along with maybe 
 halo 3, this is the best online game for the xbox 360! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simon_levane
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 27, 2009 12:33 pm PT
Review:  Fans of this kind of game will find COD 4 up there with "Halo 3" in terms of depth and scope. "Call 
 of Duty 4" is filled with non-stop bombastic action and kind of feels like a virtual take on real 
 life war. Seriously, this is a game that brings the feel of battle home. It's a little eerie that 
 way, but if you've ever wanted to experience an interactive "Black Hawk Down", than buy "Call of 
 Duty 4". And if you simply want a great action game that you want to go online with your buds, 
 than buy "Call of Duty 4". But if you want a slower paced game that requires more strategy than 
 don't. Get "Rainbow Six Vegas" or "Gears of War" instead. Because this is a game that will seriously 
 entertain those who seek fast action and fast thrills. SOCOM fans will also love it and so will 
 fans of "Metal Gear Solid" due to some of the feel of the weapons and the character models which 
 seem to drive from the MGS games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wolf-1992
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 16, 2008 9:54 am PT
Review:  It is 2005. In an isolated Californian cube farm, Activision rediscovers a small band of abandoned 
 games developers known as Infinity Ward, that's convinced that World War II shooters are still 
 going strong. After some persuasion, much therapy and having been shown screenshots of Rainbow 
 Six Vegas, Battlefield 2: Modern Combat and Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter 2, Infinity Ward is 
 convinced to admit that the long war is over (for the time being at least) . While Treyarch continue 
 work on Call of Duty 3, Infinity Ward embark on a new, thoroughly modern shooter to blow away the 
 WWII cobwebs with a nuclear wind and usher in a new era for the much-loved but conflict-restricted 
 Call of Duty franchise.
  
  Freedom from the historical battlefield has in turn meant greater freedom from the incumbent sensitivity. 
 Modern Warfare pulls no punches throughout its 24-style story of stolen nuclear material, international 
 terrorism, manhunts, torture and execution.
  
  And don't expect some of these darker themes to be limited to enemy action. It's a slick thriller 
 that far outstrips the sometimes-clumsy cutscenes and dismal voice acting that often tied together 
 the disparate action strands of Call of Duty past.
  
  Although you know straight away that this is a Call of Duty game.
  
  The scale, lighting and 
 texture-enhanced graphics still bear the hallmarks of the series, as do the classic COD controls 
 (left trigger zoom, press thumbstick to steady etc.) Specific unpulled punches that fly straight 
 at the nose and bring tears to the eyes would spoil the plot (and that there is a plot worthy of 
 spoiling speaks volumes for this release) , so suffice to say that in Modern Warfare things can 
 and often do go very wrong, sometimes whole hard-fought missions ending in bitter disappointment, 
 demanding new leads and opening up fresh objectives.
  
  It's a treacherous game of fast tidal changes, often sweeping the player off his feet, not just 
 with plot twists, but also with sudden changes in objective that immediately affect gameplay. A 
 stealthy village infiltration will suddenly "go loud" and before you know it you're calling in 
 Cobra strikes on weapon barns, blowing up churches and setting off batteries of claymores in the 
 village high street as you desperately clear each house in search of a captured contact with information 
 vital to the continued existence of 41 million citizens of the Eastern Seaboard of the United States. 
 And then the enemy react, their own air support whupping in to deliver strikes and ground troops. 
 Your infiltration-turned-assault has been set on its head and the mission becomes a desperate battle 
 for survival as you retreat house by house with your squad, counting the seconds until the arrival 
 of your exfiltration gunship.
  
  And it's not just the gripping plot and rolling gameplay that keeps you on your toes. Alternating 
 between SAS, the US Marine Corps (USMC) and later joint missions, with a 15-year flashback sniper 
 mission at Chernobyl thrown in to great effect, the brilliantly judged pace of COD4 owes much to 
 the changing locales. With the SAS mostly following nuclear leads through Russia and the USMC battling 
 to maintain stability and track Most Wanted in the Middle East, there's always a fresh environment 
 or new take on an existing setting.
  
  The game starts (after the best interactive cut-scene ever!) on a massive cargo vessel wallowing 
 through a wintry storm in mid ocean. Unlike many other shooter levels set on ships, this one really 
 moves with the swells, waves crashing on deck and corridors lurching as your SAS team works into 
 its heart.
  
  Levels in the Middle East feature awe-inspiring wings of attack helicopters ferrying you into complex 
 desert towns, whole tank battalions kicking up the dust beneath you, RPG trails feathering the 
 sky and ground bursts chewing up fiery mushrooms and chunking whole buildings. There are tank escort 
 missions, levels where you are the air strike commander protecting the team you were just fighting 
 with as they escape, stealth sniper objectives, dark missions through ruined adobe towns using 
 jelly-green night vision, pilot rescue, nuclear silo clearance, road vehicle chases and on and 
 on. There is no weak level in the whole game. Each has unique merits and each is linked to the 
 threaded plot as never before in Call of Duty.
  
  It's a very personal experience this time and far, far from the sense of great set battles linked 
 by dodgy cutscenes that we're used to. The integration of pace change is wonderfully subtle. An 
 on-rails vehicle sequence as you man a helicopter door-gun segues into a foot patrol section after 
 you abseil into a fortified desert town. This goes indoors for a Rainbow Six-style building clearance 
 when your team blows a door with charges and then fight becomes flight and you battle your way 
 out of town a la Black Hawk Down before diving for the back ramp of a helicopter gunship that's 
 then shot down.
  
  The game takes great care to ensure the pace changes link and make sense and this effort pays great 
 dividends for an audience now familiar with the moreish swings and fast leaps of episodic thrillers 
 like 24 and The Unit. While we mention Rainbow Six-style building clearance, we should say that 
 sometimes COD4 begs for at least a basic cover and lean system and this would have made the excellent 
 controls complete.
  
  So what makes Modern Warfare so contemporary? Infinity Ward sat down and wrote a shopping list 
 that would make an arms dealer thank Satan for accepting his soul as down payment. Top of the list 
 were helicopters - what better to symbolise the end of World War II? And LOTS of helicopters, of 
 every size and shape, for every conceivable combat situation.
  
  Helicopters to hunt you down with kazillion-candle search beams. Helicopters to chase your jeep 
 with rockets and cannon down busy Eastern European highways. Helicopters with grenade launchers 
 for you to pound rooftop gun nests, burst tanks below and topple statues of Middle East dictators. 
 Crashed helicopters with fixed miniguns to bear on terrorist armies pouring into Russian hilltop 
 villages. Helicopters you rope from. Helicopters you escape in. Helicopters you crash inside. Helicopters 
 whose pilots can be sniped. Helicopters whose passengers can fall out. Helicopters that nearly 
 slice your damn legs off with their blades. Chinooks, Black Hawks, Hinds, Cobras... you get the 
 idea. COD4 has more choppers than a gay porn star in a Raleigh bike shop in 1971. You know, the 
 one round the corner from that massive helicopter factory. And they're all absolutely awesome exemplars 
 of their fearsome breed, lifting Modern Warfare straight up to new heights and defining the sense 
 of slick delivery, deadly poise and cold purpose that pervades the game.
  
  But helicopters are just the tip of the arms dump. There's plenty of heavy ordnance packed with 
 modern technology that you carry with you. Because despite the frequent helicopter rides, this 
 is still a game for the foot soldier of the special forces advance team, yomping and sneaking behind 
 enemy lines. Split between SAS and USMC squads, your two heroes will use Javelin rocket launchers 
 that lock onto tanks and yes, helicopters, before delivering a payload that fires high, acquires 
 the target and then slams it down into the earth with a high-explosive fist.
  
  You'll plant claymore booby traps, use night vision laser sights, sniper rifles that penetrate 
 walls, flesh-ripping chainguns and devastating airstrikes from jets. Oh, and from helicopter gunships 
 in case you were worried. You'll also get to wield the godlike destructive power of the AC-130 
 Spectre gunship.
  
  But apart from a slicker, moreish story, masterful pace and plot twists, massively upgraded battle 
 scale, textures and effects, awesome weapons and very convincing enemy AI, why is COD4 such a stunning 
 success? We'd finally have to mention the incredible attention to the little things. The SAS sapper 
 stumbling backwards clumsily after he pulls away a section of chainlink he's outlined with liquid 
 nitrogen spray. The bullet on a string that swings real-time from the rear view mirror of a terrorist 
 Mercedes. The use of shadows to spot enemies behind walls and fire high calibres through compliant 
 wall materials to kill them. The heat haze that rises from a spooling chaingun as it winds down. 
 The ability to pick up key injured comrades to evacuate them under fire and the way some terrorists 
 will fire off a last pistol shot, or detonate a grenade when you thought them already dead.
  
  Call of Duty 4 embraces Modern Warfare with a passion that suggests this new love affair will 
 burn for a long time yet. We'd be very surprised if Call of Duty 5 gets back into bed with the 
 faithful old Second World War. It has moved on, tapped a rich new vein (for Call of Duty at least) 
 and in doing so it has breathed fresh life into the contemporary shooter as a genre.
  
  In every way this is the definitive 'real world' FPS, incorporating the best aspects of Rainbow 
 Six, Ghost Recon and Battlefield, but bringing those experiences to a far wider range of gamers, 
 many of whom would be turned off by those more hardcore titles. It even crescendos to a great and 
 dark but conclusive ending. At Modern Warfare's core is very modern entertainment, but the downside 
 to this dense and gripping delivery is that it's over far too quickly, five to six hours on normal 
 difficulty. You do have a short bonus solo mission after the credits, the solo Arcade mode to beat 
 your friends' scores at, and of course the enormously comprehensive multiplayer options, although 
 many will be disappointed that there are no controllable vehicles over Xbox Live this time. Call 
 Of Duty 4 is short but immensely satisfying and we can't wait for a post-modern revival. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: armeniankid
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 16, 2008 9:11 am PT
Review:  Ok to start the review this game tops halo3, gears of war, and rainbow six vegas 2, reason being 
 you get bored easily when u play those games without online because they become predictable. but 
 with call of duty it is diferent it brings that wow factor you want in a game no matter how many 
 times you play campaign its not predictable cause the levels and the character respawn but some 
 of the things that get me mad you sometimes wont get a checkpoint for a while where you are supposed 
 to it usually does or doesnt but frankly if u get a bad checkpoint ur pretty much done for online 
 play is amazing if you get bored of playing and ranking up and ur a 55 as it is you can prestige 
 now i didnt want to prestige because i thought it would be a waste of my time to do all over so 
 i just get gold guns so far i have obtained gold ak47 best gun ever! call of duty 4 brings the 
 dream game you always wanted if your bored go online and play one of the many modes with your friends 
 there are many modes to choose from to deathmatch free for all team deathmatch hardcore deathmatch 
 search and destroy and etc..... but this is your best bet on a game i say go for it no version 
 is better then the other so if you have listened to me before then you wont be dissapointed but 
 rent it just incase happy gaming! =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshismetal
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 15, 2008 10:27 pm PT
Review:  Single player is only a small part of this game but still great none the less. Its plot is above 
 average for a shooter. its your typical go kill that terrorist plot but the overall mechanics of 
 the game play make you completely forget about the story. its so evenly paced that anyone can pick 
 up a controller and play.
  
  Multi player is where the true fun begins. You can fully customize your in game classes and you 
 can customize your guns and on top of that the ranking system is one of the best. The maps are 
 well designed and the game types are for every type of player. The party system is also great because 
 you can join any type of game with a full group of friends. i also like that there are no achievements 
 for multi play so that eliminates any boosting.
  
  i would recommend this game to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shre123
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 15, 2008 9:58 pm PT
Review:  To cut it straight to the point, Call of Duty 4 (COD 4) is one of the best games I have ever played. 
 And to be quite honest I am not a huge fan nor am I skilled at most First person shooters. However, 
 COD 4 delivers an experience unparalleled by any other game in its genre. The single player campaign, 
 despite its short length, delivers a wealthy experience in both game play and story. I am surprised 
 again and again on how much depth this game has. Sometimes it leaves you breathless just to take 
 in the visuals and other times it leaves you standing up while you try to take of the head of an 
 unwary foe. It seems to me that most games these days have lost sight of intense game play and 
 what the players necessarily want and instead focus on graphics and the drive to create the most 
 creative game engine of all time. In COD 4 however, it seems as if the developers of infinity ward 
 were 16 year olds hard at work in making the best gaming experience they could possible give. Now, 
 onto the most wonderful thing about this game, its multi-player. If you do not have Xbox live, 
 don't bother buying this game. Without it, its like buying a computer with no hard drive, it just 
 isn't worth it. Because this is best game to play online period. The constant push for you to do 
 better by the use of an innovative leveling system, unlock-able game modes and weapons and extremely 
 fun use of chain kills gives this game its true character. Just so u can get an idea of the rating 
 for this game:
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  Single Player: 9/10
  Multiplayer:11/10
  Graphics: 9.5/10
  Value: 10/10
  Overall: 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liquid_ninja
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 14, 2008 6:26 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is the average First Person Shooter done right. Great multiplayer, good single player 
 storyline and gameplay, although it was too short. The setting seems right, a nice change of pace 
 from the classic World War 2 setting (and off treyarchs plate) . Call of Duty 4 redeems the franchise 
 after the crap treyarch released with the name Call of Duty 3 (Why would they Treyarch develop such 
 garbage? I will never know.)
  
  Anyways, onto the review. The single player puts you into the shoes of two soldiers, a SAS operative 
 with the nickname Soap, and a United States Marine named Jackson. Each soldier fighting in different 
 parts of the world fighting two different enemies that are linked through trade of nuclear weapons. 
 The story gets you involved and feeling like a small part of something big, just what the Call 
 of Duty franchise has always done. Its storyline is well developed and leaves you wondering "What 
 is next?" It takes you from the Middle East to Russia, and even to the Cold War with Captain Price 
 and his buddy MacMillan. Even though it's a great story with a good ending, it is over way too 
 fast, but that just gives you more time to play the awesome multiplayer put into the game.
  
  With its online ranking system like everything else, kill people and do objectives to earn 
 ranks, it adds the interesting prestige mode which resets your rank. This may seem stupid and pointless, 
 but it adds a lot more to the playtime as you go through the ranks multiple times to see how far 
 you can go. The game also has a nice unlock system, even though it has been used before. You unlock 
 guns according to your rank, but it also gives you a create-a-class system. I admit this is a cool 
 system (except for the perks, but I'll talk about that later) but I think they could have added 
 more than five slots. It's annoying when you get to a point in the game when you want your favorite 
 R700 sniper or that amazing AK-47 with a silencer but you don't have it set to your create-a-class. 
 Instead you're stuck with it until the round ends and when you switch to it, you never get that 
 same opportunity for awhile and feel like you're wasting a slot.
  
  Next, and most importantly, I would like to discuss the community. I know this is more of a Xbox 
 Live problem, but I see this happening more in Call of Duty 4 than Halo 3. I can beat someone maybe 
 four games in a row, then they can beat me once, maybe even by a small amount, and all I get is 
 trash talk about how I should just quit playing. Don't get me wrong, there's plenty of good players 
 out there, but not enough. I just think this problem should be addressed.
  
  The last thing I want to talk about is the perk system, the greatest thing and the worst thing 
 in this game at the same time. It's great that you can select times three SPECIAL grenades or C4 
 or RPGs, but times three hand grenades ends up in spamming. Then there's juggernaut and stopping 
 power which seems to be the most abused. I think the whole perk 2 section should be removed. It's 
 just horrible. Then we get to martyrdom and last stand, which I die to more than anything. It's 
 really bad when you kill more people with a grenade that you somehow drop when you die than with 
 a gun or when you get shot in the heart, but can just sit down and turn around like you're jesus 
 to shoot someone in the head. What I'm saying is this game would be better without some of the 
 perks, but does not drag the experience too much.
  
  Overall, this game is fun and well worth the money as it will keep you playing for awhile with 
 it's fun, story-driven campaign and addictive multiplayer. Give this game a shot, you'll love it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigbrain120
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 14, 2008 3:17 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty is the most exciting experience that I have ever played. Realistic gameplay puts you 
 right in the action and challenging campaign modes make for a great addition to the Call of Duty 
 franchise. Multiplayer options enhance the fun of the game to make it playable after years of owning 
 it and prestige mode sets Call of Duty 4 above all other challengers. Challenges also make for 
 a great multiplayer experience as players try to combat enemies in specific ways to gain large 
 EXP boosts. Not only is Call of Duty a must- have but also a call to one of the best games ever 
 made. All of the elements just combine to provide the perfect blend of action, fun and adventure. 
 I personally think this game is number one on the xbox 360 and the DLC maps that have just come 
 out are even better than the previous already owned maps. Way to go Call of Duty 4! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spurg2006
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 14, 2008 11:37 am PT
Review:  I have not yet played Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare, but I have seen just about everything there 
 is to see in following this game. I hope to own a Xbox 360 soon and you can bet this game will 
 be the first one I buy. The graphics on this game are absolutely awesome, and gameplay is something 
 next to none. The game developers have really outdone themselves this time, and I can only imagine 
 what Call of Duty 5 is going to be like. I rated this game a 9.5 because that is the highest rating 
 any game can receive in my opinion. The only way I would rate a game a 10 is if I truly felt like 
 I was really in the game. Perhaps some sort of head gear and something to hold in your hands as 
 if you were actually holding a weapon, and the head gear would have to have a microphone on it 
 so you could talk to the game as if you were talking to other soldiers without having to go online. 
 Even though COD4 is pretty much as real as they come, as the old age saying goes "There is always 
 room for improvement"! However, the way technology advances; I am sure the type of game I mentioned 
 above is coming soon. CALL OF DUTY 4 I SALUTE  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mntnbkr
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 14, 2008 9:32 am PT
Review:  Single player -- The single player game starts out with a bang, grabs you and runs you through 
 one of the best single player games that has come along in a long time! My favorite part is where 
 they place the player in a gigantic plane to shoot, blow up or a just plain annihilate the bad 
 guys. My other favorite part is the sniper flashback. That whole level was very memorable. I had 
 to play that level a couple of times before I could get it out of my system. The only problem with 
 the single player campaign is the length and the fact that you and a buddy cannot trounce through 
 the levels together. 
  Multiplayer -- This is where most of the meat and potatoes of the game are. This is the reason 
 why everyone and their brother are buying this game. This is also the reason why Halo 3 is now 
 in the 2nd place position of Most Played Games of the Week for Xbox Live. And the reason why everyone 
 keeps coming back to COD4 multiplayer is because they have a brilliant leveling system that starts 
 the player out with the basics and then has them work their way up while earning better guns and 
 perks. The guns range anywhere from the P90 (small but lethal) to the .50 caliber sniper rifle 
 (sounds and hits like a cannon) while the perks range from 3 X grenades which lets players carry 
 3 grenades instead of 1 to perks like stopping power which adds damage to the bullets and juggernaut 
 which gives player an extra boost to their health just to name a few. 
  Anyone with a 360 and Xbox Live is missing out not owning this game. This is a lot of people's 
 Multiplayer game of the year for 2007 and it should be. If the numbers keep going like they are 
 this game might be the most played game on Xbox Live for 2008. Wait and see.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vampire_Turtle
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 14, 2008 7:09 am PT
Review:  As we all know british developer infinity ward managed to create something which was able to combat 
 with EA's WWII title, Medal of Honour. For 3 games we have been travelling through the same old 
 recycled battles of WII: D-Day, Moscow etc. And it became tediously dull and boring for most of 
 us. That was until Call of Duty 4 came along.
  
  I. F. (Infinity Ward) released a BETA of the games MP to Xbox 360 to certain gamertags, however 
 the BETA was leaked onto a massive scale and everyone began playing it. This was probably a good 
 thing for I. F. for it gave them a chance to show almost every gamer in the world what the games 
 MP would be like. I doubt it would be as popular if most of XBL ( Xbox Live ) hadn't played the 
 BETA.
  
  The graphics of Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare are simply stunning to look at, with a strong framerate 
 of around 60-70 FPS (Frames Per Second) it makes the game feel as well as look the part of a true 
 battleground. Since CoD4 has such a strong framerate you may come back to such games as Rainbow 
 Six Vegas and think, "Wow, why is the FPS so low?!" Some people however may aruge that CoD4 looks 
 slightly cartoonyish... I think this is because they have played such games as Crysis on full spec. 
 The I. W. 3 Engine does a truly remarkable job of presenting the game in huge graphical detail in 
 both SP and MP.
  
  The sound of Call of Duty 4 is at the same level as the graphics, you can tell that I. W. spent 
 alot of money on getting all the sounds for the guns just right. Also the voice acting in the SP 
 is outstanding, making you feel for the characters throughout the storyline until the end. I played 
 Call of Duty 4 on a 5.1 surround sound system and too say the least, I am blown away!
  
  The storyline of Call of Duty 4 is short but great too play. I played the game first time on Veteran 
 difficulty and too say the least, I felt like chucking my 360 out of the window it was so difficult 
 :) You play as 2 sides, The United States Marine Corp and the British S. A. S. Throughout the SP 
 you will switch between the two sides but most of the story is based around the S. A. S. operative 
 Soap. Overall the storyline could've been a bit longer on the less harder difficulties but switch 
 it up to Veteran or Hardened difficulty and the game will last you a lot longer.
  
  The MP of Call of Duty 4 is very addicting and immersive. With the addition of the leveling system 
 which was featured in Rainbow Six Vegas and Perks, players will always be competing for the highest 
 rank. And too make sure the MP lasts you for a long time, I. F. have stuck in the "Prestige Mode" 
 feature. When you have hit level 55 (Top Level) you have the choice of going through Prestige Mode. 
 Prestige Mode wil set your level back to 1 and all your equipment and perks etc. will be gone. 
 Now, there is a rumor surrounding the 10 times you must go around prestige mode, when you hit level 
 55 you would expect to unlock everything right? Wrong. There are 2 perks which are still unlockable, 
 the rumor is once you have completed every challenge and gone round 10 times in Prestige you will 
 unlock these perks.
  
  Overall Call of Duty 4 has set the bar for Online FPS games, and it is a definate purcahse for 
 people who have access to XBL.
  
  Score: 9.5
  True Score: 9.7 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PastramiMan
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 13, 2008 9:23 pm PT
Review:  Call Of Duty 4 is one of those video game sequels with a lot of respect for its heritage; so much 
 so, in fact, that it decides to do exactly what the other games in the franchise did and just stick 
 a slightly higher number at the end of the title. That doesn't necessarily make it a bad game, 
 but it doesn't help.
  
  Now, before everyone clicks the little thumbs down at the bottom or this review, let me say: I 
 like this game, I like the multi player, hell I like the whole goddamn franchise (except for "Big 
 Red One") ! I also like innovation, and I hate respawning enemies and having to move twenty meters 
 ahead of my squad to get them to move up while they all sit on their asses and scream "ADVANCE!" 
 or "MOVE UP!"
  
  The only real new thing about Call Of Duty 4 (the thing that may or may not necessitate a new iteration) 
 is the new setting and a fresh coat of paint. Theres some tired old plot about a nuke or some such 
 **** that the British SAS want, and America wants some guy for some... reason. I found it very 
 hard to concentrate on the story with the crapy load time cut scenes; Theres nothing dynamic or 
 eye-catching to them. Speaking of which the graphics are nice, but every thing's either a dirt 
 brown or a cold metallic color. I understand that thats the nature of the situation the game presents 
 us with, and its not like anyone expects them to set the game in Smurfville or anything like that, 
 but I'd like to believe they can think of something better (I would have actually liked this game 
 a lot more if it was set in smurfville, or fraggle rock... even better) .
  
  If theres one thing in this universe that never gets old its not Call Of Duty's game play (it's 
 fraggle rock in case you were wondering) . In fact I had trouble writing this paragraph, theres 
 just nothing remarkable or innovative this time around, nothing that sticks out in my mind. You 
 plant satchel charges, and defend positions, and shoot rockets at incoming vehicle's. Basically 
 it's the same old slog in a new time frame. Multi-player IS fun though! It's really cool to advance 
 in rank and unlock new weapons. Minus some of the chodes you meet online of course.
  
  In all Call Of Duty 4 is an okay game, but it sticks far to closely to the series conventions. 
 Wait until the price drops on this one because there is some fun to be had. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bardock138
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 13, 2008 5:42 pm PT
Review:  This is a pretty solid shooter. 
  The game is very easy to get the hang of too... perhaps to easy? The first game I played I got 
 in first place.. crushed everyone. Had a nice k/d ratio and everything. Doesn't require that much 
 skill to be honest.
  
  It has:
  
  -Ranks
  -Unlockable Guns
  -Nice selection of levels
  -Fun campaign
  
  
  But despite all that this game still gets 
 old in the end. It's one of those games thats really great for the first month or so you have it 
 but then it just gets really boring, at least for me it did.
  
  It's like a vicious circle for me. I stop playing this and start playing Halo 3 again... all my 
 friends are playing this.. I play this.. everyones playing H3. It seems like I upset the balance 
 or something.
  
  Oh well. This is a must have for any fan of shoot-em up strategic-like games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cutter9792
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 13, 2008 10:47 am PT
Review:  WWII was over 60 years ago. There have been countless games depicting the bloody struggle over 
 those years. There have even been developers that got their start creating WWII games. Now, WWII 
 games' top dog, Infinity Ward gets thrown a curveball called MODERN WARFARE.
  And guess what?
  
  They knock it the hell out of the park.
  This was the second game I played 
 on my shiny new 360. It's also the one I haven't been able to stop playing over the last five months. 
 Yes, people don't like the short single player, but I adore it. The developer made it feel like 
 it was an actual war (albeit one that only lasts a week) , and if you play it right, it can seem 
 even longer.
  
  The game balances sneaking around and all out shooting extremely well. The graphics are good enough 
 that after a while you won't notice them anymore. The multiplayer is the best on LIVE and the story 
 is actually good!
  
  Like I said before. Don't listen to me, just go buy a damn copy already. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dreski83
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 14, 2008 12:40 pm PT
Review:  Every gamer who played their fair share of first-person shooters the last few years unanimously 
 said there was too much repetition in the genre. In all respects, we are correct. With so much 
 focus on games based around historic wars in human history; a little variety seems like a much 
 needed jolt, which begs the question, can a rework of factual events in a fictional modern world 
 actually appeal to fans. With the 4th addition to the Call of Duty series taking the spot light, 
 the answer is easily delivered with solid controls, great multiplayer, and crisp visuals.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  Like any decent game, you start off with training wheels guiding you through a 
 gauntlet of instructions in how to move and handle your equipment. For any veterans of shooters, 
 everything will seem like 2nd nature until you are tossed into the actual battlefield -- which happens 
 pretty quick. Once you are out in the field working with modern weapons and gear, which is a major 
 breath of fresh air compared to past games based around the WW2 era, your mind set slighty changes. 
 
  Weapon damage and control is much tighter, but the same can be said for the enemies you also face. 
 Choosing from 4 different difficulty settings, your level of stress is pretty easy to gauge, and 
 being able to change between each level is very welcoming. Going through the levels is broken into 
 chapters with smaller segments scattered about. The story follows along nicely and offers some 
 very interesting twist and turns that help keep you focused during the campaign. Beyond that small 
 plus, its kind of forgetable once you grind through some of the more intense missions and circle 
 back to slower paced ones. 
  Speaking of pacing, its very well delivered from start to finish and offers a serious tribute to 
 movie magic hardly found in theaters anymore. After drooling over all the glamour, the real nitty-gritty 
 shows true in the mechanics. Computer Ai is as smart as its obviously scripted paths, NPC's on 
 your team can be sometimes helpful and a majority of other times totally useless, well placed check-points 
 help soothe frusterations in difficult areas, and tough trajectory controls all contribute to a 
 bag of mixed feelings. Depending on the difficulty setting and your measure of patience with rinse 
 and repeat level designs, a lot of positives heavily out weigh the negatives in this area of CoD4.
 
  
  VISUALS
  While watching the opening cinematic, take note that everything you see is in-game goodness waiting 
 to be embraced. Character models for both the allies and baddies are so well detailed, you'll notice 
 various real life equipment that never poses as useless clutter. That is if you can pause the high 
 tempo action long enough to appreciate the smooth animations. Context sensitive actions to scripted 
 events can be seen over and over through out the CoD4 game, but to witness how well they are done 
 never tires. 
  Environments have plenty of debry to offer like destructible vehicles and mangled areas of cover 
 that really adds to the war torn settings; yet running down the same path to the same objective 
 past the same enemies begins to show its faults much sooner than later. Not enough to be considered 
 as a major factor in hurting the overall experience -- but the level designs are pretty simple once 
 you notice they all tunnel you in the same direction no matter how much you wander off.
  
  AUDIO
  With the modern weapons and environments, its a must that every shot and ricochet be as 
 realistic as possible, and this area was nailed perfectly! A regular sound setup can easily pump 
 out the chaotic sounds of battle, but to truly enjoy everything the CoD4 atmosphere has to offer: 
 jarring gunfire, breaking glass, explosions, ambient voices, heroic music and various other bits, 
 the surround sound setup will only do it proper justice. 
  Besides the voice work consisting mostly of bad guys hollering back and forth about tossed grenades 
 and flanking commands; the NPC's that follow along voice some great dialouge that is even more 
 amplified by their believable animations and genuine looks.
  
  EXTRAS
  If you ever played a great multiplayer game and thought there are very few on such an elite list, 
 you need to try CoD4! Once you blaze through the single player offering raking in a majority of 
 the achievements on regular settings, there isn't much left besides the unlockable Arcade Mode 
 and Cheats. Both are self explanitory and add a slight nudge of excitement to the lone adventure 
 through already beaten levels. Going back to track down enemy laptops and destroy terrorist videos 
 really isn't all that tough since most of the levels funnel you in one direction. For a lump of 
 points, it caps off the achievment list very well, being that its all single player accomplishments. 
 Not one online achievement is found in CoD4. But in no way does that take anything away from the 
 excellent multiplayer. 
  Since you can't sit in pre-game lobbies debating on how to unlock certain rank/quick play achievments, 
 everything is focused on the Prestige rank system. Playing in the various online modes that offer 
 tons of options for simple capture the flag type of games to hardcore extreme team oriented matches 
 is all summed up with experience points. Depending on how effecient you are in battle, points are 
 accumulated through: killing the opposition in certain fashions, using surveillance gear, assist, 
 weapon selection, and my personal favorite, perks. The more you play, the more you unlock such 
 as weapons and perks. With these perks you can basically define your online soldier like a RPG 
 character. Its not as refined as such deep games, but for a shooter to offer a way of customizing 
 your character beyond cosmetics, the perks go a long way in making this one of the most unique 
 online shooters ever to grace a console.
  
  OVERALL
  Playing certain types of games for years would usually assume a critical POV that is seriously 
 lop-sided by a 1/10 ratio in how many bad games it takes to enjoy a good one. Strangely enough, 
 when that gem in the rough shines through, all the terrible games that led to that point don't 
 really matter after that. Approaching CoD4 for its single player is a tough bargain. Offering plenty 
 of amusement for the achievement fiends and FPS fans alike, the real experience blossums within 
 the multiplayer. 
  Like many online structured games, the DLC option has become a viable way to stretch the longevity 
 of CoD4's online mayhem. Lacking a co-op campaign was unfortunate and the level designs broken 
 down can show serious repition issues that can push away a lot of interest. Then again, most fans 
 of shooters, no matter how reluctant they appear, usually can't get enough of lining up head shots 
 and completing team objectives, which in turn means this could be the perfect game for you! Excuse 
 the small technical flaws, extreme borrowing of modern global conflicts, heavy dependency of online 
 gaming, and CoD4 is definently worth checking out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KillJoy0880
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 13, 2008 8:57 am PT
Review:  I mean seriously, whats short about this campaign? you would have to complete this on veteran to 
 even stand a chance of improving your skills with the players on the online mode. 
  
  The content of the game are amazing! the graphics the pin point dialogue and how comfortable it 
 is to play. one thing that makes this the game of the year is its online mode, the four new maps 
 are just the icing on the cake! if you have played it on XBOX LIVE you would know about the mode 
 "Search and Destroy" and you are left your heart does beat like nothing else! a real roller coaster 
 tide!
  
  I know you all have purchased this game already so there is no point in giving a in-depth review 
 of the game, and if you haven't already purchased what are you waiting for? go to the bank withdraw 
 some money and go to the shops.......... why are you reading this????  
 have you got it yet? no? well its really not my fault you have no money :P
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PwnMaster94
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 13, 2008 8:11 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is one of the best games that I've played on Xbox 360. The whole game is amazing 
 from the action to the storyline. The action in Call of Duty 4 is crazy and each level varies in 
 tactics and you just can't get bored at all. It's just too addictive. Also, the graphics in Call 
 of Duty 4 are great and the whole modern warfare concept has been planned exceptionally well and 
 therefore every tiny detail is there, from the gadgets to the guns. For example, there are all 
 the high-tech gadgets but there's also the good old guns like the AK-47's. The storyline in Call 
 of Duty 4 is, in my mind very good and I never got bored or confused by this element. It was straightforward 
 and really well planned out. Call of Duty 4 is a highly addictive game which you just can't put 
 down. The game is perfect in almost every single way. Call of Duty 4 is superb. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PhoenixVenom
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 12, 2008 11:37 pm PT
Review:  This is a must own for XBOX 360 owners. This game has everything desiered by the hardcore gamer 
 and just when you didnt think there was more there is. The sinfle player campaign is short but 
 it is an intense battle and has a multiple and bariety of things for you to do. Yuo will never 
 get enough of this game, i have had it since christmas and havent put it down yet. The graphics 
 are top notch and second to none, game play is awesome, beautiful environments, and magnificant 
 explosions and surprises for the player. the four difficulty levels give the game lots of replay 
 value as well as all of the acheivments to get. Plus the online play adds another dimension to 
 the game and gives its value a 10+ for owners. This is a must for all libraries. The only down 
 side is the short single player, but this game will make you wanting to come back for more and 
 more and more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rhopere
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 12, 2008 10:17 pm PT
Review:  Needless to say, Call of Duty 4 is one of the best first person experiences out there, and should 
 not be missed, ecspecially by the hardcore.
  
  The Graphics are phenomenal, and the sound, voice acting, everything, works perfectly and all without 
 any lagging at all.
  
  The gameplay is pretty standard, mostly what you would see in a FPS, but the A. I does a good job 
 of hitting their mark, You, and making sure not to stop in the middle of the battefield to reload.
 
  
  The only complaint I have is the Single player is a little short, but it makes up for it with the 
 quality of that short experience.
  
  One of the most enjoyable things is the multiplayer. You dont get a lot of weapon choices to start, 
 but as you go along, you unlock more weapons, "perks" (skills) , etc, and it will keep you busy 
 long after you've bought it.
  
  Call of Duty 4 is an opportunity that shouldnt be missed, and I reccomend it to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrispwns
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 12, 2008 7:44 pm PT
Review:  ok let me begin by saying the multiplayer in this game is the best ive ever seen and it is so so 
 so adicting. the stroy is somewhat interesting and cool but not wonderful one reason is because 
 the campaighn is so short i beat it in 5 to 6 hours. this not really a bad thing though because 
 so much happens in that time that it so forgiving that the campaighn is short. This is a game every 
 xbox 360 owner must buy because the multiplayer is soooooo awesome. i hope that infinity ward continues 
 the call of suty franchise because these games are great and fans love em. ok so get off your butt 
 and go to your nearsest gamespot and buy this game ok! ENOUGH SAID  
 GO NOW                            BUY IT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deadlynatas
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 12, 2008 7:34 pm PT
Review:  This game is a new addition to the great series. It added some new features so its not all the 
 same as before. The graphics have never been better for a call of duty. New sprint mode takes the 
 time for completing the campain way lower then just crouching or walking through. This game is 
 a force to be recon with with the other games shooting for the top spot. If you do not have this 
 in your collection get it! I was happy with the play time i got on it and i will always go back 
 and play again so i wouldn't worry about selling it back or renting it. (you will get addicted) 
 The great thing about leveling up in the game is that you get to customize all of your gear and 
 power-ups. So the better level you are the greater you will be! It is less stressful but the down 
 thing is online you can only play one person at a time on one screen. :/ Overall i would give this 
 game a 9.5/10 it will keep you coming back! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: harm0n1ca
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 11, 2008 7:05 pm PT
Review:  Not so for this game. I hesitate to even call it that, as it's more of an epic adventure and experience 
 for me than any game I've played recently, Assassin's Creed included (I love that game!) .
  
  Before I go on, I have to emphasize the fact that I'm no war game fan. I only bought it after 
 a clerk in the game store wouldn't stop raving about how good it is. I think they've been done 
 to death and I'm tired of the same old formula being spat out at me like some annual sports update. 
 However, this game is completely different. I don't really think there's a review that does this 
 game justice, and words fail me when I try to describe it to other people.
  
  Firstly, lets start with the basic stuff. This game is simply gorgeous to look at. The buildings, 
 vegetation, burnt out cars, indoor areas and characters have all been designed meticulously and 
 obviously with a lot of love. The funny thing is you'll probably pay little attention to this fact 
 due to the intense nature of the gameplay, both online and off.
  
  And intense is the only word I can think of to describe the experience. (I use that word a lot 
 in my reviews, but that's mainly because I only bother reviewing games I enjoyed to some extent) . 
 After the initial ship mission, you're thrown into a good number of hours (I wasn't counting) of 
 a constant onslaught from your enemy, and you must push on at all times. One of the best, and most 
 frustrating features of the game is respawning enemies. There's no clearing an area then moving 
 on. The enemies are constantly attacking you, and the only way to stop it is to push on and progress 
 through the level using whatever tactics you have at your disposal. Flanking becomes an art, because 
 more often than not there's no real safe route round an enemy. What this means however, is that 
 when you do successfully flank an enemy you get a sense of achievement.
  
  This feeling is pretty dominant throughout the game right through to the end, Personally, I found 
 this game extremely challenging; I'm currently slogging through at the hardest level and I die 
 a lot. To make it worse I know there's a point coming up where I don't think I'll be able to go 
 any further. Usually I'd be angry at a game for taking the fun out of itself by being too hard, 
 but in this case I understand that that's the whole point. This game is meant to be damned near 
 impossible so that when you do succeed you really get a feeling of satisfaction and relief. Unless 
 you're pro, you won't be breezing through this in a hurry, and I wouldn't want it any other way.
 
  
  The single player campaign is awesome. You'll take the role of 2 elite soldiers, one ranger and 
 the other a freshly recruited SAS kid. As the game progresses you'll quickly learn how their stories 
 and roles are connected. Due to the brilliant personalities created, you may find that you've developed 
 an attachment to your characters and squad mates as the fight comes to it's explosive conclusion. 
 This happened to me and is one of the reasons I am in complete awe of the game.
  
  Online is fantastic fun. There are a lot of modes to choose from which include but are not limited 
 to bomb search and destroy, territories and one on one matches. My personal favourites are the 
 hardcore modes. Here, you're given considerably less health and no HUD. The only problem I have 
 is that there are only 2 match modes with hardcore settings, and only up to 12 players can fight 
 in a match.
  
  Other fun features of multiplayer are combo awards. If you get 3 kills in a row you can call in 
 recon, while kills 5 and 7 will get you an airstrike and chopper back up in that order. Brilliant 
 fun, and if you're working as a team and time it correctly, they can all be used to devastating 
 effect against the opposition.
  
  What more can I say about this game? This is one of only a few games that didn't get tedious by 
 the end. Like AC and GoW, by the end I was disappointed only by the fact that I had run out of 
 storyline to take part in. That's pretty rare for me. Even if you're not a fan of war games, I 
 strongly suggest you go out and buy this. I can guarantee you won't be disappointed, and you may 
 find it keeps you busy for many, many Months after your purchase. Let me put it this way. I went 
 and bought RS::LV 2 the other day. I took it back in disgust after a quick and dull completion 
 of the campaign followed by a monotonous online experience. Call of Duty 4 is a brilliantly made 
 game, and excellent experience. Highly recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DBZ180
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 11, 2008 1:38 pm PT
Review:  The very popular war game, Call Of Duty 4 is a very fun, and addicting game to play. The storyline 
 in Call Of Duty 4 takes place in the modern war era. It takes place in Iraq. The Multiplayer featured 
 on Xbox Live is very fun to play, is fun to play on teams. The games story is fun to play. Now 
 for the graphics in Call Of Duty 4: Modern WarFare are very, very good and realistic. The sound 
 in this cool Xbox360 game is very realistic, and great sounding. I guess you could say it's almost 
 like the war is actually happening in your living room, lol. As for the controls, they are good 
 and easy to control and get used to.
  
  OVERALL: 9.5 Call Of Duty 4 is an awesome new war game for the Xbox360. The game's also a cool 
 entry in the call of duty series. I totally recommend buying the game, and adding it to your collection. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cptkrunch13
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 11, 2008 11:45 am PT
Review:  I thought call of duty 4 was one of the best games ever to come out and it kinda is its at least 
 better then halo 3 on my opinion and my friends but there are a few frustrating things that drag 
 this game down to a 8.5 first off the online multiplayer is fun and addicting for hours but the 
 bullet penetration that was something they were adding I think they could have left that out also 
 athe story is short and i understand that call of duty games have always been a little short but 
 I beat the campaighn in about two days although the custom classes are sick I think they should 
 have put custom classes in single player but I also like the knife stabing instead of beating them 
 with a gun some of the online servers are a little crappy though but overall one of the best games 
 to come out on the xbox 360 one of my favorites. my favorite of the call of duty series was probbally 
 call of duty 2 but this is at least the second best installment of the series 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WonderBread88
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 10, 2008 10:29 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay/Interface: 9.5/10
  - For a very indepth and detailed story, it was relatively short but yet seemed to include so much. 
 Gameplay is really unbeatable by any other current modern-day war FPS. Their are multiple types 
 of multiplayer modes which really offers anything you could want or expect from an online FPS. 
 Great selection of guns in both single and multiplayer mode. Single player is quite fun but for 
 this one mutliplayer is where all of the action and fun is at. With ranking and unlockable weapons, 
 feats, and add-ons this makes the multiplayer extremely fun and addicting. Weapons are evenly made 
 and all have their benefits and their flaws. Only straigt flaw that I have found is with the ACOG 
 scope, its not quite as good at the red-dot sight. 
  
  Environment & Immersion: 9.5/10
  - Environments are probably some of the most detailed and eye-candy rich that I've yet to see. 
 Both single player and multiplayer maps are of fantastic quality. All multiplayer maps are pulled 
 from single player. With the graphics, gameplay, and realistic physics and action, this game is 
 probably one of the most immersive FPS games to date. 
  
  Graphics/Physics: 10/10
  - I'll be honest, I was more visually stunned and excited while playing this game for the first 
 time than I was with Crysis. I would have to say physics-wise, my favorite part is the material 
 factor. By this I mean you can shoot through certain materials, depending on what gun, and other 
 materials you can't. I really couldn't of asked for much more other than fully collapsable enviornment, 
 but with that multiplayer would fail to even be entertaining or challanging. Textures, Shadowing 
 and lighting are all visually stunning and more than meeted my expectations. RPG rockets maybe 
 a total let down, but the smoke trail that it leaves behind is the most realistic I've ever seen.
 
  
  Sound: 9.5/10
  - The voices in single player add quite a lot of humor, expecially the british leader. Explosions 
 and gun shots are very realistic. Can't complain about any sound that I've heard in this game.
 
  
  Bugs, Stability & Performance: 9/10
  - The only reason this part didn't get a 10 is because of Punk Buster. Yes, Punk Buster is necessary 
 but it is the only reason that I've ever had any crashes or disconnection. Punk Buster needs some 
 fine tuning in the debugging department.
  
  Replay value: 10/10
  - I bought this game when It came out, I've yet to uninstall it and I don't think I will for a 
 very long time. I've played through single player twice and I just can't get enough of online play. 
 This game is also great for lan parties.
  
  Value for money: 10/10
  - I honestly would have probably paid more for it.
  
  Will this game be remembered by old school 
 gamers as a classic after 10 years?:
  - Oh most definately. Before this game was released I kept hearing people say that they weren't 
 expecting much out of it or that they figured it would be a total let down and of course I disagreed. 
 Lets just say I told you so. 
  
  Who would I recommend to buy the game?:
  - Anyone who likes FPS and expecially those who like Modern Day FPS. Heck if you have never played 
 a FPS style game, this is a good place to start.
  
  -----------------------------------------------
  
  Overall: 9.5 - What can't I say about this 
 game. Both visual and online play are stunningly addictive and fun! If you haven't played this 
 game, you really ought to try it out. Don't bother downloading this one, the developers deserve 
 your money for making it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DigitalPh33r101
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 10, 2008 2:46 pm PT
Review:  Graphics -- 9.7: The graphics in Call of Duty 4 are the most realistic graphics I have ever seen 
 in a game. If you are looking for a game with great graphics that make you feel like you're actually 
 there fighting Spetsnaz soldiers, this is the game to get.
  
  Gameplay -- 9.1: COD 4 has very clever controls that make you feel very comfortable playing the game.
 
  
  Sound -- 9.3: The sound is very good. The explosions and guns make it sound very realistic.
  
 
  Value -- 9.8: This game is worth every cent of the $60 and you will be playing it for a while because 
 it is so addicting, so it's definetely worth the money.
  
  Awsomeness -- 10: I think this game is awsome and you should definetely buy it for the awsome multiplayer 
 and the awsome campaign and the awsome perks and the awsome everything else that's in the game!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: syphonmax
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 10, 2008 12:18 pm PT
Review:  When I first laid my hands on this game, I straight away began playing multi player, didn't even 
 bother about the campaign. The multi player game play is amazing, once I started I just didn't 
 stop!
  
  Then a few days later my internet got cut off and I really wanted to play COD 4 so I decided to 
 play the campaign and being experienced I chose the veteran difficulty and only one word crossed 
 my mind after the 2nd mission and that word was "WOW!!" The gunfights were insanely intense and 
 my favorite part of the whole game was the TV broadcasting center (ain't played it yet? Then you're 
 in for a surprise) . I think this is the only FPS game out there that actually puts you into the 
 real truth about war. There was a lot of shocking parts in the game and especially the ending was 
 really touching, but great at the same time!
  
  I can only use two words to describe the game play "Truly Amazing", there are some parts in the 
 game that makes you wish you had someone in the room with you, just so you can say "I didn't expect 
 that" or "Did you just see that?" and most of the time in the game that's what you'll be saying, 
 your eyes will be open wide and your thinking skills will increase, same as your reactions, there 
 are a few times where an enemy might just run in front of you and you'll to pull the trigger first 
 or you're screwed, but this mainly counts for Veteran difficulty.
  
  The sound in the game is outstanding! Everything is clear and perfect and the soundtrack is perfect, 
 you can hear your enemies talk or whisper to each other when close by and your team mates constant 
 shouting makes the game pretty real, sometimes there are stuff that the characters say that actually 
 make you laugh, not very loud, but are just funny. The mission which is quite amusing and funny 
 is when you're in the sky shooting down enemies with an AC-130 air ship, the comments made are 
 just somehow funny. The sound isn't the only great part of this game, the next great thing is the 
 graphics which by the way are totally awesome! Most of the cinematic will have your mouth open 
 and there are 2 I think that will almost make you cry.
  
  Now for when it comes to online play you should play the game through Veteran difficulty at least 
 once because the competition in there is just amazing, grenades can come out of no where and before 
 you can throw it back, it's already exploded. There are also exciting things called perks and my 
 favorite one is the martyrdom, probably the best way to "pawn" the person that killed you, basically 
 when you die you drop a live grenade and your killer/killers can hear the sound as it hits the 
 floor, but if they aren't quick enough their done for and you also get the experience for killing 
 them. There are also things like a kill cam which shows you how you died from your killers point 
 of view so if they sniped you, you'll see through their sniper rifle and see them kill you, my 
 favorite kill cam is when you get killed by a grenade, you see the guy throw the grenade and the 
 screen follows the grenade until it kills you. There is also a ranking and class system, basically 
 the more experience points you get the higher your rank goes up, the first few level ups are quick 
 so if you start at lvl1, you'll be lvl5 in no time.
  
  Overall this game as an excellent single player campaign that leaves you thirsting for more, great 
 soundtrack, great multi player game play and it gives you an excuse for sleeping late. 
  
  Have fun pawning! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sperr54
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 10, 2008 12:06 pm PT
Review:  This game is fantastic when playing it on single player. The difficulty for just starting is just 
 right, allowing those who are new to the series to grasp the game, while those who have played, 
 can face a challenge. The main problem I found in the single player is that sometimes the difficulty 
 ramps up so much that you are stuck at points just trying to survive to get to another checkpoint 
 which can become annoying. The ending is a little lackluster, but nothing to scoff at. Online, 
 the game is fun and you can enjoy many hours of play. The glaring problem is that those new to 
 the online factor, are extremely disadvantaged with the limited number of weapons and perks. Many 
 of the other players have logged many more hours than most are able to, granting them the availability 
 to have all the weapons and perks, giving them a strong advantage. The other aspect is that the 
 amount of grenade throwing is not used for tactics, but for an immediate and unskilled kill. It 
 can be quite frustrating when immediately spawning in find an active grenade at your feet and quickly 
 dying again. The last qualm I have about online is it features many of societies low points. You 
 will find racist and bigoted comments during the whole spectacle, which it seems that those who 
 have had a rough life like to spew while playing. Once you have completed the leveling the online 
 is a little more even, giving you more satisfaction. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jg4xchamp
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 10, 2008 2:58 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty and Infinity Ward have made a name for themselves when it comes to World War 2 shooters. 
 SImply put Call of Duty has been one of the best World War 2 shooters out there. Call of Duty 1 
 was simply an amazing game. With sequel Call of Duty 2 also being a well done and refined game 
 for the Xbox 360 and PC. Call of Duty 3 wasn't in Infinity Ward's hands, but all in all it was 
 a good game. Now comes Call of Duty 4 with the return of Infinity Ward. 
  
  First thing is that the entire game gets a giant face lift. No more Nazi's COD 4 is now in the 
 modern era, and for the most part this game just delivers. Intensity, Visuals, Gameplay, Sound, 
 and a very well done Multiplayer. 
  
  First things first, the campaign is rather short. It can be done in about 6-8 hours depending on 
 how good you are. IT should also be noted that the story is your typical clancy esque type story 
 and is rather boring and pointless. However the campaign itself is good. Intensity has always been 
 some Call of DUty does well, and COD 4 does it just as good if not better than previous iterations. 
 The game is very linear, but there is rarely any filler moments. Most of the game is just a giant 
 roller coaster ride in a sense. From one battle to another involving large groups and a ton of 
 gunfire. THe missions also lead you through many different areas, moments, and offer different 
 challanges. From trying to reach a safehouse, to one of the better sniper missions ever in a First 
 Person Shooter. 
  
  The pace of the campaign is fast, and the game rarely lets up with the enemies. The AI in the game 
 is also very good. A few flaws would be that for one the single player is repetitive. IF you like 
 your first person shooter to mix it up and let you do different things once in a while, well not 
 so much of that in COD 4. Second the enemies respawn after you kill them, until you move to a certain 
 invisible line on the map. Which means you could spend hours killing the same scripted AI for an 
 hour until they kill you. This can become a bit cheesy on the higher difficulties. 
  
  What really helps the Call of Duty 4 campaign though is just how good the gameplay is. Simply put 
 no console shooter plays better on a gamepad. That includes Halo. The actualy gunplay of this game 
 is very well done and might be better than that of the Halo franchise. Everything is smooth and 
 very well done with very little aim assist. You take in great gunplay and add an intense campaign 
 layout and you get a nice single player experience especially interms cinematics. I said before 
 that the actual story of the game is rather boring and cliche, but the cinematics are amazing. 
 It really just adds to the experience. 
  
  From a technical standpoint the game is extremely well done. Visualy it looks amazing and runs 
 at a consistant 60 frames per second. The sound design is the best out there. Every shot, explosion, 
 rocket, tank fire, etc is very well done and on a nice surround sound system it can blow your ears 
 off with how good it is. 
  
  Now on single player alone this game would be a good game, but it wouldn't be a great game. Especially 
 when console shooters like Bioshock, Orange Box and Metroid Prime 3 offer better campaigns, and 
 especially when Halo 3 offers an equally good campaign that is rather dissappointing. 
  
  Basically what I am saying is that this game is at it's finest in multiplayer. The online game 
 design is just awesome. With one of the best ranking systems out there. Think Halo 3s system with 
 the leveling up, but deeper. First you get experience points for everything you do in an online 
 MP match. From getting a kill, to getting an assist, to completing a challange, to winning. WHen 
 enough points are made up, you go up a level. At certain levels you begin to unlock many different 
 things. Such as weapons for instance. 
  COD 4s multiplayer works with a class system. You essentially create your own class with your choice 
 of a primary weapon and perks. When you get to certain levels you can unlock more weapons. Ranging 
 in categories like Assault Rifles, Sub machine guns, Sniper Rifles, Shotguns, Sidearms, and light 
 machine guns. The other layer is the perks. These can basically be considered skills. Some let 
 you shoot faster, others let you take more damage, others let you run faster. 
  These perks can make the tactical shooter that Call of Duty 4 is feel more arcady in some cases, 
 but for the most part they are never to overpowered. This RPG like ranking system is probably one 
 of the more deeper systems on console shooters. It makes the multiplayer addictive and can let 
 you play the way you want to play in certain cases. It isn't ground breaking or game changing, 
 but the reward system is just alot of fun for the most part. 
  
  Call of Duty 4s online multiplayer offers many game modes as well. Ranging from an assault type 
 game, to domination, to team hardcore, one one, to your basic team slayer. All of these are very 
 well done and can be an absolute blast. What really ultimately gives the game some staying power 
 is the quality of the maps. I think it is extremely hard to find a poorly designed map on Call 
 of DUty 4. These maps range from more open field maps, to confined corridor shooter type maps, 
 to a blend of both. Each playing to certain strengths. Making choosing the right style of weapons 
 and class important depending on a few key maps. 
  
  A few of the negatives about the Call of Duty 4 multiplayer and overall package would be the lack 
 of a COOP. This offset a bit by a metagame type feature for Call of Duty 4, but really doesn't 
 make up for the lack of a coop, especially when games like Gears of War and Halo 3 have such well 
 done offline and online coop features. ANother flaw has to do with spawning. The game tends to 
 respawn you near your teammates, well if the other team can cornor the team into one spot, they 
 can start to force spawn and spawn kill you as respawn making the game one sided pretty quick if 
 the team operates properly. The other thing would be the additions of airstrike and chopper. Now 
 these are nice additions for those getting killing sprees, but personally It takes away from the 
 skill of the game when an AI chopper is really gunning down the team and getting you points. They 
 are ok additions, but in some cases they are a bit noob friendly additions. 
  
  In terms of online MP this game can run toe to toe with Halo 3 on many levels. From gameplay, the 
 overall design of it's ranking system. However Halo 3 does offer far more content and features, 
 is entirely community driven with some of those features which would have been awesome in a game 
 like COD 4. Also in terms of competition, Halo 3 in my opinion still has the most competitive online 
 mulitplayer on xbox live, mainly becasue people have been playing Halo for so long. 
  
  Those negatives aside, Call of Duty 4 is to tactical console shooters what Halo 3 is to run and 
 gun shooters. Simply put it is the cream of the crop. The gameplay is very well done, the cinematics 
 can range from beautiful to powerful, the campaign's length is offset by its quality and intensity, 
 and the online multiplayer is some of the best online gaming out there. Call of Duty 4 is a must 
 buy game for any First Person Shooter fan. 
  
  Breakdown
  
  Graphics- 10- Very well done, extremely good looking, and a consistant 60 frames per second
  
 
  Gameplay- 10- Gunplay, AI, intensity, sharp controls, and great muliplayer design the gameplay 
 is just top notch
  
  Sound- 10- Surround SOund+Call of Duty 4= Loss of hearing. IT is that good. 
  
  Concept/Intangibles- 
 8- ALl in all the single player was good, the mp was well done, and the face lift was nice. However 
 the story was way to cliche, and the single player was a bit repetitive and in a few cases the 
 game felt more like COD 2 with a fresh coat of paint. 
  
  Value-9 Great multiplayer, but a rather short single player and lacks some very nice features like 
 Coop and a good system link. It is by no means a waste of 60 bucks. It is however not the same 
 amount of content in more content loaded games like The ORange Box or Halo 3. 
  
  Tilt- 10- Simply put it is one of the best First Person Shooters on the Xbox 360. If you were looking 
 for a big name shooter not named Halo 3, you found it. 
  
  Overall 9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jesusfreak01
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 10, 2008 2:11 am PT
Review:  I was a pretty good fan of the Call of Duty series, I really enjoyed the intensity and realism 
 in the game. So automatically, when I heard that COD 4 was good, I knew it was gonna be another 
 good COD game.... I was wrong. This is AWESOME! Take what you thought was great about Call of Duty, 
 or any other shooters for that matter, AND BLOW IT UP WITH A GRENADE!! Because that's exactly what 
 this game does.
  
  Bullets will fly through certain materials, everything looks and sounds real, the story is intense 
 and feels real, you actually feel close to your comrades, your arsenal is awesome, enemy deaths 
 are amazing, ect. ect. ect. and when you add that up together, you get:
  
  The most: jump over barriers, get down behind cover, throw back an enemy grenade, shoot to kill, 
 save your comrade, snipe someone in the head, blow things up, door blasting, glass breaking, ASS 
 KICKING, experience you'll ever have with any video game. Trust me.
  
  Get it now...... seriously. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctorj11111
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 9, 2008 7:07 am PT
Review:  This game far exceeded my expectations. The graphics are one of the best I have seen on the Xbox 
 360. Amazing surround sound as always, and lots of chaotic action through out. The single player 
 is outstanding, giving you many different environments and completely different missions like the 
 assassination level where you are a sniper sneaking by enemy defense and setting up your shot to 
 assassinate the powerful figure, then escape. Or the mission where you are in a helicopter firing 
 down on enemies from the sky. There are a lot of these memorable moments. Some people complain 
 of it being short, and they are right if you play on normal or easy. Play on hard or above to get 
 more hours in the single player. Also, you unlock arcade mode with lots of cool features to get 
 you to replay the campaign. 
  
  As for the multiplayer, who would have thought it would have competed with Halo. I thought the 
 multiplayer was the best I have played on any Xbox 360 game. Lots of upgrades, that never really 
 give you too much of an advantage, keeping the game play balanced yet new. Lots of maps and gametypes 
 and all very fun. This is a must own game for everyone! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mitchykiz
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 8, 2008 9:12 pm PT
Review:  Call fo duty 4's graphics, sounds, gameplay and multiplayer/live options are what makes this game 
 so good. Call of duty's unusually short campaign mode is fantastic none the less and its maps and 
 features are amazing. The achievments seem a little difficult ( I know they are supposed to be 
 difficult, but not that difficult ) . The storyline is interesting and the realism of the fighting 
 and war is outstanding amongst other games and its rival Halo 3 (If you would like to debate this 
 rivalry please message me) This game has turned a generation (including myself) onto first person 
 shooter and we are loving it! If you are unsure on whether or not you should buy this game, YOU 
 ARE A IDIOT! buy it, enjoy it, love it!
  
  What's there to lose?
  
  If your there saying: "umm i dunno $80" and thinkin your so cool, ever heard of refunds dumass?
 
  
  G unit! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ProHexen
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 8, 2008 7:55 pm PT
Review:  A major change to the Call of Duty series. Call of Duty 2 was my favorite before Call of Duty 4 
 came out. Call of Duty 4 is what I have been looking for in a FPS game. I love Modern Combat, I 
 can't get tired of it. I have been very bored with WW2 shooters for a long while, I hope Call of 
 Duty never goes back to WW2. I believe they should stay in Modern Combat for the next few games 
 then they should jump to future warfare. I've had this since Christmas and I still play it a lot. 
 Call of Duty 4 is pretty much the greatest FPS ever, it totally beats Halo 3 like no other *I don't 
 play Halo 3 anymore because it got boring very quickly*. The single player is great, but short, 
 but awesome to replay over and over again. Online is amazing with perfect frame rate, action, and 
 explosions. I never get tired of the maps and I can't wait to try out the new map pack soon. I 
 don't think if I will ever find an FPS game that is better than this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stevie_Q
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 9, 2008 6:12 pm PT
Review:  Infinity Ward has left the familiar territory of World War II. Instead of storming Normandy, you'll 
 be infiltrating present-day Azerbaijan. Has IW's gambit paid off? In my opinion, definitely. Call 
 of Duty 4 is one of the deepest FPSs this generation. It has all the ingredients of success: expansive 
 levels, engaging characters, and a story that tugs on the ol' heartstrings just enough to moisten 
 your eyes at the game's explosive conclusion. While not quite perfect, Call of Duty 4 comes darn 
 close.
  
  In Call of Duty 4, you will play the game through the eyes of two soldiers, the US Marine Paul 
 Jackson and the SAS (British) operative "Soap" MacTavish. The setting is the Middle East; an un-named 
 desert country is experiencing a power struggle. After its president is assassinated, the US and 
 British send in the troops to neutralize the terrorist threat. As you play through what originally 
 appears to be a straight-forward plot, you'll uncover the details of a complicated Russian conspiracy 
 involving decade-old grudges and a desperate attempt by an Ultranationalist to restore his country 
 to the glory days of the Soviet Union. The campaign takes you across the globe, from a powerful 
 stealth mission on a stormy cargo ship to the arid streets of a Middle Eastern city. It's a pity 
 that the campaign is way too short, lasting only about six hours on your first play-through. On 
 the harder difficulties, this is increased a bit. Unfortunately, this is only because you have 
 minimal health, and your enemies constantly respawn and seem to be genetically enhanced to head-shot 
 you at 200 meters with a shotgun. I didn't find that it was worth it to finish a play-though after 
 beating it on Normal or Hardened. Luckily, the campaign is packed with varied levels that keep 
 the game fun from the beginning to the bitter end on your first time through. The majority of the 
 game is played on the ground, but several sequences in the game will find you operating the guns 
 of an AC-130 gunship or a transport copter. In addition, the immersive story is kept in motion 
 by beautiful cut-scenes. While these are skippable, you'll probably want to watch them, because 
 they are interesting and just look really cool.
  
  Unfortunately, you'll never really feel an attachment to your faceless protagonist. You get no 
 back-story for MacTavish or Jackson, and it's hard to connect to simply a name. Lucky for us, the 
 horde of soldiers around Soap and Paul are gritty, funny, and tough. Captain Price with his handlebar 
 moustache, Griggs with his gung-ho speech, and Gaz with his 'it's-only-business' attitude will 
 stick in your mind long after you take the disk out of your Xbox. In addition, a host of characters 
 are recurring throughout the game, even the menial ones. For example, Private Roycewiz appears 
 in all of the US Marine levels.
  
  Call of Duty 4 also plays really well. The controls never feel clunky or over-loaded to one hand. 
 They move fluidly and quickly, making it easy to take down that RPG-wielding enemy on the rooftop 
 with your sniper rifle, then quickly switch to your M4 and neutralize the guys behind you. You 
 can choose to shoot from the hip, which is faster but less accurate, or aim down your gun's scope. 
 You'll want to adapt to each situation by choosing to do either as the time comes, as neither has 
 a clear advantage over the other. While the game certainly doesn't do anything innovate with it's 
 controls, it gets things done, and done very well.
  
  Visually, Call of Duty 4 is very impressive. Despite having detailed environments, excellent character 
 models, and impressive graphics, you'll probably never encounter frame-rate or texture pop-in issues. 
 This is especially impressive because of the aforementioned complete lack of loading screens. As 
 previously mentioned, the environments are top notch. Lighting effects are great and change depending 
 on the location and time of day in the game. Everything, from the terrorist's logo in their secret 
 hide-out to the shattered glass in the dilapidated buildings is detailed and high quality. Character 
 models are good, if not varied. There only a few different terrorist models, but who cares, as 
 long as their brains are splattered on the wall behind you? When you get up close and personal 
 for a knife kill, you can see the ugly snarl and their mouth moving as they scream at you in their 
 foreign language. Their motions are fluid; everything from their pulling of the trigger to trying 
 to smack you with their gun runs fluidly and looks natural. Even when they're dead, they slump 
 realistically against the wall, hands splayed out beside them.
  
  This game also has really great sound. The guns are all unique and the cries of horror and victory 
 from the AI immerse you. The sound of RPGs whistling through the air or grenades blowing up to 
 your left are eerily realistic. The sound is never tinny and always consistent. What more can I 
 say? Call of Duty 4 simply sounds great.
  
  Online play is a big draw to Call of Duty 4. I wasn't disappointed. The online modes are varied 
 and for the most part all interesting. One of the major bonuses for me was an interesting, RPG-like 
 levelling system. During your first few matches, you have five classes to choose from. Each class 
 contains a primary gun, a secondary gun, and three "perks." You gain points for scoring kills, 
 planting the bomb, and other various achievements. As you gain points, you'll level up, and with 
 each level comes new options. Eventually, you'll be able to create your own classes, choosing different 
 guns and perks. Through this, it may seem like online veterans have an unfair advantage, but in 
 reality they don't . Some of the guns you start off with are the strongest in the game, and perks 
 by no means make one person overpowered. Rather, they simply allow for a degree of customization. 
 Perks are basically boosts that do everything from silence your gun and make you invisible on radar 
 if you want to go the stealth route, or boost your health and bullet damage for a juggernaut style 
 of play.
  
  The modes featured in Call of Duty 4 provide several varied, interesting game-types. You have your 
 linear Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, and Capture the Flag variations, but there are several original 
 ones that turn out to be the most fun, namely Search and Destroy. In SaD, you get no respawns, 
 and each round is spent trying to defend or destroy a couple of objectives. This is easily my favourite 
 match, as each game is drastically different, and the perks make the biggest difference here. In 
 addition to SaD, there are some games like Domination, which is a spin-off of Territories, and 
 Headquarters, which will have you trying to capture and defend an objective for as long as you 
 can.
  
  Unfortunately, some of the games can begin to feel repetitive, and some, especially Sabotage, just 
 aren't a lot of fun. Infinity Ward has tried to balloon the online's life span with "Prestige Mode," 
 which will find you reverting back to level one and basically starting all over again. There are 
 10 prestige modes, but really not a lot of incentive to enter them, much less complete them.
  
  All things taken in to account, Call of Duty 4 is easily the best entry into the Call of Duty 
 series thus far. Infinity Ward took the plunge into the deep end when they left the familiar territory 
 of World War II, but it has more than paid off in this fantastic FPS. While nothing new, Call of 
 Duty 4 does everything incredibly well and produces an all too real game with fantastic bonuses. 
 Expect this to be rivalling Halo 3 for online king on the Xbox 360. If you like shooters, you owe 
 it to yourself to pick up Call of Duty 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiredscotty
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 8, 2008 6:21 pm PT
Review:  Do you like breathtaking graphics? What about awesome noises? Kick ass gamplay? What about dying... a 
 lot?
  
  Well, if you like all these things, you'll LOVE Call of Duty 4. This is the 4th installment of 
 this popular franchise, but the first time the game has gone "modern". You see kids, if you don't 
 remember, Call of Duty 1, 2, and 3 were games based on that fun time in American history where 
 we were fighting Nazi's over in Europe. Ah times must have been good then. You had an enemy with 
 a big fat enemy symbol painted on all their stuff. It was easy to see who the bad guys were. You 
 knew who they were, and you knew what they wanted. And you knew what they wanted wasn't good. There 
 was virtually NO ambiguity. Plus, you could call them whatever derogatory name you wanted! Kraut, 
 Jerry, Fritz,... you name it! 
  
  Well things have changed. Call of Duty now has you in modern times. Going against modern enemies. 
 Namely, Russians who may or may not be on our side, and terrorist-type people, with no real army. 
 No flashy symbols on their sleeves. No flags all over the place. No clue what the hell you're supposed 
 to do other than kill and move on. Plus, you can't really call your enemy by any derogatory name 
 because you might hurt their feelings. Man things have changed. 
  
  Like I said, the games have gone modern... luckily they're not post-modern yet or we'd be killing 
 enemies with drawn out artist statements and ridiculous pieces of installation art (go read an 
 art book) . Instead, you get to kill with the most modern equipment money can buy! Laser guided 
 scopes. Air strikes. Automatic weapons. Flash grenades. Rocket launchers. Youtube!
  
  The single player campaign is short... but amazing. You'll be fighting all over the middle east, 
 and Russia... including the happiest place on Earth... Chernobyl. You'll do everything and anything 
 to blow stuff up. Stealth attacks. In your face attacks. Air attacks. Suicide attacks. Big Mac 
 attacks. Any kind of attack you can think of. You'll also get to attempt to stop the happiest weapon 
 on Earth... the Nuclear bomb.
  
  Every situation is extremely intense. And hard as hell. And you'll die. Oh god how you'll die. 
 A lot. Almost a frustratingly high number of times. So enjoy. Plus you may get into areas where 
 you don't know where the hell you're supposed to go or what to do.. and then you'll die some more. 
 
  
  And if you don't feel like you're dying enough there... try Multiplayer. You'll surely die enough 
 times to feel like your more afraid to be alive than to be dead. And the fun thing is you'll most 
 likely die by some little 11 year old degenerate who is in his mom's basement barking at you, staying 
 up all hours of the night when he should be doing homework. He may have killed you and made you 
 feel like a pathetic excuse for a man for the 39th time tonight... but you'll sleep better knowing 
 he'll grow up to be nothing because he didn't do his homework and will then get HIS ass kicked 
 by some 11 year old someday. HA! Take that punk!
  
  So I highly recommend this game if you have a very calm life and are looking for ways to get upset 
 and angry. Also, it's damn fun and pretty to look at. Everything a game should be.... and if you're 
 an 11 year old reading this, I will see you in hell.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: christheman1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 8, 2008 6:13 pm PT
Review:  At first I went into this game thinking I would hate it. mostly because I was not that good with 
 console games to begin with. But with a few crash courses on multi-player mode I could not stop 
 playing! It's my friends game and we always play multi-player split-screen. I love this game. Its 
 fun to play, there are lots of weapons options and many different maps. I prefer to play on the 
 more open maps so I can snipe. My favorite phrase, "Ha ha ha Head-shot!!!" I have not gone online 
 yet but my friend who has the game has. He likes it a lot and said he even made a little kid cry 
 once. I don't totally believe that but I did watch him play last night and there sounded like a 
 lot of little kids chatting it up on their mikes. I watched a tournament the other day on here 
 and I was really impressed. I don't think I'll ever be that good but I can always dream. But anyway 
 it you want a modern first-person shooter that really feels real this is the game for you!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WikitClown
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 8, 2008 6:12 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing the COD series since it first came out and I have to say that this is a nice 
 departure from the same old WWII stuff. This game is very ambitious and delivers with a game that 
 is by far the best in the series. I went through it on normal the first time through and decided 
 to get more achiement points so I went on to veteran... if you like a challenge than this game is 
 definitly for you. The veteran difficulty is really tough and can try a buddhists patience. Even 
 if you were to get frustrated than it's easy to pick up anytime ur in the mood to kill some terrorists. 
 As I said before, this is a departure from the WWII stuff and I'm hoping that they keep it that 
 way for a bit. I'd even go for a WWI shooter but modern weapons do kick ass!!! So like I said, 
 if you like a challenge and are ready to pump bullets into something other than nazi's in a COD 
 game than pick this bad boy up and enjoy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingKorey
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 8, 2008 4:47 pm PT
Review:  This game is very well organized online, but when I first got it, I started off on campaign. Sure, 
 I enjoyed it offline.. But it seemed like everything else, every other army campaign.. (Metal of 
 Honor, etc) . I tried online after hearing from some of my friends down here, and WOW, it is beyond 
 amazing. The first game besides Halo that I played that had a ranking system, and it got me addicted. 
 I really recommend ANYONE buying this game, you're sure in for some entertainment. :)
  I'm almost positive this will be one of those games i'll remember forever. I haven't much played 
 the earlier Call of Duties, as i've had CoD3 on the Wii. The online play is just so intense, I 
 can't stretch enough on how amazing I think this game is. If you have kids, or just for yourself, 
 get online and find some friends, rank up, do challenges, etc. :) Just have fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tehfireballer
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 8, 2008 2:54 pm PT
Review:  This game is excellent, but not perfect. It has some notable next generation features missing from 
 its gameplay. 
  One noticeable feature missing is online co-op. Having a friend to play with in campaign mode would 
 make the veteran difficulty achievements a lot less frustrating. Also, there aren't any online 
 achievements. Infinity Ward claims they wanted this game to be the number one live title of 2007, 
 but yet they don't have live achievements.
  However, this game still has a lot of good things going for it. One good thing is the graphics. 
 They are amazing in almost every detail. Also, the ability to customize a class and get attachments 
 via challenges for your weapons is just great. The story is probably the best part all the twists 
 and turns are masterfully thought out and surprising, but the dog biting mini game sucks. 
  All in all, I think this game deserves a nine out of ten, because of it's wonderful internet gameplay, 
 and story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Symbiote_Spidey
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 7, 2008 9:57 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is the best first person shooter out to date. it is a lot more fast paced then the 
 previous FPS. there is no respawn time, the guns are amazing. One map i really like is shipment, 
 a close quarters map with instant action. Also new maps have just been released with a new open 
 wide creek area for you sniper lovers. The game gets so addictive because you want to level up 
 to 55, after that there is prestige mode. This is when you trade in all your guns and perks and 
 start all over again. the only difference is your rank symbol. 10 times is the most you can go 
 into prestige mode. At first one would die in multiplayer so fast, once you pass the learning curve, 
 you feel almost invincible at times. After 5 kills without dieing, you can call in an airstrike, 
 after 7 kills straight you call in a chopper. However the other team can shoot down the chopper. 
 there are also gun upgrades, such as the popular laser dot attachment. If u watch your death replay, 
 almost all your killers are using that laser dot attachment. Good sound effects gameplay, and much 
 more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halo1579
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 7, 2008 8:49 am PT
Review:  The single-player campaign is over in a flash, but the high quality of that campaign and its terrific 
 multiplayer options make Call of Duty 4 a fantastic package. This game is good but the campaign 
 is to short and not all that but the multiplayer is terrific!!! the guns are real, it has presice 
 control, it is fun, addictive but i would not say the best online game out there. If you are looking 
 for more online action then i would suggest that you should stick to halo 3!!!
  
  The weapons are really good in this game but the game is not all that because firstly the campaign 
 mode is too short but it is very epic and fun and lastly you do not feel the call of duty power 
 in the game like you do in call of duty 3. This game as you know is modern warfare so its not the 
 world war 2 but I think it does not give the feeling as it should have done. It is still a very 
 good game and a must buy but if you want a really good shooting game then I would go for halo 3, 
 bioshock or resident evil or something like brother in arms
  
  
  graphics- 9.5
  gameplay- 8.5
  sound- 9
  value- 9
  tilt- 9.5
  
  overall 9.1 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asiananimeandie
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 6, 2008 1:25 pm PT
Review:  This game is insane. One of the best I have played. When I had Halo 3 I thought ever other game 
 sucked. Then my Friend bought me COD4. It's an amazing game super addictive. This game has a great 
 campaign. There are easy and hard acheivements some are as simple save a farmer. Haha I like the 
 weapon choices as well.
  
  
  The Gameplay is amazing. Easy controls and awesome customization for your weapons. The multiplayer 
 is the best feature to this game. Unlike Halo you don't have to press the D-Pad when you wanna 
 talk. Just speak into the headset and your teamates will hear everything. The weapon challenges 
 are very fun. The more you the more you get. Halo 3 is too simple but COD4 is the whole package.
 
  
  Graphics I think are better than Halo 3. The bad thing is that you can't drive vechicles. But you 
 can call in heliocopters and planes to bomb people.
  
  Overall one of the best games of all time.
  
  (Call of Duty 5 better have tanks) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SDOT55
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 6, 2008 1:06 pm PT
Review:  When I first bought this game, I had to sell two of my favorite games to Gamestop. I sold Gears 
 of War and Halo 3 for this game. And it was more than worth it. I have never seen a FPS anywhere 
 near as good as Call of Duty 4. The singleplayer is challenging and keeps you coming back for more 
 in order to beat it on all difficulties, and the multiplayer is great.
  
  In this game's single player. You start off as Soap McTavish, a newcomer to the S. A. S. You also 
 play as Johnson, an American soldier whos main objective is to stop Al Asad, a terrorist who has 
 killed the president of Iraq and is planning to launch a nuclear missle. You switch off between 
 the two every couple of missions, then later on in the game, the USMC and S. A. S team up to stop 
 the terrorists.
  
  The graphics on this game are absolutely stunning. Everything in this game is highly detailed. 
 It is almost hard to tell if its a video game or not if you play in HD. The voice overs and gun 
 sounds in this game are great too. If you compare the sounds of the guns in this game to the sounds 
 of the guns in real life, there isnt much of a difference.
  
  The multiplayer is what really makes this such a good game. The level up system gives you a reason 
 to keep playing. Then when you reach the final level, you have the option to go prestige, which 
 starts you all over again. You have the option to do this ten times. Another good feature of this 
 game is Create A Class, where you can make a class that suits you. You choose your own weapons, 
 grenades, and perks. Perks are basically special abilities that your character has. You can have 
 up to 3 perks. There are many different game modes in the multiplayer that gives you different 
 ways to play online.
  
  This is a great game overall. Almost flawless. It will keep you entertained for years. With the 
 addition of the recently added map pack, you can play on 3 new maps. Call of Duty 4 is one of the 
 greatest games on the Xbox 360, and it will take a long time for someone to make a first person 
 shooter that can match up with this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VLADIATOR_1
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 6, 2008 12:25 pm PT
Review:  The new action-thriller from the award-winning team at Infinity Ward, the creators of the Call 
 of Duty series, delivers the most intense and cinematic action experience ever. Call of Duty 4: 
 Modern Warfare arms gamers with an arsenal of advanced and powerful modern day firepower and transports 
 them to the most treacherous hotspots around the globe to take on a rogue enemy group threatening 
 the world. As both a U. S Marine and British S. A. S. soldier fighting through an unfolding story 
 full of twists and turns, players use sophisticated technology, superior firepower and coordinated 
 land and air strikes on a battlefield where speed, accuracy and communication are essential to 
 victory. The epic title also delivers an added depth of multiplayer action providing online fans 
 an all-new community of persistence, addictive and customizable gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bballaholic07
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 6, 2008 2:09 am PT
Review:  Single Player is very sexy and realistic, story makes you feel part of the war. Past Call of Duties 
 you just heard random character names thrown around while you play, now you can remember your captain 
 and your character for a hightened sense of gaming. Higher difficulties can get annoying when trying 
 to get achievements. Multiplayer is the best I have seen. Rank up and weapon ungrades perfect addition 
 to a shooter. Your dream is to have a gun customized to your liking and Call of Duty gives you 
 the closest shot. All and All, play the game and feel like you are fighting in the war and doing 
 your part, so do your part and buy the game. Game of the Year Edition only recommended for first 
 time buyers, comes with only a token for downloadable map pack other than that same as the normal 
 version, but there you have it Game of the Year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thrillyum
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 5, 2008 10:05 pm PT
Review:  holy crap this game rocks! You start off playing story mode and it begins with a cute tutorial 
 that gets you all ready to go. And if you get under 20 seconds in the time trial thing, you are 
 REALLY good. After that you go on your first mission and it gets pretty crazy in the ship what 
 with all the people shooting at you and stuff. Its nice. and then it just gets really intense. 
 REALLY FRIGGN INTENSE. the first time i played this game i must have said "oh my GOD!" about 30 
 times out of pure amazement of how awesome and intense the game is. You have two separate stories 
 going on at once. You are a british dude, and a marine. Basically you run around cracking skulls 
 and taking names. Actually its not one of those dumb games where someone goes in solo and destroys 
 500 guys by himself. You actually have to work with your little squad a bit cause if you try to 
 go solo you will just get destroyed (im talking on veteran. you can do whatever the hell you feel 
 like on easy.. even medium) Anyway the marine guy has an awesome unexpected ending to his story. 
 And the last part of the last level was another one of those times where i just had to say "oh 
 my GOD!" And then i shot some dudes with a pistol. The online play is never ending fun. NEVER ENDING! 
 there are even some new maps to play if you wanna download them. but they cost money : ( There is 
 only one bad part to this game. If you watch the credits for a while, there is this song that is 
 supposed to be sung by ssgt. Griggs and it is sooooo stupid. Other than that one really crappy 
 rap song, the whole game is golden. If you dont have this game yet, go buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theReverend1189
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 5, 2008 5:25 am PT
Review:  Call of duty 4 (COD4) is truly a gaming experience the online multi player is top notch easily 
 the best I have played. The campaign mode is a bit slow but draws you in so that u care about the 
 characters. And switching nationalities adds that little flair. With a wide array of weapons and 
 an endless stream of bad guys it will draw u in quite easily. That being sead its most defining 
 characteristic its "clam to fame" is its online with battle types ranging from free for all to 
 search and destroy it holds variety that keeps the game from getting repetitive. That along with 
 fully customizable weapons and weapon sets and a rank system allows for hours of play to reach 
 the next level or unlock that next gun. My only complaint is the prestige mode were you make that 
 hard choice. One thing I am positive about is that I will not be doing prestige again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goyanks08
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 3, 2008 5:06 pm PT
Review:  this is one of the best shooters ever made. Other than the occasional glitch and multiplayer levels 
 that get boring quick this game is perfect. great online play and an even better single player 
 campaign though still very short. this game has a great varity of weapons. everyone is sure to 
 find a weapon that will suit them. my personal favorite has to be the grenadier. the graphics to 
 call of duty four are amazing, some of the best graphics I have ever seen. although there are no 
 achievments for xbox live this game is still amazing. worth every penny you will spend on it. a 
 great game if your looking for a game that you will love. also great to just play with your friends 
 and have a good time doing it. also one of the most realistic games you will ever play in your 
 life time. GO YANKEES!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stinky17
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 3, 2008 2:36 pm PT
Review:  Call Of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is a GOOD GAME, but IT IS NOT THE BEST FPS OF ALL TIME.....
  
  Single Player on hardest..... wow... quite possibly the most frustrating thing i have ever played... restarting 
 on checkpoints OVER 100 TIMES and spending over 5 hours on one part IS NOT FUN.... Buggy single 
 player is not good... wow... the a. i. isnt good there are lines u have to pass to follow so single 
 player is AVERAGE at best....
  
  Multi Player is what makes this a good game... REWARDS, LEVELS, UNLOCKABLES... if you get 3 kill 
 streak u get a radar... 5 kill streak air strike, 7 kill streak helicopter.. GREAT INNOVATION!! 
 Levels 1-55 you unlock more guns as you go.. and ranks! BUT the problems are that level 1's play 
 with the lvl 55's WTF??? wow and multiplayer community IS HORRIBLE trash talking everywhere..... not 
 the best, many different modes, and can play with your friends thats good, its a pretty good game 
 but not the best... could use MORE techniques and skill rather then just normal plain aiming and 
 shooting 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thereject405
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 3, 2008 12:00 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 (Infinity Ward) compares remarkably to Halo 2 (Bungie) when it was released to help 
 launch the Xbox's unfortunately brief career, making way for 360's, Elites, an HD-DVD player (sold 
 seperately) , and a bunch of cheap game-ports. Let's face it, Call of Duty 4 was made to do what 
 Halo 2 did for the original Xbox. With faster, tighter online-gameplay, in comparison to Halo 3 
 (which was supposed to set an updated standard, or at least that was the expectation for most FPS 
 fans) , COD4 delivers a solid experience with beautiful envir0nments, a good and steady framerate 
 suitable for the game (at every turn) . Now, had Bungie and Microsoft combined the two games to 
 create one "entire" experience, COD4 would have held few, if any dissapointments to FPS fans. In 
 my humble opinion, I would have done the game differently, not stylistically, however, customization 
 seems to be lacking (as with every game for Xbox/360) in comparison to Halo 3, which renders environments 
 slightly better than Call of Duty 4, though, the two games are substantially different. Halo 3, 
 being classed as a Sci-Fi first-person shooter is nowhere near as realistic (and in turn not as 
 fast paced) as COD4 (by default) . It's inablility to sprint (a must for all FPSs) and departure 
 from 'the old feel' results in a more tactical experience. This brings me to my number one complaint 
 about COD4. In Halo 3, the player can customize his/her skin, name/tag, color, and half-heartedly 
 customize the levels by moving around certain objects/spawn points etc... but in COD4, you can't 
 change your skin, but oddly you can customize what your gun looks like... how fun... It is... but 
 knowing it could have been slightly better makes me glad I bought both the PC and 360 versions. 
 With the PC, there are no limits regarding customization. 
  Here are the list of improvements I would recommend to any developer undertaking an FPS project. 
 
  
  IMPROVEMENTS for COD4
  
  - Deeper Customization (Specifically bring the options from Rainbow Six Vegas 2 into the game) . 
 Everything from a gun to your face should be customizable. Also, like Halo 3, you should be able 
 to host custom games that are ranked (RSV2) and change the game's playing speed (Halo3)
  
  -Map Editor (FAR CRY MAP EDITOR PLEASE!) for pc's too... with zero limitations and a slicker interface 
 (obviously) .
  
  -Spectacular voice-acting. ( it's not unrealistic, just push for developers like Infinity Ward 
 and Bungie to spend more money..... : ) ) 
  
  Other than the few improvements I'd make, the game is fantastic. I've spent so many hours (currently 
 in the 2nd Prestige mode) playing this game like so many other gamers out there right now, suffice 
 to say COD5 will need good customization components to not only hold my interest, but the interest 
 of so many other gamers and people out there wanting something 'different or exciting'. Call of 
 Duty 4 offers a pretty good story, though, for an intense issue, and an intense multi-player experience, 
 the single-player campaign is not only brief, but it holds little high points. To really make this 
 game more cinematic, IW would have to add more sequences like 'The Aftermath', where you're walking 
 around outside you're crashed Helicopter, and, not to long after... you die. It's a pretty cool 
 thing to experience because it's something no game has done... It puts you in the shoes of that 
 American soldier in what's supposed to be some type of Iraq... and you actually feel something... remorse? 
 confused? upset? Pick One (good thing that's left up to nature) ... It's cinematography... and that's 
 where the game kind of flops. The most cinematic it gets is the scene described above. 
  
  In the end, the only FPS shooter that should be allowed on the 'Next-Gen' Market is COD 4. Graphically, 
 the environments are unmatched (played on an HDTV) and gameplay is unbeatable and surely outdose 
 Halo3 which was intended to set the standard for modern FPS-shooters. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ST10
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 3, 2008 9:21 am PT
Review:  I've had this game for less than a month now and I have to say without a doubt in my mind that 
 it is the best, most addictive game I've played! Single player campaign is ace, the graphic are 
 possibly the most refined and realistic ever, especially the gunship mission (I could of sworn 
 that it was real!) . Multiplayer however tops single player by far in being addictive and fun. Its 
 one of those multiplayer games that I would not be ashamed in saying 'Yeah I've been playing this 
 for 32 hours straight, so what'. The ranking system and unlockables are much more worth waiting 
 for and more challenging to achieve than BF2. The precision and detail into certain things like 
 dog attacks, throwing back grenades and wounded allies is just revolutionary. There is very little 
 that I can actually think of to discredit this game in anyway shape or form! My only wish is that 
 it had come out sooner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 8732_YoungJeezy
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 3, 2008 6:58 am PT
Review:  Well all I have to say is this is probably the best cod game come to come out. Of course 1 and 
 2 were good but the story line for this, I dunno just feels a bit better. I don't know why people 
 say the campaign is so short. It felt good enough for me because cod is known for its online play. 
 I actually sold halo 3 to get this game and so far no regrets. This game will keep you busy for 
 a long time if your really into the online game play. If you don't have live, well this game is 
 the reason you need to get XBL.. Just get this, because you'll be doing your self a favor. 
  
  There's like so much crap to do in this game as well. After you hit 55 you can pretty much 
 start all over but have a symbol next to your number meaning you already hit 55. I guess its good 
 to do if you have no life. I been stuck on the first prestige for like 3 months now. To me its 
 a waste of time. But if your into, go for it i guess. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toon9110
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 2, 2008 6:14 pm PT
Review:  So many words to describe this masterpeice. Colorful, new, fresh, competive in a good way, exciting, 
 heart pumping, new shiney toys to use, explosions, killing people, SO MANY WONDERFUL THINGS ABOUT 
 THIS GAME!
  
  I'll start with the campaign because I wanna save my multiplayer talk for later. So first, the 
 grafics are wonderful, just wonderful... even looks better than the PS3 version. The tutorial is 
 good, just teaches you the entire gameplay mechanice right then and there, no supprises. Early 
 on in the game, you already get the best pistol in the game, the Desert Eagle, but you loose it 
 as fast as you get it. The campaign is in all difficulty levels so even the most unexperienced 
 FPS shooter can become awesome at FPS because of this game. Although the storyline is short and 
 only has 3 acts, its long and good, lots of enemies to kill. My favorite mission like everyone 
 elses is "All Ghellied Up.", I know I spelt that wrong but who cares... Its one of THE best stealth 
 missions ever in videogames. Durring the campaign, you get a chance to use every gun in the game, 
 EVERY SINGLE ONE!
  
  One of my favorite things to do after you collect the intel and beat the game, play it again, except, 
 use the cheats. They are fun, the first three are for changing how your hud looks, in some cases, 
 it looks very cool if you mix and match. The other cheats are fun ones, ragtime warfare (speeds 
 up gameplay and gives everything a old nickoledon look) , a bad year (every one turns to tires if 
 you shoot them) , sluster bombs (just take a wild guess) , and infinite ammo (every game has this cheat 
 and still one of the best ones) .
  
  Now for my favorite part... MULTIPLAYER!!! One of the best experiences in my whole life.
  
  
 Its like the campaign, except, more gun selection, tons of fun, better than Halo 3 game play, meeting 
 more friends, and one of the best times of your life.
  
  Truly, its better than Halo 3 multiplayer, and thats quote say "best", I beg to differ. There are 
 10 maps I think, tons of weapons, friendly gameplay, and way better than the campaign. The first 
 thing I notice, no one, and I mean no one, had a fake account from my 2 straight months playing 
 its intense multiplayer. All of the maps a specially designed for the "yin yang" balence. Notice 
 on some maps, everything is the same when you go team death match, one good sniper position, one 
 good kill hog spot, and othe stuff. Well, CoD4, will NEVER do that. All the maps have 3-4 sniper 
 spots that are good but not the best because there is never a safe snipper position. There is no 
 kill hog spot, no camping, the only safe place is running for your life while killing every one.
 
  
  Speaking of killing. There is create a class option after your 4th promotion. Very creative system. 
 You get sub-machineguns, light-machineguns, assault rifels, sniper rifels, and shotguns. There 
 is no good or best gun, ALL of the guns are the best, you just got to get to know it. Then there 
 are special perks that give you and your gun a special boost for killing power. Like a said before, 
 there is no best perk, ALL of them are the best, jsut got to learn how to use them.
  
  Personal experiance, I got over 25 friends of XBL just by playing that game, and they are the best 
 friends in the world to me. They play fair, dont cheat, have fun, andhave more fun. I'd say IF 
 has earned it this time, its not future, tis not WWII, its modern, some thing that relates to everyday 
 life.
  
  If you had the choise, BUY THIS GAME! Dont rent it, unless your poor and cant buy it. Buy it ASAP 
 if your a fan of FPS, a fan of anything, its will be the best game you've ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ashwyn16
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 2, 2008 10:16 am PT
Review:  Ok Call of Duty 4, ive already done the PS3 review and yes the games are practically identical 
 but hey... i want more reviews under my name as ive played and completed both versions.
  
  Story:
  
  The game begins with British 22nd Special Air Service Regiment Sergeant "Soap" MacTavish, 
 Captain Price, Gaz, and a small group of other SAS members infiltrating a cargo ship in the Bering 
 Sea. After confirming the presence of a nuclear device onboard the ship, the team evacuates the 
 ship with the cargo manifest, which proves there are ties between a Russian nationalist group and 
 a faction in the Middle East.
  
  
  Meanwhile, a Russian Ultranationalist by the name of Imran Zakhaev is set on returning his homeland 
 to the times of the Soviet Union by revolting against the current government and seizing a nuclear 
 weapons stockpile. Zakhaev funds a coup d'tat in the Middle East organized by his ally Khaled 
 Al-Asad, beginning with the televised execution of the President Yasir Al-Fulani to draw attention 
 away from Russia. The British and American governments discover the plot while monitoring Zakhaev's 
 recent activities, and initiate a police action to stop the uprisings in both regions. [18] After 
 President Al-Fulani is executed, the 22nd SAS is deployed to rescue their compromised informant 
 who is held in an Ultranationalist camp in Russia, with help from Russian Loyalist forces led by 
 Sergeant Kamarov. Before they can reach the base in Hamburg, the squad is shot down over Central 
 Russia, and must get to a nearby landing zone for evacuation. An AC-130 gunship is dispatched to 
 provide fire support for the team until they are evacuated.
  
  
  Lt. Vasquez's USMC platoon successfully pushes Al-Asad's forces back to his capital city. During 
 what appears to be the final stages of the conflict, a Russian nuclear weapon is unexpectedly detonated, 
 leveling the city and annihilating most United States Marine forces in the area. USMC 1st Force 
 Recon Sergeant Paul Jackson and Lieutenant Vasquez, delayed from escaping the blast radius due 
 to the last minute rescue of a downed AH-1 SuperCobra pilot, are aboard one of the helicopters 
 caught in the blast radius. Jackson initially survives the crash of his CH-46 Sea Knight helicopter; 
 however, he dies soon thereafter.
  
  It is revealed that Al-Asad had fled the country prior to the United States-led invasion. The informant 
 "Nikolai" directs the 22nd SAS to one of Al-Asad's safe houses in Azerbaijan. After interrogating 
 Al-Asad and learning Zakhaev had supplied the nuclear bomb, Captain Price executes Al-Asad. Price 
 then recalls his mission to eliminate Zakhaev in Prypiat, Ukraine. Price, who was a lieutenant 
 with the SAS, was paired up with Captain MacMillan to carry out the assignment. Together, they 
 infiltrated the city and once in position at the top of an abandoned hotel, witnessed Zakhaev engage 
 in an arms deal, using the opportunity to assassinate him. Zakhaev survived, however, losing only 
 his left arm. The Ultranationalist forces tracked the shot and pursued the snipers across the Zone 
 of Alienation. During the chase, MacMillan is injured and Price is forced to carry him the rest 
 of the way, both narrowly being extracted from the evacuation zone.
  
  Returning to the present, the Ultranationalists launch a counterattack against the 22nd SAS. The 
 group briefly slows the advance before they are extracted by American forces led by Staff Sergeant 
 Griggs, who escaped the nuclear blast in the Middle East. After escaping, a joint operation, comprised 
 of the 22nd SAS Regiment, a Force Recon unit led by Staff Sergeant Griggs, and Russian Loyalists 
 led by Sgt. Kamarov, is undertaken to stop Zakhaev. They attempt to capture his son to learn of 
 his whereabouts, but this mission ends in failure when Zakhaev's son commits suicide after being 
 cornered.
  
  Imran Zakhaev becomes enraged after the loss of his son, and launches two SS-27 Topol M ballistic 
 missiles with MIRV warheads in desperation at the East Coast of the United States. The joint force 
 breaches the missile launch center and is able to deactivate the missiles before they reach their 
 target. During their escape, an enemy Mi-24 helicopter destroys the bridge they are attempting 
 to cross, leaving them trapped. Zakhaev's troops arrive soon after, and begin engaging the remaining 
 members of the strike force. A wrecked gas tanker on the bridge explodes, incapacitating everyone 
 except Griggs. Griggs is then shot in the neck while trying to pull Soap to safety. Then Zakhaev 
 himself arrives, accompanied by two soldiers. Gaz is shot in the head by Zakhaev. Zakhaev is on 
 the verge of killing Soap, but is distracted by the arrival of a Russian Loyalist Mi-28 helicopter. 
 At this moment, a heavily wounded Captain Price slides his pistol to Soap, who then kills Zakhaev 
 and his guards. As MacTavish is airlifted from the battleground, a Russian Loyalist medic is seen 
 desperately attempting to resuscitate Price. After these events, news reports mention "nuclear 
 missile tests" in Central Russia, "leadership struggles" arising in the Ultra nationalist party, 
 and the failed attempt to locate a Russian cargo ship lost in the Bering Strait (presumably the 
 cargo ship the 22nd SAS had invaded) , implying that the recent police actions in Russia were conducted 
 in secret, and were not public knowledge.
  
  Now apart from the sotry mode campaign being pretty short ( to some peoples standers, NOT MINE 
 ) i havent no problems what so ever as the voice work, graphics and the story itself rather supurb 
 throughout the games duration.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  The game is different from previous Call of Duty games in that there are less firefights, more 
 slower-paced drama, and more clandestine operations. The series' move to modern warfare introduces 
 new weapons and technology to the Call of Duty franchise, including the M203 grenade launcher, 
 M4A1 carbine, the AN/PEQ-2 Target Pointer for use in conjunction with night vision goggles, the 
 MP5SD submachine gun, and the FGM-148 Javelin portable anti-tank guided missile.
  
  Whereas previous games in the series placed the player within scenarios in three different countries, 
 Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare moves away from this format. The game's plot remains cinematic, 
 with story lines interlaced with the perspective of the British Special Air Service and the United 
 States Marine Corps Force Recon.
  
  The gameplay is as expected with a first person shooter, however the different aiming tools e. g. 
 the red dotted sight ect... make the gameplay seem fresh enough for it all to work and the only 
 problem i could see with it is first time players will get owned as they proberly wont know what 
 there doing.
  
  Controls:
  
  The controls within the game is as you'd expect the left trigger aims your weapon and the right 
 trigger fires the bullets, whereas in the PS3 version of the game L1 AND R1 do the aiming and firing 
 and L2 AND R2 use your grenades ect...
  
  A. I.
  
  The A. I within the single player game is nothing short of awesomeness due to the fact that not 
 only are the computer terroists hard to kill but, this is one of only few games that have made 
 your computer controlled allies just as hard to kill, so it feels like your not alone and dont 
 always have to do eveything yourself.
  
  Which of course is very refreshing as i can only name a select few games that have the computer 
 controlled people within the game just right.
  
  Multiplayer:
  
  The multiplayer mode in Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare allows players to increase their selection 
 of weapons, equipment, and perks as they progress. Perks are features that you can outfit your 
 character with. Examples of these include additional grenades, increased health and more powerful 
 bullets. Progression and unlocks are governed by Experience Points (XP) , which are earned by either 
 killing opponents or completing certain objectives, such as defusing the bomb in the "Sabotage" 
 or "Search and Destroy" game modes. One of the first things unlocked via XP is the character class 
 system, which allows players to create custom infantry classes with different weapons and perks. 
 As well as the accumulated XP, players can also gain immediate short term benefits, such as calling 
 in the UAV reconnaissance scans, air strikes, and attack helicopters by achieving a three, five, 
 or seven enemy kill streak respectively.
  
  The five default classes are Assault, Special Ops, Heavy Gunner, Demolitions, and Sniper. Only 
 three of the default classes are available to new players; the remaining are unlocked as the player 
 gains Experience Points (XP) and higher ranks online. A feature called "Create-a-class" is unlocked 
 at level 4, which allows players to name and save five custom classes for quick access in multiplayer 
 matches.
  
  Challenges are achievements that players can accomplish by performing tasks such as blowing up 
 cars, jumping from a certain height, or killing enemies while crouching. A player receives Experience 
 Points for accomplishing these tasks. Experience Points allows players to unlock different challenge 
 types and upgrades for their weapons. Players receive Experience Points regardless of whether they 
 win or lose in a game, which allows inexperienced players to gain Points and unlock new weapons 
 and upgrades.
  
  Most of the weapons and perks that players can use to outfit their custom class are unlocked as 
 they gain higher ranks.
  
  The amount of Experience Points gained varies depending on the type of match the user is playing. 
 When the user gains enough Experience Points, their level increases. The highest attainable level 
 is 55, or the rank of Commander. Upon reaching level 55, the player is rewarded with a Gold Desert 
 Eagle pistol, indicating the player's Commander status.
  
  Players in Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare have access to weapons among assault rifles, pistols, 
 submachine guns, light machine guns, shotguns, and sniper rifles. As the player progresses through 
 experience levels, they unlock more weapons. When a user achieves a certain number of kills for 
 individual weapons, they unlock upgrades to those weapons and gain Experience Points. Such upgrades 
 include red dot sights, silencers, under barrel grenade launchers, Grips, and ACOG scopes. Surface 
 refinishes or "skins" can also be earned through head shot kills.
  
  At Level 55, the player cannot gain anymore Experience Points from the game until they unlock Prestige 
 Mode, a feature only available in the console versions of the game. In Prestige mode, the player 
 can trade in their rank, all unlocked weapons and completed challenges, and start over at level 
 1 in exchange for a special in-game insignia. The player can perform this ten times, with a different 
 insignia awarded each time.
  
  What i found out with both versions of the game is that Infinity Ward take you through one hell 
 of a ride in the Multiplayer aspect of the game and i hardly doubt it will be beaten anytime soon.
 
  
  The main and only problem ive found within the multiplayer is Host migration but that was before 
 the new patch was released which was supposed to sort out things about Hosts.
  
  Overall if you think HALO 3 was good, or your just into first person shooters and havent checked 
 Call of Duty 4: Modern warfare out your seriously need to as it is without a doubt one of the best 
 games ever made.
  
  The Good:
  
  Multiplayer
  Replay Value
  Downloadable content 
  
  The Bad:
  
  Single player could be longer
  Call of duty 5 will 
 be set in WWII again : (
  
  The Ugly:
  
  Host Migration
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilmichaelson
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 1, 2008 10:15 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty 4 is one of the most fantastic shooters I have ever played. Although on that same 
 thought I am not calling it the best, ever. To start off i will contradict the Gamespot review 
 on how they say that the campaign is shorter than the average shooter, I mean yeah the average 
 shooter back in the day had a long campaign because what else was there after you finished the 
 campaign? Nothing, but these days games have multiplayer options and specifically online multiplayer 
 which happens to be one of the more focused on aspects because multiplayer matches have a lot more 
 replay value, from a manufacturer's perspective they think, throw in a map pack or two and bam 
 there is more money. So I am basically saying that at this point short campaigns are common and 
 shouldn't be all to much of a markdown well unless you don't have Xbox live but without that then 
 why even have an Xbox? I had to throw in that thought, other than that I agree whole heartily with 
 the Gamespot review. In the end if you own an Xbox and you like games, well buy Call of Duty 4. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 459795
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 1, 2008 9:24 pm PT
Review:  I'd like to start out by sayin this is addicting. it has all the great fast action shootion from 
 the earlier COD But none, can come close to this epic game that is just intense fun action. The 
 story line is fun, beautiful and wickedly brillianr. i mean come on YOU CAN SHOOT THROUGH WALLsS. 
 this has the top of the line graphics. the shooting knifein all the melee all the dialogue seems 
 toget togive this game of oure perfection. multyplayer because another job (yes you will ge addicted) 
 Go out pay steal rent thiis game. ONlie provides so many intereting feats. like perks and you can 
 even call in a hellicoptr for support its freakin ridicilious. the graphics and the action seem 
 so sweet together. like that perfect couple in highschool. thaths how sharp these visuals are. 
 if you do no at least play this game at a frirends then you should be crusified 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xx-CLOUD-xX
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 31, 2008 5:09 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Graphics arnt bad, Fast paced action, exciting, nice audio, very excellent maps, fantastic 
 online, and very nice weapons!
  
  The Bad: The campaign was good but was a bit too short
  
  When everyone was done with Call of duty 3 we all thoguhtI hope im not in world war 2 again 
 next year" and luck enough for us our dreams came true....... But does Call of duty 4 live up to 
 the hype? Definitly
  
  You start the game offin the training place which is pretty obvious for a game like call of duty.. 
 The story is about.. well you trying to kill some people, becuase the government was killed. Its 
 kind of hard to describe but if you played the game you would have a huge understanding. Althoght 
 the story can be a bit hard to follow Cod 4 is just a basic COD game at its best. Its like any 
 other COD game except newer weapons. One thing that made this game really great though i tohught 
 was the online for it. Call of duty 4 modern warfare had literally delivered in my perspective 
 the deepest and maybe even the greatest online shooter of all time. Some cool weapons that could 
 be used were the RPG, M16's and al lthe other basic weapons used nowadays in.. well what else then 
 modern warfare. Most people are probably going to think that this game is just another shooter 
 but just the online take you to a new experience. Its like getting counterstrike free with a game 
 basically. You can do stuff like knife your enemys in this game to blowing them up with clyamores. 
 Some other really good stuff were the gameplay maps which i will talk about more in the graphics 
 section of my review. Its really hard to talk about a game thats a FPS because there are so much 
 out there they all seem like the same review to me but COD 4 is differint.. The best examplei can 
 give is its like having a name product and a no name product.. Cod4 happens to be a name product. 
 Overall the gameplay was great.. the only thing wrong was the campaign was a bit short .
  
  The graphics for COD 4 arnt necessarily the best graphics for the 360 but they are some really 
 good grapics.. One thing that i tohught looked really well was the environments and the maps. They 
 looked very real and put you in to that experience as if you were actually there! Its literally 
 indescribale in my perspective.
  
  And for the Audio.. well i tohught i was very well done. I like the VO, nothing worng with the 
 music but i wished for something a bit more dramatic to fit the situations in the game, but overall 
 the graphics are a thumbs up!
  
  Overall Its just a great package! And as i said its like a 2 in one combo of a game. You got an 
 online service worth the 60 bucks then you have the normal campaign. I would definitly recommend 
 this game to anyone who has a xbox 360, PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JAK1294
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 31, 2008 10:39 am PT
Review:  As i said i would recommend it but but if you dont like shooting people.
  
  It has a whole knew different range of guns unlike the other ones
  the only thing i dont like 
 is you dont get to choose your guns, but you can pick them up from people who have died.
  
  So it is a great game and would recommend it
  
  Also, there are hidden laptops in the game 
 which have intel that you have to collect there are thirty of them and they are hidden so start 
 looking.
  
  I would say the best gun in the game is the shotgun (its quick to reload)
  If you need a rifle get the dangouv (its the best to take guards out)
  To take tanks out if you 
 need to look around for a javelin (its the best to take tank out or you can call an air strike)
 
  I'd say the best machine gan is the ak-47 or i think its called that. (good to take out numbers 
 of enemies.
  
  So i think its the best call of duty, and its a good game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: julianwelton
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 31, 2008 7:36 am PT
Review:  Well first off let me say Call Of Duty 4 is a radical change from the previous games , and you 
 really feel like your in the story from start to finish. There are many different levels to play 
 through and I enjoyed them all thoroughly. There are a few that stick out though one of which involves 
 silently sneaking past large numbers of enemies without being heard and sniping this one was probably 
 my favorite level in the whole game. Another great level is the very last one which I just couldn't 
 get enough of I even played it over after I beat the game. Overall the story is great, and has 
 many different weapons to play with along with great scenery and stays pretty fresh and fun throughout.
 
  
  The weapons in Call Of Duty 4 handle great and stay pretty true to their models not to mention 
 there is a long list of weapons to choose from so if one weapon doesn't catch your liking then 
 one of the others definitely should. Personally I feel the SMG guns were the best in the game and 
 superior to their counterparts in other shooters such as Rainbow Six Vegas. One of my only problems 
 with the weapons is with the Shotguns they seem to kill you from an unrealistic distance 25-30 
 feet away sometimes, but I guess theres always something not to like about a game.
  
  The Multiplayer Is great the first run through but once you get to the highest level and unlocked 
 all the weapons it loses a little bit of the fun sure you can go for prestige, and that would be 
 a great thing to do if it gave you something in return for giving up all your weapons and challenges, 
 like a new weapon, or perk, but it doesn't so theres not much incentive to go for prestige unless 
 you get really bored with the game.
  
  The Perks are great they spice up the game and change the way you interact and play with your Allies, 
 and enemies there are an infinite amount of different combinations of weapons and Perks you can 
 try so that also can spice up the gameplay if it starts to get a little stale. Some of the best 
 Perks in the game are Deep Impact which allows you to shoot through walls, Overkill which allows 
 you to carry two primary weapons which can be really useful, and Martyrdom which causes you to 
 drop a live grenade when you die as a present for your killer.
  
  The graphics are really good, top notch, up there with the most graphically advanced games on the 
 360. The controls are really good like most other shooters out on the 360 the only problem I have 
 with them is the sprinting function which is if you click down your left stick and move in whatever 
 direction you want to go it feels a little weird, and isn't as quick as you might think , and on 
 a side note I think it broke my left thumbstick, but that might just be a coincidence.
  
  The party system for this game is sorely lacking some people cant join up with certain people, 
 and when you finally get everyone in the party you want once you find a match half your party is 
 kicked out before they can connect to it, and when you leave a game it usually doesn't bring your 
 party with you so in fact the party system is more nonexistent than lacking. I also don't care 
 for only being able to run for 3-5 seconds because I know people can run for longer then that in 
 the real world they should have made it at least 15 seconds or so, but they didn't so oh well.
 
  
  Bottom line Call Of Duty 4 is a good shooter with one of the best campaigns I've played in a long 
 while, but the Multiplayer can get a bit repetitive if you don't find ways to mix it up a little. 
 I recommend it to fans of the Call Of Duty series and of warfare shooters past that it might not 
 be for everyone.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: acridbradderz
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 31, 2008 3:28 am PT
Review:  right where can i start with call of duty the gameplay is fantastic and epic.! the gaming graphics 
 are not good but smashing! all the different types of guns you can wield makes the game worth the 
 cash!!! but one bade thing campaign probably takes 6 hours to do so if you have xbox live definatley 
 buy this game online gameplay where you level up from recruit... all the way to commander then 
 you can start all over again with prestige mode this is where you trade in all your unlocked guns 
 for a symbol next to your name you go back to level one there are currently ten prestiges infinityward 
 will soon be adding 5 more im not sure if you want to check log onto the website infinityward. com 
 
  
  so lets go over it again BUY THIS GAME! c
  fantastic- the sun
  thrilling -the daily telegraph i played for over 40 hours at the moment because of xbox live i 
 have had this game two months !
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Green_Chaos
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 22, 2008 7:19 pm PT
Review:  If you've played Call Of Duties:1,2, or 3. Then Call Of Duty 4 is the game for you. With multiplayer 
 mode and missions to keep you on your toes. Theirs no better war game than this. Compare Call of 
 Duty with Halo, theirs a difference between the two games: Call Of Duty 4 won game of the year award, whereas 
 Halo didn't. You go through two soldiers: Sergeant Jackson and Sergeant Soap.
  Both able to serve their country and behind. Sergeant Soap starts out as a private and learns the 
 ropes on how to be a successful soldier and is put to the test under the watchful eyes of Captain 
 Price. Sergeant Jackson is a marine with attitude. Both Jackson and Soap go through missions that 
 you wish won't happen. But life is cut short in war as you lose one of the men in a campaign that 
 was suicidal. Sergeant Jackson is knocked out as his plane spins out of control on Shock and Awe. Though 
 the plane has gone down, Jackson survives long enough to craw or walk out of the plane and dies 
 soon after. Soap meanwhile is taken all the way to the end where you face the man who is known to 
 hold weapons and missiles, Ala-sad. With a game this tough, you wouldn't want to cross paths with 
 a past master at games like Call Of Duty 4: Modern Warfare. When it comes to levels, only certain 
 amounts gets you achievement points through the course to determine your level of play. From Recruit, Regular, Hard, or 
 Veteran mode, the levels are possibilities. With Recruit and Regular, you only go so far. Hard and 
 Veteran is where your skills will be tested as well as your patients. If your up to the challenge, than 
 Call Of Duty 4 is right for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amirsafar
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 30, 2008 4:28 pm PT
Review:  Right, I'll break it up into sections:
  
  1) Single Player Story- The single player story is great. I love how they really make you emotionally 
 attached to the characters. It is short, so be warned. I prefered the SAS missions to the US missions. 
 Overall, 9.5 /10
  
  2) Multiplayer- I have spends AGES on the multiplayer. I feel that it could not have been more 
 complete. I love the combinations of perks and weapons. The prestige mode will also give you even 
 more replay value. There are many modes to choose from, so if you get bored of one game time quickly, 
 fear not, you can choose from others. 10/10
  
  3) Graphics- Brilliant. Nice textures etc. I still think that Gears of War has better graphics, 
 but the graphics on COD4 are one of the best out so far. 9/10
  
  4) Sound- The sound the bullet makes is very cool. Makes it a little more realistic. The music 
 in the game is also great and adds to the intensity and tension of the game. 9.5 / 10
  
  5) Gameplay- I think the controls are perfect. The game plays out very nicely. Everything is fluid 
 and I have encountered no glitches what so ever so far. 10/10
  
  Overall, this is A MUST BUY. DO NOT RENT THIS GAME. Just buy it straight away. Althoughthe single 
 player is short, the multiplayer is just awesome and you keep coming back for more. So buy it if 
 you have an XBOX LIVE gold account, otherwise its a rent. Overall score, 9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: l337_hax
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 2, 2008 4:04 pm PT
Review:  CoD 4 is a great FPS with good single-player campaign, the campaign comes with a good set of difficulties 
 and a fun arcade mode. The multiplayer game is good to play with your friends, at a lan, or on 
 Xbox Live. The Xbox live multiplayer system comes with a good set of guns, perks, and upgrades, 
 and many different types of games. The presteige system is cool, But i dont really like the idea 
 of losing your guns and challenges. The game could be improved if there was a little more strategy 
 involved in the game, and also maybe drivable vehicles, and also i wish a medic could have been 
 invloved somehow. But this game still has the best multiplayer experience of all the xbox 360 games 
 to date. All the different guns and upgrades combined with the custom class system make it so theres 
 many different types of classes. It is a great game to play with your friends on Xbox Live. This 
 game is a serious must-have for anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bravo189
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 30, 2008 12:40 pm PT
Review:  The Call of Duty series for about six years now has been concentrated on the overflowed genre of 
 WorldWar 2 games. But now Infinity Ward tries to tackle this new concept of today's warfare, hence 
 the name "Modern Warfare". Now the most noticeable difference is that the graphics got major push 
 up. But someof the physics in the game defy all the realism put in the work.
  
  Gameplay: 9 out of 10
  Gameplay in Call of Duty 4 is a love-hate thing, but the love overides 
 the hate. You play about a five hour story line following a basic plot of you trying to stop the 
 eastern seaboard from total nuclear destruction by Russian and Middle-East terrorists. You take 
 control of two basic people. A British Special Air Service (SAS) and a US Marine. You begin with 
 a basic tutorial level, like every game ever. You play through a fairly lengthy campaign about 
 three to seven hours. varying on difficulty. The four main difficulties in the Call of Duty series. 
 Recruit, for the new people. Regular, for those people who want a mild challenge. Hardened, who 
 are hardcore shooters and we can't forget Veteran, for those who are suicidal, insane or really 
 good. The guns are very photo-realistic, looking exactly like their real life counterparts as well 
 as sounding a great deal like them. You can aim down your gun sights to get a more accurate shot 
 as well as the Call of Duty renowned snap-on function. The levels are well designed with lots of 
 cover. But all is not as it seems, know that ply wood or sheet metal you took cover with in other 
 shooters? well all of that went to hell with the realism of the bullets cutting through weaker 
 materials. This makes it far more challenging to take cover and survive. Standing, Crouching and 
 going prone is unchanged, which is how some people like it. Now lets move on to the multiplayer. 
 You get your normal pre-made classes, like the previous games. But this time you can make custom 
 classes, complete challenges, gain experience points to level up and even add a camouflage skin 
 to your weapon. The 
  weapon customization is very fluent and you can add one attachment. This varies between a grenade 
 launcher, to a suppressor, a red-dot reflex sight or even a scope with some zoom ability. You can 
 of course choose between a variety of weapons. From the standard assault rifle to a sniper rifle. 
 The custom class perks get a customized weapons and three perks. These perks can be used to fit 
 your playing style so if your a sharp-shooter you can choose an M16 and a red dot attachment with 
 some stopping power 
  or if your a mindless ammo-spammer, you can equip an M429 SAW, machine gun. so learning about the 
 perks is key to victory. The multiplayer is relatively lag free, unless you download, like 700 
 gigabytes of stuff. T
  he online community that I encountered so far is quite nice and not jerks. 
  There are many different 
 game types which you unlock as you level up. There is the basic free-for-all or domination sort 
 of thing, and some other original gametypes. The bad things about Call of Duty 4 is 
  the realism of the guns' firing ranges. For example ever heard of the term "shotty snipers"? well 
 thats quite literally the case here because the shotgun can hit medium ranges, which is unaccomplishable 
 in real life. Also is the physics in Veteran difficulty where about one hundred guys are crammed 
 into one little home, which is freaking impossible! And there is no fancy physics system implemented 
 here its the very cliche Rag-Doll system, which I thought should have been replaced with a more 
 robust system. 
  The enemies fall to the ground but there is some elements of realism but lacks some of the key 
 features, such as the knee joint allowing for some left or right movement. As well the friendly 
 A. I. is more of an obstruction rather than a help. Constantly missing and unable to take down a 
 squad of enemies without your assistance. But all of this is forgotten with all this great gameplay 
 going on.
  
  Graphics: 9 out of 10
  The graphics in Call of Duty 4 is a standard 720p, as all next generation games should be now. 
 The character models are pleasant to look at, but we could have asked for some different looking 
 people 
  because you find a pile of dead guys that are identical, which isn't so good. The guns and grenades 
 look amazing realistic, which suits the "most photo realistic game ever" description you see on 
 the back of the
  box. The scenery is also fantastic with unmatched realisms, with what looks to be like a real village. 
 Which is probably because Infinity Ward sent some more people to take photos of what the actual 
 places look like. The menu interface looks simple to navigate through, while maintaining an artistic 
 appeal. And in multiplayer whenever you get promoted, it gets real flashy. And the fire is real 
 as fire can ever get and the particle system is incredibly advanced with all the sparks, deflecting 
 bullets and lets not forget why 
  Infinity Ward made the particle system in the first place, the smoke grenade. The smoke is thick 
 and realistic. And when the enemies get stunned with a flash-bang they actually recoil in pain. 
 Overall I am very impressed with the graphics.
  
  Sound: 8 out of 10
  Sound in Call of Duty 4 is kind of hard to describe. When you first open up the game and pop it 
 in to the 360 you here some serious music, which is good because War is a serious business and 
 not some happy, fun, demented, Tamogatchi time. The gun firing sounds is as realistic as I ever 
 heard and the explosions are also great. The music in game is very good and keeps you going, when 
 the going gets tough. Also the music greatly reflects a situation, if something tragic happens 
 the music will follow suit. If something exciting is happening the music speeds up and if it's 
 winding down it means it's getting less exciting. The only thing I want more of is screaming during 
 death. I mean I kill a guy and the guy next to him detects me without even hearing or seeing a 
 thing. The soundtrack isn't great, but overall is one of the best soundtracks I have ever listened 
 to.
  
  Value: 9 out of 10
  The value in Call of Duty 4 is a very good package. You get a lot for with those sixty bucks than 
 you think. The five hour campaign will draw you in over and over again, with collectible items and 
 challenges. The Arcade mode introduces a scoring system and Lives, to extend gameplay and see which 
 one of you amongst your buddies gets a better score. The multiplayer is very innovative, with the 
 UAV Recon or the AirStrike. And the Multiplayer is excellent and as well is the Level-Up system. 
 Also there is Prestige mode. Prestige Mode puts a level fifty-five account back to level one to 
 test the player's skill. The achievements also put in more replayability and a pat-on-the back 
 to Infinity Ward for making no online achievements. Which
  drive achievement whores crazy. Also there is a split-screen mode which lets you try to own three 
 of you other friends and as well the standard Xbox 360 shooter System Link where you can link up 
 four Xbox 360's to fight with up to sixteen buddies.
  
  Tilt: 10 out of 10
  From start to finish when I opened up the game I was drawn in and couldn't get out. The campaign 
 was short but amazing. You could really relate to the characters and they look and feel extremely 
 realistc. The audio was great inspiring you to keep going. And the multiplayer was some of the 
 greatest multiplayer I've ever played. I really wasn't expecting much from Call of Duty 4 and I 
 really underestimated it and was blown away, by how good this game is. So overall you should get 
 it no matter what kind of gamer you are. 
  
  So there you go the most critically acclaimed modern shooters reviewed I`m going to give it a
 
  TrueScore: 9.2 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LotsOfGrenades
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 30, 2008 11:44 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare
  
  This game will ruin your outlook on shooters. Why? Because all the shooters you've been playing 
 will become a joke and you will spend your time wondering why it can't be more like COD-4. Alright, 
 so everyone knows or heard COD-4 is an amazing game. It's a wonder why recent and coming games 
 don't add up to that of CoD-4. Honestly. CoD-4 has set the standard and games right now are not 
 even brushing it.
  
  Game-Play: 9.0
  Sound: 10
  Visuals: 10
  Replay: 10
  
  Synopsis: You are S. A. S and/or USMC playing as one character in each. You switch characters after 
 every few missions and complete it. The campaign is amazing and the Veteran level will leave you 
 in the dust. Basically some Russian terrorists are loose and the US and UK are working together 
 to bring it down. Through nuclear threats and actual actions you will be immersed into warfare 
 like you never experienced. When we thought CoD-3 was intense with random gunfire and cries of 
 pain and glory, we're getting closer to actually feeling the bullets rip by us.
  
  Game-play: Okay. You may be wondering why it got a 9 vice a 10. Well it's small things. One issue 
 is, why couldn't you grab cover? Not a big deal, maybe it's better without it. I'll never know 
 and neither will you, but being a cover hog I sort of enjoy being behind it. Another thing is in 
 campaign mode it would have been nice to choose at least one weapon you brought with you. Although, 
 the weapons they give you are good enough, it would have been nice to actually use an M-16 or a 
 carbine. Lastly, online multiplay is so addictive and insanely well fashioned that 'at home' system 
 link is a complete drag. Why can't we customize weapons on system link and or single player? Oh, 
 one more thing, sorry. System link doesn't allow split screens, now that's retarded.
  
  Okay, now onto the good and it's a lot. Single Player, like said by many others, is extremely short. 
 However it offers 4 different difficulties, which for once actually made the game fun. Where I 
 would beat other games on Hard and not worry about the unlocked levels of difficulty, this game 
 will have you wanting to go the step higher. The campaign is effing fun anyways. Veteran level 
 will take your shooter skills to another level where you have to watch everything, even behind 
 you, and rely on cover and the opportune moment to blast three in the enemies face.
  
  The weapons offered in campaign are few. You usually get a scoped automatic rifle, a pistol, and 
 at times, a sniper rifle. A few cameos are made by the Army's Javelin, and a Minigun from a crashed 
 helo. Other than that you can pick up the AK-47's and the Dragonov upgrade sniper rifle. In multiplayer 
 however, it's a totally different story.
  
  In multiplay through single or system link you will be able to choose your class. Your class gives 
 you assorted weapons and certain buffs. For example, the survivalist gets the inaccurate rapid 
 fire cannon 'M-60', a Desert Eagle, one grenade, and one auxiliary grenade. Along with those weapons 
 he comes with buffs. For the survivalist he gets increased endurance which allows him to take a 
 bit more punishment, but a headshot will put him down instantly, and a game turner known as 'Last 
 Stand'.
  
  The abilities change the game and last stand is a big one. Where if you are shot down by means 
 other than a headshot there is a chance you will get last stand where you will be stuck on the 
 ground on your back with your pistol out and for a few seconds be able to reap revenge out of your 
 enemy. A shotgunner and the Grenadier have the ability to drop a grenade as soon as they die, allowing 
 the unsuspecting murderer to fall upon your death trap.
  
  Online multiplay is a bit different where you may choose your weapon and by playing and winning 
 you earn the right to purchase upgrades from faster reloading, to harder hitting bullets. Many 
 times if you have a friend who plays XBL he won't enjoy the fact you want to play him on your X-Box 
 because he cannot use his earned upgrades he is so accustomed to.
  
  The sprint ability, which is already catching on, allows you to move twice as fast for an extended 
 period of time. Allowing you to cover ground with speed. While sprinting you cannot shoot, aim, 
 nor reload. However with sprint you may move quickly upon your oncoming victim and slice him. AKA. 
 The Knife. Knifing someone is a hit amongst all players, allowing you to laugh at your friends 
 misfortune when you kill him with one kabar to the neck.
  
  So that means the old CoD-3 buttstock melee is gone and is now replaced with the one hitter quitter, 
 Knife.
  
  There isn't much else to be said, if there is, it can only be good things.
  
  Sound: The dialogue is all spoken and the voice acting is incredible for a military based game. 
 Your AI will shout for help, call grenade, ask for backup, cry as he dies, and your enemies too. 
 The explosions and ambient warfare sound is amazing and a lot of times in sync to your surroundings.
 
  
  Graphics: Certainly the best yet. Using the high contrast soft edged engine they have made simplistic 
 graphics turn into bright, dark, and hazy streaks of perfection. The people you see look nearly 
 real and their movements to a tee. Their lips move perfectly to words, and it's simply just an 
 amazing looking game.
  
  Replay: You won't stop playing this. Not now, not for a long while.
  
  Conclusion: Any shooter 
 fan should play this. A lot of my friends I play NCAA football with will often play this while 
 they're over. They love it and they never play FPS. This game is a must have for anyone who owns 
 the XB-360.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mirko4444
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 30, 2008 11:05 am PT
Review:  I have to say, it's been a long time since I've seen Activision come up with such a game, if you 
 can find a comparison. On the outside, it's your standard Call of Duty war game, but wait a minute, 
 it's set in the modern era instead of World War II. This is a refreshing idea, as not many have 
 tried to recreate anything close to modern combat with this level of success. It's been named 'Game 
 Of The Year' countless times, and a recent poll here on GameFAQs proved this.
  
  Gameplay
  To be honest, Activision did good not to go to the extremes and remodel everything 
 to the way they may have wanted, instead they tried to keep to the standard Call of Duty experience 
 in a different era. Some tweaks have been made, and they had to be, but all in all it's nothing 
 you can't get used to within an hour or two of playing.
  
  Once this game is installed, you'll find you have two games, or at least they have to be launched 
 separately to reduce lag or something. The single player is short, and I have to stress the word 
 short. The first time you play it through, it'll most likely leave you wanting more, much more. 
 I should say that it rushes it's best parts like the stealth mission or the mission in which you 
 control a fighter plane, but if I told you that I'd be wrong. I'm pretty sure now that if those 
 missions were repeated under different circumstances you'd get bored pretty quickly, so it leaves 
 you with just the right amount of things to do.
  
  As I mentioned before, the single player is only one of the icons. What is the other one you ask? 
 It's obviously the multiplayer. And I would normally leave that for the end, making a quick comment 
 about it but this deserves much more than that, it's a game on it's own. There are differences 
 in these two modes, as usual. On singleplayer you'll get specific points in which you'll call out 
 airstrikes, helicopters and pull out your ghilie suit, but in multiplayer those features are intergrated 
 into every game, as long as you're skillful enough to get them.
  
  On multiplayer, there is a mentionable 'unique' ranking system where people see how much you've 
 played. You gather XP from simple tasks such as killing or assisting in a kill, but you can rank 
 up major XP by completing the large amount of challenges which get unlocked along with weapons 
 as your rank goes up. This gives much more appeal to multiplayer, as some people can get turned 
 off by it's aggressive nature or by the frustration it can cause, not to say you won't also get 
 frustrated by the singleplayer on harder difficulties.
  
  One thing I was very impressed about was the level of diversity I mentioned previously. The single 
 player splits you mainly into two places, Russia and the Middle East with several missions elsewhere. 
 You also play as two people, who are both in the army. One is in the SAS and one is with the Marines. 
 The two missions which differ from the game's usual pace are not with those two. However, even 
 with this diverse world, the variety in the singleplayer is very limited, and there are very few 
 alternative routes to take. I would also like to point out that this is not necessarily a bad thing, 
 as getting lost in an FPS like Call of Duty is very aggravating.
  
  The difficulty was one of the only things to be harshly increased from the earlier games in the 
 series. Normal shouldn't give you too much of a challenge, but any harder and you're in for one 
 tough ride. The AI has gotten better in general, but you'll find yourself confused sometimes on 
 why the computer chose to do that or didn't do anything much at all, as usual.
  
  There is also a class system for multiplayer. You'll start with your five basic classes. They all 
 have different types of guns, and are made for different things. After a little bit of playing 
 and leveling up, you'll unlock a feature which lets you create your own. This includes choosing 
 your bonus abilities, such as a larger life, or the more amusing 'Martyrdom' which drops a frag 
 grenade every time you die (And frag granades are lethal to any enemies close by) . Unfortunately, 
 after getting excited about making classes, you'll soon find out that you won't be able to make 
 much at all, as most of the guns and abilites are unlocked on later levels, some will take time 
 to get.
  
  Graphics
  I've heard the phrase 'Photo-realistic' being used for this game. This is a sensitive and debatable 
 topic, but for the moment, let's focus on seeing if it's true. This game will only look as good 
 as your graphics card allows it to be, but if you have a brand new one you'll maybe see what everyone's 
 on about. It's pretty realistic, but since it's a game it'll have the usual problems such as glitching 
 and unrealistic quantities of effects which are often created in busy and heated multiplayer battles. 
 Apart from that, the graphics really are truly outstanding and, realistic or not, some scenes may 
 just leave your jaw open.
  
  The maps and layout is pretty nicely done, but I've found some of the textures to be a bit edgy, 
 and the grass can be a total pain to aim from due to the auto-focus.
  
  Story
  A war-based FPS with a decent story? Unheard of! Well, you'll have heard it. It's not too deep 
 or involving, but it's certainly full of surprises and moments where it'll leave you breathless. 
 Some of the scenes are really deep and evoking. You'll have to play the game through to understand 
 what I'm talking about.
  
  Sound
  Music? Just right. You'll maybe not even notice it when you're in a tough situation, but that's 
 normally when the heated music kicks in and sets the tone for the game. Apart from these though, 
 I don't see the need to have any more in a modern war game. I do love the guitar riffs you get 
 when you level up online.
  
  Explosions sound just as they should do, loud. It captures the effects just right, and if I'm not 
 mistaken you'll hear the mud of the explosion trickle downwards if you're close enough and not 
 dead from it. Guns have varied sounds from one another, some very heavily varied. This is a nice 
 touch and can sometimes help to identify what kind of weapon you enemy is shooting you with.
  
  Now for the voices. I really liked the single player dialog, and I found it to be very entertaining. 
 One thing I didn't like was the amount of voices you get on multiplayer. Your ratio tells you every 
 time someone on the server uses a UAV, an air raid or a chopper. Now, these are useful, but when 
 you have this saying one of the phrases every five damned seconds it can get on your nerves, just 
 most of the deaths do.
  
  Others
  I've said before that this game is short. What I meant was that the singleplayer is short. You 
 could be playing multiplayer for months on end, join a clan, unlock all the weapons and basically 
 have fun. It's up to you if you want to experience multiplayer.
  
  Replayability is dependant of how much you liked the singleplayer. I loved it, so I did it on a 
 few other difficulties just for fun. The average run of this game would be around 8-12 depending. 
 That's not a lot of gaming, so you might want to play it through again if you're not bored and 
 challenge yourself to a higher difficulty.
  
  Overall
  It's something that any person with a decent computer should own. Even if FPS isn't your thing, 
 you might want to own this just to get the experience. I should know, as I was at first sceptical 
 about it, thinking it had been hyped up way too much, and I was expecting something mediocre. This 
 is far above that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GreyHairedGamer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 30, 2008 9:55 am PT
Review:  I took some time off from gaming I was getting burned out on mediocre titles with half-baked content 
 and $60 price tags.
  
  Finally I returned to gaming two weeks ago and decided to purchase CoD4, I have CoD, CoD2 and CoD3. 
 Those game have never let me down and I hoped CoD4 would be no exception. 
  
  It didn't take long for me to realize that I should have been playing this when it was released. 
 The graphics are amazing, in my humble opinion they are as life like as any video game graphics 
 to date. The game play matches the graphics and is immersive. I was addicted to the game almost 
 immediately.
  
  The sound is amazing and even just running through the speakers on my HDTV (in stereo) the sound 
 separation is awesome.
  
  The one thing I have trouble with is the thumb sticks. I will often press on the right thumb stick 
 when I don't mean to and rather then turning I'll swipe at open air. I've been killed a couple 
 of times because of this, but honestly it is me being a little heavy handed on the control.
  
  I would recommend this game to virtually anyone who likes combat and/or shooter games. It is 
 just a great experience and fun to play.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Truerune777
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 29, 2008 8:32 pm PT
Review:  I'll bet when you learned of COD4 you were thinking "Alright lets kill some more nazis!" but then 
 you saw "Modern Warfare" in the title and you said to yourself "Oh Dear God! Call of Duty not in 
 WWII?!!" And maybe you even doubted the game's success. Well this is one of the best games i have 
 ever played. Honestly. The controls are very well done not to sensitive and traditional Call of Duty 
 control scheme except now like in Call of Duty 1 you can sprint, but now you can sprint for pretty 
 long periods of time.
  Well first lets review the story. I dont agree with those who say the single player-campaign was 
 short at all. I thought it was reasonable and if you lust achievements (like me) you'll spend hours 
 just playing the game on veteran. Now back to the storyline. I really started off a bit dazed since 
 you start right at the mock-up training for the cargo-ship but 20 seconds into the tutorial level 
 and i got the gist of it! Once i got to the first official level of the single-player campaign "Blackout" 
 I instantly got into the engaging storyline. Throughout the story Gaz and Cpt. Price (Your 2 teammates 
 who go through the entire S. A. S campaign with you) really got to me! I mean after you play the entire 
 campaign you'll know the feeling. I literally went into tears after seeing the ending but i'm not 
 gonna give it away readers. Same goes for Jackson (Your U. S. Marine that you play as through half 
 of the campaign) . His fate was so realistic and scary and saddening.
  Now for Gameplay. As said before the controls were just great and you'll love them if you have played 
 any Call of Duty games in the past. Now  cars, flash and stun 
 and sometimes the classic smoke grenades all come together and make one of the greatest games of 
 our time. The new knife melee is a nice step-up from the melee using your gun. Sprinting is a nice 
 replacement to the old binoculars. Its also nice how usually in the S. A. S campaign you have to go 
 silent and unseen and plant C4s and Claymores and alert the enemies to lead them into your explosives.
 
  Now the icing on the cake. The online multiplayer. Its got its ups and downs but mostly ups. Its 
 got nice level up systems and rankings, classes, create a class, perks, UAV  
 and more. Its just great. But its got its downs of course. Lag is not really an issue in Call of Duty 
 4 because I have played smoothly all the time in this game. One down to the game would really have 
 to be the fact you can only use one attachment on your weapons at once. Also if your losing badly 
 don't lose your head, i have and it only made me play worse. Remember this is not the campaign, go 
 fast and stay behind cover where a sniper can't fire at your skin even by a little bit. Another 
 nuisance are rare but annoying spawn-killers.
  Well thats it, Call of Duty 4 is about the second best game i've ever played... The first is Assassin's 
 Creed. But this is THE BEST SHOOTER OUT THERE. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 360nly
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 29, 2008 9:39 am PT
Review:  Yes, Call of Duty 4 is the greatest game I have ever played, and I've played most everything the 
 past several generations have had to offer. I know I will be hated on by the Halo and Gears of 
 War fans who refuse to believe any other game could ever trump theirs. Well, this isn't a Halo 
 review, and this isn't a Gears review, scroll into my review history if you are interested in those. 
 Call of Duty really has nothing wrong with it, which is why it was dealt the first ten I have ever 
 gave out in my review section. When you buy this game, and I mean WHEN, because there is no question 
 that everyone who has a 360, and even a PS3, has to own this game.
  
  First off, its online is a vast imrpovement over COD3, and COD2. Mainly because WWII is slower 
 combat and it became repetitive faster. However, the advancement to modern times gave them a lot 
 to work with technology wise to vary the experience. COD4 is the deepest online experience since 
 Halo 2, level up to gain more weapons and master your weapons to earn upgrades for them. There 
 is more than a dozen unique maps, and teh majority of them are really fun to play, the others are 
 good, just not as good as their counterparts.
  
  Now for the constant, the incredible campaign experience that every COD game has produced. COD 
 2 was said to kick it up a notch to 10, COD3 went to 11, going on those estimations of intensity 
 Call of Duty 4 is somewhere in the area of a 56. It isn't a story driven game like Bioshock, but 
 its fictional Mid Eastern War works well enough and it is full of those in your face, HOLY **** 
 moments that make you wet your pants. You feel like you are playing Black Hawk Down, or in the 
 SAS missions, Tears of the Sun. It is an adrenaline soaked cinematic feel taht no other game has 
 ever achieved. The gameplay is perfect and there are so many moments that bring you back to your 
 favorite movie scenes. Fight off an onslaught of attackers in a nuclear wasteland, or a city teeming 
 with insurgents in a war ravaged Middle East city.
  
  Now COD has always been hard, and if you want the achievements you will need to be able to tackle 
 veteran, and I would have it no other way. I write this after becoming one of teh first people 
 to earn 1000/1000 Gamerpoints in COD4, no easy task by any regards. Its worth it though, for the 
 multiplayer experience and the chance to liev out your favorite movies. You can't miss Call of 
 Duty 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Boostinsane
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 29, 2008 12:26 am PT
Review:  i don't like this game because the controls feel clunky, the characters seem a tad bit unrealistic 
 for a game that aims to be realistic, the explosions bore me rather than excite me, the weapon 
 selection reminds me of a re-hash counter strike game i once played, the camera on the guy you 
 play with just makes me dizzy, doesn't seem to simulate what people in the army really do, nothing 
 about this game is too exciting. it's not very challenging either. its actually very easy to be 
 good at this game. just wait until you get a sniper, aim, shoot, done. hide and shoot. like gears 
 of war but just less exciting and gory. like CS but less tactical. call of duty 4: modern warfare 
 is just like any other war game but just less fun. i would almost rather play big rigs than another 
 clich war game like COD4 again ... almost. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XZconker21
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 28, 2008 5:56 pm PT
Review:  Okay, first off, to the person before me, and everyone else who maybe gave it 1 out of 10... what 
 are you smoking? 1?! Are you crazy?! How could any game, especially a game as good as this, get 
 1? Even if you dont like the great gameplay, campaing, and multiplayer, the graphics alone should 
 get it a 5 out of 10.
  
  This has a pretty good storyline and fun campaign, and the best online multiplayer of any game 
 I've played so far. Yeah, I though halo 3 was the best... until I played this! I and my friends 
 all used to have "halo" parties, now I think we'll be having Call of Duty 4 parties! 
  
  This is a great game, and it is a must have for and person who likes shooter games, into military 
 games, or just looking for a good game. Game of the year in my book. Incredible Graphics! Incredible 
 Gameplay! BEST Online!
  
  9.9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crzza
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 4, 2008 4:28 am PT
Review:  The first three games in the series don't even come close to how good this one is. I love sitting 
 around playing this all day. I guess it was worth it if I beat it right? The graphics were awsome 
 and the gameplay shook my house. As far as all World War Two shooters go, this has to be my favorite 
 and not just in the Call of Duty series but in all world war two shooting games. there should be 
 more shooting games like this in the future for Playstation 3 and xbox360. Its one of the top games 
 in my collection next to Brawl and various others. Its not exactly the best ever but it still blew 
 me away. Way better than I expected it to be. I want the NEXT one to be mroe than I expected which 
 after playing this game is ALOT. This game has really made Call of Duty and the series one of my 
 favorite video games. Thanks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: osumane2012
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 28, 2008 12:04 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 *sigh*, I spent over 100 hours playing this game and let me tell you, it was worth 
 it. Call of Duty 4 combines a intense single-player experience with the best multiplayer experience 
 you will ever encounter. 
  
  Call of Duty 4's single-player leaves sadness and happiness. Call of Duty 4 has great missions 
 and great features to leave you playing until next year. You play as British soilders or the American 
 Infantry and fight Iraq. The thing that makes Call of Duty 4's single-player so good is that it 
 has so much depth. The graphics are amazing and the sound is unbeilevable.
  
  The multiplayer in Call of Duty 4 is out standing. It will keep you up for days. There are so many 
 new features too. Call of Duty 4 has a great matchmaking system as well. You can choose over team 
 deathmatch or search and destroy, and finds a match really quickly. They added brand new maps and 
 weapons. Call of Duty 4 has a great ranking system. Featuring tons of levels and gear to. People 
 did thought that it was going to be a very realistic shooter, it wasn't. Online you can add perks 
 witch isn't a bad thing but it stops the realisticism in the game. Thats why I didn't give it a 
 10
  
  Overall Call of Duty 4 is a great game. If your a fan of FPS than pick this up. Call of Duty 4 
 was a great experience for years to come.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fmobliv06
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 28, 2008 7:26 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 attempts to take the famous WW2 series Call of Duty into modern times, and for the 
 most part it succeeds. Infinity Ward has created a FPS that feels like your average shooter, only 
 sped up. Your main characters move at the speed of marathon sprinters. Gunfire and explosions can 
 be heard all around you at almost all times. Simply put, CoD 4 is the most intense FPS ever. But 
 does that make it the best?
  
  No. CoD 4 is split up into five parts: the Prologue mission, Act 1, Act 2, Act 3, and the Epilouge. 
 Each of the three Acts is then made up of smaller missions that are usually surprisingly breezy 
 and simple to get through. Out of all of the missions that the game contained, I only encountered 
 four parts that actually stuck with me to this day. The rest of the game can be summed up thusly: 
 Shooting, shooting, explosion, low health, take cover, shooting, shooting, shooting, yelling, shooting, 
 explosions, knife somebody, shooting, low health, take cover, shooting, end of mission. Another 
 minor annoyance in CoD 4 is its apparent reliance on trigger battles (i. e battles in which you 
 move to a certain point on the map and an endless stream of enemies emerges, only to stop when 
 you reach another point on the map.) The missions that break this formula up, such as Ghillies 
 in the Mist or Game Over, are truly memorable and extremely well executed. Still, the single player 
 is over very quickly as it can be beaten in one or two days.
  
  The gameplay is standard CoD; in other words, it plays smooth as butter. Sprinting, shooting, reloading, 
 crouching, and all of the other functions are sensibly mapped to the control pad and no shooter 
 fan should have trouble controlling it. 
  
  The sound is equally convincing, as all CoD games are. Gunfire and voiceovers both sound good, 
 and you wil hear little of anything else.
  
  CoD 4 also has a multiplayer component that has been getting a lot of attention recently, and in 
 my opinion, it does not live up to the hype. CoD 4 uses a ranking system in which you must get 
 kills to level your character up, at which point you will unlock weapons, perks, and more. While 
 this system is much better than Halo 3's ranking system, it really sucks that you have to level 
 up in order to unlock anything more than Team Deathmatch, Deathmatch, and Hardcore Team Deathmatch. 
 The ranking system would still be pretty fun if it weren't for the multiplayer's general lack of 
 cohesion. It kind of seems as if the developers just placed random objects in random places and 
 decided that would suffice for about half of the maps, while the other half fare slightly better. 
 In addition, it is a bit of a disspointment that features have actually been removed from CoD 3's 
 multiplayer: You can no longer use vehicles, and the player count has been lowered from 24 to 16, 
 probably all in the interest of keeping the game lag free. Of course I don't mind the paring back 
 of multiplayer just so long as there is no lag, especially because CoD 4 looks so great.
  
  CoD 4's graphics rank easily among the best on consoles, and rival those of most PC games as well 
 (Crysis being the only PC game that noticably surpasses it.) The only game that I can think of 
 that might look better is Gears of War. The most amazing part is that, although there is usually 
 a ton of chaos onscreen, there is no slowdown at all. 
  
  Great graphics can't divert my attention from the biggest flaw that dogs CoD 4's multiplayer and, 
 to a lesser extent, single player. The game just seems generic. Single player suffers less from 
 this problem as the game moves on, although multiplayer does not have the capacity for great plot 
 twists to alleviate this problem. All you're ever really doing in CoD 4 is moving forward and shooting. 
 There are no gameplay features to differentiate CoD 4 from any other FPS. You can't blind fire 
 or take cover (other than crouching behind a rock or something) , and you don't have access to perks 
 or any other special abilities during the single player campaign. Because of this, CoD 4 will never 
 be anything more than a rental to me, but it is certainly one of the best generic games out there. 
 In order to really satisfy me, though, the next Call of Duty game should take a page from Bioshock's 
 book and give use perks that can be used in the single player campaign, as well as give us some 
 sort of emotional investment with our character. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: S0mEGuY12
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 31, 2008 10:28 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:9.6/10
  This game just amazed me. IW made a good choice from leaving the World War II franchise. Im pretty 
 sure they must have seen their mistake, and slight downfall when Call of Duty 3 came out. This game 
 took a big leap from its World War II older brothers when IW decided to make the game go into a 
 Modern setting. You will basically have majority of the terrorist, current issue USMC and SAS Covert 
 Ops weapons, like the popular USMC weapon the M16, the popular SAS weapon, the MP5 and of course 
 the symbol of communism and terrorists, the AK47 and a lot more. The first Call of Duty was of course 
  pretty good but a letdown. After this game came out, it pretty 
 much changed the whole series. You can expect even more intense firefights in CoD4. Probably more 
 intense than even the previous CoDs, due to nastier and stronger weaponry. You basically start off 
 as a new SAS recruit (He is a Sergeant, but you recently joined the SAS itself) . Of course, like in 
 the beginning of most CoD games there is a little training exercise in the beginning. When you 
 first start playing the campaign, you will already expect a LOT from it after the first level where 
 you escape a sinking ship. Also, CoD4 added a little strategy in the campaign, since weaponry has 
 grown you can shoot through walls, and blow up cars. I put up Very Hard for this game's difficulty 
 mainly because of the game's two upper difficulties: Hardened and Veteran. In some missions, Regular 
 can even be hard! There are several missions in the single player Campaign, where some situations 
 are the hardest in Shooter History! Though, in my opinion I think IW upgraded the veteran Ai and 
 Difficulty a bit too much. Speaking of Ai, the Ai in this game is simply spectacular. Each enemy 
 will cover one another, and react to different situations depending on what weapon they, you, and 
 what is thrown at them. Though the campaign is intense, with all the firefights and the pretty good 
 story (for an FPS) , its kinda short. Though its shortness is in a way, actually is extended in how 
 the game works. Achievement design in the campaign is top notch, and you will enjoy the campaign, especially 
 the mission where you are in a special assassination mission to kill a terrorist warlord in a Ghillie 
 suit. Overall, the campaign is intense, and is extended by the fighting itself. 
  
  Multiplayer: Kinda had a crappy review for the gameplay earlier, will try to make it up here. Multiplayer 
 is another strong point for this game. The game has gotten EXTREMELY fast paced since the first 
 game, and if its your first time playing online in a CoD game, expect a few deaths to come at you 
 when you do not even know what is happening. This is the first call of duty where you can actually 
 make you're own classes (I think) . You can equip a laser dot sight to an M16 to replace iron sights, or 
 add a grenade launcher, You can even add camouflage to your weapons. There is no point in the camo, but 
 it makes the weapon look cooler. There is a ranking system, and in order to gain access to more 
 weapons to further customize your classes, you must rise up the ranks. People think its rigged that 
 you can start off with these weapons, but in this game, In order for a weapon to be powerful, you 
 must be good with it. Halo 3 for example. Halo 3 was one of my most favorite multiplayer games, 
 but the game mostly takes reflexes. Like the rocket launcher, whom it can kill anything in one hit 
 if either a close splash damage, or a direct hit. Sniping in multiplayer takes more skill than in 
 Halo 3. In multiplayer of CoD4, you may have noticed you have a mini-map but no enemies on it. In 
 order to see enemies on your mini-map, they must have revealed their position by open firing, or 
 you must get UAV recon activated by either an ally, or yourself by getting a 3 kill streak. Get 
 a 5 kill streak, and you can use an airstrike, and can be used to full effect if you have UAV on. 
 After 7 kills, you get a helicopter capable of dishing out a LOT of pain to opposing enemies. There 
 are many modes in multiplayer, and a lot of possibilities. This multiplayer, way surpasses Halo 
 3's multiplayer in almost every way, except for of course the Feel of Halo 3. There are challenges 
 you can unlock to get more exp, and more. 
  
  Graphics:9.8/10
  This game only runs on 60 frames per second. You may think, Wow thats so little which it kinda is. 
 Yet it runs on 60 frames and looks THIS AWESOME. Standard def looks very good, and if you get this 
 game on High-def, your in for some mouth dropping. Though, this may be a technical issue im not sure, but 
 some shadows are pixelized. 
  
  Sound: Wow. When I first played CoD, I was amazed by all the firing of weapons and such. After playing 
 the 4th game, it makes CoD seem like a cricket. You WILL be amazed by these sound effects, especially 
 off of the R700 sniper rifle and Desert Eagle. If you have a TV that supports better, Once again 
 get ready for some mouth dropping. 
  
  Overall: This game was awesome. I would have given it a 9.5, (Real score 9.7) but this game was 
 missing several things and had tiny problems. (I did not list them, but I will now) Including: Short 
 Campaign, and lack of Multiplayer achievements. Im no achievement whore, but this game could have 
 used some Multiplayer ones to add a little challenge. Though the single player on Veteran is already 
 a challenge, It could have used some. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: No_Better_Gamer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 27, 2008 6:49 pm PT
Review:  I have never played Call of Duty before this game, but in my opinion, this game is the best shooting 
 game in history of histories! This game might even be the best game I ever played! The graphics....... 
 are........ um....... wow lol. Super amazing and game play is completely.... the bomb. It is sooooo 
 great that there are many many guns, and great ones. I beat this game 4 times and plan to beat 
 it 4 more times. The only..... only small problem with this game is that........ it is........... 
 a bit............. too short. Other than that it really is the best game I ever played. Every time 
 I play this game, I act like if I really was there in that war. The best level is gonna have to 
 be the sniper mission. it really gets your blood running. I recommend This game to any person who 
 likes first-person shooters and war. This game is the bomb diggity. This game really really reminds 
 me of the movie "Black Hawk Down." Whatch that movie man......... THE BOMB!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iceman4991
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 3, 2008 6:13 pm PT
Review:  First things first, my "time spent playing" is not a joke. I played this game for 14 (!) days, and 
 still having as much fun when I first picked this game up. It is honestly my favorite game. When 
 something new comes out, such as Brawl and Rainbow, I say to myself "I'm taking a break from Call 
 of Duty" But sure enough, about 3 days later, I find myself picking this game up again and going 
 all out. The single player is amazing, although some-what short. But there are TONS of "THAT WAS 
 CRAZY!" moments that it all makes up for the length. The game is just right on hardened difficulty, 
 but veteran is insane. It is such an accomplishment to complete it on veteran, but the main accomplishment 
 that you will get from this game is beating Mile High Club on veteran. Many, including myself, 
 declare it to be the hardest level in a video game of all time. It took me about 4 hours a day 
 for 3 days and two controllers to get this achievment. As for multiplayer, which is where the game 
 really shines. Amazing. I really can't put it into words. It is something that you will just have 
 to play for yourself. Using a certain weapon enough will cause you to unlock upgrades for it, such 
 as a red dot sight or a silencer. Also, after achieving level 55, the highest level, you have the 
 option to "do prestige" as most call it. What this means is that you will lose all of your weapons, 
 challenges, and pretty much everything else that you've accomplished except for your leader board 
 rankings. But there is something in it for you (kind of) . You will recieve a little symbol next 
 to your name to show people how badass you are. You can do prestige up to 10 times, though it is 
 said that more prestige levels are coming in the new maps update. All in all, this game is amazing 
 and every Xbox 360, PS3, and PC owner aboslutley CAN NOT miss it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: after23
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 27, 2008 3:26 pm PT
Review:  War rages on in the fourth edition of Activision's acclaimed war game. For the first time in the 
 series, Call of Duty moves away from WWII to the modern battlefield. Armed with an arsenal of advanced 
 and powerful modern day firepower, players are transported to treacherous hotspots around the globe 
 to take on a rogue enemy group threatening the world. As both a U. S Marine and British S. A. S. soldier 
 fighting through an unfolding story full of twists and turns, players use sophisticated technology, 
 superior firepower and coordinated land and air strikes on a battlefield where speed, accuracy 
 and communication are essential to victory. The epic title also delivers an added depth of multiplayer 
 action providing online fans an all-new community of persistence, addictive and customizable gameplay.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CH355Y
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 27, 2008 2:56 pm PT
Review:  Well let's get started shall we? 
  
  I'll start with the offline campaign, considering the idea and publicity surrounding the release 
 of COD4 the campaign was overall kind of a let down. Although there are 3 acts, the campaign is 
 over faster than you can say "FAST". The storyline has a great plot, could have been improved immensly. 
 Although you can unlock several easy achievements whilst playing through the campaign.
  
  Now I'll have a look at the multiplayer aspect of the game. You'll be pleased to know that (unlike 
 the single player campaign) the multiplayer is absolutely amazing. Exellent game modes (Team Deathmatch, 
 Headquarters and Sabotage are must try ones) , wide range of real-life weapons and unlockable attachments 
 by attaining so many kills, unlockable perks like extra health or extra ammo. Also a wide range 
 of challenges in a variety of subjects (Boot Camp, Operations, Killer, Humilation and Eite) which 
 unlock several rewards of experience points.
  
  Overall the game is definately a must buy, if your into getting gamerpoints and an exellent online 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: josh_fox12
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 27, 2008 7:23 am PT
Review:  The first thing that everyone tends to do when they go on Call Of Duty 4 (COD 4) is that they do 
 all the missions. Which is what i did. As you start you get basic training and the first mission 
 is easy to handle. As you progress through the game you find that they is a higher density of enemy 
 and the accuracy of enemy is a lot higher. This helps to make the game more intense and creates 
 suspense as you sneak around every corner frantically searching for the enemy. On previous COD's 
 the computerised people that are on your team tend to be crap! but on COD4 they also have great 
 accuracy and help you to complete a mission. Once you have finished all of the missions people 
 tend to sell the game! But with the Live being of such a high quality, there is no need to get 
 rid. COD 4 on XBOX LIVE is so popular that the quality of gameplay is of the highest i have seen 
 for any XBOX 360 game!!
  
  Get this game whilst you can... you won't regret it ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diddyj
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 27, 2008 5:23 am PT
Review:  Like i said before, this game is in the top rankings for FPS's on the 360, so you can't really 
 go wrong with this title...
  
  Graphics: the graphics in this game will blow you away... they will draw any gamer into this game.. i 
 might go as far to say as this game has the best to date graphics for a FPS out there... So, 5-5 
 for me
  
  Gameplay: there are no flaws in the gameplay in this Call of Duty... IW couldn't done a better job 
 with the gameplay... and it doesn't hurt that the campaign in this game complimates the gameplay 
 like no other.. you might have more fun with the single player in this game, then with any other 
 game out there...5-5 for me
  
  Difficulty: I'll go as far to say that the only thing hard about this game is veteran on campaign... 
 and if you take your time on that, then you can get that level beat... Now, as for the online, 
 your gonna need a lot of practice to be good online in this game..
  
  Considering that people say that the online is so much better over the epic campaign, then you 
 got yourself a great all around game.. the game for me, gets a 9-10
  
  do yourself a favor, take your time with this game.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dandyman94
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 27, 2008 4:47 am PT
Review:  I loved this game but i was a bit angry when i found out i had just completed it a day after i 
 bought it. The levels are dense but to short, the A I in the story is very impressive and the graphics 
 are just amazing. The way how you can see the dust and smoke floating through the lines of sunlight 
 is just amazing. The best feature of the game is the online multiplayer, it has got to be the best 
 online game ive played yet. The best points of the online mode are the way you do challanges to 
 get extra xp and the level system, the more levels you go up the more guns you get. I also like 
 the way you can modify your guns with silencers, grenade launchers, scopes and laser dot sights. 
 The create a class mode also lets you add perks to your wepon class, you can add perks that make 
 you drop a grenade automaticly when you die, perks that increases your reloading speed, you can 
 add a RPG to your class or some C4, one of the best perks i think is the claymore mine i always 
 use it to put at the bottom of some stairs so i can snipe without anyone running up the stairs 
 and shooting me. The cheat system is also funny, you can turn men into car tyers and make your 
 weapon have infinte ammo there are manny more cheats than that but to get the cheat system you 
 have to complete the game on any difficulty, and to get the actual cheats you need to find pieces 
 of enemy intel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skullman207
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 27, 2008 4:39 am PT
Review:  This is my first review so this review may not be as good as you expected.
  The main part of the review is about the multiplayer becaues the singleplayer is short. 
  
 
  I have never played any of the other COD games because I ain't a fan of WW2 shooters but I wanted 
 this game because it looks good and looks real fun. ummm when you play you play as a british SAS 
 (soap) or a us marine ( jackson) and the story plays on pretty well, you'll get into the story 
 easily, there are some parts that will make you annoyed and hard. cheat mode is really fun to use 
 like the slo-mo cheat.
  
  The graphics are amazing, if you ever played assassin's creed, its simular. if you look closly 
 at the gun, when it fire you'll see some effects and the recoil. same with fire, you see some waves 
 when you go near one. if you go night-vision the light effect are awsome.
  
  sound is great, you will get the feeling that someone is behind you or bullets zooming pass your 
 head. sound is realy important if you will be camping because you'll hear footsteps and get ready. 
 voise acting in single player is great, gunsounds are realistic.
  
  The best this about this game is the online multiplayer, theres many things to do like, unlocking 
 weapons and perks. when you go online you'll get to make your own soldier with your customized 
 weapons and perks. perks are like this equipment and abilities that your soldier will have. You 
 will hate many people you encounter, and you will complain about the bullet penertaion system. 
 and heres a tip: if you use martydom people will hate you, alot.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zunarutze
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 27, 2008 3:56 am PT
Review:  Winner of 40+ E3 Aarads Including|: Best of Show-g4, Best Action Game-Game Critics Awards, Best Shooter 
 and best Graphics-Gamespot and IGN. com
  
  Yes This is all true. Fight as a Member of the U. S. Forces and British Spec Ops in Global Hotspots 
 to Eliminate A well-Armed Ruthless Force Of International Separtists.
  
  Take the Fight online Where Persistent Sats Unlock Dozens of Custmizable Weapons And Abilities 
 Like calling in Attack Helicpoters and Fighter Jets to dominate Your Opponents.
  
  
  In the campiagn there are 3 acts all of them are long but the longest is act 1.
  Main characters 
 Capt. Price, Gas, Sgt Griggs,
  I would like to say a day's worth of playing would beat it.
  PLaying on the hardest setting unlocks achivements.
  
  Mulitplayer is what made this game so 
 special you start out as a rank on 1 recruit and try to rank all the way up to lvl 55 (5-star commander) 
 Then You have the option to prestige thats a hard dicison lose everything to go futher or stay 
 at 55 with no symbol (Note prestige lets you get more exp because you start back at one. Also you 
 lose verything, AND 10 PRESTIGE IS THE HIGHEST YOU CAN GO RIGHT NOW UNTIL THE MAP PACKS COME WHICH 
 IS THIS SPRING.|) COD4 MEN WE ARE LEAVING!!!! GERNADE RPG UP IN THE HOUSE SNIPER IN ON THE ROOF. MOVE 
 MOVE MOVE!!!!!!!!!!!!! ModERN WArFArE 
::::::

::::::
UserName: M3lo15
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 26, 2008 11:13 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty 4: Modern Warfare is a game people will be talking about for a long time. It is an 
 amazing game that is also a breath of fresh air from the recent "halo style" shooters that have 
 become so popular. Not to say that there haven't been realistic shooters recently, its just that 
 none of them have come close to being this good. COD 4 is the total package. It has a great (although 
 short) single player feature, as well as an outstanding multiplayer feature which will get most 
 of the attention.
  
  Starting with the single player portion of the game. The single player campaign is excellent in 
 COD 4. It features tight controls, plenty of excitement, and a story that really makes you care 
 about the reasons for you doing what your doing, and what you are doing is a lot of killing. The 
 controls keep the action fun, not frustrating. (assuming your not playing on expert) Infinity ward 
 also did a great job with level design in the campaign. There are many ways to outflank opponents 
 and win the war strategically. Although I was a bit confused at first, having never played a Call 
 of Duty game before, I came to really enjoy playing the campaign in the perspectives of two completely 
 different soldiers. I think that adds a lot to the story and is a big part of the story being so 
 immersive. Overall the story is strong and keeps you wanting more until the bitter, bitter end. 
 What more could you honestly ask for?
  
  Now to the real meat of the game, the multiplayer. The multiplayer is truly unlike anything previously 
 in a video game mostly due to its ranking system. Comparisons can be made to Rainbow Six: Vegas' 
 PEC system but this is truly different and it is better in a few ways. Infinity Ward chose to reward 
 players based on the weapons they like to use, therefore further aiding every particular players 
 style of play. For example, if a player likes to use an MP5, based on the amount of kills, head 
 shots, etc. you get with the MP5, the more scopes and camo you unlock for that gun. Its a great 
 system that rewards players for what they like doing, but also challenges players to step outside 
 their comfort zones and maybe pick up that big heavy machine gun and go to work. This ranking system 
 is very deep and should keep people on COD 4 for quite awhile. Besides the ranking system though 
 the performance of COD 4 on Xbox Live is great. Very rarely these is lagg that really keeps this 
 game from being unplayable, even with the high quality of the graphics they have running.
  
  This game is the shining jewel on Xbox Live and deservingly so. This game is the complete package 
 as far as shooters go and any fan of shooters has to give it a go. Heck even if you aren't a fan, 
 give it a try, it just might convert you. Bottom line is this is an amazing effort by Infinity 
 Ward and I hope they get crackin as soon as possible on a sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xGKx_Shaolin
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 26, 2008 8:42 pm PT
Review:  call of duty is probably one of the most addictive game I have played after Gears of War. One player 
 game is great the only game Ive played campaign twice easy level and on veteran...
  
  Multiplayer is Great. Awesome Graphics Great maps and good gameplay though playing in other servers 
 in other countries can lags quite a bit..
  
  Prestige make the multplayer gameplay so addictive and is the best on-line game in my opinion. 
 This game keep you glued too your chair and you have so much too choose from.. Search and Destroy, 
 team Deathmatch, Normal or Hardcore and your weapons are not given to you you have to earn everyone, 
 From Red Dot sight or Silenced.. its great and gives you a reason why you want to play even more.
 
  
  Only down for in this game is there is no Co-Op if there was Co-Op this game would be a 10...
 
  
  A must keep game for xbox users... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lt_Scorpius
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 26, 2008 7:30 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare, in a nutshell, is where Infinity Ward decided "Let's go all out 
 for our diamond anniversary (so to speak) in the COD universe."
  
  The story mode has been transformed from the character-by-character timeline in history into a 
 well thought out, dual character storyline which, quite frankly, would not be a bad idea for an 
 actual full-length film. Call of Duty 4 has washed away the Nazi party and gave us Middle Eastern 
 nationalists. Divided into a three act series, players get to live and experience modern combat 
 in a mostly accurate and very detailed journey between US Marines and British SAS.
  
  Referring to the technicals of the game, the details were amazing. From the first rainstorm to 
 the highly believable ghili suits there were little to no attention to detail missing at all. Now 
 on the side of believability in the story and the accuracy in a fictional story; undeniably believable. 
 Between ground teams clearing buildings and air support, it's hard to argue that Call of Duty 4 
 is not only well developed, but it's really fun, too. So fun that the multiplayer elements are 
 completely outstanding. "Game experience may change during online play"? Yeah, it just made me 
 have another reason to love it even more and keep myself glued to the trigger of any customizable 
 gone in a huge inventory of weapons and perks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SiLeNt_SpYdEr
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 26, 2008 7:28 pm PT
Review:  Speechless. This game completely threw me back, and got me the chill feeling that it feels good 
 to have an X-Box 360. Yes it contains a short campaign. Though short it contains an action-packed 
 story which I won't lie doesn't make much sense because it's a sudden ending. Yet, it is overruled 
 with it's graphics and realistic gameplay from the get-go. Now the most thrilling feature is it's 
 multiplayer gameplay. It's amazing with the class ranks that it offers. Along with ranking up, 
 at each rank you unlock new weapons and perks to have an advantage over lower ranks. One great 
 feature is that once at max level, you are able to earn a badge you recognize you as a PRESTIGE 
 CLASS. This really is just a feature that you can use to boast about your gameplay. Also to show 
 that you have what it takes to do it all over again. The Reason I said it feels good to have 360 
 is because I have played the PS3 version, and it was dissapointing compared. But wether you have 
 a PS3 or an X-Box 360 don't think twice about playin this trully revelutionizing game!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SPC4MAFIA
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 26, 2008 6:29 pm PT
Review:  Halo 3? Psh.
  
  The once-king of all shooters has some learning to do from Infinity Ward's latest and greatest: 
 Call of Duty 4. With unprecedented realism and an unmatched experience / leveling system, you'll 
 wonder why you're busting your buns to be top dog on Bungie's bogged-down predecessor to what COD 
 4 has managed to perfect.
  
  While the single-player campaign is toted to be shorter than industry standard, this tested FPS 
 vet shot his way through the hardest difficulty in 9.5 hours, which is, to its credit, about on 
 par with the average. (Remember, folks, that Halo 3's campaign was around 8 hours) . Once you beat 
 the campaign - and the bonus mission at the end! - you are treated with a rarely mentioned prize: 
 Arcade Mode. In this mode, you and your friends have the ability to compare scores on each level 
 with the limitation of 3-5 lives per level, depending on the difficulty. Scores are counted in 
 terms of points, which are achieved when shooting different areas of the body (headshots, for example, 
 are 100 points.) Stack up point to get multipliers. Stir, and enjoy.
  
  The wildly popular multiplayer is just so because of the following comparison. The scenario is 
 this: Imagine you are in the top slot of an online game on Halo. You have 30 kills, and you're 
 supporting the team. Now: Game over. The other three noobs you've been carrying have 10, 7, and 
 3 kills among them. But guess what? You all get the same amount of XP. "What?!" is the question 
 most heard when this scene is painted. With COD 4, you earn as you play. Play like Rambo, get Rambo 
 recognition. The worst part of the scenario above is that the XP in Halo 3 doesn't even matter 
 because a level 50 has no advantage over a level 1. What's the point of earning XP in Halo again?
 
  
  In COD 4, weapons unlock, weapon modifiers (scopes, silencers, camo, etc.) unlock, challenges with 
 those weapons unlock. Unlocking any and all of these things, in turn, gives you extra XP towards 
 your rank. When you finally achieve the highest rank, you have so much clout and advantage over 
 the other players, you find yourself asking if you really want to partake in the extensive "Presitge" 
 system... but what that is... well... you'll have to play.
  
  And you won't regret doing so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ricky-Wagner
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 26, 2008 2:25 pm PT
Review:  I have always been a fan of the Call of Duty series, and i must say that this one has blown me 
 away. It has amazing gameplay that has you at the edge of your seat for hours on end, and to top 
 it off, insane graphics and surround sound that will turn your eyes and ears inside out! My favorite 
 new addition in this game is the ability to level up and unlock new weapons in multiplayer, as 
 well as pick perks to give you a one up on the battlefield. I have spent many hours online with 
 this game and it never ceases to amaze me when my friend beside me gets blown away right in front 
 of my eyes, or a a team mate calls in a helicopter to score us the winning points. If you like 
 FPS games then i can not stress enough how much you need this game. The hours and hours of fun 
 trying to beat the campaigne on veteran and leveling up in multiplayer you will have are limitless 
 (at least until a new COD comes out) and will have you up WAY past you bedtime. So before you DIE 
 of boredom of playing just your average FPS games all the time, get out and pick this one up, you 
 will NOT regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deltaman3
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 26, 2008 11:52 am PT
Review:  This game has proved itself worthy to stay in my warm comfy consol as long as it needs because 
 I play it all the time, Here are some highlights to help people who don't have it yet. 1. As some 
 already know, there is a create a class feature, but you only unlock it at a certain rank. But 
 the good thing is that all matchs are rank matches!! (other than private matches) Every kill counts. 
 2. there are three supports you can call in. (No, there is no tanks, so go punch your friend who 
 told you there is in the face.) After three kills you can call in a UAV, which will scan the entire 
 area and tell your team where everyone is, exepct the people with UAV jammer perk. After 5 kills 
 (Just as a reminder, you have to get them in a streak, not all adding up) you get to call in a 
 airstrike on a position you want. (Try getting kills really fast so you can use the UAV to know 
 where they are to rack up some more kills with the airstrike) . After 7 kills, you get the helicopter, 
 which really pisses the other team off. But get this, every kill in the helicopter will also count 
 as a streak, so you can get helicopter after helicopter. No you do not control the heli, and it 
 goes away if shot to much or after a munite * I cant spell anything right. 3. last one that is 
 relly short, single player rocks too! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: King_Volta
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 26, 2008 10:05 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is something of a legend by now. When the series finally left the 
 WWII battlefield, the series also evolved into something much better, more cinematic, and -- mostly, 
 more fun.
  
  The ingredients making up the final recipe in COD4 all add up in an astounding way: the graphics 
 are great throughout, the campaign is awesome (though undeniably short) , the multiplayer beats 
 the "unbeatable" Halo 3, and the gunplay is well-executed and works well in the realistic environments 
 and settings.
  
  The campaign: A short, but brilliant romp through many environments and stages with a better-than-average 
 and well-speculated wartime plot to back ti all up. And with the lingering threats of Veteran and 
 Hardened difficulty (though I played on Hardened on my first playthrough...) make it easily replayable. 
 
  
  The multiplayer: Something really special. Work your way to upgrades and higher levels to improve 
 your character in multiplayer. Yet it manages to be so well-balanced that even a beginner in a 
 standard Assault class can destroy a level 53 that's all decked out. The battles feel real and 
 intense, and the multiplayer is one of the only entries that manages to be realistic, tense, fun, 
 and still retain that highly addictive quality that multiplayer games try to attest to.
  
  Other: The arcade mode is fun for a while, though certainly I can say it wouldn't necessarily be 
 missed if it weren't included. Otherwise, the voice-work, cinematic scope and realistic portrayals 
 this games boasts make it something wholly unique.
  
  Problems: There aren't many, truthfully; however, one glaring issue that could annoy many gamers 
 concerns the respawn play in the campaign: one is not able to sit back casually and pick off and 
 destroy a challenging room -- there are no such unrealistic endeavors in this entry! One must clear 
 a path and quickly and assertively progress before a new rank of freshly respawned enemies arrives! 
 This is certainly a gripe of mine. Also, while the graphics are extremely nice throughout, there 
 are indeed times of mild problem. 
  
  Then there are the typicals: the AI sometimes falters brilliantly, the level design can, at times, 
 be a bit confounding, and there are the usual shooter graphical glitches and inconsistencies.
 
  
  Still, most of this matters little, and the overall package is certainly something not to be missed 
 by any shooter fan, or really any game fan in general. Highly recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JtAgentX
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 25, 2008 11:48 pm PT
Review:  I had this game for over 3 months. I finally got the chance to review this game with all types 
 of points. First of all, for a short campaign, this game had the most action sequences ever. Half 
 of the game you were on the edge of you seat from the moment the Atomic Bomb went off to the stealth 
 part as the Lt.
  
  The beginning of the game had more action than most First Person Shooter's entire story lines. 
 Another good point about this games is the online play. There is so many things I have to say about 
 it, it's difficult to make out each point.
  
  While online, you will go up 55 ranks and reach Prestige mode, which puts even more replay value 
 in the game. The weapon class system is one of the most strategic weapon system EVER. You Customize 
 every weapon to you likings. Classes such as Snipers and Sub Machine Guns with Martydom and Juggernaut 
 helps you get even more experience as you kill someone each time in a match. This game literally 
 becomes your best friend as you play 24 hours a day non-stop or if you have spare time. It's crazy.
 
  
  Overall, this game never disappoints, except for the servers sometimes disconnects you from game 
 play when too many people join. Another thing is the spawn system which sometimes puts you in front 
 of who ever killed you. Aside from that, this game is one of the best First person shooters to 
 date. I would give this game a 10, but as mentioned, the game can sometimes become your enemy as 
 quickly as it becomes you friend. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: suicidal_T_H
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 25, 2008 9:34 pm PT
Review:  Wow this is amazing. Everthing about this game is perfect. Main campain and multi-player are great. 
 everthing's great. The campain does a great job of breaking up the ground missions with mounted 
 gun missions. The multi-player does a good job of giving you a reason to play longer. The multi-player 
 has a variety of game types from team deathmatch to headquaters and search and destroy. Everthing 
 about this game is great the graphics, the sounds, the gameplay, the story. The only down side 
 to the game is the campain is a little on the short side. But the campain is top notch which I 
 would prefer a little short and very good rather than really long and boring. In multi-player it 
 does of good job of keeping you playing by letting you create your own class with perks. The perks 
 give you special abilities like after dying you drop a live gernade or more bullet damage. Then 
 once you reach the top rank you can go prestige mode and go through the ranks all over again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bored_gamer
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 25, 2008 6:18 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 does it amazingly by moving out of the World War II and moving on to the modern 
 times. You play as both a British soldier and with someone from the U. S. M. C.. It has its freaky 
 moments and its awesome moments as well. From escaping a boat, to being in the first-person view 
 of Khaled Al-Asad, to operating a weapon in an AC-130 that is about a few thousand feet above ground. 
 The multiplayer is good too but then this is the xbox 360, so the LIVE multiplayer is good with 
 great modes and ranks depending on how well you did. This game is by far the best Call of Duty 
 game because of how much it's evolved from going fighting in France, Germany, all the places that 
 WWII took place to fighting in Russia, the middle east and other places. I can say that it literally 
 puts you in the war. It looks and feels so realistic that it's almost like you yourself are in 
 the the battle. It's not easy either because you can get outnumbered by other people and even end 
 up dead in a few seconds or minutes depending on how good you are. One thing where this game does 
 well is on the visuals. Another would be the explosions and air support with choppers and jet fighters 
 shooting missiles at buildings. The multiplayer does that too and it's a pretty cool feature. The 
 first few Call of Duty games were good, don't get me wrong about that but this one is incredible. 
 This is a game that everyone should have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FamilyGuyFan507
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 25, 2008 5:31 pm PT
Review:  Crawling in the thick grass of Chernyobly. Voices of a large platoon of 30 something soldiers and 
 10 tanks roll past you. All you can hear from you and your comrade is your gentle breathing and 
 your ghille suit bouncing off the ground. When they pass, you stand up and realize you just finished 
 off your pair of Whitey Tighties.
  
  
  All I can say is welcome to Call of Duty 4...
  
  
  In the game of Call of Duty 4, you are Sergeant "Soap" McTavish, a new recruit fresh out 
 of Bootcamp. You are a British SAS soldier in the 22nd Special Air Service Regiment. Your Captain 
 is a good man at that, Captain Price is a man you will get to know and love quickly through the 
 storyline. Then you are also a United States Marine Lieutentant Paul Jackson. Through all these 
 campaigns you will play it is all against a Terrorists Al-Asad and Zakehav who have decided to 
 get crazy for power and bomb anything in there way. While skipping through the storyline to avoid 
 Spoilers. This ending will pretty much send you in a complete dramatic stage. I'm not lying, these 
 characters are so in depth you might actually shed tears in times during the campaign. Don't worry 
 if you do, I did the same exact thing. 
  
  If it's not the epicness you fill in the deep in ricing storyline (That sadly will last you about 
 5-8 hours) then is the sick graphics that surround the world you play in. These graphics are probably 
 the most smoothest enviromental graphics I have ever seen in my 10plus years of gaming. The enviroment 
 actually is living. The trees move differently and the grass moves back and forth side to side. 
 
  
  And if that doesn't save you from going ape... Then welcome to one of the best Online Shooters... EVER!! It's 
 so enrichning that you will go back once you call it quits. The rankings are so forfilling that 
 you will be dying to unlock Reddot scope availibility on your M16 or another Sniper Rifle camo 
 to hide you better in thick grass fields. The online is immersive reaching over 16 players in 10 
 plus Gamemodes and 8 plus Maps to forefill your needs. The leaderboards are probably the best next 
 to those of Halo 3's. The leaderboards are fast and quick and also deep in 
 
  
  Call of Duty 4 brings so much to the table that you will literally ask for Captain Price is own 
 damn Call of Duty game entitled Call of Duty: Captain Price Chronicles, people laugh but play the 
 game and you will figure it out. I don't know what makes me cringe playing this game, wether it 
 is the deadly AI that can literally take out most baddies by itself or the fact that ranking your 
 online guy up with sweet perks. The possiblities are endless... Now, since I have rambled on about 
 this game to the point it makes no damn sense, time to talk about the struggles of this game.
 
  
  The game brings forward a great storyline but it can't even make it 10 plus hours. It's too damn 
 short to experience something so richening that you are forced to play again. It's also sad to 
 me that the developers worked harder on the damn SAS missions than they did with the USMC missions 
 which feel tedious and last minute. And for the life of me, I can't understand why Call of Duty 
 can't get it right about the running. Why does your character look so fake when it runs? Well, guess 
 that is up to you...
  
  Overall, this is one of my favorite games of all time. It's so fun to play and enjoy with friends 
 that you will be for more. But from recent rumors I've heard, It's back to World War II 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sdavis891
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 25, 2008 2:17 pm PT
Review:  One of the best first person shooter games I have ever played! Graphics are amazing and the characters 
 are so life like! Graphics are 5/5 Gameplay is 5/5 but one thing I do have to comment on are the 
 dogs in game. The dogs are about 3/5 for life like. When The Russian president gets carried to 
 his death. You see quiet a few dogs looking back and forth. Thats the only action they do. I would 
 like to see them walking around, or maybe even some stranded dogs attacking other dogs. So I highly 
 suggest everyone reading this go pick up a copy first. Don't take my work for it you must try it 
 yourself. Although there is no demo to download on X-box live, you can still pick it up for a good 
 price of around $60.00 or so. One thing to do first is to look around at many stores to calculate 
 the prices. Some places sell at a higher rate then another; EG: Walmart and Futureshop. I am Canadian 
 so prices may differ from many places! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: G-Rat06
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 25, 2008 12:41 pm PT
Review:  When this game was first released, I was one of the millions of people that were playing Halo 3 
 and I didn't believe the hype for COD4 one bit. But after I got enough cash to buy a new game, 
 I chose this and boy am I impressed. The Single Player is immersive, addicting, and it leaves you 
 wanting more. And thats not even the best part! The real substance lies in the Multiplayer, and 
 it's flawless. There is challenges that you achieve to earn new weapons and can upgrade. The upgrades 
 are as simple as adding scopes to putting on camoflauge for them. It also lets you create your 
 own soldier classes. This is very cool. If you want, you could make a sniper class and put on iron 
 lungs which is a perk that lets you hold your breath longer. There is so much to do and unlock 
 that you can't help but be addicted to this game. If you don't have this game you need to get it. 
 End of story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: forcef2
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 25, 2008 12:27 am PT
Review:  AMAZING! Although you may get killed through walls and get angry it definitely is realistic. The 
 guns sound like guns, the campaign has a good story behind it, the multi player is awesome. They 
 have difficulty levels for every person, and multi player gives you even more fun, challenges, 
 weapons, and choices. This game is very good and sets the standard very high. All of the campaign 
 levels are immersing and fun, You should never get bored of the campaign levels because every one 
 gives you a unique experience. Multi player also gives a unique new feel to the game. This game 
 is highly addicting and I would highly recommend this game to anybody. You will be stuck there 
 always yelling1 more minute" for hours. You will have an awesome great experience and if you 
 don't have it and enjoy shooting games even slightly i would recommend this game for you. Multi 
 player gives you a set of new challenges to unlock weapons and camo (Design patterns) for your 
 weapon after you complete the challenge. The weapons are all great and every level has a position 
 for someone, sniper, assault, SMG, LMG, shotguns, and almost any weapon worth fighting with. This 
 game is great and I would definitely recommend it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: onething77
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 25, 2008 2:09 pm PT
Review:  Call Of Duty 4 was a big surprise to all of us. Knowing Infinity Ward, we we're all expecting yet 
 another WWII average shooter that was starting to get old. But no! Call Of Duty 4 is a very pleasant, 
 very enjoyable modern shooter with stunning graphics and an amazing game-play. Campaign mode was 
 a tad bit too short, but perfection cannot be expected. Albeit this little bump in the road, their 
 are no major glitches and the game itself was very meticulously conceived. When you play Call Of 
 Duty 4, you'll know what I mean! But let us not forget Xbox Live or PSN, as Call Of Duty 4 probably 
 is the best online game to play out there. With a sinister ambiance and a suspicious music, you 
 can feel the adrenaline rushing through your body and it is as if you we're really at war. In my 
 opinion, COD 4 takes the '07 game-of-the-year award home. No doubt in my mind. Get this game and 
 play 'til you die! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamereviewer371
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 24, 2008 6:43 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing! The graphics are fantastic, the gameplay is smooth, and it is the most enjoyable 
 campaign I have ever played. The multiplayer is fantastic. You get tons of weapon customizations. 
 All around this is the best game i have ever played. I would recommend this game to anyone who 
 likes to play any type of war game. I love love love love love love love love love love love love 
 love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love 
 love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love 
 love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love 
 love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love 
 love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love 
 love love love love love love love love love love love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: antdeezy05
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 24, 2008 4:19 pm PT
Review:  I've had this game since it came out 11/06/2007 and hands down it is the best game out right now 
 and is a MUST buy. The graphics and storyline are great but what really makes this game is the 
 Multiplayer, you'll be playing this game long after you beat the single player. In COD 4 multiplayer 
 you have perks which can be unlocked based on challanges you meet and levels you gain, like stopping 
 power that gives your bullets more damage and extra guns you can unlock at certain levels. You 
 also gain rank like private, lieutenant all the way up to General etc the higher you get the more 
 perks and weapons you unlock, you also have prestige mode which gives you the option to give up 
 everything you've earned once you reach level 55 (Commander) including rank and all your weapons 
 etc for a shinny symbol next to you name and the chance to start all over again from the beginning 
 the chances that you'll be playing this game for months and months to come after you buy it are 
 very good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: REMLOC
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 24, 2008 3:22 pm PT
Review:  SO MANY GREAT AND JUST AMAZING THINGS ABOUT THIS GAME I ALMOST DON'T KNOW WHERE TO BEGIN. THIS 
 GAME JUST MAKES ANYONE WHO APPRECIATES FIRST PERSON SHOOTERS FEEL LIKE INFINITY WARD THOUGHT OF 
 THEM AND ONLY THEM. I FOR ONE AM GLAD. ITS A ADRENALINE PUMPED WAR FROM THE OPENING SEQUENCE ALL 
 THE WAY TO THE BONUS MISSION AT THE END. I HAVE NEVER BEEN SO ADDICTED TO ONE GAME EVER. I OWN 
 OVER 30 XBOX 360 TITLES AND THIS BY FAR IS THE ONLY ONE I NEED. YOU WANT WEAPONS, IT DELIVERS, 
 YOU WANT KILLER SOUNDS ,BOOM YOU GOT IT! GRAPHICS SO SMOOTH AND POLISHED THE CHARACTER MODELS LOOK 
 EVEN MORE REAL DURING COMBAT. YOU CAN'T SAY THAT ABOUT A LOT OF OTHER GAMES. THE ONLY REASON I 
 DIDN'T REVIEW THIS GAME WHEN IT CAME OUT IS BECAUSE I WAS TO BUSY PLAYING IT. THE SINGLE PLAYER 
 CAMPAIGN IS REVOLUTIONARY, THE BEST BY FAR THAT I'VE EVER PLAYED. THE ONLY GAME THAT EVEN COMES 
 CLOSE IS HALO 3, AND THATS STILL A LONG WAY AWAY FROM COD4 QUALITY. THIS GAME IS AN ABSOLUTE MUST 
 BY! AND DON'T FORGET THE MULTIPLAYER, YOU'LL HAVE FUN PLAYING MULTIPLAYER WHETHER ITS SPLIT SCREEN 
 OR ON LINE. WHOEVER DOESN'T LIKE COD4 DOESN'T APPRECIATE GREATNESS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: antonioGamer87
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 24, 2008 12:39 pm PT
Review:  frist let me start by saying im a halo 3 fan boy.
  
  Gameplay: wow more fun than halo cause is a little more fast pace and i like it that it's tactical 
 shooting in some levels like vegas and suicidal in others, you never know what to expect.
  
  Music: wow makes the game more fun, and sounds cool.... but also makes more nervous,
  
  
 replay value: awesome i passed it hard two times since i got it and will play it in veteran when 
 im ready. lol.
  
  story: i cried when Cpt. Price died, he was like a father to me during all the game,
  he would 
 give me the lead follow me here and there, first time in a video game i cried.... the story gets 
 10/10
  
  the length of the game surprise me, i read alot of reviews who said it was short, maybe this n@@s 
 play it in easy mode cause it took about 10-11 hours to passed, uh level 11 where you have wait 
 like 5 minutes while all this guys attack you by the big wheel and go cars was hell, took me over 
 an hour to passed, just remember to find a good position to snipe.
  
  best shooter game of i played ever, although in some points of the game gets a little boring. like 
 that night vision plane shooting level. that was the only level i did not like.
  
  must have for all shooter lovers, if your in to very tactical shooters , you will also enjoy cause 
 the a mission that feels like im playing splinter cell,,, crawling in the floor with your grass 
 costume. lol it was dun also.
  
  graphics: wow now second best i seen besides gears, although some things do get a very blurry when 
 you get really close to it.
  
  
  and the online game play wow. amazing, you do need skills like halo maybe not that mush shooting 
 skills like halo, but if you know how to move around in the maps and attack the enemy. you will 
 get a lot of kills.... peace.
  
  9.5/10, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: demonslayer228
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 23, 2008 4:54 pm PT
Review:  Ok i Admit this game ain't good the Single player is boaring and the online sucks because you always 
 have to watch your back and usally players snip you OUTTA NOWHERE!!!!!!!! that really piss's me 
 off a'lot's of time and it's too easy! omg it's so easy to e 1,2, or 3 just play (Free-for-all) 
 be a sniper and go into a bulding and make sure people swapn there or cross there a'lot and snip 
 like crazy i know about 24 places to snip easily !! and i don't like sniping this shooting games 
 i like being an assult it's faster and better well i'm horrbrile at sniping at a few shooting games 
 like gears and halo but this game is so easy to snip i'm just talking about how horrible this game 
 is and it's easy it's not diifcult. well if you want more gamers score playthe single player it 
 has a lot of gamer score wow like everthing you do sometimes like i don't i made so munch! well 
 a'lot of people like this game i wonder why i'll never know but i like this game a little i don't 
 play this game that munch but i use it a little i only play free for all matches i dont like team 
 death matach only in this game it's hard to tell 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SerOlmy
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 23, 2008 3:47 pm PT
Review:  Amazing single player campaign. Short, but the story was well thought out, the missions well designed 
 and the enemies had good AI. I played through on Hardened my first try and it was a genuine challenge, 
 but not frustratingly so. When I finished I had to step back and say man that was great. My only 
 complaint is that the campaign only lasted about 8-10 hours.
  
  As far as the multiplayer goes, I have to say I was highly disappointed coming from CSS and TF2. 
 In my two weeks of playing the most common tactic I saw was grenade spamming into the spawn areas 
 and camping. I had expected dynamic combat with varied roles, in actuality its far less interesting. 
 The weapons (with the exception of the shotguns and sniper rifles) all feel the same in combat 
 , which makes the LMGs the only real option unless you plan to snipe due to their large ammo capacity. 
 Except for the different types of explosives, perks are also really uninteresting and make almost 
 no difference in most cases. 
  
  The thing that bothered me the most is that in a game where you are unable to select servers with 
 specific rule sets, the engine makes no attempt to match people based on similar skill levels. 
 So in most cases people of poor and average skill are set opposed to people who are on their 5th 
 prestige level and get massacred nearly every match. 
  
  Personally I think I am going to return this after playing the single player campaign since, IMO 
 the multiplayer component is not enjoyable unless your skills are far better than average. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soulreaper187
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 22, 2008 10:52 pm PT
Review:  for you F. P. S. nuts out there call of duty is a must have for your library of games. the graphics 
 an game play are spot on an I love the fact that you get to use a knife for your melee attacks. 
 about the only fault I have with the game is the bonus mission after you beat the game, the veteran 
 difficulty for the mission is insane..... getting back to the game strengths though I love the 
 fact that this game deals with the very real wars we are having in the modern era. I think for 
 a lot of people this games gives them a small glimpse of what it is like out there an drives home 
 the fact the something very much like this is going on right now in the real world. an other great 
 feature of the game is on certain missions you can call in air support, plus you get to play a 
 mission as air support, I have to say that was my most favorit mission of the entire game, you 
 get to be in the air raining down fire from above to decimate the enemy forces. I feel that this 
 game has set a new bench mark for the series an look forward for what the game developer has in 
 store for us next. one thing i think the developer could improve on for instance, is to have better 
 A. I. N. P. C. for your squad. because you are not the C. O. for the squad you shouldn't have to lead 
 the charge to press forward. also I think they could use better sniper scopes then what they used 
 in the game..... the ones they do use are no better then what I use to go deer hunting with an 
 that isn't very impressive. all in all C. O. D.4 has a very intense an immersive game play experience. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thibbledorfP
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 22, 2008 9:35 pm PT
Review:  COD4 is a shooter game following the lives of a British SAS soldier and a US Marine as they fight 
 their way in missions in Iraq and the Russian countryside. The graphics, gameplay and interface 
 are top-notch, and the story and level design are outstanding. The only real drawback is its short 
 length. Mutliplayer is flawless.
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  Superb. Very realistic looking character models, vechiles and buildings. Great feel to the weapons 
 and grenades. You will see details such as cans rolling towards you after explosions.
  
  SOUND
  
  Excellent. Great, sometimes humorous voice acting that gives real personality to your 
 team mates. I didn't notice the music as I was too busy trying to avoid getting shot to pieces, 
 but it was good. Sound effects and eveything are well done.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  The game consists of a series of short missions strung together. They are each prefaced by an introductory 
 screen showing a satellite image of your position, that will zoom in and smoothly switch to the 
 mission. You are accompanied on each mission with your squad, either Americans or British soldiers 
 depending on which mission you're playing. The missions are very intense and well-scripted. You 
 will feel surges of adrenaline in real-life as your character crawls under a Russian bridge, avoiding 
 a patrol. Or as your character takes cover behind a car, trying to shoot the terrorists in the 
 nearby buildings. You follow your squad around, they are all hardcore soldiers in personality and 
 they have great AI. You occasionally have to wait for them, and occassionally you lead.
  
  Everything about the gameplay is excellent, and that is not something I would say easily as someone 
 who has reviewed a lot of games. I am not even a FPS fan, it is a genre I occasionally play. There 
 are different kinds of guns, all with a great feel and with unique uses. Enemies (and yourself) 
 will perish with a few well-placed shots, apart from the healing over time mechanic, this game 
 is much more realistic than other shooters. It is possible to crouch or lie prone and army crawl, 
 and you will need to use these a lot. There are flashbang grenades and regular grenades, just remember 
 the enemy can throw them to (and you can throw them back) . The action and strategy is thrilling 
 and complex, you really need to think ahead and save your butt while you're kicking the enemy's. 
 You get the opportunity to use plenty of military hardware including controlling a stealth bomber, 
 riding shotgun on a helicopter etc. There are plenty of jaw-dropping surprises in the campaign. 
 
  
  The one major drawback with the campaign is length. It will take you 8 hours to finish on moderate 
 difficulty. Those hours will be extremely intense and enjoyable. 
  
  Multiplayer is great, offering split-screen and LIVE components. There are a good selection of 
 different maps and modes. I don't have LIVE so I've only tried split-screen. It is great to play 
 with friends (the game WILL make you smack-talk, even if you don't usually!) . Playing Online with 
 20 or so people on a large map would be EPIC, trust me and the people who play it online regularly.
 
  
  COD4 does not hold your hand, it thrusts you into the Hell of war and lets you control soldiers 
 who can kick some ass and take names. The question is, do you have the guts to survive the destruction? 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Videogamer765
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 22, 2008 8:43 pm PT
Review:  A very great game. The graphics are great, the lighting effects own. The Single-Player Campaign 
 is great and surprising, but it is a little bit short. The Multi-player is great: Customizable 
 weapons, perks, ranks to gain so you can get more guns, perks, and attachments. Plus, you can host 
 a private match so you can play with your friends alone. Also, you have so many different maps, 
 but I don't know why you have more on Xbox Live. I just wish they would have at least one guest 
 to play with you on one Xbox 360. In Call of Duty 3, you could have 3 guests. The reason why you 
 can't it Call of Duty though is because Infinity Ward made Call of Duty 4, but Treyarch made CoD 
 3. It would be even better if you could have more than one guest, but sadly, you can't even have 
 one. But then again, it has a very good storyline and multi-player. Buy it today! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bradas101
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 22, 2008 7:14 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is the best shooter I have ever played on. It has everything releastic graphics, 
 amazing explosion, a great single player campaign and amazing online multiplayer action. CoD 4 
 is definatley a must buy for anyone with an xbox 360. The multiplayer creates fun as you try and 
 complete all of the chanllenges. It is amazing nearly 5 months after its realese every is still 
 playing on it like crazy!
  
  MUST BUY
  
  10/10 can't wait for the next one in a evermore popular series of games.
  
  MUST BUYMUST BUYMUST 
 BUYMUST BUYMUST BUYMUST BUYMUST BUYMUST BUYMUST BUYMUST BUYMUST BUYMUST BUYMUST BUYMUST BUYMUST 
 BUYMUST BUYMUST BUYMUST BUYMUST BUYMUST BUYMUST BUYMUST BUYMUST BUYMUST BUY MUST BUYMUST BUYMUST 
 BUYMUST BUYMUST BUYMUST BUYMUST BUYMUST BUYMUST BUYMUST BUYMUST BUYMUST BUYMUST BUYMUST BUYMUST 
 BUYMUST BUYMUST BUYMUST BUYMUST BUYMUST BUYMUST BUYMUST BUYMUST BUYMUST BUYMUST BUYMUST BUYMUST 
 BUY MUST BUYMUST BUYMUST BUYMUST BUYMUST BUYMUST BUYMUST BUYMUST BUYMUST BUYMUST BUYMUST BUYMUST 
 BUYMUST BUYMUST BUYMUST BUYMUST BUYMUST BUYMUST BUYMUST BUYMUST BUYMUST BUYMUST BUYMUST BUYMUST 
 BUYMUST BUYMUST BUYMUST BUYMUST BUYMUST BUYMUST BUYMUST BUYMUST BUYMUST BUYMUST BUYMUST BUYMUST 
 BUYMUST BUYMUST BUYMUST BUYMUST BUYMUST BUYMUST BUYMUST BUYMUST BUYMUST BUYMUST BUYMUST BUY 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maluigi
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 22, 2008 3:27 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Gameplay is fun and realistic; beautiful graphics really convey the sense of war; a great 
 story with plenty of twists that you won't see coming; the most addicting online play of any 360 
 game; tons of different weapons and explosives; orchestrated music is top notch; voices and weapon 
 fire really put you in the middle of the war; World War II is finally over!
  
  The Bad: No online achievements; campaign may seem short if played on a low difficulty setting; 
 no co-op.
  
  Lets face it: World War II was getting really old, really fast. However, the creators of Call of 
 Duty recognized this after the release of Call of Duty 2, and immediately started work on a modern 
 day Call of Duty: Call of Duty 4.
  
  You play as a couple of characters, but the plot remains the same throughout. Terrorists are stirring 
 up more trouble than usual, and it's up to you to put a stop to whatever they're planning. The 
 story covers a lot of ground. You'll experience a lot of realistic, jaw-dropping moments where 
 you actually start to feel the characters emotions. It does a great job of making you feel like 
 you're in a real war.
  
  Everything, including the cutscenes, is in first-person. You experience everything the eyes of 
 the soldiers that you play as. This makes everything a lot more intense, and realistic. You feel 
 as if you are part of this gigantic war taking place. However, this plays like a first person shooter 
 would. You have the gun in front of you, and you shoot with the right trigger. Every person who's 
 played a Call of Duty game, though, knows that your weapons are virtually useless, unless you look 
 down the sights, with the left trigger, which is also how you look down your scope. This makes 
 your aim extremely accurate, but, when holding the left trigger, you're slower when walking and 
 turning. 
  
  Of course, moving around is controlled with the left analog stick, and aiming and moving your sight 
 to look around is controlled with the right analog stick. By pressing the left analog stick in, 
 you'll break out into a short, but useful sprint. Your speed will increase for a short time, but 
 you're unable to use your weapon. By pressing the right analog stick in, you'll slash, or stab, 
 with your knife. This serves as your melee attack, and is an automatic kill if it connects.
  
  Other controls include the right bumper, which is your frag grenade (s) and the left bumper, 
 which is your special grenade (s) , such as smoke, flash and stun grenades.
  
  The "A" button is a small jump, which comes in handy when you're trying to jump across rooftops 
 to get a birds eye view, or trying to confuse a sniper in the distance. Call of Duty 4 has not 
 adopted the cover system like most other shooters have. Instead, it still uses the crouch and prone 
 cover using the "B" button. Press it once to crouch, making you move slower, but you're harder 
 to hit, and press it twice to go prone, where you crawl slowly, but you're even harder to hit in 
 certain places. It's a bit of a surprise that CoD4 is still using this kind of formula, but, to 
 tell you the truth, it still works extremely well, if not better than the cover system found in 
 Gears of War and Rainbow Six Vegas. The "X" button is reload (of course!) and the "Y" button is 
 how you switch weapons. The control pad controls various explosives, such as claymores, C4's and 
 the like. It can also be used online to trigger various air support. 
  
  The games graphics are incredible. Every little detail will draw your attention, and make you want 
 to say, "Whoa! Look at that!". The character models look amazing, and the guns look spectacular. 
 All of the war torn buildings look great, and... well... this game really shows what time and hard 
 work can really do. 
  
  Okay, now the music. It's amazing. It heightens the tension of every moment, and kicks in at the 
 perfect times. However, you may not even realize there's music playing because of everything going 
 on around you. The sound effects are incredibly realistic, to the point where you jump when you 
 here gunfire going off. You'll here soldiers screaming from the sides, giving you instructions, 
 and screaming as they rush into battle. The gunfire almost deafens you (not really) , and grenades 
 going off sound.... well... like grenades going off. It sounds like a real war (I think!) .
  
  There's been a good amount of complaints about the length of the single player campaign. If you 
 play it on the two lower difficulties, then, yes, it's gonna be pretty short. But if you play it 
 on the two higher difficulties, then it'll seem pretty long. However, if you do play it on the 
 higher difficulties, get ready to scream at your television. If you're shot a number of times on 
 the campaign, your vision jumps, which screws up your aim so you can't shoot back. In the higher 
 difficulties, when they target and shoot you repeatedly with pinpoint accuracy, this becomes a 
 serious problem.
  
  Speaking of the enemies, they're pretty smart. If they see you, they'll shoot, but if they can't 
 spot you, they find a clever way to get you in their sites. Their intelligence improves slightly 
 in the higher difficulties, but their gun damage does much more damage, which is why it's so difficult. 
 One thing that stuck out about your enemies was that they were able to perfectly throw grenades 
 at your feet. It was strange, because you weren't dying from gunfire, rather grenades that were 
 perfectly tossed. 
  
  Now online, where the real action is. The game involves a level system, like Halo 3. The more points 
 you get, the more levels you gain. Once you get to level 55, which takes a pretty long time, you 
 can go into prestige mode, which puts you right back at level one, with an emblem proving that 
 you made it to prestige. This can be done ten times, with a new emblem each time. However, when 
 you level up, you don't just go on to the next level with nothing. You gain new weapons and attachments 
 to help you out. These weapons and attachments can be used in the create a class mode. Create a 
 class mode allows you to pick a your guns, explosives, and abilities called perks. Perks are special 
 abilities that help your character out. Some perks include Juggernaut, which gives you increased 
 health, Frag x3, which gives you 3 frag grenades instead of one, Last Stand, which lets you pull 
 out your pistol before death to get a couple more shots on your enemy, and many more. Challenges 
 also help to get your level up. There are a number of different challenges to complete online. 
 One of them involves killing a certain number of people with one gun. Then there are crazier ones 
 such as holding a live grenade until it explodes killing you and an enemy. These challenges give 
 you a ton of points to up your level and your gear.
  
  Altogether, Call of Duty 4 delivers an amazing 1st person shooter with an awesome campaign, and 
 some of the best online play to hit the 360 yet. 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wirelessgamer
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 21, 2008 12:58 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 Modern Warfare is my most favorite game yet and is also one of my first 360 games. This 
 thrilling action-packed modern shooter rocks!!!!!!!!! The game has insanly great graphics and an 
 exciting but sjort story. Call of Duty 4 also has a wicked multi-player to boot. And at least its 
 not about World War 2 again since its not as exciting as it used to be as the modern warfare we 
 have these days. Call of Duty 4 also recieved more than 40 E3 awards and gamespot also said it was 
 the best shooter and that it also had the best graphcs.
  
  Single player is quite shrter than the average shooter so you before you start anything you may 
 want to turn up the difficulty up a few notches. I wish I had done that before I started the game. The 
 game is told by two different point of views. In the game you play as a new British SAS operative 
 and you also play as a Us Marine. And in case you have no idea where your objectives are since the 
 locations in the game are ginormous there is a compass to guide you to your objectives. The game 
 get frustrating at times espiceially when you're going house to house since it looks like there 
 are gagillions of bad guys in just one little house. you also get to wear a cool ass bush-like ghillie 
 suit. My favorite part is when you crawl through a lot of terrorists and a few tanks and they don't 
 even notice you unless one of them sees you then you're dead. When you finish the game you get three 
 suprises. One of them is a new mission.
  
  Call of Duty 4 makes up for short single player campign with an outstanding multi player. In multi 
 player you can play with up to 18 friends online or with 4 friends offline. There are 6 different 
 game modes in multiplayer and one of them is team deathmatch where its team against team of course. Another 
 game mode is free-for-all deathmatch in which its everyone for themselve. Other modes have objectives 
 such as putting explosives everywhere to demolish the enemy's equipment or stopping the enemy from 
 blowing up your base. They even let you bend the rules a bit to make your weapon cause more damage 
 or whatever else it lets you to change.
  
  call of Duty 4 is an outstanding game and I would recommend this game to anyone with a 360, PS3, DS, or 
 to anyone with a PC. So I give this game a 10.0. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FarmerJohn55
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 21, 2008 1:28 am PT
Review:  This is one of the best games EVER, I reviewed Halo 3 when it came out and was blown away, that 
 was before I had LIVE, I then thought it was even better, but this blows it out of the water. Now, 
 the campaign was just average, nothing special, nothing new, the had a few fun parts and nice effects, 
 but all stuff we've seen before. Now the multiplayer is where this is great, first of all, there 
 is never a time when you feel like, well, I've done everything in the game, I'm done. Even once 
 you unlock everything there is prestige mode, and unlocking everything isn't all THAT hard, takes 
 about a week or two, I only played like 2 hours or so a day, so, it could be faster for some. The 
 other thing about this is that, where as in games like Halo, you can take a shotgun to the chest, 
 yet two punches could kill someone, this game is all very accurate. All the weapons are real and 
 everything feels right. Then there are perks, these really make you able to outfit your character 
 however you want and gives you a lot of control. You get into the matches, it's hard to pick up, 
 and people higher level than you don't seem to have a big advantage over you. It takes a while 
 to get used to a few shots being able to kill you, once you adjust, you won't want to go back. 
 This also has a lot of maps and the promise of new ones are on the way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: screenhustla
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 20, 2008 4:26 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best First Person Shooters I've played that has the complete package with incredible 
 single and mulitplayer. The single player mode allows you to indulge into multiple storys as different 
 characters in the American and British military fighting against terrorism. If you are used to 
 playing first person shooters or the Call of Duty series in general then I would recommend you 
 choose "hardened" for your level of difficulty when playing. Hardened difficulty provides a harder 
 challenge than of course regular and recruit difficuties, but it allows you to become more involved 
 which in esscence leaves you with the feeling of accomplishment. The muliplayer mode is as addicting 
 than Halo and Gears of War because it brings something new to the table; the ability to use different 
 classes with perks and accessories. Although making classes with perks isn't ground breaking for 
 FPS it makes the gameplay and replay value of the game worth so much more when you can customize 
 things pertaining to your character and weapons. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Foiyo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 20, 2008 8:48 am PT
Review:  When this came out. it was the best game for the 360! The multiplayer player system is the best 
 out their! Customizing classes was a great idea! You can have any weapons with any grenades, with 
 any 2 or 3 perks! The story was also awesome! Such a great story line. Heading back between to 
 people was a good idea. It gives a great tutorial at the beginning! The story was a challenge on 
 veteran but, on every other difficulty it wasn't really hard! The graphics are also great! Sometimes 
 I get fooled and think it's real. The rag doll in multiplayer (not in old school) is really bad. 
 The old school rag doll is exaggerated but, it's really funny. Anyone who loves first person shooters 
 should definitely get this game! It is a must buy game! Truly one of my favorite games of all time! 
 Those are all of the reasons why I gave it a 9.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SkaterOrHater
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 19, 2008 6:40 pm PT
Review:  sound : perfect everything from the explotion from an RPG to a some shots from a silencer.
  
  graphics : everything looks better than i expected, the ghillie suits look realistic, the guns 
 look exactly how there spose to and when your on the game it makes you feel like your actually 
 in it, shock and awe's big bang looked so realistic and beautifal. so as the rest of this game.
 
  
  entertainment : single player is perfect, i have replayed it again and again and i keep wanting 
 more. multiplayer is very addicting and not much to say about anything, its just way tooooooo perfect!! 
 replay value: high
  
  overall : its obvious this game deserves an oscar. not to mention its perfect in every way shape 
 or form. need i say more?
  
  i need 800 characters so i am just going to talk until i get that many.
  If you dont know if 
 you want this game than your a R-Tard, just get this game already.... u know you want it, this game 
 is like your favorite food, it can be anything you want it to be as long as its your favorite.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: koreanesekid
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 19, 2008 4:09 pm PT
Review:  best game on xbox 360. the gameplay is awesome. single player is really fun even though it's pretty 
 short. harder levels are very challenging, but very fun. multiplayer is freaking awesome, but there 
 are a lot of weird people who play. this game is a must buy. also new maps are going to be released 
 soon so that is something to look foward too. this is a big upgrade from the other COD games. no 
 more WWII guns. these weapons are up to date and pretty much rockin every other FPS games. the 
 game is hyped up and it deserves to be. honestly, this is way better than halo. probably spent 
 way to much time on this game, but it's definitely worth it. also, your ranks go up to level 55, 
 and you can go prestige which makes you back to level 1 and working your way up, but you have a 
 prestige badge to show off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: huskerman34
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 19, 2008 1:10 pm PT
Review:  Man ive been procrastinating for months over playing this game. I just got and man what a game! 
 The best call of duty yet. The best fps yet and the game of the year in my book. Game play is awesome 
 story line is good. I like how you get to switch from u. k to U. s missons. The game can get really 
 intense and quite challenging. Like storming the television station and rescuing the stuck tank. 
 I hear the games run a 60 frame per second that looks smooth. The game looks almost life like. 
 I cant believe that this game didnt get game of the year. It was a tough choice but here is my 
 ranking for game of the year 1. Call of duty 4 2. Mass Effect 3. Bio shock im sorry ive played 
 bio shock but it didnt move me like Call of duty 4 . I would reccomend this game to every one looking 
 for a good shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrSchmo
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 19, 2008 11:20 am PT
Review:  Hands down the best FPS ever made.
  
  Campaign is the best and most thrilling ever down. I dont agree that it was too short. We all would 
 want more levels but who knows, maybe in a DL someday. On Vetern Diff. it took about 10-15 hrs. 
 And most of that was dying.
  
  Graphics
  One of the best looking games out there. Fully enriched enviroments, highly detailed.
  
  Sound
 
  Where do I begin. This will make the most out of your 5.1 then any other game. If you watched 
 'Blackhawk Down', then you know what I mean. Makes the battles intense.
  
  MP
  Hmmm. Probly the best overall MP around. Matchmaking makes waiting in lobbies a thing of the past. 
 Rewards you for personal progress and not team. (Of course this leads to people farming for kills 
 and not playing the gametype as it was ment to be played, ex. HQ)
  
  If you dont own this... your crazy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hockeykid871171
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 19, 2008 7:10 am PT
Review:  This game was probably the best game i palyed on the x-box 360 so far. the game makes you feel 
 like your right in the war. the only thing i dont like about this game is that it is kind of hard 
 if you want to beat the game on veteran. The graphics are amazing its like you could see a mouse 
 from a mile away and the story line is great becuse it makes you feel like one of the soliders 
 . multiplayer is the best for this game and it nnever gets old. you could play this game for ever 
 and never get tired of it. lots of weapons and viechles to choose from which makes it never ending 
 ways to choose your fight. i thought this game was going to be just another war game buit it wasnt 
 it was amazing best war game ever. this game is definitly one of my favortie games because it was 
 totally different from anything ive ever played. this is one of the best games to buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DuhQbnSiLo
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 19, 2008 6:33 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is simply the best shooter I've ever played. Everyone keeps talking about, it has 
 a short single player and all that. First off, the game is meant to be played online. Infinity 
 Ward focused on making a great online experience and they delivered! The graphics look beautiful 
 and runs great, the rank systems is pretty simple and easy to get into. The maps are perfect and 
 well balanced. All the guns are also balanced, the thing thats great is the kill cam that shows 
 you the person that killed you's point of view when he killed you, to prevent camping. The hardcore 
 modes (No HUD, Extra Bullet Damage, No Kill Cam, Delayed Spawn, Friendly Fire On) are cool for those 
 that like the more realistic feel. Simply enough like i said, this game is 2007 game of the year 
 for me! go out and get it now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dsman418
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 18, 2008 3:32 pm PT
Review:  overall call of duty 4 is a great gameplay experience that any owner of the 360 or any other platform 
 for that matter should have. the only drawbacks i can think of are the single players short length 
 and the fact that all the achievements have to be done on single player.
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Gameplay 
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  first off lets get one thing straight, the gameplay is nothing new and revolutionary but it is 
 great none the less. the fact of the matter is that the sum of its parts are much better that each 
 would be by themselves. the controls work perfect for what it should be, a great first person shooter. 
 the only thing that i wih but dosn't change my opinion on the game is the sensitivity adjustment, 
 you can select pre-set levels or do custom but even the custom is numbers, i wish that they would 
 have just put a slider bar in it. o'well. the single player is short but packs a great ounch, and 
 well the multiplayer is a BLAST!!. 
  
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Multiplayer
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  so the way the multiplayer works for those of you who dont know is very addictive. ok so when 
 you first start off online you are a rank 1. you get to higher levels by recieving xp. you get 
 xp by doing just about anything. you get xp, for killing, assisting, completing challenges, holding 
 objectives ( headquarters) playing matches (match bonus) , capturing objectives, getting kill streaks, 
 using support (UAV, Airstrike, Helicopters) special kills (last stand, or killing while being in 
 a headquarters) , and some stuff i probaly left out. as you level up you get new weapons, perks 
 or challenges. there are things called perks that add abilities to your character. things like 
 2 c4 packs, 2 rpg's, increased damage, last stand ect. when you reach level 4, (takes like 2 matches) 
 you get to create your own class. you get to pick weapon, weapon atachement (sights, silencer, 
 ect) , and 3 perks, there are 3 perk catagories and you pick one from each. 
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Audio
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  OK im going to be honest im not much of an audio guy so dont pay close attention to my ability 
 to sucsefully review audio. Anyway the audio from my perspective is great. the sound effects are 
 cool, the voice overs are amzing and the music is very fitting. 
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Graphics
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  AMAZING. the visuals are superb, it is crystal slear, good brightness, (well on my tv anyway) 
 the animations of reloding crouching moving, ok well all the animations are great. the look of 
 the game is spot on, it seems ( to an extent) that i am actually there.
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Overall
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  overall call of duty 4 is a great gameplay experience that any owner of the 360 or any other platform 
 for that matter should have. the only drawbacks i can think of are the single players short length 
 and the fact that all the achievements have to be done on single player.
  
  
  9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: master-dude
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 18, 2008 1:40 pm PT
Review:  Alright, so here's the scene. I'm at my local gamespot, torn between two games. A used copy of 
 Gears of War and Call of Duty 4. I'd played Gears of War and knew how amazingly awesome it was. 
 But I didn't know a whole lot about Call of Duty 4. So, I took a giant leap of faith. The moment 
 I got home, I fed the disc into the xbox 360, and started playing. 
  
  
  It took me about a day and a half of playing to complete the game, and I loved every minute of 
 it. This game raises the bar for games to come. It has a great storyline and really fun gameplay. 
 Its graphics, sound, and everything in between are spectacular. I'd recommend this game to anyone 
 who doesn't hate fun. ( I really, really hope that's everyone.) 
  
  Also, for any kids or something that need to convince someone about the rating, it's not that bad. 
 The intense violence isn't all that intense, the blood and gore isn't much bloodier or gorier than 
 any other game in the series, and the cussing well, you probably have heard worse in school. (It's 
 not that bad either.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vivalabuck92
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 18, 2008 10:11 am PT
Review:  Alright. Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare. I have been putting off a review for this for quiet a 
 while. To start of I will talk about single player mode. Single player mode has made a few improvements 
 from the last one. This time around, you are in modern times following two soldiers: One recent 
 recruit to the S. A. S. named "Soap" and Sgt. Paul Jackson of U. S. Marines. You will mostly follow 
 "Soap" throughout. All of this following a confilct between the Arabics and WMD confilcts. The 
 story has a good difficulty, but is just to short IMO. I beat Veteran in about 5-6 hours. But thats 
 not why you want to buy COD4. Multiplayer has sharply increased from its older brother. It now 
 is more faster paced and has a great ranking system. (Also throw in Prestige mode.) Everything 
 in the COD4 pack will last you for a while. Great graphics, gameplay, and online, Call of Duty 
 4: Modern Warfare....
  
  Gets a:
  
  10
  __
  10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stormwalkerx
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 18, 2008 9:46 am PT
Review:  If you have bought Cod4 and did not like it it's just because you didn't manage too beat the game 
 or you are just not that shooter fan.
  I (my opinion) did not like so much the past Cod games but when news came it was going to be a modern 
 warfare game, my interest went on. When you start it's the regular training. If you don't beat 
 the training your an idiot shooter and should buy a Wii and play your games on that. The first 
 stage is a tanker in the pacific or another ocean. The graphic it's on of a kind and you should 
 be amazed. You are going in very stealthy and killing everyone in your way to get the objective. 
 How the boat swings can make you boat sick but that's just good because that's a little appetizer 
 of how the game is. Despite the length Call of Duty Moder Warfare is one of the best shooters on 
 the market and Activision should do something in the next game about it. The guys you control is 
 between British SAS Soap, Us army Seargent Johnson, and one level whit and Captain Price. A nice 
 feature added is night vision goggles and can be turned on at any time in the game but that's not 
 cool actually just when you are supposed to do that.
  
  Gameplay 9.7: Whit unbelievably good grapichs make this game gameplay even better it's on of 360's 
 best grapich game ever. Well if you like to kill terrorist whit todays technology guns you should 
 be satisfied. But whit the length of this game it's only a short time and can be easily beaten 
 whit 5 hours of playing. 
  
  Grapichs 9.8 Whit photographic realistic this game is gonna be on of the graphic top for years. 
 It could be a little upgrade on the grass because i liked in Cod3.
  
  Sound 9.9 When an explosion appears it's just right, as I would be saying.
  The voice acting 
 is supreme for a Cod game and it's hard to find anything
  to point at.
  
  Multiplayer 9.5 When you first try to connect to Live it's gonna be an experience playing whit 
 others. You start at Lv1 as everyone and can work trough 55lv when you reach 55 you can start over 
 on level level1 5 times
  The perk class is an interesting thing whit this game, You got 5 perks you can customize whit weapons 
 and ability's. But if you think the persons on level55 it's hard to beat it's actually not it's 
 just about strategy and how you do things.
  
  Story 9.3 The story is maybe to much about terrorist but that's not a negative
  thing because 
 it would be strange shooting Us army guys:)
  Well you are Soap and other guys but whit Soap it's very stealthy way of playing and that's extremely 
 fun.
  
  Overall score 9.7 it's one of a kind
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trintyofme
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 18, 2008 8:19 am PT
Review:  This was a great game the single player campaign was allot of fun. Short but nonstop action. The 
 guns where a blast they felt dead on I really enjoyed that. Multiplayer though made me mad, yea 
 you can play with your friends split screen but only on local what the heck no online split?? that 
 made me mad cause its a fun online game just have to go it alone and it would have bin really fun 
 if they made it COOP but that's just me I like COOP games so I don't hold that against them but 
 they could have at lest made is split screen online like COD3. But I love how the raking system 
 works, the maps do feel a little bit small compared to COD3 but I guess that's what they where 
 going for more close combat makes for more killing.. So in the end this is a great game I would 
 say get it its a lot of fun and has great online play just don't bring you buddies over to play 
 online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamer25666
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 17, 2008 5:56 pm PT
Review:  COD 4 is one of the best shooters i've ever played. the graphics are amazing. captain price and 
 his mustache of glory are as awesome as ever. there are so many weapons with different attachments. 
 the storyline is as detailed as ever. but after u play it once it gets a little old. some levels 
 are really fun to play over and over again others not so much. the ending got me a little pissed 
 off. also its a real refresher to finaly get from WW II to modern warfare. x-box live is really 
 fun. all the new enviroments are really fun to play at. the different gamemodes will have u killing 
 for months and months to get to that top rank. i dont think that it is to hard but it isnt easy 
 either. i definitly will be playing this one for a while. i personally think that it is a lot better 
 than most of the other modern warfare shooter or modern warfare anything out for that matter. i 
 really like this game. it is definitly in my top ten games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TMorss
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 17, 2008 9:22 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is by far the best shooter on console to date. In a market full of run of the mill 
 FPS's this game shines. The only reason I didnt give it a perfect 10 is due to some connection 
 and hosting issues. 
  
  My review will be focused on the multiplayer since that is pretty much all I play. I have done 
 the first few levels of the campaign and I found it to be very well done. I signed into xbox live 
 to try it and never looked back. The multiplayer experience on this game is second to none. One 
 of the best features of the game is the controls. It is so fluid. Play the game for 30 minutes 
 then play Halo3 and you will see what I am talking about. It has the smoothest controls of any 
 fps I have played on a console. 
  
  The leveling system is almost perfect. The only flaw in my opinion is the lack of any rewards for 
 going into prestige. I myself am a 3rd level prestige but since I just lose my perks I love I am 
 thinking of just staying at 3. Other than that issue, the leveling and customization are phenominal. 
 I love the fact that you can start with just an m16 and build in it with scopes and perks that 
 carry you all the way to level 55. You can really build your own style into your classes. I have 
 experimented with many different setups and I am very suprised how they changed my effectiveness.
 
  
  The sound in the game is amazing. I personally use either my 7.1 surround sound or my turtle beach 
 earforce headset. I recommend the headset. I would say half of the ability to be great in that 
 is how well you pay attention to the sounds around you. I have won many matches as the last man 
 standing just by sitting and listening for movement. You can really pinpoint the enemies location 
 based on sound. The sounds also tie into the how great the "perks" are. I use dead silence and 
 if you dont think its worth using I assure you will be impressed by the effectiveness of that perk.
 
  
  And last but for sure not least the graphics and physics are top notch. I would have to say that 
 it is the first game I have ever played where the camo really works. You can lay in a field as 
 a sniper and an enemy will walk literally right over you if you stay still. The realism of the 
 game is amazing. The accuracy of the different weapons are very polished. As someone who has actually 
 fired some of these guns. They behave much like their real life counterparts.
  
  Overall Call of Duty 4 is the best First Person Shooter to date. I know its not perfect. But I 
 believe it will be difficult to raise the bar beyond what was accomplished in this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vashkey
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 28, 2008 12:19 pm PT
Review:  Odds are if you've ever played a first person shooter on the X-box you'l almost immediatly get 
 Call of Duty 4's controls. The only major difference control wise is that you melee by clicking 
 the right analog stick and you sprint by clicking down the left analog stick. Other wise, it's 
 pretty much the same deal. I will point out though that this game did manage to take out a few 
 inovations that have taken place in the CoD series. No longer can you lean from corners and shoot 
 enemies. It's not a big deal, but it is somthing that will be missed by the vets. And we don't 
 have any sort of vehicle combat in multiplayer like we did in CoD UO. Despite this, 4 is just as 
 much a Call of Duty game as the rest. It's just as intense as you remember. And almost as fun.
 
  
  Graphically, I'd say CoD4 is one of the better looking FPS on the 360. The enviroments are beautifully 
 done and you can really tell that this game does real time lighting justice. 
  The soundtrack complements the mood. It's nothing to memorable though, but it doesn't get in the 
 game's way. Voice acting is great and it really helps to get you feeling like your actually there.
 
  
  The Campaign has it's ups and downs. It's an excelent campaign and has some of the most memorable 
 levels in the history of the series. Unfortunatly, the game is short. It's the shortest campaign 
 I have ever seen in a shooter in fact. You'll finish it in around four or five hours at most. You 
 wont have much reason to go back either aside from collecting some achievements. And while it's 
 great fun and intense there are some annoying things here and there. For one, alot of large scale 
 battles are set up to where there are infintely spawning enemies. And alot of times these battles 
 are won simply by moving to a check point. Once you get to these points the enemies all either 
 retreat or just suddenly die and you win. So really, alot of times you can just ignore actually 
 fighting enemies and just try and advance to a check point. It's also worth mentioning that unlke 
 most shooters on the X-box, there is no co-op. Not even local co-op. These flaws aside, I still 
 think it's an excelent campaign, and you should probably at least rent the game to check it out.
 
  For the multiplayer... it's more of a double edged sword. It's most of what you come to expect 
 from top quality FPS on the X-box. And it does have a bit of innovation. You can level up in this 
 game similar to an rpg. you even get experience points for each kill you make. What do you get 
 for leveling up? Weapons and perks. What are perks? Special abilities that you can give your soldier 
 abilities such as doing greater damage with bullets and dropping live grenades when you die. And 
 theres also kill streak bonuses that reward players for killing a certain number players with out 
 dieing. While this is nice and gives some players reason to keep going, it will surely push away 
 new players. It really keeps battles from being balanced. It's also worth mentioning the game doesn't 
 allow more than one player to go online per box. And local multiplayer doesn't allow as many maps 
 to be used for some stupid reason.
  CoD4 is a great FPS. I highly reccomend it to those who for reason just don't like Halo 3 or the 
 more fresh Gears of War. But some will undoubtably be dissapointed with CoD4's short campaign, 
 unbalanced multiplayer and the lack of actual gameplay inovation. CoD vets opproach with cuation, 
 you might want to rent it first. 4 does nothing the first UO or the second games didn't already 
 do. But the very fact this game stays true to the old formula should be enough to please most gamers. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: richboy97
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 16, 2008 4:05 pm PT
Review:  This is probably the best shooter i've ever played. I bought this game about three months ago and 
 i still play the multiplayer everyday for hours. This game has great graphics and some of the best 
 looking faces i've seen in a game. The people also move very fluidly and smoothly, running 60 fps. 
 The story is short but has more depth then other shooters. The multiplayer is incredible though, 
 with an rpg style level up system. Also, I really like the multiplayer because a level 1 person 
 with the "worst" gun could kill a level 55 guy wielding a P90, it really is skill based. The multiplayer 
 is amazing though and provides endless entertainment. I would also comment on the controls which 
 are great and i feel everything is in the right place. Overall i give the game a 9.5 for the short 
 story, but this game though! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TFrieden0928
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 30, 2008 1:28 pm PT
Review:  Ignore what i said up top, cod4 is one of the deepest shooters of all time, it doesn't reinvent 
 the genre, but it is so polished that it'll make you think twice about Fps. Leaving the tried and 
 done World War II setting, Call of Duty 4 enters a new backdrop and a brand new experience. Although 
 the war in cod 4 is not real, it gave infinity ward to oppurtinity to make a game where the options 
 are limitless, the game is no longer held back by world war II, and im glad to have it this way. 
 Now, we all can say cod 3 sucked balls. badly. but that is in the past and this is the proof that 
 call of duty is back in the big leauges. Single Player has always been the main attraction for 
 me and this time it no diffrent, but also the multiplayer mode shows some substance of its own, 
 making cod 4 one fine package.
  
  For one thing , my eyes have never been so sweet because cod 4 is pure eye candy. This is one of 
 the photo realstic games i have ever seen, hands down. Forget everything you seen on next gen this 
 will make jump out of your seat. From the fantastic lighting and excellent player models, cod 4 
 has reached graphical perfection. Mindless the medicore physics and decent water effects. Cod 4 
 is also backed up by great sound because of its good voicework and excellent sound effects, it 
 absorbs you in to the game especially in surround sound.
  
  The Multiplayer in Cod is one of the finer aspects of the game, and i love how infinity has included 
 a rpg like level up system that rewards you everytime you play, its fun , fast and incredibly exciting. 
 you will always be on the move and the competition is lighting fast, and the reward for multiple 
 kills is clever, for instance if you get 3 kills in a row your radar is more effective, if you 
 get five kills you get to call in a airstrike and if you are really hot to get 7 kills you obtain 
 the abilitiy to call a helicopter which seriously racks up kills. Its too bad that there is no 
 reward after. Unlike halo this shootin doesnt evolve sticky aim and i found my hands being more 
 laid back and my twitch reflexes wasnt being put to the test , but my eyes really had to be peeled 
 to get kills. As soon as i got good at the game, kills actually became more easier than halo. buti 
 hate how you have to get a certain level to obtain guns and equipment. This also leads to balancing 
 issues that the game has, why should noob players get owned by players that are level 50, where 
 is the fairness here? Also those higher level players get better equipment and they are the ones 
 that rack up tons of kills, the point im trying to put out there is that unlike halo3, not everyone 
 can play this game, those that have never put time into a fps will get man handled daily, which 
 is one of the strong points in halo 3. There also no vehicles which is odd cuz the game takes place 
 in a modern setting, kills are half as enjoyable as halo 3 or would i say gears of war because 
 you can kill someone so easily. luckily the gameplay is so tight and intense that it holds up to 
 the major problems. and all those that are call of duty 4 veterans and dont play halo, is for one 
 thing. they suck. they cant play a game where your opponet doesnt die with 2 shots. The maps come 
 in variety are pretty good for numerous match types but they arent memorable as other triple A 
 fps. With that said, the match types arent really distinive either, i found myself only playing 
 deathmatch and free for all. Also, there is no file sharing. movie making, and map editor, which 
 is a serious downer. Cod 4's online componet is a no brainer for a fun last lasting experience 
 but it puts the "I" in team and doesnt exceed past the boundaries. Note: how come it feels like 
 socom to me? 
  
  Single player is the highlight of the game because it barely has any problems. Its fast, fun and 
 extremely playable. Unlike multiplayer this aspect is actually balanced, the ai is super realistic 
 and the game feels like a grade A action movie. (I now know how those people feel when they get 
 kidnapped.) it couldnt get any better than this. Although it is over in a flash on easier difficulites, 
 veteran mode is something that every hardcore gamer should experience. 
  
  As for the controls it feels as tight and responsive as its big brothers but it lacks the comfort 
 of halo 3, reloading still takes place using the X button and aiming downt the sight slows down 
 the pace of the game. The usage of duel wielding is not found in this game and you should know 
 why, it doesn't belong in this universe. There is nothing wrong with that its just its so much 
 fun in halo 3 that is annoying not to have it. Also, aiming at times is frustrating, although you 
 kill enemies within 2 hits your bullets never seem to be as accurate as they should be. One time 
 i shot dead ahead but i still didnt kill my opponet, the target was red and everything but the 
 game didnt react to it. Also the knife has a horrible lunge to it, it feels uncomfortable to hold 
 the left stick down and foward, and fidle the camera, and click R3. Its too much for one simple 
 attack. But these problems dont make the game not playable, it is every bit acessible as the top 
 fps but i've seen better.
  
  That pretty much wraps it up, cod 4 is a outstanding game that every fps fan should own , but be 
 warned, it is to homogenous to halo 3 for you to abandon halo. An immaculate single player mode 
 and a good/not legendary multiplayer mode isnt enough to top halo 3's outstanding package. I haven't 
 seen anything that is way better than halo 3 and you should be ashamed of yourself if you do think 
 that, cod 4 is a great game but it isnt fun as halo 3, plain and simple. Im being 100% honest here 
 and therefore cod 4 is labeled "overated". But that shouldn't stop you from playing this if you 
 are a fan of the series. Its just that its not the right choice for everyone it you really think 
 about it. 
  
  *Subscores are out of 10
  
  Graphics-10
  
  Sound-10
  
  Control-8.5
  
  Gameplay-9.25
  
  Story-9.0
  
  Fun Factor-9.0
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Basserker
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 16, 2008 5:42 am PT
Review:  This game has a well thought out campaign mode and a multiplayer as diverse as anything. You gain 
 rankings and at each ranking you unlike great things like weapons or perks. Inifinity ward has 
 done it again! This is a must have game to everyones game collection. Realistic graphics make this 
 fun to play and the storyline never gets old. Though on veteran for the achievments is challenging 
 its worth the achievement points. Soooooooooooooo..... buy this game becuz it rocks in every possible 
 way a game and can you should buy it becuz its awesome. Oh Yeah! yep im serious this is one of the 
 best games of the year or in a couple years. Ok im really sry about going over this again but I 
 need words. In multiplayer you can unlock things like: the desert eagle, barret .50 cal, p90, Mp5, 
 RPD, Ak-74u, Ak47, dragonuv. you can get perks like: Matrydom (drops a live grenade when you die) , 
 Iron lungs (longer time holding breathe when snipping) , C4's, Claymores, RPG's and much much much 
 more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trollbane
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 15, 2008 8:27 pm PT
Review:  THE GOOD-
  1) Audio. The British dudes sound british. The Americans sound american, and the Iraqis sound Iraqi. 
 8/10
  
  2) Variety. From Russia to Iraq, to the Berring Straight, and over 70 guns! 8/10
  
  3) Characters. Good characters, such as Gaz, Ahl-Asad, and many more evil and heroic guys. 
 8/10
  
  4) The A. I. Good A. I. throughout the game., they take cover, and flank well. 7/10
  
  THE BAD-
 
  1) Very short. Only 4 1/2- 5 hours for me. (Played from 2-7) 4/10
  
  THE "OK"-
  1) Graphics. Sometimes they looked dated, and other times they looked good to amazing. 6/10
  
 
  2) The Story. The game is permeated with the story, but the story itself is never really that intresting. 
 5/10
  
  FINAL THOUGHTS- Despite some issues, there are many great things about this game. Definetly worth 
 a $5 rental, and I would recommend a $30 purchase. 7.9
  
  OTHER REVIEWS- Halo 3, Gears of War, King Kong, Shootout, Turning Point: FoL, World in Conflict, 
 and many more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kinjirossd
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 15, 2008 5:59 pm PT
Review:  The Call of Duty series finally moves beyond WWII and its the best move they could have made. Infinity 
 Ward has crafted the best first-person shooter I have ever played on any platform.
  
  Presentation: Graphics are beautiful and at a silky smooth frame rate. The sounds of the battlefield 
 are clear and intense. You truly feel your in the front lines.
  
  Gameplay: It is simply done right. The gunfights are just right with some very fun side missions 
 such as playing as a sniper in a ghillie suit. The environment is design well with clear objectives. 
 Enemy A. I. will push your limits at times especially at Veteran. Personally, I still finishing 
 up Veteran and this is where I found the single flaw in the game in my opinion. As many who has 
 played previous games in the series that enemies will respawn continually until you've progressed 
 beyond a certain point. For the most part this isn't a problem even on Hardened but on Veteran 
 some of the game's pacing can frustrate you beyond belief.
  
  Multiplayer: Best online shooter available. Sorry Halo, I've moved on.
  
  Replay: High
  
 
  A must-play game for any PS3 or 360 owner. About as perfect as it gets
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: linkrul3s
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 15, 2008 3:11 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is the 3rd Call of Duty game made by Infinity Ward and it is the best Call of Duty 
 game to date.
  
  Gameplay: Even though the game is set in modern day the gameplay has not changed at all. As long 
 as you aim through the scope, take advantage of the auto-aim, and you know how to preserve your 
 ammo you will be fine.
  
  Graphics: I am quoting this from the back of the box when I say that this game is "the most photo 
 realistic game I have ever seen." The lighting, the particle effects, and everything else is absolutely 
 excellent.
  
  Sound: The music is the fantastic Call of Duty music that I have grown to love. The gunfire and 
 the voice acting is also very good and realistic.
  
  Story: In the story you play as many different army men as you run around and blast bad guys. The 
 game is set in the Middle East and Russia. Sometimes you go back into the past, and not everyone 
 makes it out alive. The story could be better, but it is good.
  
  Online: This is definitely one of the best online games to date because of how deep and immersive 
 it is. You are able to customize your character so that he has different perks, guns, and much 
 more. You can unlock more things as you get better in the game. It is a lot of fun to be able to 
 create a character that is right for you.
  
  Overall: I highly reccomend this game and if you don't own this game you have to go and buy it 
 right now!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcthpro
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 15, 2008 7:36 am PT
Review:  Great multiplayer Great Section of real guns 
  Good Story for Campagne REaly hard too at Veteran as you die in 3-4 shot and they hundred of grenade 
 
  The multiyplayer is Getting So-so now. people are playing it less
  lag as major increased since new patch there for less player
  As a MAJOR GAMES ALL people should 
 agree this with me
  LAG ruin game why do a PATCH if it result as High LAG by 15-30% and make the game way different. 
 Example LAG is When u shot a victim realy hard. and the victim doesn't die as the bullet go trough 
 him like if he wasn't bleeding those 5-7 second result as he didn't die adn ur bleeding of the 
 damage because the bullet of him reached you and u realy didn't see it
  while U WAS HAVING THE GREEN PING : REALY FAST intennet : around 8-10 meg per second internet connetion 
 and he don't die. 
  and no it not wRITED MEXICAN : on is gamertag it writed uninted state
  There for the lag as increase and im pissed off.
  I LOVE interface of Call of duty 4 but lag... 
 IS LAG IT inhuman it not fun
  exemple patch making the M4 : overpowered : M16 : alot of auto-aim so that even if the target lag 
 alot it may die while u take other gun M14 : G3 : p90 : mp5 : scorpion : mini uzi and G36c are 
 not good in auto-assit aim you said so it meaning the acucry of the gun is mostly to go to the 
 where ever you shot from left to right . and kill them 
  
  
  And the snipe is now being able to be shot like Gear of war & halo 3 u move realy fast (Springint 
 then stop run : aim head. in 1 second with high sensibity shot : is dead if you have bullet trough 
 & deep impact or enchanced sprint ability perk 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spik56
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 14, 2008 3:58 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 Leaves its familiar WWII battles with the natzies to go to a modern fictional war 
 with russian-terriots. 
  this game has a huge varity of wepons including ;P90s, G63Cs, M16, M4 Carbine, AK47, MP5, W100, and 
 Berret 50 callibers and many many more.
  This game has also done amazing with its envierment. This game looks just as real as a tree outside 
 your house.
  Music isn't as good as halo3s but suits this game amazingly especialy the ending rap at the credits.
 
  Dialouge is a huge part which most games tend to lack but not this one. The characters are made 
 up by their diaoulge, making several characters have huge amouts of fans, Im a Gaz fan.
  next and best is campagin and multiyplayer: Campagin is to short but hey ITS GOT TO BE THE BEST 
 OUT THERE TO DATE id compar it to mass effect starting out as a pod with peas youll grow into the 
 biggest pea of all. Half the time it feels like your captin Soap and coommanding Sarg. Price (its 
 really otherway around though: P) Mulityplayer is highly addictive in fact whenever im on the 360 
 half the time im getting to prestige again. Great custabilitys and everything.
  
  
  Instead of saying rent it first im going to say get up right now and buy it!!!!
  STOP READING 
 THIS GO BUY THE 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Serenei
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 13, 2008 6:48 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is an amazing game. It's Single player campaign above and beyond its call. The Online 
 multiplayer is simply Magnificent, with its prestige mode for those who feel like starting over 
 again, but feeling different. The guns and challenges are also very fun and interesting to unlock. 
 The story is very amazing and makes you feel as if you were really there, as you become attatched 
 to the characters. As if they were to die, then it would be as tragic as Carmine's Death in Gears 
 of war. The gameplay and the way you move with your squad makes you feel as if this was a real 
 military operation. The interesting part of the game is how it splits you between the group known 
 as the S. A. S. and the US. Marines. As you go up against terrorists, Russians, and more. The game 
 is one of the required, if you decide to get an xbox360. The other plus are the achievements are 
 all (or mostly) offline and do not require xbox live. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dipset711
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 13, 2008 4:20 pm PT
Review:  The first time I played COD 4 was during the release of Gamespot's beta keys. I can honestly say, 
 I was utterly amazed. The first thought that came to my mind was, "Wow, these graphics are amazing!!" 
 This wasn't too surprising to me, due to the remarkable graphics I'd witnessed previously in COD 
 3. What also struck my mind was the realistic sound that this game produced; the running, shooting, 
 grenade explosions, and yelling of voices sounded so incredibly realistic that I felt as if I were 
 on the battlefield myself. I loved the selection of maps that were given in the beta. They helped 
 me get a real sense of the various COD 4 multiplayer experiences that could be lived. Each one 
 was different from the other, giving a little taste of different parts of COD 4 in each map. I 
 did notice, though, that when I actually purchased the game in December, that the multiplayer maps 
 seemed far too repetitive for my liking. With the exceptions of 3-4 maps, they all were basically 
 the same layout: a distant Iraqi town, in shambles, with random environmental objects on fire throughout 
 the map. While the mulitplayer experience is far from boring, the repetitiveness of the maps made 
 me not want to play COD 4 as frequently. As far as the singleplayer campaign, I thought it to be 
 very creative and thrilling as opposed to the numerous straightforward campaigns of so many previous 
 first person shooters. Each mission put you in a different situation, guaranteeing a new style 
 and pace of action each time. However, I do wish that there were optional side missions to add 
 to the intense campaign experience. I can further add that the A. I. was much worse than I had hoped. 
 I can recall several times where I've suffered an easily avoidable death while my allies are just 
 crouching there beside me, not putting forth hardly any effort to prevent my death. The absence 
 of vehicles was also quite unfortunate, being the large success it was in having vehicles in COD 
 3. On the other hand, the series' new perks system really adds a twist to the usual COD experience. 
 There few to choose from in the beginning, but many more come as you rank up. You'll notice that 
 no two perks are alike, and everyone has their own special combination of three perks that they 
 use, though you will see the perk "last stand" quite often. Other than the repetitiveness of the 
 multiplayer maps, the lack of strong A. I., and the absence of cooperative campaign, I can say that 
 COD 4: Modern Warfare is a very successful title that brings a lot of innovative ideas to the plate. 
 Many people are die-hard for this game, and I see why, but I'm just far too picky to keep playing 
 virtually the same map over and over again. While this game does hold a lot of hard-earned weight 
 to its more-than-stellar title, it definitely has is several, though minute, cons. In my opinion, 
 if you're like me, you may want to rent the game first, as your feeling while playing will change 
 over time. I can give my estimation that there is an 88% chance that you''ll love this game, just 
 try it out first, multiplayer and campaign, as it is definitely a game worth playing. With that 
 said, I give COD 4: Modern Warfare a 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KennyYoung
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 13, 2008 1:20 pm PT
Review:  COD4 is definitetly the best military game I've ever played, maybe the best ever and was the game 
 of the year in my opinion.
  
  During the game you play as both a British SAS operative and a U. S. marine. In the beginning you 
 do a tutorial/mini-mission to prepare for for a mission to infiltrate a ship and secure a nuclear 
 weapon. When you manage to escape the sinking ship thats when the story starts.
  
  The story is fantastic and the gameplay is phenominal. Some say that the story is short but its 
 not like 5 hours short, more like 10 hours short (which isn't great but I guess it could be shorter) , 
 but I don't mind because like Gamespot said its "of a very high quality." The game looks great, 
 has solid voice acting, plays great and the control scheme feels great.
  
  The A. I. on your team isn't of the stupid and unhelpful variety either, more like the helpful kind 
 that can get you out out of really difficult spots but still allows you to do a lot so it isn't 
 boring for you.
  
  The games highest difficulty (veteran) gives the game extra intesity and makes you feel like your 
 accually there because pretty much one or two shots kill you. Some of the missions on this difficulty 
 I honestly can say I'll never beat. But also the online fantastic and probably better than Halo. 
 In my opinion this game is fantastic but not perfect, it gets a 9.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Camkillz
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 13, 2008 12:21 pm PT
Review:  THE HEAT: Gritty environments, rounded life-like characters, lots of weapons and styles. Multi-player 
 is hardcore and is well organized. I love the ranking system and extra achievements you can accomplish. 
 Love the fire team, spec. ops feel to the game. 
  
  THE B. S.: I get the whole the wars change but the soldier does'nt concept. Did you have to use 
 the same voices?? Really?? The same voices with a bad accent here and there. 
  
  The environments although updated had a real COD 2 feel, too much so. That over grown area, is 
 too much of what we saw in COD 2 & 3. 
  
  I play all my games on the hardest settings. The game has a real "push through the level" feel 
 to it. Like your just trying to survive and run up through to get your team to the check point. 
 You loose the feel of being the hero. Its probably closer to the real thing, but I want to be a 
 hero in my video game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fixer293
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 13, 2008 12:04 pm PT
Review:  Wow call of duty is already at number 4. The game is fantastic in visuals, sound, and immersiveness. 
 Any First person shooter fan should pick this game up. The game is the first in the series to actually 
 go modern (It's about freaking time) . Don't get me wrong WWII games are fun, but how many of them 
 do we really need? This game finally pulls us out of the trenches, and places us into the deserts. 
 And now the only negative I found in the game, the sniper rifles are not balanced, I feel in order 
 to get a clean kill a person needs to not use the center of the scope, but pull to the left or 
 right. Everything else in the game in beautifully done, the weapons feel real and the action is 
 intense. Multiplayer is the key winner here, because the game allows you to kick the guy that is 
 being a little punk ( thank the heavens.) Multiplayer also has an incentive, like upgrading your 
 weapons, and challenges that you can unlock for perks. Perks consist of things like having 3 grenades 
 instead of one, or the ability to have more ammo. Infinity ward I salute you on this game, just 
 keep it in the modern times now, ok... goooooooood. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrYates808
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 13, 2008 6:53 am PT
Review:  Considering I have both consoles, XBOX 360 and PS3 I originaly got this game for PS3 (see review) 
 and loved it hands down it was a 10. What isn't there to like about this game, ecspecially if you 
 game online (which I hope you do) ! The campaign is short but boy is it SWEET. Its gripping and 
 the most non stop action packed "Shooter" I have ever played. You can make the argument, oh but 
 its run and gun, and to that I would answer with the classic "so what". Its more then just that 
 its what WAR is and for the couch potato whose never fought for oil, this is the closes to War 
 I will ever get. The cutscenes are quick and to the point but give you a great story to hold on 
 to. No more WWII retread nonsense that needs to be "OVER WITH", this is modern day terrorism you 
 are up against and you will enjoy every bit of ousting the terrorist from power.
  You are thrown into the middle of a war and as the game starts you feel as if your just another 
 member and in the first battle you will do more spectating as your partners take down folks as 
 you try to get used to the whole thing. But as the game progresses you will become the focual point 
 of your squad and you'll be the man leading the way. This is genius on developers part allowing 
 you time to hone your skills and slowly making you "THE MAN". The only sad thing is that you will 
 be done with the intense campaign in about 6 to 8 hours. 
  Oh but then your gaming has just begun. Enter online play. This is where you really become immersed 
 in this masterpiece. The most addicting Online play to date, COD offers the best set of upgrades 
 and custom classes as you grab rank after rank on your way to being fine tuned machine in the art 
 of "Mowing down Everyone"! There are numerous different online modes you can Play and I guarntee 
 its for all ages. From 13 to 40 you'll enjoy going heads up with people all over the world showcasing 
 you Military tactics.
  Why XBOX 360 gets the 10 and PS3 gets the 9.5 is simply because of the small stuff. There is less 
 online lag time, less connection loss, and a ton more Gamers on X Box Live, so your never searching 
 for players as you do on PS3. The graphics are a bit better, everything is lit up just a hair more 
 but does wonder for the Visual man, as I am. X Box takes the cake on this game but you will not 
 go wrong with this one on PS3 either. So get you a copy next chance you get. Thanks Activison and 
 Infinity Ward for this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Krow684
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 13, 2008 2:48 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty is an excellently crafted game. It more than holds a candle to the other stellar shooters 
 of 2007; it ties them down and sticks a lit blowtorch in their faces.
  
  The single player campaign is without a doubt the most disappointing portion of COD4. First of 
 all, its length is just unacceptable. Shooters should be getting longer, not shorter. 5 hours is 
 hardly a campaign. It's more like a short term engagement.
  
  Being someone who tackled it on the "Hardened" difficulty from the moment the disc was in my 360, 
 and eventually played the whole game on "Veteran" as well, the game's combat can nearly be encompassed 
 by one word: frustrating. I can actually hear some of you cry foul as I type this, so let me explain. 
 The enemy AI is so unyielding, even when under fire, every portion of the game must be replayed 
 at least a couple times before progressing ad nauseam. The enemy can take two or three hits and 
 still be running at you guns accurately blazing. When the player takes hits, his view gets thrown 
 off and he becomes completely useless with a gun. You might think this isn't that big of an issue. 
 Try playing it through on Veteran and tell me otherwise.
  
  Also, something about the single player gunplay just doesn't seem right. It's no knew issue; I 
 have had qualms with every COD game that I have played for this reason. While there is satisfaction 
 in gunning down a terrorist hijacking a plane, it all just seems so muffled. A lot of it has to 
 do with the way the enemy's body reacts. Death animations are almost a thing of the past, thanks 
 to realistic rag-doll physics, but the Call of Duty franchise hangs on to them like they're the 
 only thing keeping them from falling into oblivion. They did some good work this time though, as 
 they have death animations applied to odd rag-doll-like things. The bodies seem pliable, but then 
 they freeze in position after a certain amount of time. Also, after an opponent is dead on the 
 ground, their bodies cease to interact with anything with the exception of explosion. I understand 
 that this is an acceptable design choice, but in such a cinematic game, it takes me out of the 
 experience when I gun down a particular frustrating foe and pull a couple extra rounds into his 
 prone hide for satisfactions sake only to see the dust come puffing through his chest because my 
 bullets went through him and just hit the ground.
  
  But the campaign isn't just a small 5 hour blob of frustration. It is filled with the some of cinematic 
 gaming's best moments. Moments like jumping onto a helicopter from a sinking tanker, or watching 
 from a distance as three missile-delivered nuclear warheads take off. It is enjoyable and worth 
 the pain of trudging through it.
  
  In supplement to the hyper-short campaign, Infinity Ward implemented an arcade mode, which basically 
 takes the campaign missions, slaps on a time limit, and incorporates a point system for kills. 
 The arcade mode is a cool idea, but once one has finished the campaign, there isn't much there 
 to compel one to play it. It seems more like a cheap attempt at fleshing out Modern Warfare's single 
 player experience than an honest one at creating an enjoyable game mode. There are leader boards, 
 but it seems like a waste of time to work the way up the arcade leader board when multiplayer has 
 four different leader boards to work your way up, and at least that will be more fun.
  
  Speaking of which, Call of Duty 4 is the best multiplayer game of this generation. The game shipped 
 with tons of maps, unlockable weapons and abilities, and days upon days of possible entertainment. 
 There are plenty of gametypes, like deathmatch, the Battlefield like Domination, the Counter-Strike 
 like Search and Destroy, and a new tactical gametype called Headquarters. The multiplayer incorporates 
 an incentive system that most online first-person shooters lack. Playing and performing will raise 
 a player's level. Increasing one's rank is important because guns and abilities are earned at certain 
 levels. There are 55 levels, each one yielding weapons, abilities, and challenges, and once the 
 final level is reached, one can trade in his rank, weapons and abilities, just to do it all again. 
 This "Prestige" mode might not sound that appealing on paper, but it is a clever tactic Infinity 
 Ward used to keep people playing. The first time you work through the ranks, you are getting used 
 to the weapons, figuring out which ones you like and which mods work best, and every time you work 
 through the ranks after that, you are striving to unlock the guns you learned to love the first 
 time through. It's pretty ingenious, as it keeps you playing no matter what. At least it's kept 
 me playing long after I stopped playing Halo 3.
  
  The multiplayer isn't necessarily blemish-free either, however. First of all, unlike Halo (because, 
 let's face it, Halo and COD are head-to-head competitors right now) two players can't go online 
 on the same Xbox 360. Even if one of the players imports his gamertag, the game simply won't allow 
 two players on Live on the same screen at once. Also, while there can be four-person local games, 
 one can't system link two 360s and play matches with more than 2 people. This kills any chance 
 of COD LAN parties. Simply, IW worked so hard on getting the online right, they forgot about those 
 of us that like playing face-to-face in the same room.
  
  All that said, Call of Duty 4 is one of the best of shooters of 2007. In year that yielded a sea 
 of quality shooters, that's saying a lot.
  
  9.0/10
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: teletran0n3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 13, 2008 6:38 am PT
Review:  I wanted to hate this game. My arch rival keeps blabbing on and on about how awesome this game 
 is. Day after day I suffered his rantings. Finally I broke down and bought it.
  
  As I have stated in my other reviews, I don't normally go for online games. This is my first one. 
 I must admit, I'm hooked. The whole experience was fantastic. I will admit that I stink at it so 
 far, so if you see me in there go easy on me! Kidding of course.
  
  The graphics are phenomenal. The action is intense. You feel you are there and really get into 
 it. The physics are good, and the controls work well. I'm not crazy how the sprint and knifing 
 work on the 360 controller, but there is only so many buttons on there so I understand. The game 
 play is great. I can honestly say that I was wrong not to buy this game sooner.
  
  I haven't finished the single player because once I went online there was no looking back. I do 
 have a couple of complaints about the small amount of time I spent in single player mode. I personally 
 don't like the team tactics, meaning I don't like the "bring everyone with you" trend in some of 
 these games. As stated in my "About Me" section, I am a Lone Wolf. I like to go it alone and take 
 everyone out. In the first couple of levels the others on my team seemed to get in the way a couple 
 of times going through doors and what not. This is something I can look past though. One other 
 small complaint, and I realize I'm nit picking here, is the music. I never leave the music on. 
 It's the first thing I do when playing a new game. Turn it off. I like the realism of no music 
 especially in a game of this nature. So the constant dramatic music playing bugged me a little. 
 Personal preference I guess, but this is my review so I mentioned it.
  
  All in all it is a MUST HAVE for your system. I can't possibly see how you would be disappointed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NinjaTurtle13
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 12, 2008 8:42 pm PT
Review:  This has to be the most exciting first person shooter to date. its multiplayer is just right and 
 you will be hooked on to this game for a long time. the only flaw to this game is its campaign. 
 it is sort of short. about 8-11 hours of the campaign depending on what difficulty your playing 
 on. None of the less, the multiplayer will have you playing this for awhile. A lot of maps to play 
 on and a variety of weapons to chose from. The multiplayer will make up for the short campaign. 
 You can have a party of people play this and it just makes it that much more fun playing with your 
 buddies. The other bad thing was that there was no two player co-op. i purchased this game from 
 the day it was released and i am still playing it to this day. I am sure that more maps will be 
 downloadable in the near future. Anyways, this game is a blast. So go out there and buy this game! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: southp777
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 12, 2008 5:12 pm PT
Review:  I have to say that out of the Call of Duty franchise; I have to say that this experience tops it 
 all.
  
  The single-player experience immerses you in a modern setting with futuristic weapons, realistic 
 AI allies and opponents, and the best gameplay that you can expect from a modern shooter. Activision 
 definitely got the point early that WWII games just don't cut it anymore. And I am certainly happy 
 about this game and will be ranting on about the ending of this game for months.
  
  If the single-player experience wasn't enough for you, take your expertise into the battle grounds 
 with thousands of other players online and have some fun. In my opinion; this is the funnest part 
 of the game that I played. The RPG level up system was the best part. Instead of running to try 
 and find the sniper rifle, you will have your weapons with you, customized, and ready for battle 
 with your perks. I love just talking abou it.
  
  But if there is something that I had to complain about, I will say that it is a little shorter 
 than average video games. But this certainly should not keep you away from this game. The multiplayer 
 aspect will have you playing for a long time anyways.
  
  Well, that is my kind hearted review, that I hope that someone will read and say, "You know what, 
 I think I'll go get this game at my local Wal-Mart!" Lol. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brainboy77777
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 12, 2008 4:57 pm PT
Review:  The Campaign is top-notch. I loved. Everyone says it's unbearably short. Might be true on easy, 
 but pretty balanced on normal. The difficulty is just right. Weapons, all except the shotgun (discard 
 it as soon as possible) , are pretty balanced. MP is amazing. One of the best shooting Mp I've ever 
 played. You xp for every kill, which is better than Halo 3. You can choose which weapon you start 
 out with; it makes the gameplay a bit more varied. Personally, i stick with the weapons with high 
 bullet count, but that's me. Anything but shotgun, that's the golden rule. 3 consecutive kills 
 calls an air strike; 5 kills 3 airplane strike; 7 a helicopter comes in. the helicopter can be 
 destroyed with an RPG or shooting the pilot. both things are very hard. VERY HARD. also, if you 
 are a sniper or have a British accent, you are going to be cursed off and betrayed. nobody likes 
 them for good reason. The stages are great, there's DLC coming out soon. You can get perks, liitle 
 add-ons that can help you. One perk is leaving a grenade when you die. Perks can be unlocked by 
 getting more and more exp. There's camo but it's pretty useless. But the plot twist is a bit rapid. 
 Mp is perfect, no flaws. Oh, and achievements are balanced, not as hard as Halo 3. The big chunk 
 of it is by beating the campaign on veteran, and that's not an easy task. Everything about it is 
 better than Halo 3. Still, the somewhat shortness of it takes the perfect score. near perfect, 
 but not there yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oblivionfreak12
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 12, 2008 4:56 am PT
Review:  The latest game in the Call of Duty series breaks away from the previous games by using a modern 
 setting, rather than that of WW2. It features up to date weaponry and battlefield technology across 
 a blistering, action-packed campaign, but it's the multiplayer that is the real gem in this game. 
 Well laid out lobbies are accompanied by numerous gametypes and well-constructed maps, which make 
 for furious, exciting games, whether you enjoy close quarters combat with a W1200 shotgun, or prefer 
 to take your enemies down from afar with the Barret .50 Cal sniper rifle. Another excellent feature 
 is the online level system which rewards you for playing games, making kills, and completing challenges 
 by giving you access to new weapons and abilities as you level up. This truly is one of the best 
 games on the 360, and well worth what you pay for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lcfr822
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 11, 2008 11:33 pm PT
Review:  THis game is an action packed shooter just waiting to explode different scenarios into your face! 
 It has a ton of levels (but not to many) , the campaign makes sense, and you play from two different 
 point of views. Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare has many different features all of which make the 
 game even more fun than any of its predecesors, and it has a great multiplayer. This is one of 
 the best games i have ever played! My only problem with the multiplayer is that higher ranked players 
 have a huge (er) advantage over new or not so good players. THe unlocks system works not only by 
 level but by completing chalanges, which can be found in your multiplayer in game menu. These challenges 
 are 40% of what keeps you going on in multiplayer, and the other 60% is exhilirating feeling of 
 winning against other players. If you can get this game, GET IT NOWWWWW!!! this game will improve 
 your xbox experiance as well as your gaming experiance so much that you will just want to scream 
 with delight! this game is the best game in the Call of Duty series, and you know you will enjoy 
 it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aviator2559
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 11, 2008 6:59 pm PT
Review:  ... That never ending goal is to reach lvl55 10 times... which sounds easier than it is. I started 
 out with Call Of Duty 2 and 3 where I was able to become familiar with the game and its controls, 
 which are very easy to learn. When 4 came out and I started playing it finding the storyline very 
 easy to complete on a normal or hardened difficulty, with some challenging objectives. The storyline 
 gets you hooked on immediately and is very intersting and although it goes very fast I think that 
 if you keep doing on a harder difficult and try to get the achievements, it becomes fun... and multiplayer 
 makes alot better. You easily reach lvl20 in about a day, which makes it seem so easy to get to 
 lvl55 over and over again... WRONG! after that you need increasing by the 100's xp for each lvl 
 and by 50 is about 4000xp needed can be a workout. Since in Search and Destroy you get 50xp per 
 kill I prefer this leveling. I believe if you are in to the game it will become fun for you and 
 maybe even addictive, which soons breaks as the game becomes more difficult in the lvl50's. The 
 only advantage you have by being a higher lvl is the more weapons and perks you can choose from, 
 which is nice for low lvl characters getting leveled up. Altoghter the storyline is interesting 
 but quick with an intresting ending, the multiplayer is one of the best and very fun and addictive 
 in the same way. Storyline earns a 9.75 and the multiplayer a 10.0
  so ya basically a TEN!!! :)  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sludge15
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 18, 2008 11:03 am PT
Review:  This game probably has the most intense single player ever made and it is hard to pull yourself 
 away from the epic multiplayer aspect of the game:
  
  Gameplay:
  9 Could be improved from some slight adjustments and tweaks to the HUD and the sights.
  
  Graphics:
 
  9.5 by far the best graphics on the X360 to date
  
  Storyline:
  10 draws you in and provides the most intense atmosphere around.
  
  Level Design:
  10
  
 the level structure to this game is amazing it fits the call of duty atmosphere and provides a 
 modern touch to it
  
  characters:
  8
  this is a war game people SOAP MAC TAVISH should be a cleaning product not a soldier.
  
  overall 
 9.5:
  hopefully call of duty 5 will make up for the 0.5 margin of error......
  
  WHO AM I KIDDING THIS GAME ROCKS AND IF COD5 GOES BACK 2 WWII THEN IT HAS OVERDONE WRITTEN ALL 
 OVER IT............
  WHY CHANGE WHEN COD4 WORKED SO WELL..........
  DAMN YOU INFINITY WARD FOR LEAVING US WITH SOME AMEATURISH FOOLS TO MAKE COD5..... DAMN YOU!!!!!!!!!
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: B-Ray969
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 11, 2008 8:09 am PT
Review:  In retrospect the Campaign could have used an upgrade and a bit more length but overall, I believe 
 it is the multiplayer that keeps the game captivating for a long time. Although the campaign was 
 short and sweet it DID cover a lot of ground as most that are short and sweet don't, i found it 
 a nice touch to have two different perspectives in the same war. They were able to make the campaign 
 immersing for the short while it took to complete it, and even on veteran difficulty the campaign 
 was still not as difficult as i thought it would be but overall a Very good game if not for the 
 campaign then the online multiplayer with about 10 different game types to choose from whether 
 your with your friends or just a bunch of random people from across the world. There is one warning 
 the multi player is very inviting to the younger ages throughout.
  
  Campaign hours= about 8.5
  
  Multi player hours= about 113 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Neloy
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 11, 2008 5:58 am PT
Review:  I would rather say Call of Duty 4 is way better than Halo 3 in every aspects, except the multiplayer. 
 The multiplayer section of Call of Duty 4, although, is not better than Halo 3 but it still packs 
 the punch and is enough for players to play for countless of hours. The campaign mode is outright 
 awesome. The campaign itself proves COD4 that it is the best in series. This is one game that you 
 can actually feel that you are in a war zone especially when you play in veteran mode. Its like 
 you have to be active in every part of the campaign and expect anything anytime that will make 
 the gameplay even more challenging. Infinity Ward made a clever decision of shifting the timeline 
 from World War II to modern warfare. The plot in the game is also excellent with some twists around. 
 Graphics and sounds are outstanding. The game is must have for both fans and non-fans. This is 
 what FPS should be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fudger2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 10, 2008 10:06 pm PT
Review:  I didnt get this game at launch and never intended to buy it. I always hated call of duty, it was 
 to easy and never had anything to offer. It fwlt like playing a demo because they were so easy. 
 So i played CoD4 and well i hated it. That would be the end of the review if I didnt get Live. 
 The campaign is so easy, even on the hardest difficulty with the exception of mile high club. XBOX 
 Live takes this game from a 6 to a 9 because its addictive. When you level up and get better things 
 you cant stop because you learn of the monster you can unleash when you get all this cool quipment 
 and cant stop. Its just pwnage when you rank up and its more addictive then Halo 3 which i said 
 was the best game ever so..... Prestige mode is lame, i understand what it is to go through the 
 same stuff over and over and over again but thats a element of a bad game like assassins creed (off-topic) 
 i think the repetiveness of prestige is dumb and not worth it. Think of it like this all your hard 
 work blood sweat and tears goes into something youre going to ret rid of for a new 2 cm picture 
 next to your name woooohoooo. Im satisfied with my 55 because they wont know im good which reminds 
 me (logan1616 is a beast) . Oh yeah dont get attached because call of duty 5 s going back to WWII 
 or thats the rumor and its going to a differnet studio so dont be surprised when its getting 2s 
 as a rating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benboz
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 9, 2008 11:26 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 Modern Warfare is the next instalment in the Call of Duty series. I would think 
 it was going to be another World-War 2 game but Infinity Ward and Activision have decided to do 
 a modern warfare type of game. And there idea was awesome. 
  The gameplay is just brilliant. The storyline is short but it is so good to play throught even 
 if you played it over and over again. It is just so good. The graphics are unbelieveable and it 
 is just brilliant. The weapons in this game are realistic and are real weapons today. The storyline 
 focuses on two characters. One soldier from the SAS who is a newbie and a Marine from the USMC 
 (United States Marine Corps) . 
  The online muiltplayer is fun to play. There is different game types like deathmatch, team deathmatch 
 and more team based games. After you played each match, you get EXP for your rank. When you get 
 to a new rank you would unlock new weapons and perks (power-ups) . When you first start off, you 
 will start with the default weapons until you start getting your rank higher. There is a mode called 
 presitge mode which lets up start all over again but your rank symbol would be better but you start 
 with all the default weapons again (so you become a newbie again) . There are other things like 
 challenges (upgrade weapons and get more EXP) and heaps other stuff. Call of duty 4 is the best 
 first-person shooter game you will ever play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ratavaquera
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 9, 2008 8:53 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome, i loved the campaign, looks so real and it make u feel that you are in war, 
 awesome and beautifull sound effects, very good graphics, good animations, weapons, and battles.
 
  
  This game at multiplayer its awesome, its the best multiplayer i have ever played, this beats Halo 
 3, and any other shooter, also Gears of War, Why? because the sounds and battles are so fun and 
 you will enjoy this game.
  
  You must buy this game, dont rent it, just go to the store and buy it, its very good.
  Again:
 
  This game is awesome, i loved the campaign, looks so real and it make u feel that you are in war, 
 awesome and beautifull sound effects, very good graphics, good animations, weapons, and battles.
 
  
  This game at multiplayer its awesome, its the best multiplayer i have ever played, this beats Halo 
 3, and any other shooter, also Gears of War, Why? because the sounds and battles are so fun and 
 you will enjoy this game.
  
  You must buy this game, dont rent it, just go to the store and buy it, its very good. lol
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: heisman67
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 9, 2008 2:26 pm PT
Review:  This game, WOW!! um yeah, great and very challenging single player and a hell of a great multi-player.... 
 everybody gripped about there is no online achievements for this game and yet i see a ton of people 
 still playing the living crap out of it..... The graphics are great and smooth, the surrounding, 
 and the characters, and even their faces even have sweat when your in a hot environment. TONS OF 
 GUNS!!! I love the way you advance in the multi-player where you earn guns and perks as you get 
 higher in rank but, that doesn't mean you get all the toys to boot. You have to actually play that 
 guns to get the extra scope or camo, or even GOLD!! Other then that if you like FPS you really 
 won't be disappointed in fact you will be addicted and probably need to see a counselor and get 
 treatment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KoGfullmetal980
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 9, 2008 11:06 am PT
Review:  Oh, Call of Duty 4, where to begin? I didn't like the first three's WW2 surroundings. In Call of 
 Duty 4: Modern Warfare, well as the title says, NO MORE WW2!! That's what lit a spark when I played 
 this game. Campaign is fun [EXPECT ON FREAKING VETERAN, ANNOYING AS HELL!!] Control scheme is pretty 
 much the same, and online, oh ho ho, online is outstanding. Ranking system to lvl. 55 then you 
 can go into prestige, a mode where you restart the ranking system at lvl. 1 but with a new symbol 
 next to your rank. This can be done up to 10 times [Golden Cross Logo] . As you rank up, you unlock 
 new weapons and types of matches, also challenges. Challenges are little "achievements" that give 
 a boost of experience ranging from 50 to 1000. There is weapon challenges and regular challenges, 
 with a total of around 300. Weapon challenges keep you entertained with a Marksman [Get 25, 75, 
 and 150 kills with your weapon] and the Expert Challenge [25, 75, 150 Head shots] . If you complete 
 all Weapon Challenges for a certain "Class Type" [Assault, Sub Machine Guns, Light Machine Guns, 
 Shotguns, and Snipers] , you unlock the GOLDEN weapon for that class. Overall, Call of Duty 4 makes 
 you keeping playing and playing and playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killerdodobird7
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 8, 2008 4:35 pm PT
Review:  This is by far one of the very best games i have ever played in my gaming life time. It is so addicting. 
 Amazing multi player, story, sound, replay value and graphics. THIS GAME HAS IT ALL. If you do 
 not own this game already you need to rush to the nearest store and pay the sixty bucks or however 
 much it is for this great game. It was definitely better than halo and should have won game of 
 the year. I seriously could not put the controller down. Just like all of the other call of duty 
 games, this one does not let you down. BUY THIS GAME! It is definitely a good game to play till 
 gears of war 2 comes out. Hopefully it is just as good as this one. It is one of those games that 
 you need skill to play, and that you get better and better at over time. It is definitely better 
 than call of duty 3, and just amazing as call of duty 2. Best xbox 360 game out so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bosox4life32
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 8, 2008 2:11 pm PT
Review:  Multiplayer is great:
  
  A decent amount of guns for each group (LMG, SMG, Shotguns, Snipers, Assault rifles, pistols)
 
  
  Ranks give you rewards.
  
  Takes skill. 
  
  Alternating spawns so its crazy hard to camp.
  
  many game modes
  
  SINGLE PLAYER can get 
 really easy on easy, but on veteran... buy another controller, you'll throw your old one at the 
 wall haha.
  
  Story is very short.
  
  Achievements are all in the story : (
  
  There is 2 player, but not in xbox live.
  
  All in all, this game is very good. With a decent 
 story, a great multiplayer, and a large amount of ranks and prestiges that will keep you busy for 
 months. I suggest you buy it, but maybe it is too late now that rainbow six vegas 2 is coming out 
 because rainbow will bet better. Hope this helped you decide if you want to get it or not.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fazio93
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 8, 2008 11:29 am PT
Review:  I was one of the lucky ones to experience the COD4: MP Beta and once I started playing that, I 
 knew this game was a must OWN game. 
  
  Let me start by saying the graphics are outstanding on an HDTV and probably still amazing on an 
 SD TV. The sound is great. Each weapons has a unique sound to it and the voice overs are amazing 
 in the campaign. 
  
  The campaign was the BEST story I have ever played in a game. It was a very moving and emotional 
 story that really draws you in. The cut scenes are as good as Halo's. I don't want to spoil it, 
 but you won't be disappointed in the campaign even if it is a short one. I beat it on Veteran difficulty, 
 so it took me a while anyway. The AI are very smart, especially on Veteran (including your team) . 
 You can also push them over if they get in your way. The addition of attack dogs was very nice 
 and the enemy AI know exactly when to release them, although the kill technique of killing them 
 with a me lee is kind of hard. 
  
  Each weapon has unique characteristics. I have to say though that the M16 (best assault rifle in 
 game) with its 3 shot burst and red dot scope is very lethal and overused. RPGs or "noob tubes" 
 and grenade launchers are also used sometimes which get annoying. Sniping is very fun, except when 
 your facing off with an even greater sniper. There are many different weapons combos with scopes 
 and attachments. The addition of flash bang grenades was cool and they really help. Smoke grenades 
 are still included too. I also like the new Javelin antitank missile which was very fun to use 
 in campaign. I also liked how you could customize your weapons online with camouflages like Red 
 Tiger and Blue Tiger. 
  
  FOR MORE INFO ON MULTILAYER, CHECK OUT MY BLOG ON THE MP BETA: 
  
  Posted by fazio93, Sep 30, 
 2007 9:52 
  
  Being one of the lucky chosen to participate in the COD4 Beta, I have many thoughts about this 
 game. It was an awesome multiplayer experience. The game has many past COD features built in as 
 well. The maps were very fun to play on. There were three: Overgrown, Crash, and Vacant. The graphics 
 were amazing, especially on Overgrown. It was also detailed (ex. posters on the wall about what 
 was happening at that time with the military conflict) . The ranking up was fun and made you want 
 to play more. As you ranked up, you unlocked perks, weapons (and different camo for weapons) , challeneges, 
 and more. The perks made the game so much more exciting. You could have 3 perks at a time. For 
 example, if you had the perk: Deep Impact then you could shoot through brick walls or if you had 
 the perk: Last Stand, before you you died you would pull out your pistol and try to shoot any enemies 
 around you. The different game types were fun like Deathmatch, Search & Destroy, etc. I also liked 
 the kill streak rewards. If you got 3 kills in a row, you would get a UAV Cypher (to see where 
 all the enemies are unless they had the perk: UAV Jammer where they were invisible on the map when 
 the UAV came around) . If you got 5 kills in a row, it was an air strike in your selected area on 
 the map, and if you got 7 kills in a row, you got a chopper (you can't drive them but they rack 
 up kills for you!) The destructible enviornment was nice (blowind up cars, breaking mirrors, etc.) . 
 I loved how could customize weapons (color, attachments, perks, etc.) This game has so much to 
 offer. I can't wait to see the single player campaign. I will be suprised if this game gets anything 
 lower than a 9.0.
  
  **
  
  All in all, this is the best COD4 game out there as of right now. It is a must own. YOU WILL NOT 
 BE DISSAPOINTED. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: amphibiouskille
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 8, 2008 3:58 am PT
Review:  Maybe its just general boredom with the genre in general, but I haven't played an FPS since the 
 original MOH on the Playstation in 1999 that has really given me anything to get overly excited 
 about.
  
  I know this game won multiple awards, and deservedly so, but the reality of the game is that there 
 is only so many ways that FPS can improve (I wish they would evolve) and this is just a more polished 
 product, with better graphics, but at its core the same game that we have been playing for years.
 
  
  Its great not to be killing Nazis, and the story line seems both compelling and realistic... The 
 voice acting is pretty good (but as a Marine I have yet to hear "Oorah" used in a briefing before 
 a mission) and the graphics are great... got it, this is a solid game. The problem for me is that 
 it doesn't seem to bring anything new to the experience.
  
  I completely understand that Mass Effect is not an FPS, but it felt to close to being one and included 
 some RPG elements as well... that was a new direction to push the genre.
  
  Bottom line for me... great game and fun for the few hours it took to complete the single player 
 campaign... wished I rented this one instead of purchasing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockstar_88
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 8, 2008 2:57 am PT
Review:  Inifinity Ward have always been the master of World War II shooters. When the first Call of Duty 
 game came out in 2003, it caused quite a stir in the PC community. It had one of the deepest single 
 person shooters of its time, and an online multiplayer that just about everyone was talking about. 
 Since then, the series has fallen victim to the World War II overpopulation syndrome, so Infinity 
 Ward decided it was time to step ahead of everyone else to a more interesting time, one which may 
 not end as happily as 1945. That's when they dropped Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare on us like 
 a bomb, and there's not many gamers alive right now that haven't been interrogated and tortured 
 by its awesomeness. 
  
  Call of Duty 4 plays just like any other first person shooter. Although nothing new, the game focuses 
 on you looking down the sight by holding down the LT while firing with your RT to get the bead 
 on your enemies. It adopts its idea from Halo in that you can only carry two weapons with you at 
 any given time, and your health recharges to full if you avoid being hit for more than four seconds. 
 Light strategy and quick thumb work are the keys to getting the job done. The game has plenty of 
 weapons at your disposal, and they're very true to its source material (I've worked with the M4, 
 M16, and M9 and it's true to the punch) .
  
  The first player campaign is incredibly short. This I will admit this. If you're a hardcore FPS 
 gamer (unlike me) , you can probably beat this game in a day on the Normal difficulty level. But 
 the single player campaign packs so much cinematic action sequences it's worth it just to replay 
 missions and relieve some of the game's exciting moments. Just when you think you know what's going 
 to happen, the game will pull a fast one on you, and you're on your toes looking for cover. Everything 
 may not be as photorealistic as the back of the box implies, but it sure as hell can feel realistic 
 in a battlefield-sense (save the Halo-healing idea, that doesn't happen in real life, you just 
 lie there and bleed to death) .
  
  In exchange for a deep involving story like in past CoD games, the story puts itself in a what-if 
 situation. The ending to the game may come off on the ridiculous side, but before that, everything 
 could almost pass for something that could actually happen. Having a bit of military experience 
 in my life, Infinity Ward did their research, and it's quite amazing how well this game depicts 
 the military so accurately while still keeping any of its own opinions or allusions to the current 
 war on terrorism at bay (a truly hard thing to do in this day and age) . The campaign is well worth 
 playing for its constant variety. You'll do everything from fighting in a battlefield to sniping 
 an important enemy leader and even blowing people up in the safety of an AC-130. It's about as 
 pure as simulation battlefield FPS games are getting.
  
  Now the biggest draw to Call of Duty 4 is the online multiplayer. With a similar leveling structure 
 to that of the PC game Return to Castle Wolfenstein, the game ranks you by the amount of experience 
 points you get, which is based on how many kills you get and any actions you take in order to help 
 out your team or yourself (this varies depending on the online mode you play in) . The game uses 
 a very unique system in which killing three opposing teammates allows you to activate a UAV, which 
 gives you enemy locations on the radar for a certain duration of time. When you kill five, you 
 can call in an airstrike anywhere on the map, and at seven kills, you can call in your very own 
 chopper to pop heads for you so you can rake even more points. This aspect alone will get many 
 people to come back and play it over and over again.
  
  The main idea here is that the higher your rank, the more weapons and perks (ablilities) you unlock. 
 The beautiful thing about this idea is that while the rank gives you more equipment and perks, 
 it doesn't necessarily make you a better player; it simply opens up more options for you. A level 
 17 can still kick some serious butt against a level 55 prestige if you know how to use what you 
 (which would be me since I actually was that level 17 player shooting two level 55's AT THE SAME 
 TIME with an M9) . While multiplayer is certainly fun, many matches often go without any real teamwork 
 (at least with the 360 rendition, I don't know about the PS3 or PC versions) . Unlike Halo 3, there's 
 very little strategy people really use here, as you'll notice many players will like to camp out 
 in dark corners and get the bead on enemies passing by. In fact, this method of killing opponents 
 is quite popular, and after a while it does get somewhat annoying. On the upside, because of the 
 game's system of check and balances, the game doesn't spawn weapons on the map, which gives newcomers 
 a good edge when they start out. Of course, there is an "old-school mode" for those who consider 
 playing in this fashion instead. The short and skinny is that the multiplayer is hands-down just 
 a blast to play, and I would be surprised if there wasn't a gamer out there that didn't find it 
 fun at all.
  
  Now there's no such thing as a perfect game as it does have flaws, but the good just far outweighs 
 the bad in every way. Do yourself a favor and pick up this game. It'll make even the nerdiest of 
 gamers yell "Hooorrrrrraaaaahhhhh!" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dynasty3patriot
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 7, 2008 3:24 pm PT
Review:  The Call of Duty series has been one of if not the most succesfull first person shooters in the 
 past few years. Fot the fourth time around, the developers wanted to take the series in a new direction. 
 Instead of playing in played out World War 2 scenes, youu are now in modern areas like the Middle 
 East. I beleive it was a great decision. 
  
  The gameplay in COD4 is the greatest gameplay for a shooter game that has been seen in years. Shooting 
 runs very smoothly and you will be able to pick up on it quickley. When you are shooting you will 
 bring the gun up to your face to get the best accuracy. If you shoot from the hip you wont get 
 the most accurate shot. Moving around also runs very smooth. Gameplay wise this is the best in 
 the shooter catagory.
  
  There is a single player campaing. You will take control of two soldiers. One from the British 
 army, and one from the U. S Marines. The story is very intriguing. But it seems like its over before 
 its starts. Experienced shooter plaers will blow through this 5 hour campaing very quickly. Even 
 though it was short, the campaing was still great.
  
  The last and the best aspect of the game is online mulitplayer. This is the deepest online shooter 
 ever. You can jump right into a match and start playing. An upside to the multiplayer is that you 
 level up very quickly. Another great thing about miltiplayer is the create a class. This is where 
 you choose your own weapons and color of them. You can also add attachments like scopes and scilencers. 
 You unlock those attachments by unloking challenges that raise your experience points. Multiplayer 
 is deep and fun that will keep everyone interested for a long time to come.
  
  When you stand back and look at Call of Duty 4 you see one of the best overall games ever created. 
 The gameplay, graphics, campaing, and miltiplayer all add up for a great experience. If you own the 
 XBOX 360 there isnt any reason why you shouldnt pick up Call of Duty 4. It is simpley the best 
 game ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MavThePreacher
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 7, 2008 11:45 am PT
Review:  Way back in 1998, Half-Life emerged on to the scene and redefined the PC FPS. In 2000, the same 
 physics engine was used to create counter strike, which still has a loyal following today (despite 
 its less than stellar console induction) . Finally an FPS that takes a more realistic look at taking 
 damage. Shields and "body armor" are taken away and all you have is a small health bar (depleted 
 after only a few shots) and recoil is added to the weapons being used. This is the idea that COD 
 starts with and with its fourth induction in its series brings the weapons and story up to modern 
 times (hence the subtitle "modern warfare") .
  I give this short history lesson for all the 12 year old gamers who think that every game developed 
 today is a new revolution that has never been attempted. Sorry to bust your wet dreams boys and 
 girls, but this is not a new concept. However, COD does what few games have done since Half-life 
 and Counterstrike, it has an engaging story (albeit the typically short story of most FPS games 
 out there) and it does it in a contemporary setting that kids need to know about. This game is 
 a great tribute to veterans such as myself who fight to protect the rights these kids know so little 
 about.
  Halo killer? Not in my opinion. Halo and COD are trying to do two totally different things: Halo=future 
 sci-fi warfare and COD=modern warfare. Shields and increased agility of a sci-fi story, but it 
 has no place in a contemporary setting. Both multiplayers do what they are designed to do. Halo 
 is broken down to nitty gritty hoppers where you can be sure to play something you want to play; 
 COD is ideal for those players who just want to jump in and start shooting stuff up.
  This game is great, and it takes what a loved about Counterstrike and puts it in the palm of my 
 hand rather than across a keyboard so I am even more excited about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: w4rgasm
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 7, 2008 9:36 am PT
Review:  I don't give away perfect scores like candy at Halloween. In fact, I don't think I've given away 
 a perfect 10 before.
  But this game truly deserves the marks of perfection.
  Everything is done right.
  The graphics are astounding. Sprinting through the enemy lines with 
 fear of an enemy picking you off through the garbage and debri-infested streets. Or creeping back 
 in a bush under the lavish, green brush, waiting for that enemy soldier to peak his head over the 
 wall for a perfect head-shot.
  The sound envelopes you into the surroundings and everything just makes it seem "real." And by 
 real, I don't mean you think it's a realistic game. I mean you think this could actually be the 
 real world inside of your television. Missiles bombard the streets and footsteps creep up behind 
 you, waiting to backstab you in the head with a knife.
  In addition to the captivating world, the gameplay compliments everything flawlessly. Whether it 
 be single-player, where the enemies are either relatively easy to kill, or a nightmare... where 
 if you leave yourself uncovered for more than a second, you are a dead man. Or the multiplayer, 
 where every match is different and the maps make for a great, diverse environment. Some are close-quarters, 
 which make for some excellent brawls, while others are wide-open with brush and debri, making it 
 a sniper's paradise.
  Overall this game is nothing but flawless. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nobdow
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 6, 2008 7:46 pm PT
Review:  There are handfuls of first person shooter halo wannabes; this is not one of those games. Campaign: 
 The campaign is short compared to other first person shooter games, but the story is rich and very 
 rewarding to see it unveil. There are four difficulties recruit, regular, hardened, and veteran. 
 The campaign takes less than six hours on regular, but if you up the difficulty you can easily 
 tack on two or three more hours just because the enemy is so frustratingly difficult. The enemy 
 AI is amassing, they are always trying to get a better angle on you or a tactical advantage. You 
 allies has good AI but, not as good as your opponents. They seem to get in the way a lot. You can 
 be under fire and try to hide in a house and your man will just sit there and block the doorway 
 watching you die. Like the past Call of Duty games you bounce back and forth between several characters, 
 which not all of make it out alive. You play as the British SAS and the United States Marine Core. 
 You are trying to stop two psycho terrorists, one from Russia and one from the Middle East. The 
 campaign is divided into three acts with about four or more missions in each. Most of the missions 
 are simple get somewhere to destroy something missions, but Infinity Ward mixes it up by throwing 
 in a assassination mission where you are a ghillie suited sniper, and several where you are manning 
 different vehicles. On one mission you will man the three guns (150mm, 40mm, and 25mm) of an AC-130 
 gun ship blowing up dozens of miniscule enemies. Weapons and Grenades: all of the weapons are from 
 our time period like the AK-47, Barret 50 caliber sniper, MP5, G3, and M429 SAW. The weapons are 
 divided into five groups; assault rifles, sub machine guns, light machine guns, shotguns, and snipers. 
 You will have only one type of frag grenade, but you will have three types of special grenades; 
 flash bang, smoke, and stun. Online Multiplayer: The multiplayer is one of the best we have ever 
 seen; it rivals that of halo 3. You only begin with a few weapons and perks, but you can unlock 
 more by increasing in rank. You cannot create a custom class at first you have to earn that ability. 
 You get to pick from three different perks when you are customizing. The perks are divided to three 
 categories; you get to pick one from each category. Our favorite perks are last stand (in which 
 you pull out before you die) , marathon (you drop a live grenade when you die) , and deep penetration 
 (in which your bullets can go through wall faster) . You get experience point for almost every thing 
 you do; planting a bomb, destroying an HQ, or killing an enemy. At level 55 you make a tough choice, 
 but we will not ruin it for you. There are plenty of maps to play on all based on a campaign levels. 
 There are plenty of game types to play. Like everything else you begin with only one or two and 
 unlock more. You play games like headquarters, team death match, hard core, old school, and more. 
 At the right level you unlock the ability to show your support to your clan with a clan tag. One 
 of the nice touches is the kill cam. It lets you see how you were killed from the killer's perspective. 
 It is handy if you are sniped and you did not know from where. You can start a private game and 
 tweak the rules to your liking. Like putting on headshots only, or old core. The Good: outstanding 
 graphics and audio, great competitive online multiplayer that gives you something to aim for, strong 
 campaign story with plenty of surprises, and a high replay value The Bad: too short a campaign 
 for a fps
  
  Story 9
  Gameplay 10
  Presentation 10
  Design 9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mkothephenom
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 6, 2008 7:44 pm PT
Review:  First off Call of Duty 4 is the newest entry in the Call of Duty series that has been going on 
 for a while. Now this Call of Duty was made by infinady ward who made call of duty 2 which was 
 a great game. This game is no different and it is even better. Accept for one aspect which is the 
 game takes place in modern day hence modern warfare.
  
  Now the Visuals in the game are just beautiful. Everything from the environment to character models 
 and even objects just look almost photorealistic. Besides Crysis this might just be the greatest 
 looking game ever.
  
  There is a single player campagn in COD 4 and it is quite fun. Now i won't try to spoil anything 
 but you get to play as multiple characters which freshens up the campagn. The action is intense 
 and it is fun for the most part but it only last about 6 to 8 hours if you take a little longer, 
 so the campagn is really short. Still the action and overall the campagn is a joy to play. And 
 there is a arcade mode after you finish the campagn so that gives the game more replayability.
 
  
  Now the multiplayer is where the game truly shines. The multiplayer will give you hours and hours 
 of gameplay. First off there are a handful of game modes to play. There are your traditional deathmatch 
 and team deathmatches and different variations of those games that are quite uniqe. Where the multiplayer 
 is really interesting is that it has a sort of rpg element to the multiplayer. It is really deep. 
 Leveling up your stats can give you more weapons and more upgrades to choose from. You can also 
 upgrade the appearance of your weapons with many different coatings. Leveling up will end at level 
 55 but you can do it again for up to ten more times so you can "Prestige" for ten more times and 
 that makes you go back to basics and have nothing.
  
  The Sound in the game is one of its greatest aspects. First off your weapon fire sounds authentic 
 to each weapon. So a sub-machine gun sounds weak but a shotgun sounds loud and vigarous. The Sounds 
 in the battle field are also amazing. Everything to Gernades and pieces of the environment falling 
 off just sounds natural and realistic.
  
  The gameplay stays true to the Call of Duty name. you can fire your gun without looking in which 
 is very inaccurate or you can look in which will take a bit longer but is much more effective. 
 The only real difference in gameplay is the way the weapons work. There are about 3 scopes in the 
 game and one of them is for sniping and the others are for aiming. So what makes the game seem 
 like it has different gameplay is all of the technology that is in the game.
  
  So the Campagn may not take very long to beat but there is also a arcade mode and the multiplayer 
 will have you hooked so its a nice trade off if you do not have online it is a bit hard to reccomend 
 this game unless you are able to system link with someone. In the end Call of Duty 4 is a slick 
 looking game, it has great sound and amazing gameplay. Shooter fans should not miss this even if 
 your too busy playing Halo 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingTuell
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 6, 2008 7:35 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is the best war game and shooter out now. Its multiplayer is 10 times better than 
 GRAW 2. The multiplayer also has 5 customizable classes where you can unlock new weapons the higher 
 your rank is. The campaign is awesome and it lasts for ever. This games is extremely addicting. 
 I would recommended this to everyone that has a Xbox 360, PS3, or PC. The only reason i didn't 
 give Call of Duty 4 a 10 is because there is no such thing as a perfect game and i couldn't give 
 it a 9.9. Buy this game because its the best game for Xbox 360. . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cocolite
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 6, 2008 4:55 pm PT
Review:  This game is really cool. I went into it thinking Halo 3 would be better. I was simply shocked 
 at the graphics and gameplay. Halo has finally been savagely murdered by this game. Its graphics 
 kick the hell out of halo and its gameplay is better then it as well. I am very sad that they took 
 out the swaying grass when a helicopter lands. If they still had this feature, this game would 
 have scored much, much higher in my book.
  The xbox live multiplayer is even better then it's gripping storyline. It has a level cap of 55, 
 unless you go into prestige. It takes a few days minimum to hit a prestige. The maximum prestige 
 is the 10th prestige. Keep in mind, the prestige will reset all your weapons and start you over 
 again at level 1 with a new rank symbol and it is completely optional.
  All in all, this game is great, and if you are actually reading my review and haven't read other 
 reviews, this is the #1 played game on live. Even if you don't have live this is worth your money. 
 Oh, and if you have live, ADD MAH!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Symbiote_Venom
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 6, 2008 2:30 pm PT
Review:  Wow I said that alot of times while playing this game there are points in the story mode where 
 you just say Wow the game truly is amazing single player was a fun experience i beat it on all 
 modes it addas alot of replay value
  
  Online is where I spend most of my time on this game I have enjoyed it so much i got it when it 
 first came out and havent really been able t o play another live game i just keep coming back to 
 it If you like FPS this is a must have game its by far the best Call Of Duty game too bad COD5 
 wont be made by the same people and might go back to World War Two
  
  Hope My Review  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: foggycow
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 6, 2008 1:11 pm PT
Review:  this game is definatly for you. When i bought this game and played it for the first time i was 
 hooked. I have nothing bad to say about this game. This game was and is still by far the best shooter 
 i have played since halo 3. i can't wait to see how they make the next one. they are up too something 
 great in this game. This game is challenging strategic on some levels and just plain out fun. Just 
 to warn anybody that is thinkning about buying this game though if you get mad easy and dont like 
 to be killed take anger managment classes because online its all out war and you will be killed 
 but dont worry the respawn times arent that bad. I suggest that you get a mike for this game because 
 although it might not seem like it on this game in most of the matches you really need to work 
 as a team in order to win. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PenguinMyers
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 6, 2008 5:45 am PT
Review:  this game is a saver for the CoD franchise, this is a huge step forward for this franchise. It 
 is majorly improved in all catagories from CoD3. even though the story can only take about 4 hours 
 to complete on Regular, the harder you get the more exciting it gets because it actually challenges 
 you just to survive. The visuals are amazing for a fps and the story is very in depth. The online 
 is what makes or breaks this game for you. This game has great online, so many customizable things 
 to do. Even though most people use the same stuff. This game is just addicting like many others 
 i've played and it's worth all the money that you put into it. this game is a must have for all 
 people who love shooters and anybody who owns a 360 since this was the best game that came out 
 in 2007. Go out and get it now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oUtlaWmaSTEr
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 5, 2008 11:49 pm PT
Review:  This game has to be one of the best FPS shooters i have ever played. maybe even better then 007 
 Golden eye. I personally find the hardcore matches the most preferred as they truly require tactics 
 and team work because one mistake and your back waiting to respawn or waiting for the next match. 
 If your not into a truly tactics type of fight you can also try some of the more standard modes 
 or even go old school and run for your weapons. The first person side of the game can very from 
 really easy to insanely hard allowing for a variety of experiences. The game is something you will 
 definitely want to play over and over again, and yes it douse blow halo 3 out of the water. You 
 would think the same if you played the multiplayer for any significant amount of time Halo 3 will 
 feel to sluggish and boring. Overall this is one extraordinary FPS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seankulbeth
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 5, 2008 6:50 pm PT
Review:  Singleplayer:
  
  Presentation- An array of different mission types and viewpoints make a positive impact on what 
 could have been a boring singleplayer experience. For instance, to name a few well known variations, 
 a gunship, sniping (with wind and other factors) , and a sinking ship all create a new and exciting 
 element in the first person shooter genre.
  
  Graphics- Nicely done, with in game "cut-scenes" so as not to stop the action. A couple of concerns 
 stick out however. When you are damaged, your hud turns red, going quickly from an indicator to 
 an agitator. In many cases, it blocks your line of sight and gets you killed. Also, car eplosions 
 look weak, and don't fit in with the rest of the game.
  
  Sound- The effects are amazing, easily telling you when a gernade is dropped nearby, changing sounds 
 depending on what type of surface your shooting through, and grisly cries of pain from wounded 
 soldiers. However, the other languages scattered in the game grow quickly from immersive to annoying.
 
  
  Multiplayer:
  
  Multiple character classes that are customizable with perks and weapons, plus unlockable challenges! 
 I have to admit, this is the first time I've seen such innovation in a shooter. Some lagging difficulties 
 and shutdown problems litter and bring down the experience, but it doesn't really noticibly hurt 
 the game. Different bonuses for kill streaks reward hardcore players, but don't alienate newcomers. 
 The only real problem is that once you play this mode, you won't want to go back to the single 
 player.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jhaslkhwg
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 5, 2008 9:58 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is amazing and definitely worth purchasing. The campaign may be short but it is 
 intense throughout, varied to keep things interesting, and has some great cinematic moments. It 
 does have some innovative features such as cooked grenades but mainly what COD 4 is all about is 
 doing what every other FPS tries to do much better. You will most likely want to play through the 
 campaign at least twice on different difficulty settings. The visuals and sound are breathtaking. 
 They are probably the most realistic i have yet experienced in any game. You will constantly be 
 impressed with the production values. The multi-player in my opinion is best that is currently 
 available. Its very fast paced and intense but just about anybody can get into it without having 
 to be an online junkie. The deep customization system makes it highly addictive and fun leveling 
 up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Daedramaster666
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 5, 2008 8:55 am PT
Review:  Looking for the best game on earth well youve found it . Call of duty 4 has stunning visuals and 
 sfx the single player campaign is great so even if you dont have xbox live infinity ward have outdone 
 them selves with c o d 4 . The online multi player can be described by no word but absoluty PERFECT 
 . The game modes are great the unlockable weapons and attach ment system is great the maps are 
 great . i cant just think of any flaws with this game . if you dont have this game must get it 
 now . This is one of the two games ive ever given 10 along with oblivion . The amount of play time 
 you can get from this game if your an online player is endless and if your not online with the 
 4 difficultys and arcade mode you can get well over 100 hours of gameplay . Final Verdict : Best 
 Game Ever! Buy it now!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nalyd721
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 4, 2008 5:03 pm PT
Review:  this is by by the best shooter of 2007 if not the greatest of all time. halo 3 does not even compare 
 to the gameplay and multiplayer quality of this game. i could play this game forever and never 
 get tired of it. a must own for any xbox 360 owner. its a no brainer. even the campaign is exciting, 
 even though it is a little short, that doesn't take away from the intensity and excitement this 
 game brings to the table every time you play it. call of duty 4 will go down as one of the top 
 20 games of all time and the franchise will continue to grow and prosper as the years go on. ttttttttttttttttt 
 tttttttttttttttt tttttttttttttttttt ttttttttttt ttttttttttttttttttt ttttttttttttttttttt tttttttttttttttttttt 
 ttttttttttttttttttttt ttttttttttttttt tttttttttttttttt tttttttttttttttt tttttttttttttt ttttttttttttt 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: premolight
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 4, 2008 3:22 pm PT
Review:  the graphics are amazing, the online is the best i have ever played. the campaign mode is sweet 
 with an alternate present that throughs you into a nuke filled war with a russian power struggle. 
 it sends you from attacking a cargo ship to being killed by a nuke to crawling in a ghillie suit 
 to the skies above russia in an AC-130 Spectre gunship and then free falling out of an airplane 
 with a V. I. P hostage. And thats just the campaign. On the contrary to all the other call of duty 
 games this one takes place in the modern day. the online play has a large number of weapons with 
 attachments like red dot sights, ACOG scopes, silencers, and the M203 Grenadde launcher (nube Tube) 
 the online play also has perks which you can chose to add RPGs claymores and other weapons. you 
 can also add things like stronger bullets deeper bullet penatration and other stuff like that. 
 you can also if you are a big time nube add stuff like juggernaut which makes you bullet resilient. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark_Lord777
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 4, 2008 2:46 pm PT
Review:  To start off, this a game I didn't think i was going to buy. But after hearing great things about 
 it, I decided to buy it.
  
  Boy did i make a great decision! The single payer campaign is over fast, and i still have some 
 trouble on a few veteran missions, but still very fun. Online play is where it is at though. I 
 wish there had been a few different guns, and maybe the hurricane holo sight (which is on the M4A1 
 grenade launcher in the single player.) 
  
  
  I was dissapointed with some of the maps. The Bog, to start out with, is a map where everyone wants 
 to snipe. I hate this, because one guy with a UAV jammer and a silenced P90 or Mini Uzi can wipe 
 out the whole team (which I admit I've done.) 
  
  The ACOG scope should have been better, it seems it brings the gun down in accuracy, but increases 
 the range (?) 
  
  I still love creating a party on live with a bunch of my friends so we can coordinate our movements 
 and attacks. 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  Aside from getting noobtubed or gatted down by a P90, I enjoy this game completely. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: random58
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 4, 2008 9:54 am PT
Review:  lets start with the singleplayer.... firstly its short but if your like me and started on the harder 
 modes it keeps you going a good few hours longer. the actual storyline is very good and feels realistic 
 likewise with the gameplay as you can die quite easily although you dont usually regenerate your 
 health in real life so quick, the graphics are good too and hold up throughout the game, if you 
 shoot people in the head next to a wall or with a shotgun the smear effect of the blood is not 
 to shabby either unlike other games.
  multiplayer is based on an xp leveling system which keeps you doing challenges and gives you other 
 reasons to play online. you can progress to level 55 and then start all over again if you want., 
 constantly building up your score to beat your mates. by leveling you unlock new equipment which 
 makes killing people a considerable amount easier and there is a good lot of competition too, watch 
 the kill cams as well sometimes you will think wtf he wasnt even shooting at me (i always do it) 
 they also look good as well. the variety of maps isn't great though although im sure you will find 
 a favourite or two.
  if your a fan of fps games defiantly buy this because its just really awesome 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jeff917
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 3, 2008 1:16 pm PT
Review:  Just so everyone knows, the reviews I post are my opinions, I'm not paid and I rate them on how 
 I see them. My opinions may differ from every ones and that's OK.
  
  Name: Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare
  Platforms this game is available on: XBox 360/PS3/MAC/DS/PC
 
  Platform that this game is being reviewed on: XBox 360
  Publisher: Activision
  Developer: Infinity Ward
  Genre: FPS
  Difficulty: Normal
  Learning Curve: 15 Minutes
  Number 
 of Players: 1-4
  Online Players: 16
  Online Modes: Team Oriented
  Offline Modes: Team Oriented/Competitive
  Release Date: 09/05/2007
  ESRB Rating: M
  ESRB Description: 
 Strong Language/Violence/Blood and Gore
  Score: 10 out of 10
  
  Game Price
  Price Used: $54.99 (www. ebgames. com)
  Price New: $59.99 (www. ebgames. com)
  
  Is there a Game 
 Guide Book Available: Yes
  Price Used: $11.49 (www. amazon. com)
  Price New: $19.99 (www. ebgames. com)
  
  Anything Else That is exclusive for this game: No
 
  Price Used:
  Price New:
  
  I'll be honest I haven't given any games a perfect 10 that are out for the current generation of 
 games. This is about to change. Ladies and Gentlemen this is the first 10 that I've given to a 
 game of the current Generation I give to you Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare. This game is perfect 
 everything from the training mission in the beginning of the game to the very end where your on 
 the run in the back of a truck trying to escape the enemies. It was so freaking action packed. 
 I'll be honest not many games pull me in Hell I didn't even get pulled into Halo 3 (Which is sad 
 because I was hoping to be. Just another let down by Bungie) Two specific parts really pulled me 
 in. The scene after the boat mission where you are the president of a country and you get forced 
 into a car where it leads to you getting murdered on TV. the other part that really pulled me in 
 was just after you rescue the pilot of Deadly and the Nuke is set off where you end up seeing the 
 death of the officer I couldn't believe it. It really made me want to play on as the Newbie known 
 as Soap just to make these people pay. For what they did. Now I'll be honest I never played any 
 of the other COD games so I can't really compare this one to the ones of the past but if this game 
 was this good I would like to try the others. I didn't find anything wrong at all. In fact I think 
 the game was totally perfect regarding everything. I've heard people say that the Campaign was 
 too small but to me if it was small it made up for it with long levels. This game is well worth 
 the price of $59.99 if you read this and haven't played it yet. Trust me you'll like it. I hope 
 they make more games in this fashion. And for it being the way it is it gets a Perfect 10 out of 
 10. it gets a M for Strong Language/Violence/Blood and Gore so please if you see this game play 
 it. You won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJCookieUK
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 3, 2008 2:21 am PT
Review:  This is a late review as i have played it to death already but here goes anyway
  
  Single player - 
  This game has many a frustrating moment as did it's predecessors. But with 
 a will to earn a 1000 GS easy to forgive as you take on level by level. There is a well rounded 
 aspect to the game from all out shoot to survive to sniper to air support. The levels have enough 
 change to keep them interesting and good enough to slap it on again in normal mode just to go for 
 a quick romp.
  
  Multi Player - 
  As with all games there are the people who look for every vantage (glitch included) just to show 
 the world how badass they are and how well ranked Up they are. Well we all know that the world 
 dont care, but bless them for trying. This can take away from the enjoyment of having a good time 
 online and the server issues haven't helped at all either, but that said, this is still one of 
 the best multi player games out there. Ranking up is helped along with personal challenges which 
 only add to the enjoyment. The game play is fast paced and the maps help this along with leaving 
 very few places to sit safe (expect a knife to your back as you sit there smug with your sniper 
 rifle) This leaves you with a kill and be killed race to the finish. Thats just the free for all!!!!!! 
 The game choice is extensive from team death match to objective and territorial battles down to 
 a good old one on one fight to the death.
  
  All in all this game is a must have, plain and simple 
::::::

::::::
UserName: walker1846
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 28, 2008 2:29 am PT
Review:  Another mission
  another time to carry the colours again
  the motivation and all they've sworn to defend to win the honour of coming home again.
  Buckle 
 your seatbelts and prepare to ride the intense rollercoaster that is Call of duty 4: Modern Warfare 
 embrace the frontlines of war and come away with a satisfied and emotional experience of the single 
 player campaign and stay for the deep, challenging and cleverly crafted multiplayer component.
 
  
  There are no nazis to shoot in this highly critically accliamed FPS just evil scheming Russian 
 Ultranationalists and religuos terrorists in the form of the middle eastern rebels Imran Zahkaev 
 and Kaled Al-asad are opposing the rest of the world with nuclear weapons and its up to the british 
 SAS and the United states Marine Corps to cleanse the world of the terrors of the Middle East and 
 the evil scheme of the Ultranationalists. the results that infinity ward have come up with is a 
 fantastic package that deals with the emotions of the frontline.
  
  Every mission is memorable because every mission is different and it shows you that in war the 
 winner and the loser will both come out of the encounter very scarred and emotionally wounded, 
 one of the most memorable missions would have to be when its a flashback as captain price and you 
 have to carry your officer through the rubble that is Chernyoble
  or the mission in which close quarters combat is the main meal of the deal in which you have to 
 search possible locations on Al-asad which leads to the TV station which is arguably the most frustrating 
 level in the game but forgivingly is ultimateley rewarding. On the negative side though the campaign 
 is very short but it leads to another positive in that the campaign has good replayability.
  
  Come for the single player and stay for the multiplayer, the online component of Modern Warfare 
 is deep and satisfying with a level up system in which every level gained you will unlock new perks 
 and weapons. Also getting 3 kills in a row you gain a UAV radar which will pick up enemy movement 
 get 5 you call an airstrike, get 7 and a chopper will take out anyone who has a deathwish. Call 
 of duty 4: Modern Warfare without a doubt is the best war game out on the market and the most intense.
 
  Annhilation will be unavoidable.
  
  +
  - Intense solo campaign which delivers so well
  - Story is very engaging and immersive 
  - strong multiplayer
  - great graphics frame rate? 
 60 fps
  - rewarding and replayable
  - some great perks (Martyrdom, Last stand, Overkill)
  - lovely sound engine
  _
  - campaign is rather short
  - frustrating and very difficult
 
  - multiplayer can lag sometimes
  
  Bring on COD 5!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ngentot25
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 2, 2008 7:22 pm PT
Review:  CoD 4 is an absolute must-have game. It had been years since I'd played a FPS, in fact, I think 
 Doom and Duke Nukem may have been the last. Wow, I can't believe how things have changed. This 
 game is brillant in all areas. The single player is a great place to start and hoan your skills 
 ready for the various multiplayer game modes. While there is criticism for the shortness of the 
 single player mode, it's just long enough to get you ready for the "real" part of the game. Multiplayer 
 mode will have you addicted for hours as you try to get XP's to gain higher ranks and better weapons. 
 As you get used to the game you'll find new places and tactics to win the multiplayer games. The 
 only criticism I have of the game is the lack of co-op mode. It really could be a perfect 10 had 
 the developers added this feature to the online gaming. For the all the novices out there or older 
 people (like myself) who haven't ventured into FPS's this definitely a great place to start and 
 worth every cent. This is definite buy for novices and veterans alike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -MotownTigers-
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 2, 2008 7:55 am PT
Review:  The game play , sound , graphics , single-player, online is just awesome. The single player is 
 short but amazing it looks and plays very well. In any game i'm into online play more than the 
 single player game. You rank up as you play unlocking new weapons, challenges, and perks as you 
 go keeping things interesting . You can rank up faster by getting points for using your weapons, 
 switching the ones you use as you rake up kills and headshots, unlocking challenges (such as calling 
 in airstrikes, killing someone while in air...) all while moving up from 1-55. Once you get to 
 55 (by then you have unlocked all the weapons) you can stay and keep playing using all the good 
 stuff you worked so hard for or you can move on to "prestige" mode where you start all over ( start 
 from scratch unlocking those weapons and challenges all over again) this keeps the game fresh and 
 gives you bragging rights on getting through the game up to 11 times, 10 in prestige mode which 
 gives you a new "badge" for each prestige you get to so everyone knows how battle hardened you 
 are.
  The game is well worth the money and you will got tons of play time. Definately the best game out 
 !! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mad_simon_000
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 2, 2008 3:53 am PT
Review:  Call Of Duty 4: Modern Warfare
  Xbox 360
  
  Call Of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is one of best in the series as Activision finaly take the Call 
 Of Duty out of World War II and into modern warfare. Campaign mode is realy short you could complete 
 in 5 hours but has so much detail, you will between two drifferent soldiers the S. A. S and the USMC. 
 The hole ponit of Call Of Duty is the aiming, so you will have your button to look down the sites 
 and scopes. A new feature is the sniper beathing where you have two hold down a button to beath 
 this will give you a high accurcey when you trying to head shot people. There some lovely effects 
 in this game like flash bangs which make the screen all white and unable to see and the other effect 
 is the blood eye where your about to die you will get a blood eye telling you to hide.
  
  The thing that makes up for the short campaign mode is the detail online mode, online you will 
 have the ranking like on Halo 3 but everything gives you expernice like killing some one, calling 
 in airstrike and challenges. A new feature to online mode is when you get some kills in a row you 
 can call in air strikes, rader and much more. Being able costumise your soldier is one of the best 
 feature on online mode, where you can customise what weapons you have, attachments, and perks. 
 Perks are abitlys that help you play better but you will have to level up to get other Perks higher 
 perk don't mean that if your a high level you have adventage above new users.
  
  Overall Call Of Duty 4 is a big change to World War II and for the best, the gameplay is fun and 
 will challege you to play the harder levels. Online play is fun and will have you killing everyone 
 until you unlock very gun and perk. If your a fan of the series that you will feel where there 
 going where the series and if your new the you will find this game one of the best shoter on the 
 market. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Neonshadow2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 2, 2008 12:09 am PT
Review:  I'll start out by admitting that I'm not a past fan of the Call of Duty games, though not out of 
 dislike, more out of ignorance or just never having a chance to play them. Call of Duty 4 is my 
 first true step into the series and on the subject matter I'd say it's akin to stepping out onto 
 the middle of a battlefield without going through boot camp first. So yes, I died a lot, it's pretty 
 realistic and hard, but most importantly it's intense and immersive.
  
  The single player story is short, I'll get that out of the way now because it's the only little 
 detail where the game lacks utter perfection. The actually story itself is so epic and well crafted 
 though that it really doesn't matter that it's short. You'll spend most of the game as sgt. 'Soap' 
 Mactavish an SAS straight out of selection. The story reflects Soap's status as the FNG and at 
 first you really won't have a whole lot of resposibility on missions, but this gradually builds 
 up and it really feels like you're earning your teammate's trust. The story starts when your SAS 
 team finds a nuke on board a russian cargo ship they've been tasked with raiding. this leads you 
 on a campaign to find out what's going on in the Middle East and Russia that in some ways eerilly 
 mirrors real world events. The story takes many twists and turns and is not your typical 'my country 
 tis of thee' war story, by the end the game actually comes across as very anti-war.
  
  The game's missions are largely varied, you can be pretty sure you're going to spend a lot of time 
 shooting people in the face, but the missions are executed in a variety of ways. For instance there's 
 a sneaking/sniping mission which is really in contrast to the missions that mirror the invasion 
 of iraq where you're storming down the streets with cars and grenades blowing up around you.
  
  Speaking of which this game is immersive, it gets you as close to the action as you should 
 ever want quite frankly. There's been a few times where I've been so absorbed I've felt genuine 
 fear for my life. I've tried to actually dodge the bullets coming towards me as if they might hit 
 me through the TV screen and things to that effect. Sounds are so realistic, there's gunfire, explosions, 
 your teammates are almost always talking (shouting in the case of the marines, over all the exploding) 
 and the enemies also like to shout at you. 
  
  Weapons are genuinely very nice in this game and that's really what a shooter's all about. The 
 guns are all realistic (no BFGs, boo) , some have laser sights which help with aiming, some have 
 iron sights... which don't. You'll most likely find your own favorite weapon combos, every gun 
 handles at least a little bit differntly. This really comes into play in the multiplayer mode where 
 you can select your weapon loadout before you begin, it really helps you play the game more comfortably.
 
  
  The multiplayer is probably the most exciting and well put together portions of this game. The 
 system is based on a persistant character who you level up throughout matches. Leveling up earns 
 you more guns and perks, along with more of the slightly complex game modes. Don't think it's bad 
 to be a lower level though, a level 1 can still easilly murder a level 55, it's just more flexable 
 when you reach the higher levels, you get more options. Matches are always fun and are a big challenge 
 (it is kind of funny to see your friend get killed about 8 times in a row as he respawns) but even 
 if you're new you'll have fun and it really does feel like a big achivement to win a game.
  
  Overall Call of Duty is an excellent package and one of those few games out there that may 
 actually be worth shelling out $60 to own. Completing the singleplayer earns you some extras when 
 you're done and the higher difficulties are stupidly challenging, enough to keep you coming back 
 for more if you're as stubbourn as me. It's really a game easilly deserving of it's high praise, 
 a game sure to be the gem of your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xunhallowed
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 1, 2008 4:24 pm PT
Review:  First of all, let's start off by saying that if you like Call of Duty 2, or even Call of Duty 3 
 (made by a different developer) , you will love the fourth entry in the series. Call of Duty 4 is 
 an outstanding game that you'll enjoy if you're a fan of first-person shooters or fun, for that 
 matter.
  
  Let's start off with the options. The game features a campaign mode as well as an arcade mode, 
 which is unlocked after completing campaign on any difficulty. The arcade mode is much like Halo 
 3's scoring mode, and it does add a challenge, but not one significant enough to lure you in for 
 another go. You'll probably go through the campaign once, but if you want the achievements, you'll 
 have to rush through it again to collect all 30 intel items and complete various tasks such as 
 destroying a helicopter with an RPG, getting a certain amount of headshots in a row, etc. Once 
 you've acquired a certain amount of intel items, you unlock a cheat, or a way to modify the campaign. 
 Getting all of the intel items will respectively get you all of the cheats. These include the ability 
 to play in a 50's-style sepia mode, a black and white mode, and a negative mode. However, my personal 
 favorite is called "A Bad Year" which results in a hail of tires every time you kill an enemy, 
 which is hilarious.
  
  To unlock all of the achievements, you'll need to beat the game on Veteran, along with the epilogue. 
 On the Veteran difficulty (the only difficulty that you get an achievement for beating) , the epilogue 
 tasks you with rushing through a terrorist-infested plane in under a minute, rescuing a VIP, and 
 getting out before it explodes. This is definitely one of the most intense single player moments 
 in the game, but unfortunately, due to the Veteran difficulty's AI being a bit -too- good, with 
 their ability to shoot you if you even pop out for more than a second, this quickly becomes a frustrating 
 chore that can take hours. Which brings us to the biggest complaint about campaign, which would 
 be the incredibly accurate Veteran AI. Now, if you're playing on any other difficulty, except maybe 
 Hardened, you won't know the frustration I speak of, and therefore, can enjoy your trip through 
 the relatively short campaign. However, there are just too many sections where there are several 
 dozen enemies to take out, and on Veteran, where even one enemy can pick you off with any weapon, 
 it certainly is a pain. Even better than the aim of the AI is their arms. By that, I mean, on any 
 difficulty, even while you're moving, or on top of a small hill, you WILL get a few grenade indicators 
 popping up on your screen. On Veteran, this is made even worse in the sections with more enemies, 
 and I have experienced parts where I have been buried in a barrage of literally six grenades every 
 couple of seconds. On a difficulty where you have to hide from the enemy because of their ridiculous 
 aim, getting killed by six grenades because you were playing the way you were apparently supposed 
 to be playing is so frustrating that you will never want to play on Veteran again. Furthermore, 
 the lack of any sort of cooperative play is a bit disappointing. As for the story, there isn't 
 too much of one, and you won't be shocked by something new and different, but it does have its 
 moments.
  
  You play as Sergeant "Soap" MacTavish, with the occasional switch to Sergeant Paul Jackson. You 
 also are presented with a first person mode of Yasir Al-Fulani, the president of the unnamed force 
 you're fighting against. This is for purely story purposes, and without spoiling it, I will say 
 that it is a very good way to tell a story. The enemy AI, aside from the aim and grenade throwing, 
 is very good, flanking and running to cover as you would expect. And combined with the strong presentation 
 and well designed missions, the campaign is worth a play on a lower difficulty setting, if only 
 for a quick trip through a great set of missions. You'll use an assault rifle, primarily, and occasionally, 
 the opportunity to use a wealth of different weapons will present itself. You will end up wishing 
 you got to snipe a little more, use a high capacity light machine gun a bit more, or just use anything 
 but your assault rifle. You do use different assault rifles, but you'll pretty much be using the 
 same three every time, and since they feel so similar, it's a bit underwhelming. 
  
  The audio is great, and you'll be shaking when grenades explode all around you, or when you're 
 getting pasted with enemy fire. The helicopters sound true to life, and if your volume's too loud, 
 you'll be jumping out of your chair when you turn a corner and get perforated an enemy soldier. 
 Guns feel and sound great when you shoot them, and they all sound different, which is hard to do 
 when there are so many weapons in the game. The visuals are impressive and consistent, and the 
 frame rate, well, you won't even remember what a bad frame rate is after you play this game. The 
 frame rate is smooth and never drops enough for you or any other human to notice. The character 
 models are great, but a little more variety would go a long way. You won't see too much of them, 
 however; enemies die rather fast compared to other shooters, but it's more realistic that way. 
 
  
  The strongest aspect of the game is its multiplayer mode. Possibly the best multiplayer mode in 
 a first-person shooter so far, Call of Duty 4 uses a ranking system in which experience gained 
 from kills and points in matches will level you up, up to level 55. There are also challenges that 
 grant you extra experience, such as getting a certain amount of kills with a weapon, or using your 
 knife to kill a certain amount of enemies. Once you reach the experience requirement, you can enter 
 Prestige Mode, which basically means you start over. As you rank up from rank 1 to 55, you unlock 
 different weapons and different perks. Perks are essentially ways to modify your character to make 
 him more deadly. You can have more ammo, grenades, or just gain the ability to detect enemy explosives. 
 How about deeper bullet penetration or increased bullet damage? You name it, Call of Duty 4 has 
 it. Finding the right perks to compliment your weapon and the game mode you're playing adds a little 
 strategy to the game, and there are also attachments, such as a scope or a silencer, which increase 
 your accuracy or cloak your movement on radar, which will prove useful in matches. 
  
  In actual multiplayer games, getting kill streaks is very important. For instance, getting three 
 kills without dying gets you a UAV Recon drone for 30 seconds, marking enemy locations on your 
 team's map. Five nets you an airstrike, which lets you pinpoint an area, then carpet bomb it. Using 
 an airstrike in collaboration with a UAV is essential, because it allows you to see where the enemies 
 you're bombing are. Finally, seven kills gets you a helicopter that goes around the map and shoots 
 any enemies it encounters. It can be taken down with heavy fire and RPGs, but most players don't 
 carry RPGs, so helicopters are a huge asset to have. All in all, multiplayer is an unrivaled experience, 
 but you can't help but think it would've been better with any form of matchmaking. Getting destroyed 
 by a team of 10th prestiges in your first game is a little harsh, but the game does its best to 
 balance the teams. 
  
  Call of Duty 4 is a revolutionary game for the first-person shooter genre with its spectacular 
 multiplayer, and with so many options and ways to play, you'll be hooked for quite a while. The 
 campaign could have been longer, and a little less annoying, but you'll forget about campaign when 
 you're immersed in the multiplayer, trying desperately to get that last level before you turn off 
 the game. Call of Duty 4 is a triumph, and you would do well to add it to your collection.
  
  Content: 9/10
  
  Campaign mode and Arcade mode won't keep you too busy, but the multiplayer 
 offers more than enough for you to enjoy.
  
  Design: 10/10
  
  The maps are beautifully designed, enemies constantly enter from helicopters instead of spawn points, 
 and after another play through, you'll notice paths you missed the first time.
  
  Audio: 10/10
  
  Explosions are shocking, gunfire of each weapon is unique and sounds just like 
 you'd expect; suffice it to say, any closer to the real thing and you'd be crying like a baby.
 
  
  Visual: 9/10
  
  Graphics are impressive, frame rates are smooth, but we've seen better looking environments and 
 more variety in character models in other games.
  
  Gameplay: 9.5/10
  
  Getting kill streaks in multiplayer is rewarding, weapons are balanced, and outperforming your 
 enemies with your customized class is a great experience.
  
  Overall: 9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DiamondDusk
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 1, 2008 1:13 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 may have a Short Campaign but it makes up for that in the fact that you can't get 
 through the game very easily. And when I say that I mean when your playing on Veteran Difficulty. 
 You'll find yourself dying with every 2-3 shots. Normally I'd be frustrated but since Call of Duty 
 4 is so.... how could I say? Perfect in almost every aspect that it gets funny when I die. And I 
 sorta enjoy it. It's just plain fun. 
  
  Now for the multiplayer part of Call of Duty 4. I find it better than the Single Player Part of 
 Call of Duty 4. Online Multiplayer have never been that deep, and have dealt with shooting things. 
 That's why I love it so much. It balances normal Shooters with RPG Customization of Creat a Class 
 where you can make your own soildier and give him special "Perks" and weapons. The higher your 
 level the better the perks and weapons. After awhile you'll be adicted to Call of Duty Multiplayer 
 like I am. But like they say all gret things come to an end... or do they? When you gett to lvl 
 55 you make a choose to enter Pretige mode. To sum it up Prestige mode means you've given up all 
 of your Perks and Weapons for a emblem. That Preety much Sums it up. But as crazy as that sounds 
 you'll probaly do it. Considering the fact that Call of Duty 4 has all these great things about 
 it and great graphics as a bonus you'll be playing it for awhile. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vacadekrazy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 29, 2008 11:39 pm PT
Review:  For the most part in this game the two versions of the game (360 & PS3) are the same. The lighting 
 in the 360 version is slightly better. The 360 version allows you to review your friends leaderboard 
 as where the PS3 only allows you to see the friends that are online. Like in most games with the 
 360 you can see what game mode and map your friend is playing before joining their room. You can 
 only join a friends room on the PS3 version if you are invited. In order to add a new friend on 
 the PS3 you have to go to the dashboard out of the game to do it. On the 360 this can be done anytime 
 even in game. Communication is more reliable with cable headset with any game so vintage 360 not 
 having to use bluetooth. The game is good in the campaign versus the other call of dutys as it 
 doesnt feel like a run and gun anymore. The game is sold by the online multiplayer though. The 
 multiplayer has been revamped for the better with a new leveling system that is similar to games 
 in the role playing genre. Its a unique game that runs very smooth while looking amazing online. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SR71halo
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 29, 2008 11:57 am PT
Review:  Infinity Wards does it again with another great addition to the Call of Duty series. Call of Duty 
 2 was great and I didn't think they could do any better. When Call of Duty 4 was announced, I wasn't 
 interested at all for I was getting sick of so many World War II shooters. However, I was happy 
 to hear that it was going to be modern warfare so it was a breath of fresh air to hear something 
 different. I didn't get the game until a week ago and I was amazed. This is easily one of the best 
 games on the 360 as well as this generation.
  
  The levels in single player are awesome. The plot is pretty good and most of the battle scenes 
 are so intense. It's also satisfying to see different weapons besides a thompson in your hands. 
 My only complaint, however, is that it is a little short but the levels have great replay value 
 anyway. All in all, the single player is an experience that you don't want to miss.
  
  Multiplayer gets pretty intense too. The levels are well-designed and fun to play in and there 
 are plenty of classes to choose from as well. As far as the weapons go, the game is pretty balanced.
 
  
  The graphics, of course, are excellent, probably one of the best I've seen. The character models 
 and lighting are so nice to look at.
  
  Call of Duty 4 is a new type of war experience that you won't want to miss. Whether it's in single 
 player or multi, it's definitely a must-own for any 360 owners or if you love shooters. This has 
 got to be one of the best shooters of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: floridajoe03
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 29, 2008 9:17 am PT
Review:  Lets get straight to it, Call of Duty 4 is the shortest FPS I have ever played in my life. But 
 the quality of the campaign and multiplayer makes up for it. 
  
  The Story-Line has you jumping in between the americans, which come barging in to the middle east 
 shooting their guns on their mass erections thinking that they're the big heroes of the war (like 
 in real life) , and the british in which you are sneaking around in more stealthy missions and holding 
 Russian revolutionists hostage and beating them up like the thugs the british are. (Again, like 
 in real life.)
  
  The Campaign:
  Pros:
  -Graphics. This game is the most photo-realistic I have ever seen.
  -Good amount of weapons
 
  -New technolegy that you can't have in WW2 games like helicopters, RPGS and the such.
  -All the characters, especially the british, have great personalities to the point where you feel 
 like you could just jump on in and give them a great big hug because you know them so well. :)
 
  Cons:
  -It Ends.
  
  The Multiplayer:
  Pros:
  -Great map design
  -Unlockables have you constantly playing so that you can to unlock the next best weapon like the 
 P90 or .50 Barret Sniper.
  -Bullet Damage is higher than most games like halo 3 and gears of war. This allows noobies to get 
 some kills and the hardcore players to rake up kills faster.
  -You are rewarded for getting kill streaks.
  3 kill streak gets you a UAV scan.
  5 kill streak 
 gets you an airstrike.
  7 kill streal gets you helicopter support. (REALLY GOOD)
  Cons:
  Can get boring after playing for 5 hours straight
  
  Over-all CoD 4 is the best game out there 
 in my opinion. I think you should get it. And if you really are unsure about it, at least rent 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowSlip
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 28, 2008 7:52 pm PT
Review:  The Call of Duty series has always been awesome, but this new installment is, in my opinion, the 
 best so far. This game definitely sets the bar very high for any games that wish to compete with 
 it. 
  I'm glad that the series has moved away from the traditional World War II theme that the previous 
 games have followed. This change allows the game to feature more modern weapons, technology, and 
 tactics. 
  I think we all were getting tired of the clich WWII shooter, killing Nazis and crippling their 
 regime. This time you face off against a more modern, and possibly more deadly, enemy because they 
 continuously and skillfully use to environment to their advantage, and it works very well. The 
 AI is extremely intelligent and utilizes many modern and lethal tactics to come at you from all 
 angles and directions. Fortunately your squad mates also utilize this feature. They advance, retreat, 
 call out locations of enemies, and utilizing the right weapon for each situation. The is never 
 a time where you feel that the AI will make a dumb mistake that will cost you your life.
  The campaign this time around may follow the general storyline for most tactical shooters, but 
 it still maintains a new and innovative feel. No part of the campaign feels repetitive and bland. 
 There is constantly something going on around, there is never a time in the game where you can 
 just relax and not have to worry about someone sneaking up on you.
  The weapons this time around are a major improvement over the previous weapons in the series. This 
 time around you can use night vision, silencers, and Anti-Tank missile launchers. You get many 
 different types of modern automatic rifles also a wide variety of sniper rifles. Unfortunately 
 the enemy also has some pretty awesome weapons in their arsenal as well. One good thing about that 
 is that all you have to do is kill them and then you can pick up their weapons to use against them. 
 The enemy arsenal ranges from AK-47's to RPG's, which seem to be very accurate.
  One thing that the Call of Duty series has always been famous for is their multiplayer element. 
 This time around I'm glad to say that it is extremely, for lack of a better word, awesome. The 
 ranking system is innovative and constant, with the ability to raise rank mid-firefight. As you 
 progress through the level you are able to buy new classes and weapons and, if you get high enough, 
 a create-a-class system that allows you to create you own personal soldier.
  The levels in multiplayer vary in look and feel, and I don't think that there is one that I don't 
 enjoy playing on. They range from rundown urban environments to gritty, metallic ships, to abandoned 
 nuclear launch sites. There are many different nooks and crannies for you to hide in (or be ambushed 
 from) .
  One great new multiplayer feature is rewards that are awarded for scoring multiple kills in a row. 
 Some of the rewards range from a helicopter gunship that will fly around shooting your enemies, 
 to strategic missile strikes via fighter jets.
  Overall this game is extremely good. This is the sort of game that you could play very often and 
 not get bored of it. The many new feature, levels, and weapons lend the game a fresh and modern 
 overall feel to the game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: videogamesrock_
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 28, 2008 12:50 pm PT
Review:  "Forget Halo and Gears of War, this is COD 4"
  Infinity Ward took a risk. They didn't take the safe approach of making a WWII game that would 
 be good and true to the system. Instead, they tried to revolutionize the Call of Duty series. And 
 so here we have it, Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare. No doubt the best FPS of 2007. Halo what? This 
 is COD.
  
  Graphics - 10/10
  The graphics are good. The enemy models look realistic, and so do your allies. The scenery is breathtaking. 
 During one mission you see buildings being destroyed, wind blowing ashes into the air and explosions 
 filling the air. It's all breathtaking and makes you think "wow". The environments look great, 
 the guns look great and the people look great. 
  
  Sound - 10/10
  The sound in this game is awesome. The guns pack a real punch and you can really feel like you're 
 in a firefight, with bullets whizzing past your head and grenades exploding everywhere. The guns 
 sound like they should, they pack a heavy punch and you don't feel like you're listening to it 
 from a video game, but you feel like it's right next to you.
  
  Story Mode - 8/10
  The campaign mode in COD 4 is short. So short in fact, you can probably finish it in about 6 hours 
 on recruit. On veteran, it might take up to 10 hours... and another 6-10 for the epilogue if you 
 want to get that achievement. Don't want to ruin anything, well you can' really ruin anything as 
 the epilogue doesn't really have a story, but it's brutal on veteran. Besides from the story being 
 short, it is very generic. Bad terrorist, have to go kill terrorist, find out terrorist has friends 
 in Russia, go kill the Russians, game over. That basically sums up the whole campaign, but there 
 are some twists that will make it interesting. The campaign has some great missions, like "Shock 
 and Awe" and "All Ghilied Up". Don't want to ruin anything, but All Ghillied Up is a stealth/sniper 
 mission that is a lot of fun. Basically the campaign is good, but it is too short and the story 
 isn't that new.
  
  Gameplay - 10/10
  By far the best thing about COD 4 is its gameplay. And let me tell you, it's amazing. The controls 
 are very simple, and won't take you more than 30 seconds to learn. Some new features are secondary 
 grenades, such as flash/stun/smoke that are helpful during both campaign and multiplayer. Another 
 new feature is the knifing ability. In previous COD games, you would bash enemies with your gun... well 
 know you knife them, and oh how much fun it is, especially in multiplayer. There's nothing like 
 flanking an enemy and knifing them from behind so you keep yourself concealed. Now here is where 
 we get to the good parts, the AI. Your teammate AI is superb. You could probably fire zero bullets 
 during a few missions and your teammates would take care of everything. Now some people might find 
 that upsetting, but when you play on veteran, you're going to love the extra help you get from 
 your teammates. The only real thing I have against them is that a few "main" characters can't die, 
 even if they take 10 grenades to the face. The enemy AI is also great. On recruit and normal, they 
 do basic moves, like taking cover and well... shooting at you. On hardened and veteran, they start 
 to get smarter. They start flanking you. I even got to a point where I was completely pinned down 
 by enemies from all 4 sides on veteran. Be assured I did not survive. If the enemy knows where 
 you're hiding, they will flush you out with grenades. Don't be surprised when 5 grenades drop by 
 your feet if you simply stand there shooting at them. The greatest thing is that as difficulty 
 progresses, the health of enemies stays the same. Enemies on recruit and on veteran take the same 
 amount of damage before dying, but enemies on veteran are much smarter and you have less health.
 
  
  Multiplayer - 10/10
  Multiplayer is COD's bread and butter. It implements a ranking system from level 1 to 55. You gain 
 levels by earning experience. You earn experience by participating in online matches. There is 
 a wide variety of matches you can choose. You have Team Deathmatch, Free-for-all, King of the Hill. 
 Some relatively new game types are Sabotage, Search and Destroy, Hardcore Team Deathmatch and Old 
 School Free-For-All. In Sabotage, there is one neutral bomb in the middle of the map, and two teams 
 are trying to get the bomb into the other teams HQ and blow it up. This game mode is very fun as 
 it can sometimes take up to 20 minutes for a game to finish, as it is very hard to storm their 
 HQ's. Search and Destroy is another cool game mode. There is a team trying to destroy an objective, 
 and a team trying to protect an objective. You switch team roles every 3 points you get. You can 
 get a point by either detonating a bomb, defusing an armed bomb, or killing all of the other teams 
 players. Once you get killed, you won't spawn until the next round. Hardcore team deathmatch is 
 a hardened version of deathmatch. Basically 2 bullets will kill you, and you have no HUD or grenade 
 indicator, so if a grenade drops by your feet you might not even know it. Old School is a game 
 where you start out with one weapon and you must pick up perks and weapons in the map itself. So 
 why level you might ask? Well, leveling is the way you get guns and perks in this game. You unlock 
 better weapons the higher you climb up the ranks. You also get perks, things that make your life 
 a little easier. You can have up to 3 perks active on one class. You can create five different 
 combinations of guns/perks, so you can really customize the class to your liking.
  
  Overall, COD 4 is an amazing game. If not for the campaign, it would be perfect, but already it 
 is a must buy. I think this is the ultimate next gen experience, and if you're thinking about getting 
 Halo 3 or Gears of War before this one, don't. COD 4 is the best FPS on the 360 right now, and 
 I think that it is going to stay there for a while.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: stewiejr13
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 27, 2008 10:45 pm PT
Review:  Wow!!! This game is great luckily I got my hands on it with in the first couple of days that it 
 was realised and finished with in 2 days on recruit. Hardened and verteran and so hard. It like 
 only 4 shots from the enemy and your dead. Unfortunately I haven't been able to test out the Live 
 and what happens on Live due to my bad Internet connection. Most of all the graphics and sounds 
 on this game are great as well as the gameplay with mainly the only cut scenes in the mission briefings. 
 Other than that the game is a lot better than Halo with more options and game play though one of 
 the only disappointments would have to be that the campaign is a bit shorter than what I thought. 
 But not only that during the campaign there is so many epic parts in it like when the hotel during 
 one shot, one kill explodes with you right underneath it and when you take the fatal shots in Game 
 Over... So much action. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slayerxmm55
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 27, 2008 3:12 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty has always been my favorite, even higher then Halo. Now, while Halo is for those new 
 to shooters, or for those looking for a easy pick-up-able experience. Call of Duty is for those 
 who have been playing shooters for a long time, or are looking for something realstic. 
  
  In halo it was simple, point and shoot. In call of duty it is a little tougher. You have to aim, 
 and then aim down the sight, then fire. Of course you have perks which tip the game-play into a 
 even more hellish style. 
  
  The only thing is though is that there is no match making system that pits people together based 
 on rank. Its just a automatic server searcher. 
  
  Things in the modern field of warfare are a dozen times more choatic than in Call of Duty 2 or 
 3. You shoot through walls, but not always, depends on how thick the surface your shooting at. 
 Not only that but the M16 is not Semi-Auto but instead is a burst weapon. Three shots at a time. 
 It is alot like the M1 in COD2. The MP5 feels the most like the weapons from WWII. IT is steady 
 and easy to use. A beginner to COD will want to use this until he or she gets the hang of the game. 
 
  
  But then when you decide to stop playing the online mode you have the awesome SP mode. The SP mode 
 has a story, shocking I know. Call of Duty with a story other than brotherhood. 
  
  While the feeling of brotherhood bewteen soldiers is still there, it does not seem to appear as 
 much in the last two games. But that is ok, because the overall story is not about a squad but 
 about the world and fate of Russia. 
  
  The story focus around a SGT Paul Jackon in the US Marine Force Recon, and a SGT "SOAP" in the 
 british SAS. You will play as SOAP for most of the game, but you will get a tatse as a Marine. 
 But when you get to the shoocker as a Marine, and you start to play as the SAS guy much more, you 
 begin to feel like the Marine was just filler and just a way for IF to seem patroic. Well when 
 you finish the second Act you'll see that it wasn't unimportant to play as a Marine. 
  
  Infact the last Level you play as a Marine is deeply disturbing. I won't get into how, but if you 
 buy the game and get to that point you'll see what I'm talking about. 
  
  Then of course there is the famous sniping sequence mid-way through the game. I had to re-play 
 it a half-a-dozen times just to get past it on the easest diffiuclty. Then you have a point in 
 the game where you have to shoot three guys whom have Automatic weapons. And you know what you 
 got? A pistol. With two clips and your on the ground, unable to move. And don't think that the 
 AI isn't that smart. The AI is great. They will flank, try to get you out of cover, surpess you. 
 They work like a real team. 
  
  So there is intensity. But there is also beatiful graphics. The blood and models are done well. 
 The weapon detail is amazing. The textures are great. The atmosphere is really dark, and yet feels 
 lighter than Rainbow Six. 
  And the sound track along with the voice acting is perfect. There is just nothing mroe to say about 
 that. I'm sorry. It is just totally perfect. This game overall is amazing, greatest multiplayer 
 of the year in my opinion
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mavrik911
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 27, 2008 1:45 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing video games for as long as I can remember. Some 25 years of experience at gaming. 
 My first machine was an Atari 2600 and I've been hooked ever since. I don't know everything about 
 games and I don't pretend to. However when you come across a piece of art such as CoD4, you're 
 left feeling as though your life finally makes sense. No other time have I felt so awe struck when 
 first playing a new game.
  I'm a huge nerd, and in saying that I always have to collect the geekiest things I can find. So 
 when I found out they were releasing a limited collector's edition [LCE] , I had to run out and 
 buy it. The extra $10 bucks for the LCE wasn't a waste. Inside you find a beautiful "The Art of" 
 hardcover book with some incredible game screens as well as concept art from production. Also included 
 with the LCE is a DVD with behind the scenes and making of material. Well worth watching if you're 
 into the extra features part of a game. Okay now onto the game play and review.
  The opening cinematic and storyline is a thing of beauty. I always watch the intro on any new game, 
 I just gotta see what they're capable of nowadays. Anyways, the game starts off great. You begin 
 with the standard pistol/rifle combo like most FPS's and start off on your training mission. That 
 point there marks the end of any similarity with other games. From that point on, it's one giant 
 roller coaster ride after another. Between mastering you firing and reloading technique and properly 
 managing you grenade inventory, players are tested to the max. As each bad guy drops, new weapons 
 come into play. Anything you find on the ground is potentially a new toy to play with. Not to mention 
 that all those weapons provide numerous reloads for the "spray 'n' pray" players. With the inclusion 
 of melee combat CoD4 sets the standard for FPS's. From the unpredictable plot twists to some of 
 the most incredible A. I. I've ever seen; CoD4 keeps you guessing. From the training grounds to 
 the sniper mission to the very end, you are constantly challenged to your limit. Not to mention 
 that about 2/3 of the way through the game you're sent "flying" for your life, literally. Anyone 
 whose beat the game knows exactly what I'm talking about here. To date this game packs more punch 
 in the first 5 minutes of play than most games do during the complete course of game play. The 
 back of the box is quoted, "The most photo-realistic video game we've ever seen.", and their not 
 kidding. The boys at Infinity Ward are just plain gods among men. In everyway, shape, and form 
 this game stands above all others. It beats Halo 3 for best FPS, it beats Close Combat: First to 
 Fight for story line, and beats all other X360 titles in graphics. It just recently won Game of 
 The Year by Gamespot's Reader Choice Awards. That right there says it all.
  In closing, I have to say that any other titles with "Call of Duty" in 'em is a must buy for any 
 FPS fan. Not to mention if Infinity Ward branches out from the CoD series I would definitely check 
 it out as well. For those truly hardcore nerds among nerds, sit through the entire section of credits 
 for an awesome treat. Believe me, you won't be disappointed!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: alilari
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 27, 2008 11:49 am PT
Review:  A masterpiece. One of the greatest next-gen games. An amazing first person shooter. Outstanding 
 graphics. Wonderful environment changed in every level and area. Real life combat with nice and 
 exciting game play. Going down from rappels and helicopters is very nice to do. Makes you feel 
 as if you are really in the game. Night vision and modern technology weapons and gears are a huge 
 improvement from COD 3. A great sequel with a great story. Weapons are more comfortable to use. 
 Way better than the m1grand which was used since COD 1. A great ending to the game with amazing 
 physics and graphics. The game is also hard. I played it on hard so it would be a better challenge. 
 Worth playing and worth buying. Also a fantastic multiplayer game. Rated as one of the greatest 
 game ever ! Get it, it's worth playing and will surprise you when you play. ( sniper level is amazing) 
 ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snake_9909
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 26, 2008 9:53 pm PT
Review:  This has been by far the greatest FPS i have played, brilliant story, brilliant gameplay, brilliant 
 effects and graphics.
  
  You start out as "soap" mctavis as the FNG **** New Guy) as hes thrown by gaz into a mini tutoriul, 
 then you meet Cpt. Price who throws you into a quick version of the mission your about to do after 
 this your given a recommended difficulty.
  
  your then thrown onto a tanker mission which quite obviously shows of the graphics as your visibility 
 is next to **** as its pissing down with rain which you can actually see hit the water and splash 
 and ripple the water hitting inside the chopper splashing leaving water there. you get thrown onto 
 the boat into a breif stealth shooting then under into the ships hanger to find an iraqi nuke at 
 which point the ship is hit and begins to sink violently.
  
  next is a cinematic your dragged and driven around god knows where only to be shot in the head 
 by one of teh big baddys.
  
  you go through various locations both in russia and the middle east.
  you get to pilot the guns 
 of a AC130, witness and die in a nuclear blast
  don a ghillie suit with the greatest irish man ever (hey suzie) LoL
  
  and save the world
 
  
  The Multiplayer is fairly entertaining with various unlockables as you level up from slaughtering 
 enemys which gives it longetivity 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aerialslayer
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 26, 2008 9:01 pm PT
Review:  This game is probably one of the best games I've played on the 360 so far. The game runs really 
 well and really smooth no matter what you do, it's really neat on what you can do on the game. 
 The story is amazing, the game play is amazing, the graphics are beautiful, but the biggest and 
 bets thing of them all, is the online game play. When i first popped it in... i was hooked. The 
 ranking system they added was a really smart thing that they could've done. I mean you get your 
 rank up, then with that you unlock more challenges and new guns that are all pretty awesome in 
 my opinion. Also when you complete certain challenges with certain guns, you are able to unlock 
 attachments for that gun to make your game that much cooler. But overall i give this amazing game 
 a perfect 10 out of 10. Go get it if your an FPS fan. You will not be disappointed, I can tell 
 you that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blakeb21
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 26, 2008 2:20 pm PT
Review:  It is nearly impossible to make this game any better than what it already is, other than to make 
 the campaign a little longer. The campaign is far beyond any other in terms of action and just 
 plain fun. The most realistic game I have ever experienced. The graphics are nearly life like. 
 In terms of gameplay its the best fps of all time. The action is intense and never stops, also 
 has a great story line. There is also a full sniping mission and a bombing mission from a plane 
 that gives the campaign a bonus. By far the most fun multiplayer game on xbox live. It's very deep 
 in being able to customize your weapons and selecting special abilities for your character, as 
 well as many types of unique multiplayer game modes like search and destroy, headquarters, and 
 many more. This game has it all for those seeking an intense campaign with a good story and a deep 
 action packed multiplayer game. Worth paying full price and you wont regret it, once you buy it 
 you wont want to put it down. No doubt will this game be remebered has one of the greatest overall 
 games of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arbiter004
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 26, 2008 10:40 am PT
Review:  It is the bomb! I can't wait to get a Xbox360! I'm only really getting it for three games, Call 
 of Duty 4, Halo 3, and Assassin's Creed. I would reccomend getting Halo 3 first, if you don't like 
 it then go **** yourself you piece of ****ing ****! Then get Call of Duty 4. Then you get Assassin's 
 Creed. This is one of the only games I would say can stand up to Halo3. It will blow your mind! 
 It is one of only about 5 games that are actually worth the sixty dollar pricetag for the Xbox360. 
 If you don't have Live then you better have friends that come over like pretty much every day cause 
 after you beat the campaign, there isn't much to do on campaign after you beat it there isn't much 
 to do on campaign. If you don't have Live, get Live you primitive bozo! Once on Live, you will 
 worship the day you read this review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dslayer1111
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 26, 2008 3:39 am PT
Review:  Ahh Call of Duty 4.... Now this game is seriously just plain perfect in all aspects. Storyline, Visuals, Audio, and 
 Online, I've never seen a game that made my friends actuallscream at me for not having it. Even 
 the 7 year old down the street had it, this game swept the nation like a BC forest fire.
  
  -Storyline-
  This game switches you from roles as the British SAS forces to the UNSC marine corp, 
 by making you play one of two characters (not able to choose who) WMD's are in the middle east 
 and you have to stop it by taking down the various members of the uhh commanding squad. Even though 
 its short, at the end of the game it will leave you saying,"Oh my god.... That was freaking SICK!!! 
 Time to own online..' Short, but still immersive.
  9.5/10
  
  -Visuals-
  The visuals of this game is the best I have better seen in a FPS. In the first level you could 
 see the water falling down on your teamates shoulders and scatter everywhere on the ship from the 
 waves. The character models are great and the enviroments are beautiful! Also, when you are the 
 Sniper class, you get the Gillie suits that literally blends you in the ground.
  GOOD JOB EPIC GAMES. 10/10
  
  -Gameplay-
  The gameplay hasn't changed one bit, you still 
 get the COD feel that you usually get. n here, kill thee guys, run here now and kill some more guys. 
 The only thing that mad ethis game good was probally the guns they thrown in and the visuals, so 
 the gameplay is pretty much safe. Besides, what would you change in COD's gameplay? 
  9/10
  
  -Audio-
  The audio was just beautiful, every gun had its own distinct sound and you could 
 hear everything in the battlefield that was your team screaming, to the enemy taunting you ,to even 
 dogs barking their way towards you to rip out your throat.
  9/10
  
  -Online-
  The online is fun, addictive, and at times frustrating. Team death matches make this game really fun 
 because of the ability to coorinate attacks with your buddies and such. The many online maps will 
 look familiar to you because many of them was spliced from the campaign maps. My favourite thing 
 online has to be the Create a class ability. Choosing a gun, with an attachment, a side arm with 
 a silencer or not. Then 3 perks that may range from more health, more stopping power, UAV jamming, last 
 stand and being able to run longer.
  9.5/10
  
  -Overall-
  Fans of the Call of duty games will love this game and even fans of Animal Crossing will probally 
 fall in love with this game. Stunning graphics, sound and a addictive Mulitplayer makes this game 
 your very own WMD.
  9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dropkick56
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 25, 2008 7:30 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best game I own on my 360 and I think it should be yours to. People complain about 
 this games storyline. The storyline is short rounding about 6-8 hours depending on difficulty and 
 player in question. I know it's short, but I think it's just right. The story is like the action 
 movie but intractable. I is very linear but with a lot of choice. Infinity Ward has struck again 
 when it comes to first person storytelling. The multiplayer in this game speaks for itself; clans, 
 upgradeable weapons, level up system that you can play over and over again. The level up system 
 is quite interesting challenging you to do specific thing to earn more XP. For example one challenged 
 me to hold a grenade and kill myself and an enemy. This is a RPG like system I have not seen in 
 many shooters.
  On only multiplayer I have put more than two days when you add up the hours. Now go and buy this 
 game isn't something you should buy, it's something you have to buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaneandlynch93
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 25, 2008 7:08 pm PT
Review:  The best game i have ever played call of duty 4 is the best of it's serious the multiplayer is 
 really fun. The gameplay is great this game is really fun this is a perfect game if you like first 
 person shooter games and war games. It is different from the other call of duty games the war is 
 the iraq war and the others are rated t this one is rated m. Call of duty 4 is a fun game and a 
 great action game. It's a Kick ass war game the best call of duty game ever made. A really good 
 game a really fun game a true next gen game.  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bone3593
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 25, 2008 8:54 pm PT
Review:  I have to admit that I was one of the few fans that was very dissapointed that tthe Call of Duty 
 series was going to be in modern days. But I am happy to say Infinity Ward pulled it off and made 
 the best Call of Duty to date. Call of Duty 4 is one of the greatest games this year because of 
 intense single player, addictive multiplayer, and some of the best graphics on the Xbox 360. 
 
  
  One of the great thing about Call of Duty 4 was the incredible single player. It is basically the 
 same gameplay as the other Call of Duties but this one is more intense due to newer weapons and 
 vehicles. The storyline is good but isn't Bioshock or Halo quality. There are many likeable characters 
 like Captain Price. Everything from blowing up tanks to hiding from an enemy as a sniper you will 
 not be dissapointed. Though it is short, there is replay value with the arcade mode and finding 
 hidden computers. (or dying alot on veteran mode! ) : ( 9/10 
  
  Another great addition and my favorite part of the game is the multiplayer. No matter if you are 
 just playing split screen with your friends or if you battle it out with 24 other players you are 
 guaranteed a fun and intense experience. The best thing about the multiplayer is not the maps (even 
 though they are very well done) but the customization options. You can pick out any gun from the 
 big collection of guns you have unlocked and any perk (a special thing for instance Last stand lets 
 you try and shoot the guy that killed you with a pistol) If you don't have online then you may 
 just want to rent this game but if you do then definetley get this game.10/10
  
  The last thing that makes this game incredible is not just the graphics but the over all quality 
 of this game. Infinity Ward obviously tried hard on this game and they were very successful. The 
 sound is great, the controls are easy to use, graphics look amazing, and all of this happens without 
 a bad framerate. I have heard (not played) that the ps3 version has no problems either so no matter 
 what system you play it on you will have a good expeirience. 10/10
  
  Everything from the intense single player to the addictive multiplayer makes this a must have game. 
 The single player may have been short but the multiplayer will keep you playing until you make 
 it to ten prestige. This game is a must have title because of intense single player, addicitive 
 multiplayer and photorealistic graphics. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hugonne
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 25, 2008 4:16 pm PT
Review:  COD4 is a very different shooter. Even though FPS is my favourite genre, I some times get the feeling 
 that they're all about the same. Walk through the different maps, shooting more and more enemies 
 every time, so that it makes each level a little more difficult than the one before. I never get 
 bored of this type of action, but some change could make things a lot better.
  
  And that exactly what COD4 is about. After succesfully leaving behind the WW2 based action, Infinity 
 Ward succesfully created a modern scenario game, that provides the different mission types that 
 most shooters lack. You get to play "spray n pray" type of missions, you get to play stealth missions, 
 and you get to experience the rush of escaping enemy fire or holding your position while backup 
 arrives. It's a very complete game, that makes up for the short single player campaign with a really 
 tough Veteran mode and fantastic multiplayer.
  
  Talk about getting real.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 16tony16
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 25, 2008 5:44 pm PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying that this is probably one of the best games i have ever played. 
  1. Single Player. 
  The single player is not very long which is a shame, but the missions they 
 have are the best of the series. You start off as a new character named soap. You basically go 
 through the missions like any other game in the series, but one thing has changed. Since this title 
 is called Modern Warfare, we use modern weapons! Unlike the other WWII based games this one is 
 more realistic and is alot more fun getting to use night vision and other perks.
  2. Multi-Player
  Multi-player is what makes the game as good as it is. In multi-player you start 
 off with five groups of guns they give you. Once you reach level 5 or so you can create a class, 
 which means pick your own gun and decide which camo to use. Also you decide on different types 
 of perks such as last stand (once you die, you have 10 seconds or so to shoot any nearby enemy soldiers 
 before you die) and things like juggernaut (which increases your health) . You level up by getting 
 experience points (exp) , and once you hit level 55 you have a choice to do a prestige which takes 
 everything you earned away and you start all over. Although some of you reading this may think 
 that doing a prestige mode is not the best because it requires you to give up everything, you are 
 wrong. When doing a prestige you acquire a new symbol which only people who have done a prestige 
 can get and it also makes the game more entertaining.
  
  In the end the choice is up to you and i cant change your minds, but i can say this, Modern Warfare 
 is a game everybody should have and thats why i rated is a perfect 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ima_lemming
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 25, 2008 2:39 pm PT
Review:  everyone has already said how amazing this game is, we know how short but intense the single-player 
 is and we know about how superb this game looks.
  
  but the thing that has annoyed me is that people are saying it's multiplayer is on level with that 
 of halo 3's . this is simply not true. the online play on this game is simply the best, most polished 
 experience since CS and it goes above and beyond halo 3 in all respects (other than split-screen 
 online play) .
  the maps on cod4 feel vibrant and alive like these locations could actually exist , whereas halo 
 3 feels soulless and sterile, i know it is sci-fi fiction but the levels seemed utterly unconvincing 
 and like it could never exist in a million years. 
  
  i wont compare gameplay because the two games are entirely different beasts; halo 3 is run and 
 gun whereas call of duty has a more tactical feel to it. but the level up system in call of duty 
 4 is several times better than that of halo 3. cod4 lets you perfect your arsenal of weapons and 
 perks to fit your playing styles whereas in halo3 it is just a pretty way to earn new armor.
  
  in all cod4 is an outstanding game both online and off and deserves all the praise it gets
 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkinvasion25
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 25, 2008 10:34 am PT
Review:  I beat the single player on normal difficulty, in the beginning you start with this guy, soap and 
 you go into tutorial training and a person named captain price trains you first before you start 
 your first mission and you start out for training with some kind of rifle and after training you 
 go on a ship and in a room and take some guys out and more, and you have to use different strategics 
 like if a enemy throws a grenade at you you can throw it back, and single player looks futuristic 
 and also in multiplayer. In mulitplayer, you have a variety of modes like deathmatch, team deathmatch, 
 domination. and you have a variety of maps to choose from, and you can unlock weapons and other 
 accessorys as you kill people and doing objectives to gain xp, and you also have split screen mutliplayer, 
 but haven't tried it out yet, it's just kind of insane!! :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skwirl2005
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 24, 2008 10:20 am PT
Review:  I've never been a particularly big fan of first person shooters, but this game is unbelievably 
 fun to play. I believe this is for three reasons, and they are as follows:
  1 Accurate representation of modern weapons and war fighting equipment. 2 Brilliant use of current 
 events to develop a remarkable plot and gripping story.
  3 Exceptional graphics and sound worthy of the xbox-360.
  One thing that always manages to kill 
 my gaming experience is when there ceases to be any differentiation between the weapons and equipment. 
 Battle Stations Midway is a text book example of this! Call of Duty 4 however, did not leave me 
 wanting. Also, using geopolitical events to develop a compelling plot is a very ambitious move 
 for Activision. There was a large element of risk involved, because this game would have tanked 
 if the story appeared to be unrealistic in any fashion. By deviating from the historical familiarity 
 from the first three Call of Duty games, the folks at Activision have raised the bar and set a 
 new standard. When I play a war game, I want it to look and sound like a war game. From the realistic 
 explosions to the bullets kicking up dirt when they hit the ground Activision didn't miss a beat. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fat_otter
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 23, 2008 11:53 pm PT
Review:  The WWII shooters thing has been truly overdone now, and Infinity Ward has picked up on that, which 
 is why they decided to make Call of Duty 4 Modern Warfare. Forget everything you know about Call 
 of Duty, because you are now no longer fighter in war-torn Europe, but now the Middle East as well 
 as Russia. The single-player campaign is relatively short, and takes around four to six hours to 
 complete, assuming you've played shooters before. The missions are diverse and always feel new. 
 You'll find yourself defending a tank in one mission, and then sneaking around in ghillie suit 
 in 1992 Chernobyl in the next. The story is about a man who has risen to power, and wants to take 
 over the world. Relatively simple stuff, but the story is a lot darker than in most games, and 
 feels like it was taken from a Tom Clancy novel or something.
  When you do beat the campaign, you unlock the arcade mode, which lets you play through any mission 
 and get a high score by killing enemies and other actions. But the real treat upon completing single-player 
 is multi-player. Up to twelve people can duke it out online on nearly 16 maps. Arguably, multi-player 
 best feature is "create-a-class." This lets you pick your weapons as well as perks, which are traits 
 that give your character special abilities on the battlefield, such as high conditioning (longer 
 sprints) , RPG x2 (a rocket launcher with two rockets) , last stand (pull out your pistol right before 
 you die to get a last-minute kill) , and eavesdrop (listen to your enemy's chatter over your headset.) 
 You can only carry three of these, so you must choose wisely. Fortunately, none of them feel overpowered. 
 As you continue playing, you get XP (experience points) and the more XP you get, the more you can 
 level up which unlocks more weapons and perks. With the combination of a short, but powerful single-player 
 campaign and multi-player that never get old. Call of Duty 4 is nothing less than perfection, and 
 is a no-brainer purchase! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mfacek
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 23, 2008 9:39 pm PT
Review:  When Infinity Ward announced Call Of Duty 4 (COD 4 from here on) was going to step away from the 
 WW2 time era and step into the modern area, plenty of people questioned it, including me. Well 
 now I can honestly say the right choice was made. The new direction will only help the Call Of 
 Duty series grow and is easily the best of the series so far. Here is my review for COD4-
  
  The multi player is one of it's biggest strengths. While multi player was never very good in 
 the last COD games, it was greatly improved upon in this game. With a ranking system, weapon upgrades, 
 and perks, the multi player can really be addicting at times. Easily one of the best Xbox Live 
 games to date. The single player campaign has a terrific story, is very challenging and provides 
 for some truly epic gaming moments. At the same time, it is rather short, and many players will 
 breeze through it in 10 hours. The graphics are simply amazing and pristine and the story very 
 well crafted. Overall, COD4 truly deserved the GOTY it received and the series has plenty of options 
 after this installment. If you don't own it yet, pick it up, you won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trigger_Devil
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 23, 2008 7:55 pm PT
Review:  Why is it that everyone raves the multi when the single player campaign is so damn good?! 
  
  Gameplay gets a 3/5; Why? Let's start on the single player campaign & the bad stuff first. 
 There is two clear bad thing & one in the grey area, so the first clear bad thing is the maps, 
 for a first person shooter the maps are just way to large to many places to go, things to see & 
 paths to takeI can't believe I'm, even writing thisit's a rare, but true case, in this case. 
 I actually got lost a few times, you get a way point marker, but it mealy points in the right direction 
 rather than telling you exactly where to go & since you are getting shot at every moment & you're 
 human, you can't just kill everything & find your teambasically you loose your team or get lost, 
 your dead & touching on the whole human thingthat's the grey thing. Yes people may like the fact 
 that you die in a matter of shots, providing a challenge & your enemies do to, easing the challenge. 
 However your often wandering around finding 4 enemies to the side & to the front & being the fact 
 that you are human, it means your now dead to. The final clear bad thing is the positively ridiculous 
 AI, the enemies must have been taught by monkeysthey understand how to shoot & to take cover, 
 but you get up close & personal, they just seem to stop functioning, or ratherkeep doing what 
 they are doingmeaning you get a nice set of backs to stab & even if one of them see you they do 
 nothing to aid their comrades, merely watch them die. 
  
  Now the good& that's basically everything elsebut since I don't want to spoil anyoneI will keep 
 this shorterbasicallyyou experience every moment in first person, every moment & these moments 
 include a gun to the head, being caught in a nuclear explosion & watching as your whole team is 
 slaughtered & your to wounded to do anything about it. There is also a brilliant story with brilliant 
 twists that are normally lacking in war games. You also find something new in a war game, a host 
 of brilliant & loving characters that you can get attached to, they can often be rather stereotypical 
 along with most of the humour from their mouths. but I don't really care. 
  
  Now for the multiplayer. To be honestI know no one will agree with this, but I really don't see 
 what's to rave about when I play the multi. Yes its face paced, action packed & thrilling, but 
 your human.. some guns or ranges leave you dead in one shot. Now this is brilliant if you're a decent/good 
 player, but when you start the game its horribleyou die, you die some more, then you die again. 
 Also the community is full of all the wankers you'd find on games like Gears, so most don't care 
 if you're a new player, your crap your kicked.
  
  So in short the bad is the whole grey area thing, you may enjoy the fact that you can kill people 
 easily. but this game makes you turn to the dirty tactics you wouldn't use on other gamesjust 
 so you don't spend all your time at the bottom. However, being a noob on this game is not a fun 
 time, by any means. 
  
  The good is the amount of playability, the game rewards you for playing using an RPG system that 
 leads to new unlockables to have a fresh (ish) take on the game. These unlockables have a lot of 
 variety to, leading from more firepower, to new styles, to more grenades or skills that allow you 
 to take specific roles on a team. Also the maps work better on the multi because (most) of the 
 time you have a lot of players on filling the maps, that said, if you go on a game with just a 
 few people you'll do a lot of trekking. You are also given a large amount of game types including 
 death matches (team & non team) , flag capturing & territory capturing. It's a shame that such a 
 team based online experience often feels that it lacks team work. 
  
  Graphics get 4/5; Why? Glossy, shiny, but has rough edges, basically the tune for every 360 game. 
 This game however has a great eye for detail & is very imaginative. Level design is great, full 
 of detailsor destructionit's just a shame you can't cause more destruction & basically the same 
 for character design. All the tech is modeled on the real thing, as is how they handle, apparently, 
 so good job guys. That saidI wish the game wasn't so devoid of goreI mean blood sprays & all, 
 but with all the explosions & bullets flying everywherewhy not have limbs fly off, or body's blown 
 up or set on fire? Other games show it can be done & the fact it isn't here takes an edge off the 
 realism also is the fact that there is like two enemy models, then it's repeated again & againwith 
 all these great thingswhy get sloppy on such obvious things? You set up a great atmosphere to 
 then tear it down with these stupid little things, why?!
  
  Sound gets a 5; Why? There's nothing really wrong with it, great voice acting & basically everything 
 is in order (yeah I suck at writing about the sound section)
  
  So to concludethis game is brilliant, not perfectno game can be perfect, but still brilliant, 
 both multi & solo is plagued with the same problemsbut you can still enjoy the multi's adrenaline 
 rush, fast paced, in your face style & unlocking the biggest gun & you can still enjoy every moment 
 in the single player (apart from between objectives & ambushes) . In short, if you like a game that 
 shows the team cares about their baby, or you simply like shooting stuff, a good story, twists 
 or a great castyour sure to find something to take you fancy. So stop reading & go buy it, now. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomwarrior235
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 1, 2008 1:07 pm PT
Review:  I have played both the PC and Xbox 360 versions of Call of Duty 4. Both have their advantages and 
 disadvantages. But Call of Duty 4 on the Xbox 360 is still awesome.
  
  The single player in Call of Duty 4 is short but sweet. You fight through dozens of intense battles. 
 You play as two people in this game. A British soldier and an American soldier. The British levels 
 take place in Russia mainly, and the American levels lake place in the Middle East. When I say 
 Call of Duty 4 is short I mean it is short. The single player only takes 5 hours to get through, 
 but the single player in this game is a loy better than the single player in most shooters.
  
  The graphics in Call of Duty 4 look amazing. The environments look real, the people look real, 
 and the weapon models look real. I would have to say that the PC version may look a little better 
 than the Xbox 360 version, but the differences are minor. Still Call of Duty 4 is probably the 
 best looking game on any gameing console.
  
  The sound in Call of Duty has always been amazing, and Call of Duty 4 still has that great sounding 
 sound. Bullets wiz by your head, and guns sound realistic. Do not forget the explosions. The explosions 
 in Call of Duty 4 sound amazing.
  
  The main reason why you should by Call of Duty 4 is for the multi player. This games multi player 
 is the best multi player out there fight now (my opinion) . There are a bunch of different game modes 
 and a bunch of weapons and perks to unlock. Some of the perks are last stand which allows you to 
 pull out your pistol right before you die. Another perk is were you drop a grenade right when you 
 die. The nice thing about the Xbox 360 version is that you can invite friends and you do not have 
 to go and update you punk buster, or patches for the game. The bad thing is that the PC version 
 has dedicated severs and the Xbox 360 version does not, so some of the matches can get a lot of 
 lag. Over all Call of Duty 4 has the beast multi player out there.
  
  There are only a few differences between the Xbox 360 and the PC versions of Call of Duty. I think 
 the mouse and keyboard controls work better for this game, but if you are a Xbox 360 owner and 
 you want an amazing single player and multi player game than you must play Call of Duty 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tamsj04
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 23, 2008 4:41 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is the 4th instalment in the massively popular Call of Duty Series 
 from Infinity Ward, the game takes place unlike the previous 3 in modern day which takes a drastic 
 change from the WW2 era. Modern Warfare has you play through the single player campaign from 2 
 different perspectives, for the majority of the campaign you play as Sergeant "Soap" MacTavish 
 from the 22nd SAS Regiment and for a segment of the game you take on the roll of Sergeant Paul 
 Jackson who is part of the USMC 1st Force Recon who are deployed to the Middle East. 
  
  The story begins with you playing as "Soap" you are in a SAS training facility and you're instructed 
 by Gaz a individual you see a lot of throughout the campaign Gaz instructs you through the basic 
 tutorial and sends you off to Captain Price to perform the CQB test. After the test you are thrown 
 straight in to the start of what is a short yet exhilarating single player campaign. The prologue 
 begins with you infiltrating a Cargo Ship in the Bering Sea to secure a Russian Nuclear device 
 destined for the middle east once you fighting your way through all the personnel on board you 
 reach the nuclear device but before you have time to secure the device and transport it off the 
 Ship the cargo ship is struck by missiles from hostile jet fighters you are forced quickly grab 
 the manifest and escape the sinking ship. This is only the start of what is an Exciting, Enthralling 
 and Unpredictable single player campaign.
  
  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare has one of the best single player campaigns in a long time never 
 has a game been so cinematic and outstanding from the rest and yet this is smallest reason why 
 it's such a great game. Modern Warfare's strongest and greatest feature is its multiplayer. Modern 
 Warfare has a wide variety of game modes including frantic frag fests like Headquarters or game 
 modes which require more skill to succeed in such as Search and Destroy. In multiplayer you start 
 out at level 1 with only a few select weapons and perks available to you. The perk system is a 
 great addition to Modern Warfare as it allows you to design a class which suits you best after 
 a few hours of playing online you will already have found a Weapon and set of perks that suit you 
 best and you wouldn't dream of going back to the normal class set-ups that you start off with. 
 As you progress through the ranks you unlock new weapons and perks the game becomes much more enjoyable 
 as you have better weapons and perks at your disposal and you can really start to get into a groove 
 with your favourite weapons. The levels are capped at 55 but once you reach 55 you have a choice 
 of Prestige mode prestige mode is where you reset your rank to 1 and you are able to gain XP again 
 you can do this up to ten times and effectively rise 605 ranks. A great feature of CoD4s multiplayer 
 is the Kill Streak Bonus's if you are good enough to get 3 kills without dying you can call in 
 UAV radar which allows you to find any of your enemies on the map unless they are using the UAV 
 jammer perk. If you progress to 5 kills you can call in an airstrike on the area of your choice 
 and if you manage to catch 2 people with the airstrike and reach 7 kills without dying you can 
 call in a helicopter which will circle the map and take out enemies for you. 
  There are 16 maps in total available ranging from fairly large maps such as Pipeline and overgrown 
 to incredibly small maps such as Shipment and Showdown the current maps on offer are all fairly 
 well designed with only a few that need some necessary changes. In spring we will see the release 
 of new MP maps over Xbox Live and PSN which will further add to the amazing experience that is 
 Call of Duty 4 multiplayer.
  
  Modern Warfare takes a drastic change from the previous games in its series and improves on the 
 vastly with outstanding visuals, Enthralling single player and truly amazing multiplayer. If the 
 campaign lasted longer and a few overpowered weapons in multiplayer were balanced out then CoD4 
 would be a perfect game but still CoD4 is one of the greatest FPSs of all time and should be on 
 the shelf of every gamer.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jawslover
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 23, 2008 4:10 pm PT
Review:  Wow. How do I begin. Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare has such amazing content, that I wonder why 
 there is even question of it's superiority over Halo 3. I used to be a Halo fan, and still am, 
 but now that I have played this, my fandom is devoted entirely to Call of Duty 4. And Lost. The 
 graphics are amazing, almost as good as Crysis, which is awesome in itself. You can realistically 
 shoot through walls, be amazed by the excellent weapon models, and be blown away by the lighting. 
 The gameplay is superior to most too. It's so exciting, you feel like you're actually in a war. 
 It's just plain fun to shoot a gun. Which it shouldn't be, but, aw well. The sound is extravagant. 
 Every piece of gunfire and battlefield sounds are recreated almost as if the developers recorded 
 them on the battlefields. The multiplayer is addicting and fun, and it might be the best part, 
 but the game's only flaw comes from here. Sometimes there's bad hit detection. When you look on 
 the kill cam, you might see your oponent hit a tree, but instead it says that it struck you in 
 the head. But that happens rarely, and it very barely dampens the accomplishment that this game 
 is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hyrule-master
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 23, 2008 1:55 pm PT
Review:  This game should have gotten about a 5.0. Like I said this was a "more realistic" Halo 3. I do 
 regret getting the game because the one player was too repeatetive and the skill level only went 
 so far due to fact of realistic gameplay. On the back of the case it does say, "the most photo-realistic" 
 game we've ever seen" true, but that that does not change the fact that the game was tedious.
 
  In any case i recently got my Xbox 360. I got Halo3, (boring) , Call of Duty 4, (could have been 
 alot better) Assassin's Creed, (Fun) , and the orange box, (the best games I have. Also, you can 
 see that Call of Duty 4 and Halo 3 were on the bottom of the list.
  Here would be my chart of Call of Duty 4:
  
  Graphics= 9/10
  Gameplay= 2/10
  Repeating 
 Gameplay= 10/10
  Story= 6/10
  Multiplayer/Online=5/10
  Puzzle= 0/10
  Skill Level/strategy= 5/10
  Overall= 5/10
  
  But do not go by my opinion, staing gameplay 
 of a game will never be a fact. One can always say Call of Duty 4 is a good game, another can say 
 it was dull.
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BMoney0613
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 23, 2008 8:47 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is an awesome game. The graphics are beautiful, controlls are pretty 
 simple, and the multiplayer is one of the best features of the game. The single player campaign 
 is very fun too. You have lots of objectives and missions and the story really keeps you wanting 
 more. And plus after you beat the game you a nice little gift from Infinity Ward that really adds 
 on to the want factor. Now the multiplayer is the peice of the game that everyone wants to try. 
 You can do so much suck as you have perks which really help you out in battle, you can customize 
 every weapon, there are these nifty little challenges that you can complete while you are playing 
 online which unlock new weapons, perks, and more insane challenges for you to complete. I dont 
 know what more to say about this game because it just gives you everything that you ask for. Like 
 I said earlier Game Sent From Heaven. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bruzer303
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 22, 2008 2:13 am PT
Review:  this game is truely brilliant from the graphics to the game play they really have made agreat game 
 here. been playing it now for a number of week and can't really see much wrong with it. the single 
 play campian is a good way to get started but once you get use to the game you have to try the 
 online aspect to it. xbox live with this game is truly amazing i heard a couple of my mate raving 
 about it so i tryed it and now i'm never off it. going back to the game play the wepons are the 
 best thing about this game is even though it's a first person shooter and not a 3rd it easy to 
 control your wepons and visulize were you need to go. the muliplayer part of the game is brillant 
 as well. The maps could be bigger and more place's to hind but i guess that's war and this game 
 really does bring out that side off you once you have played it for so long you just want to carry 
 on in till you have finished the game it never get boring and once you have finished the campain 
 there is lot's more you can do. there was one thing i did pick up on and that's the fact you can't 
 have a co-op misson i don't understand the reason behind this the game crys out for two player 
 to do the campain mode. hopfully cod 5 my have this if not it msted certanly be another brillint 
 game just like this one 
  
  
  must have for any gamer who like's is war games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ivory_soul
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 21, 2008 6:27 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Some of the best presentation ever seen in a game, amazing voice acting, graphics, and 
 audio, superbly paced and extremely cinematic, out of this world multiplayer that will keep you 
 hooked for hours
  
  The Bad: Campaign is too short
  
  \When I saw the trailer at E3 last year I was blow away. I couldn't believe that the old WWII CoD 
 that we now of grew up so beautifully. CoD4 doesn't wait time with plot, or story (it's there and 
 it's great) it just throws you in the battle from mission one and it's a roller coaster ride of 
 nuclear explosion (YES full real time nukes!!!) helicopter rides and stealth missions unlike no 
 other. The game is so realistic yet lets you play the game like previous CoD games let you. What 
 I loved so much is you had to work with your team mates or you'd die! That's right! REAL A. I.! 
 The friendly AI is almost smarter than you are. The game sports many weapons from MP5s to AK47s 
 to even good old RPGs. The game is about an Arab terrorist using Russia's nukes to hit the good 
 old red, white, and blue. The campaign could have been a good two to four hours longer but the 
 six hours you do play are fantastic and flawless... yes flawless. I never got a chance with the 
 multiplayer but I know it's the best part about this game. After you beat the campaign you can 
 go into arcade mode and try to get the highest score you can and compare over world wide leaderboards 
 (Horrah!) If you are sick of WWII and want something fresh. Pick up CoD4 because it's the best 
 war game ever made and you'll keep wanting more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tylergamereview
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 21, 2008 4:48 pm PT
Review:  I know what your'e thinking. I have lost it. I have given 2 10s' in the last 3 reviews I have made. 
 I am seriously out of my mind. Right now, I agree with you. This is-The best game I have ever played. 
 To justify how awesome this chocolate chip cookie is, imagine taking 5 points out of every review 
 score I have made. That is the score for those games compared to this. My mom says the purchase 
 of this game and my new xbox 360 was the worst buying decision I have ever made. She said I will 
 drive some 1980s Buick When I grow up becouse I won't have the money. I fell like I have just made 
 one the best buying decisions of my life. Call of Duty 4 is the best game I have ever played, and 
 I have a damn good feeling that it may be the best one ever made. Graphically, I'm sure you know 
 about this. It is an ctually fact that Call of Duty 4 is the most photo realistic game ever made. 
 That's just about the best graphics ever. Yeah, bad decision my ass. And knowing that this coming 
 from Call of Duty, probably the best WWII series ever, you know the gameplay is going to be awesome. 
 Shooting enemies has never ben so fun. Watching them spaz out in rag doll after sniping them in 
 the head. (Boom Heashot!) or when you blow them apart from an entire clip Through a Wall. You can 
 shoot through the walls. Pwnd. And another thing about the graphics. Did you know that the lowest 
 frame rate of the game is 60 frames per second? Did you know that a film in a movie theater runs 
 at 24 frames per second? Call of duty 4's minimum is more than twice that. So the entire time you 
 are playing, you are looking at a picture 2 times better than that of movies. Pwnd again. Back 
 to the story is amazingly, great. Activision actaully made up an entire war that wasn't against 
 aliens. And believe me, it is a great story. A first person shooter finally has plot twists that 
 aren't just a random death of some guy you fight with. Filled with humor, sadness, and an awesome 
 Flashback. They only bad thing in the game is that it short. That is the only bad side. The multiplayer, 
 unfortunately, I have not played yet. Although I know that it provides more than enough reason 
 to keep coming back. I believe I said in a different review for Ratchet and Clank that if you buy 
 that game you will be able to appreciate life again. If you can get this game, You will be glad 
 to be alive in the first place. It is worth the 60 dollars, it is worth getting a 360. Get it, 
 love it, and love life. Have fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scarface46
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 7, 2008 12:07 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: 10
  Graphics: 10
  Sound: 10
  Value: 10
  Tilt: 9
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is a non-stop, heart-pumping, war zone. The single-player has a 
 brilliant and realistic story were you must find and assassinate enemies from around the world. 
 The campaign is literally non-stop action. In the beginning you must go through training to learn 
 the basics, but after that the action is endless, even the cut scenes are filled will action scenes. 
 However, every game has to have a downfall. In COD4, you will experience some annoying fights with 
 wild dogs that usually kill you and make you start out from the last checkpoint. Also, Call of 
 Duty has a 5-7 hour long campaign. However, the short but extremely satisfying single-player can 
 be made up with the amazing online mode. In the multiplayer, there are tons of levels to battle 
 in and also many weapons to use. You must upgrade your rank to receive more weapons and attachments. 
 CoD has pretty much every popular modern gun known, from the P90 to the G36C. Some of the attachments 
 are red-dot aiming, grenade launcher, and scope. As you upgrade you also receive different camouflage 
 coverings for your guns so you can be less visible and blend into the environment. Furthermore, 
 the gameplay is amazing and will blow your mind. The online does not lag and most the people on 
 Xbox Live are helpful. They all work as team by backing you up. Moreover, the controls are smooth 
 and it feels great in your hands. The graphics are excellent and, in my opinion, the best I seen 
 so far on the 360. The combat is realistic as it can get! There are more than a dozen modes to 
 choose from, such as, free-for-all, team deathmatch, and capture the flag. Overall, Call of Duty 
 4: Modern Warfare is a huge step for the series mainly because of the modern setting. Even though 
 the single-player is quite short compared to other shooters, it is still a masterpiece. But if 
 that isn't enough for you, then I guarantee the online mode will make up for it. You will experience 
 no other FPS game like this to date. So if you haven't picked up CoD 4 yet, I highly recommend 
 you do, there is a great environment of people to play with, great battles to be part of, and there 
 are thousands of exciting and fun goals you must reach to become the best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thedarkknight21
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 21, 2008 2:23 pm PT
Review:  Ok, i know my review is a little late but I haven't quite been on much. All right, i have to only 
 give it an eight because i lost interest after playing on and off for two weeks. I think the story 
 mode is solid minus the length which actually could be a strength because if a story is too long 
 some gamers could lose interest. The multi player is fun the first few times you play it but after 
 a while it seems like you've done this same thing before. Games should look at Gears of War multiplayer 
 because they nailed it perfectly because i've been playing that the game for a year and im still 
 not bored. Back to COD 4, the multiplayer is ok but i feel that the perks are a waste because they 
 really don't affect you and they add a little bit of strategy to the game. The graphics and the 
 sound in the game are amazing capped by stunning visuals and voice acting in the story mode. The 
 guns are good but not quite unique, don't get me wrong realism is good in games like this but they 
 could have tried some new things. I like the ranking system in the multiplayer because it includes 
 challenges for all the weapons and many more which can keep some people interested longer. All 
 in all, COD 4 has a good story followed by a decent, overrated multi player. This is just one of 
 those games, like Tom Clancy games, that i find extremely boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: just4pool93
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 21, 2008 7:50 am PT
Review:  Ummm.... Wow... this game is truely incredible. I..... I must have **** my pants a few times with 
 some of the explosions in campaign. Well, there isn't really anything wrong with this game, and 
 I thought that the campaign was plenty long. The multi-player was very, very deep and satisfying, 
 and the guns were really fun to play with. Prestige mode may look like a dumb idea at first but 
 it will eventually get boring staying 55 forever. The Barrett .50 Caliber Sniper Rifle has enough 
 power to blows your balls off, and the M16A4 will not disapoint as well. The challenges are a very 
 nice touch to top it all of though. Overall, I would say that this is my favorite game of all time 
 ( I realize that I say this all the time ) but I stilll love this game. Well, I'm going to go figure 
 out why everybody hates Overgrown (It's my favorite map) and I'm still trying to beat Mile High 
 Club on Veteran.....: P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bicigo
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 20, 2008 4:26 pm PT
Review:  The only problem I see with the whole game is that the campaign is too short but that can be solved 
 by moving up a level in difficulty to veteran which requires an insane amount of luck and skill. 
 The only other problem I see is when you are online and the connection is lost you don't get the 
 experience points some of the time.
  Now the good parts of this game are the graphics and sound are the best I have heard and the most 
 realistic I've seen. The gameplay is amazing and the online is phenomenal. The online offers many 
 new features like Create A Class where you can choose from a variety of different weapons and perks. 
 The weapon choice is amazing and it isn't like other games where a sniper is a sniper and an assault 
 rifle is an assault rifle in this game some snipers have faster firing rates but others are more 
 accurate. Also the perks offer more realistic features such as having two primary weapons, being 
 less quiet when you move, or being undetectable on radar. 
  So if you are going to buy a first person modern shooter and you have LIVE this is the game for 
 you. Also you probably never not have something to do because when you reach a certain level you 
 can start Prestige Mode. That is where you loose everything and start fresh with a more "prestigious 
 badge" and there are ten modes and I am on the fourth and I've played about five days online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Full_Blown
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 20, 2008 1:57 pm PT
Review:  In a nutshell, this shooter is so good, you will find yourself disappointed with all other shooters 
 after just a few hours of running through the single-player campaign of COD4. Add to that the ridiculously 
 awesome online multiplayer of COD4 and you've got something really, really special.
  
  To save you some time, the sound, music, graphics, gameplay, AI, and map design are all absolutely 
 top-notch and everything a FPS gamer could possibly want. I'm not one to throw perfect 10's around, 
 so we'll give the sum of the above mentioned parts a 9.9. Yes, that good. And yes, better than 
 anything Halo has ever done.
  
  The main knock about COD4 is the "short" single-player campaign. I'm not saying it's long, because 
 it's not. But I wouldn't call it short, either, and I surely wouldn't ding the game because of 
 the single-player campaign. Basically the length of the single-player mode is determined by the 
 player's style and selected difficulty level. You can choose to fly through it if you wish, or 
 you could choose to ramp up the difficulty and really fight through the game. Up to you, but I'm 
 calling bogus on the "shortness" of the single-player campaign.
  
  So to sum it up, if you're thinking about buying this game. Stop thinking. Go buy it like now, 
 like this very second. Stop reading this now and go buy the game. NOW! Why are you still reading? 
 You're wasting time!!! Ok that's it:) Hope you enjoyed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MattRushmore
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 20, 2008 12:10 pm PT
Review:  There is simply no other game available that is as realistic as Call Of Duty 4. Add to the strong 
 single player campaign multiplayer action with up to 8 players in Free for All and even more in 
 team matches and all you can say is, "Wow!".
  Bunnyhoppers, people who complain that all players do is run around and knife people, people who 
 complain that they think everyone camps, and gangster wanna be's with more profanity spewing out 
 of their mouths than you can imagine aside, the multiplayer game has only a few flaws (host leaves 
 and game ends, needs more kill cams, needs a quicker way to mute the profanity using players, and 
 just a few others) . And the patches for those items are already at Microsoft for certification.
 
  
  Great game Infinity Ward! I couldn't have imagined a better game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nick15uk
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 20, 2008 10:40 am PT
Review:  Following on in the 'Call Of Duty' series, COD4 feels more modern than the previous instalments. 
 After BETA-testing this last September, I was eagerly waiting for this with high anticipation. 
 And the result? Well after finishing the single-player campaign on veteran difficulty and playing 
 through a large chunk of the on-line modes, I am certainly impressed by the whole package. 
  
  Every game mode feels polished and while the single-player campaign only lasts about 8-10 hours, 
 the on-line multi-player just keeps on giving and giving featuring an amazing ranking system similar 
 to that of 'Battlefield 2' that enables the player to level up their character taking a gameplay 
 element from the typical RPG.
  
  The storyline is basically that you're looking for two global terrorists - Zakhaev and Al Asad, 
 two notorious arms dealers that are not only selling guns but nukes too! The most impressive moment 
 in the story is when a nuclear bomb detonates close by and you see and feel the shock waves and 
 the iconic 'mushroom cloud' appears on the horizon. Awesome feeling. 
  
  The story is compacted into 'acts'. The last one - the 'Epilogue' is the single most difficult 
 level I have EVER experienced. The level features a hostage situation on a commercial jet and gives 
 you 1 minute to zoom through the plane shooting like crazy to save the poor hostage. The difficulty 
 curve throughout the game is fairly well balanced with the exception of the last two levels which 
 are intimidatingly hard.
  
  Coming back to the most important mode - on-line! Having read certain complaints that some people 
 can't connect to a game etc, I must admit I've yet to encounter a single problem with Xbox LIVE. 
 Everything runs great, fast and the game automatically connects you to the most stable game going. 
 Genius. The voice chat is well implemented allowing players of the same team to communicate. A 
 crafty perk earned in a later rank allows the player to eavesdrop on the opposite teams comm link 
 which is again another genius idea. When a player gets 3 kills in a row they earn a UAV scan, when 
 they get 5 kills in a row they get chopper support and when they get a mighty 7 kills in a row 
 they get a ground-pounding air-strike. All these ideas flesh out the game and help to take it in 
 a new direction. 
  
  With it being a shooter I have to mention another important aspect - weapons! This game doesn't 
 disappoint in that department either offering an impressive array of assault rifles, SMGs and pistols 
 which are all upgradable as you unlock more equipment. 
  
  Despite utterly enjoying this game, it still can't quite surpass the mighty 'Battlefield 2' in 
 terms of multi-player purely for one reason and one reason alone - vehicles. I was slightly disappointed 
 with the lack of vehicles here, offered by the 'Battlefield' series. But other than that, if you're 
 looking for an on-line console shooter this is it by far. Check it out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: plakskull
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 19, 2008 11:18 pm PT
Review:  This game is simply a masterpiece, demonstrating excellence in both the single and multiplayer 
 facets of the game.
  
  The single player campaign is deeply engaging, immersing and investing the player in the various 
 exploits of its multi-national protagonists. The player will have the opportunity to engage in 
 various different tactical scenarios such as hostage rescue, bomb disposal, urban assualt, assassination 
 and evade and escape. The story is enthralling, and on the Veteran difficulty levels can be extremely 
 challenging. Interestingly enough, all the game's achievements are in the single player mode, thus 
 even players without XBOX Live can score 1000/1000 points.
  
  The multiplayer campaign, despite it's lack of achievement points, has it's own reward system that 
 will keep you coming back for hours on end. Just about everything you do contributes to your prestige 
 score, which unlocks new weapons and abilities. By the time you climb to the rank of Commander, 
 you will have a diverse arsenal at your disposal, complete with RPGs, C4, Claymores, Assault Rifles, 
 SMGs, Sniper Rifles, Light Machine Guns, Shotguns, Frags, Flashbangs, Stun Grenades, Smoke Grenades, 
 Pistols, and more. As you use each weapon, you will unlock scopes, silencers and camoflages for 
 them.
  
  There are several multiplayer modes available from the frenetic "Headquarters" (where opposing 
 teams battle to capture, hold or destroy a designated area of the map) , to the ubiquitous Team 
 Deathmatch, to Sabotage (bomb planting/defusing) , to Domination (holding down key map areas) , and 
 more. The multiplayer level designs derive right out of the single player campaign, and are excellently 
 balanced.
  
  Finally, killing multiple baddies in a row in mutliplayer rewards you by letting you call down 
 support such as Unmanned Aerial Vehicles for surveillance, Air Strikes to carpet bomb an area, 
 and Close Air Support from your neighborhood attack helicopter.
  
  This game is by far the best value purchase I've ever made. You will enjoy the deep story of the 
 single player. You will make tons of friends on Live as you level up your multiplayer persona (the 
 online community of which is comparably more mature and friendly than Halo 3's) . You will play 
 endlessly, unlocking new weapons, abilities, attachments, etc.
  
  This game completely sets a new standard for first person shooters and will keep you happily occupied 
 for obscene amounts of time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roosteraxe1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 19, 2008 8:29 pm PT
Review:  After the dissappointing Halo 3 and Gears of War, finally there's a shooter I can sink my teeth 
 into. With a single player campaign that starts off okay and eventually gets insane and a multiplayer 
 that never gets old, COD 4 gets almost everything right. Single player offers tons of thrills and 
 just enough variety to keep it interesting. Whether you're shooting massive rounds out of a chopper, 
 or just trying to survive a relentless onslought of enemies, you're always in an intense situation. 
 Multiplayer keeps you in with frantic battles and a leveling system that keeps you coming back 
 for more. The more you play and better you do, the better the gear and abilities you get are. Normally 
 I don't much care for online multiplayer, but this games got plenty of dept to keep me involved. 
 Especially considering there are no completely safe campout sniper spots. If you're gonna camp 
 out, you take your chances on getting knifed in the back. Of course strategic usage of C4 and Claymores 
 can get you through some of the tougher battles. To top it off there are plenty of interesting 
 challenges to unlock extra bonuses throughout multiplayer. Ranging from falling 30 feet to you 
 death to getting 150 headshots with an assault rifle, these challenges can help break up the occasional 
 monotony of some deathmatches. All in all this is the shooter I've been waiting for for the 360. 
 If you have Xbox Live you owe it to yourself to play this game. If you aren't online you at least 
 should rent this game to enjoy the awesome, but short single player. Now for my problems with this 
 game (which are few) . There's no customizing your controller layout. There are only a few preset 
 layouts to choose from, none of which solved my problem with the grenade buttons being on the shoulder 
 buttons. While this seems like the ideal place for them, the buttons are just too freakin sensitive 
 for that function. I can't count the number of times I accidentally blew myself up from an accidental 
 grenade chucked in front of me while I was trying to do something completely different. One little 
 tap seems to set em off. Other than that and a few lag issues online I really can't say anything 
 bad about this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XNCgamer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 19, 2008 8:18 pm PT
Review:  As Call of Duty 2 came out we were all quite impressed and it was an instant classic. We couldn't 
 wait until COD3 was on the shelves, and boy was that game a disappointment. Finally we have something 
 to cheer about. Call of Duty 4 is easily the best game of the series. It has an incredible, although 
 short, single player that will keep you replaying the same levels over and over again for the fun 
 of it. The story line makes you think you are watching a movie or even CNN.
  
  The multiplayer is outstanding and even when you reach the highest level possible online, you still 
 have much more to do. As you level up, by gaining points in multiplayer games such as team deathmatch, 
 search & destroy, and headquarters, you unlock things such as guns and even perks which give you 
 small edge you need over your opponent. Some of the perks consist of such things as, dropping a 
 grenade when you are killed, or being able to run for longer periods of time. Eventually when you 
 reach the highest level you are given the choice to either stay at lvl 55, or enter prestige mode. 
 Prestige mode is basically like starting from scratch again, but instead of the normal logos next 
 to your level, you will get a special one that shows you have already obtained the highest level.
 
  
  Overall, the gameplay of Call of Duty 4 is great and any shooting game fanatic will instantly love 
 it. It is not too hard and the controls are fairly easy to get accustomed to. The graphics are 
 spectacular and you feel as if you are standing there on the front lines. Anyone looking to buy 
 a new game, look no further, Call of Duty 4 is here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phillyeagles123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 31, 2008 8:11 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 Modern Warfare takes place today and not in WWII for once. The campaign is short 
 but sweet. If you play it on Xbox 360, which you probably do because you are reading the Call of 
 Duty review for the 360, there are plenty of achievements to get. Anyways, Xbox Live Multiplayer 
 is revolutionary. As you level up, you unlock new weapons like the P90, AK-47, M16, MP5, and challenges 
 that help level you up faster. When you finally reach the highest level (55) , you unlock prestige 
 mode. By doing prestige mode, you lose all your weapons and your level goes back to 1 but you get 
 a nice little badge to show you did prestige. Prestige Mode was genius on Infinity Ward's part 
 because it keeps the gamer playing it. Instead of leveling up to 55 and that's it, you have the 
 option to prestige and reset you level to earn a new badge. The reason I didn't give Call of Duty 
 4 a 10 is because I believe that no game is perfect. What I'm saying is that Call of Duty 4 Modern 
 Warfare is one of the deepest games ever made and also one of the best. Seriously rivals Halo 3 
 in the run-n-gun shooter category. Heck, COD4 is better than Halo 3. Go get Call of Duty 4 right 
 now if you already haven't. Do it! Now! You won't regret it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jarrod_Soccer07
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 19, 2008 5:30 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is not by any means "great". It is given false credit. It has the most unbalanced 
 multiplayer and worst level up system I've seen. The only positive is that all the achievements 
 are for capaign which is the only thing good on this game. I'd save my money for a different game. 
 If anyone is reading this... there are far better games. Save your money. If you are in some dilemna 
 over which game to buy, just wait til' Army of two or Star Wars: The Force Unleashed is out. Campaign 
 I give it a 7 out of 10. Multiplayer ranking individually though is a 2 out of 10. Please note 
 I don't read any responses. So if you do I'm not the one seeing it. Through hours and hours that 
 I've played though, I've given it plenty of chances... but no dice. If you want it put very simply 
 and done with, multiplayer is the most unbalanced possible, and single player is short. Dont' believe 
 anything anyone tells you. (And why is your name Soap for crying out loud?) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fALConxxii
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 19, 2008 2:00 pm PT
Review:  I was disappointed in Call of Duty 3 as it failed to win my liking. I then decided to try Call 
 of Duty 4 and it blew me away! A few seconds after you immerse yourself in the realistic campaign, 
 you are not going to want to stop! The high-quality voice acting and heart racing storyline add 
 to the experience. What happens after you defeat Al Asad? The Multiplayer is what. Even though 
 there is no achievements for the multiplayer, you rise levels unlocking weapons and abilities called 
 perks. Each kill you obtain, you gain 10 experience points. If it goes too slow, there are challenges 
 for the weapons that earn you up to 1000 exp. The class customization lets you make your own class 
 with perks and more. Once you've got to level 55, theres not much to do right? WRONG! Prestige 
 mode unlocks and you get to start over with a new icon. This can be repeated 10 times! For crazy 
 shoot-em-up fans, this is a game not to miss 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LIlSwank123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 18, 2008 5:12 pm PT
Review:  Nothing new but it does everything better. This what I always think whenever I try to explain why 
 this game is so good. Everytime I play it I get mad at myself because there realy is no good innovation. 
 In the core gameply. The fact that everytime you shoot someone in this game you feel like a total 
 beast cannot be described in written words. Plus the fact that CoD4 players are crazy when online 
 doesn't hurt.
  
  No matter what kind of online shooter you're into you'll find something here. the thing that really 
 backs this up are perks. I have VERY mixed feelings on these because martydon, last stand, and 
 juggernaught are pretty mush used by everyone. Another downer on the online are that on most of 
 the modes whenever you shoot someone w/ a shotgin at point blank they dont go flying back instead 
 they just kind of slump over in a pre-written animation. This can be really saddening when you 
 try to shoot someone off a cliff and intead they just roll over like theyve had a little too many 
 on a saturday night. The helicopters don't help the online either.
  
  But there is something about ranking up, achieving challenges and tottaly beasting someone that 
 puts this game over the top.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nills
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 18, 2008 12:25 pm PT
Review:  How to describe all this game has to offer....... Well for the most part this is one of the best 
 FPS's to date. Infinity Ward has created a masterpiece.
  
  Gameplay 9.8/10: Although sometimes difficult to learn and get started this game is exactly what 
 an FPS should be. The controls are a treat and the AI is a great part of the singleplayer. But 
 overall this game is just fun to play-online or offline. 
  
  Graphics 10/10: With photo-realistic graphics and running at a solid 60fps it is hard to argue 
 that the graphics are some of the best to date. Rarely will you see graphical glitches or problems 
 in this game.
  
  Multiplayer 10/10: Multiplayer is the best feature of this game. I found myself playing for hours 
 at a time some days because of the addicting gameplay. But this feature also has a bit of a learning 
 curve to it. It takes awhile to get good and not get raped by other players who might be a higher 
 rank. The best part of multiplayer is the ranking system. With 55 ranks this game will last you 
 a while-a long while. After you achieve the highest rank (55) you have the ability to go into something 
 called prestige mode. When you go into this mode you go back down to rank 1 and work your way back 
 up-but with a special symbol next to your name. You can go into prestige a total of 10 times. Anyway, 
 every few ranks you advance by getting kills and completing special challenges, you get new unlocks. 
 Unlocks persist of new weapons and perks (special field ability upgrades) . The Maps that you can 
 play on are some of the best in FPS games. Many of these maps have glitches where you can find 
 yourself on a roof of a 200 ft building or falling through the map into the black abyss. 16 Maps 
 and unlock system and a very long ranking system keep multiplayer fresh and always fun to play.
 
  
  Overall this game is worth the $60 you pay for this graphical, fun, immersive masterpiece by the 
 talented studio Infinity Ward.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Migsten
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 18, 2008 11:14 am PT
Review:  First off I am very happy to see a Call of Duty game that does not take place during World War 
 2. This one takes place in modern day. The developers did a good job of delivering a first person 
 shooter in modern day times. One characteristic that is still found in this new Call of Duty, that 
 was also in the previous two, is smooth game play, more frame rates than you'll need. I have only 
 played a couple missions in single player but the few missions I have played are intense. You get 
 to play as different armies and you get a chance to complete objectives that require you to do 
 something out of the ordinary. You also get a couple chances to make your own choices in the game 
 such as saving one of your fellow comrades or saving an innocent civilian from being murdered by 
 a soldier from an army you're fighting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: armylad1509
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 17, 2008 6:59 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 may be one of the best FPS games ever. I highly reccomend this to anyone who loves 
 a good shooting game. Infinity Ward finally got rid of its WWII addiction and finally moved on 
 to a war that anyone can enjoy. If you ask me, many companies depend on WWII games to sell, where 
 they were so overated in the past, present, and the future. But COD 4 is a definate step in the 
 right direction with a more challenging A. I., a whole new variety of weapons and tactics, and brand 
 new multyplayer featrues (which is a great plus) . Call of Duty 4 improved on its graphics, tactics, 
 and level of difficulty; now you try a game that runs at 60 frames/sec., its just that good. Anyone 
 who love picking up a gun and just shoot at stuff should REALLY gives this game a chance because 
 once you start playing, its really hard to stop. With that said, i would give this game a 10 or 
 9.8 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrIMm23
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 17, 2008 6:22 pm PT
Review:  I never liked COD1-3 but COD4 just changed the way to look at the series. It is nothing like the 
 others I mean really the others had 2-D grass and the fences had the graphics of the first Legend 
 of Zelda. COD4 is so realistic by voice acting to graphics to gameplay to online. The one problem 
 is that the story is to short and the acheivments are easy considering that the achievments arent 
 online only story. But the story like Halo3s story is fun to play over and over again. Well I really 
 have nothng else to say besides that it shouldnt of won game of the year but it should of stayed 
 a nominee because I think either Rock Band or Bioshock. But you should have COD4 for any system. 
 Now about the online. Eventhough the onlinehas no acheivments its still fun and good use of voice 
 and plans. So this is a must  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaDude253
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 3, 2008 6:18 pm PT
Review:  now when i first got this i wanted to go online but i found out my gold had run out so i had to 
 wait a WHOLE WEEK then i got one year of gold for 60 bucks. i played it online wow what a great 
 game!. all the modes fit perfectly and its very rewarding as you lvl up. im am curenlty lvl 55 (the 
 highest lvl u can get to) yeah its been hella fun these 4 mounths. The liky favourate will likly 
 be capture the flag 3 flags are on the map and your team has to get the highest points by making 
 it your team clour for longer and having 2 not 1. when the other team gets all three flags you get 
 domitated and must find a flag imeditly. the single player is the only flaw in this game its short 
 but intresting. but it turns from action too using the the helicopter turrent. the ending wasent 
 any thing to new but it was a great 12 hours of my life. and the graphics in this game are awesome. the 
 guns come to life. they are all dsinged like in real life. sound is also awesome u can hear 6 differny 
 granade blasts depeding on the angle or how far u are are. and last of all when u compleate maskmen 
 chalnged for you guns (getting a sertin amout of kills) u can put stuff on ur guns like granade 
 lanchers red dot sighters and scopes. call of duty 4 is avalible now i highly recorment buying it 
 for any console BUT NOT DS lol. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spartan8494
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 17, 2008 1:42 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is an all around fantastic shooter. It has all of the things you 
 would expect in a great shooter: graphics, sound, dialogue, everything. All of these things come 
 together in a realistic came that will suck you right in. From the beginning, the excitement begins 
 from the realistic graphics to the amazing sound and army environment. When I was playing this 
 game, it actually felt like I was a soldier in the midst of the chaos and war going on. Another 
 great thing about this game are the weapons. The plethora of weapons will always turn you onto 
 new ways to fight. In almost every part of the game you are in the middle of the battle and you 
 can feel the chaos and emotion around you. The sound and graphics make the game a in-your-face 
 kind of shooter that will not disappoint. Compared to most shooters, this game takes the cake. 
 So, if you are thinking about a new kind of game to add to your collection, but this excellent 
 first person shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fluffykins8
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 17, 2008 11:26 am PT
Review:  This game is just plain awesome. It makes Gears Of War look like big rigs.
  
  Graphics: The Graphics are so good i feel like i'm a part of the action. everything is very detailed 
 and it is easy to notice that the developers put a lot of effort into the graphics.
  
  SFX: Very realistic sound effects which sounds like real gunfire, explosions and vehicles, sounds 
 very nice outta surround sound too.
  
  The Game is a bit short but the replay value is so high it makes up for it. i've owned the game 
 for about 2 weeks and played through it twice already.
  
  I dont even need to tell you how great the online is,
  There's a variety of maps such as Overgrown, 
 Wetwork, Downpoor, Vacant Etc. all of them distinctly different. The game also allows you to create 
 your own gun class allowing you to name, paint and add features to your favoerite weapon. There 
 is also many challenges that you unlock as you level up the can give you experience. Theres a ton 
 of weapons to choose from and alter making it fun and lasting for a long time.
  
  The Gameplay is amazing. run through beautifly crafted scenery as you shoot your way through baddies. 
 theres a variety of different missions including assassainations, Defense missions, and run n' 
 gun missons.
  
  Thank you for reading my review and please be sure to enjoy Call Of Duty 4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ball1n076
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 17, 2008 10:16 am PT
Review:  This game has excellent online play. The lagging is very minimal compared to first person shooter 
 halo 3, even if your internet connection is not very good. This game is defenitley up there for 
 game of the year. The best way to give yourself a good challange is to play the campaign on veteran. 
 But if you want the true experience of the game, online multiplayer is the way to go. If your not 
 sure what gun to start with online, in my opinion you should first use the mp5. The mp5 is a great 
 way to get started, and when you are more advanced, then you can move to a gun like a light machine 
 gun or something. You need the faster reloading perk when it comes to the light machine gun. The 
 light machine gun is the way to go in team deathmatch. This is my interpretation and i hope you 
 enjoy Call of Duty 4 Modern Warfare. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CoolVinnie
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 17, 2008 10:09 am PT
Review:  i would not recommend buying it if you don't have live. But if you do this game is amazing from 
 the start of it i was hooked and not doing to bad. I do not see why you would not want to play it. 
 Buy it if you like -competition -cool guns -balanced play -varied play -a addictive reward system 
 (i am a colonel) - and low frustration levels. easily worth $60 it comes with over 100+ fun hours 
 easy. And it does not feel like you get killed all the time thanks to over 10 varied skill game 
 modes. And it DOES NOT HAVE ANY LAG AT ALL. You can contact my gamer tag Fox Lord926. PS i don't 
 normally like the hard to get to rank 10 reward systems of most other shooters whether tactical 
 or run and gun. Best call of duty in the series's by far and i own all the others. The two reasons 
 not to buy this game are 1 DESPISING shooting games 2 don't have x box live. I would buy x box 
 live just to play this wonderful game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jin_man
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 17, 2008 6:34 am PT
Review:  The graphics in this game are so great. They look so realalistic. Also the gun you are holding 
 actully does look like a gun not just some image covered with color. The multi-player is also fun 
 playing vs other poeple. In multi player when you shoot another person it really feels like you 
 are shooting another person, Well almost it does feel but you do not move back from the shot. The 
 single player is kind of good but I have seen better single players in other games. The gameplay 
 is fun because its interesting. Its Interesting because one, the graphics, two the stoyr in the 
 game and three the multi- player! All of the X-Box games I played this game is the best. Its better 
 than Halo 3 because well Halo 3 didn't have alot of stuff. But Guitar Hero is also on eof the best 
 but Call of duty 4 is the best shooter on the 360, not the best in all of the games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KCW1985
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 17, 2008 1:44 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is near perfect.
  
  The campaign mode is very well done. The story is great. There are many different kinds of missions. 
 The only thing I don't like about it, is that it's too short. I wish the campaign would have been 
 much longer and I wish there was more to the story. I did like the ending, though I wish the very 
 end was harder than it was.
  
  I wish it had Co-Op mode. I play video games with my girlfriend. I gave her my old 360 and it would 
 have been nice to play our favorite game together over Live.
  
  Multiplayer is top notch. Guns, sounds, gameplay, graphics are all excellent. The only thing it 
 is missing for me is Capture the Flag. I spend MANY hoiurs playing multiplayer with friends. The 
 prestige mode is great too. It keeps you playing, giving you goal after goal.
  
  Overall, I gave it a 9.5. It would have got a 10, if it had Capture the Flag, Co-Op and a longer 
 campaign. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: heartbreakkid84
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 16, 2008 8:11 pm PT
Review:  Ok, bottom line, this is the best shooter game ever. Halo 3 comes close, but this game right here 
 is gold. First, I'll start with the one problem that I, and many people see with this game. Story 
 mode. The actual story is good, and the plot, but they could have carried it out a little more. 
 In the story, you have to kill four or three guys (I forget) that killed a president. They could 
 have made a longer path until you actually got to each guy to kill them. Now, the cool parts. There 
 is a huge variety of weapons in this game. Each one is different, and helpful in it's own way. 
 Some guns are used for accuracy, some are for hitting big targets, and others are used for rapid 
 fire, or getting the first shot. There are also different kinds of missions. On one mission, you 
 have to be stealthy, and unnoticed by the other side through the whole level. Another mission, 
 you go all out with no concern of stealth at all. Bottom line, if you like to blow people's heads 
 off, get this game, because you do just that in many different forms, and many different ways. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Robert47210
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 16, 2008 2:44 pm PT
Review:  
  Pros: 
  
  First off the graphics are amazing in this game smoke looks like smoke, shadows don't go through 
 walls, and your gun looks like it's real.
  The single player campaign is by far the best storyline of any shooter. (to date) The multiplayer 
 is class based but, not unbalanced. Even if you're new to the game you could take out a guy that 
 has been playing it since release. Great multiplayer. When you shoot the guns on here you feel 
 like you're shooting a real gun. (except you don't feel the recoil) The perk system is great. Perks 
 are like power ups for your guy allowing you to run faster, take more damage, do more explosive 
 damage, shoot through walls, drop a live grenade when you die etc. This makes for very fun and 
 interesting gameplay. 
  
  Cons: 
  
  The singleplayer was too short.
  
  Overall: 
  
  If you have a 360, PS3, PC, or a Mac. GET THIS GAME!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zakum2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 16, 2008 2:42 pm PT
Review:  Deck is self explanitory.
  
  Single-Player:
  I loved it. Better than the multiplayer, but only by a small bit. The game is really hecka hard 
 on Veteran, and quote Kirstin Holt: " [it] will probably make you cry." The voice acting is awesome, 
 but you'll shrug that off in favor of the ultimately great soundtrack. Dramatic moments also cause 
 an intentional slowdown. Those are not caused by performance issues, but to increase the dramatic 
 feel of the game. Well done, Infinity Ward!
  
  Multiplayer:
  The multiplayer mode isn't worth all the work. Sure, you get a lot of goodies, but what's the point 
 without any achievments? You should at least get an achievment for being brave enough to give up 
 all your goodies at a way later point for "Prestige Mode". So, that's a very weak point of the 
 game.
  
  Good:
  -Deep singleplayer
  -Great voice acting
  -Great soundtrack
  -Good multiplayer
  
  Bad:
  -NO MULTIPLAYER ACHIEVMENTS
  -.... and nothing else 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D4rKn3sSnIp3r
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 25, 2008 7:39 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 recently won the 2008 Game of the Year here on Gamespot. It beat such titles as 
 "Halo 3," "The Orange Box," and "Bioshock," which won game of the year with several other sites. 
 Don't get me wrong, the game is outright stunning from characters that almost look real to the 
 beautiful scenery, even though most of it is blown up. However, the AI in the game provides a nearly 
 impossible challenge on Veteran difficulty, and the quote "realistic" damage isn't always so real. 
 However, Call of Duty 4 is still a ridiculously fun game. If you measure games by graphics and 
 overly-hard AI, then Call of Duty 4 is the game for you. But the lack of online Social games and 
 no co-op is a major shortcoming in my opinion, which Halo has plenty of. Co-op would make the game 
 on Veteran much easier to beat, as the game gets to be nearly impossible on Hardened. Also, in 
 the online multiplayer, both Halo 3 and Call of Duty 4 have ridiculous spawns with absolutely logic, 
 meaning that the majority of the time, you will spawn and be killed within seconds. So many weapons, 
 so many maps, but you can't share it with friends? Weak. Call of Duty 4 is still a standout game, 
 but could still be better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DannyDelorian
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 3, 2008 6:48 am PT
Review:  I am a big fan of FPS (First-Person Shooter) games and I pretty much play nothing but FPS's. When 
 I first saw this game advertised I knew I was going to get it, but I didn't think it would be much 
 good, more mediocre than anything. 
  
  The realistic campaign really sucked me in, and when I started on the multiplayer, I realised that 
 the game had a lot to offer. Great teamwork makes the multiplayer come together even more so than 
 the Mercenary style of playing where you just join a game and go at it, thinking of nothing but 
 yourself.
  
  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare has great graphics, good sound and a very excellent feel to it. 
 The customisability of Classes and Perks in multiplayer, along with Prestige modes allows you to 
 keep up with different maps and game types, without it getting boring, constantly sticking to the 
 same weapons.
  
  There are two things that let this game down. The infinate supply of enemies during the campaign 
 and at current, the lack of new maps being released. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neo5514
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 16, 2008 7:39 am PT
Review:  I love this game. from the min. i played the Beta i was sucked in. this game is absolutely great. 
 The graphics are amazing. the game play is amazing. and the story is really great. The replay value 
 is above all the best. on multiplayer you start on level one and you go through the ranks and get 
 new guns, perks, and challenges. After you get to 55 which is the highest you can go you can either 
 stay there and just keep playing or you can start prestige. prestige is where you start over once 
 you reach 55 and go back to lvl 1. you lose all your weapons and everything. and they you get a 
 little symbol next to your name that says your doing it. you can do prestige up to 10 times. im 
 currently on my 4th time and i think its amazing. I would recommend this game to anyone. please 
 go buy it now. it is the best thing you will ever buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: United_We_Fall
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 16, 2008 4:22 am PT
Review:  I cant remember the last time i had so much fun with a game and i've been a gamer for over 12 years. 
 COD 4 DEFINITELY sets the bar not only for those fps to come but also for every game out ther! 
 It's been so long that i have felt such a commitment, such a strong bond with my comrades in arms 
 in any game and i have to admit (i never expected to say this) that i was touched by this game's 
 ending. In game reviews, the writers mostly focus their attention to the game's sound effects, 
 graphx, gameplay, etc... but i shall not dare to talk about those things because cod4 is all about 
 a new experience. Movies supposed to have captured well a viewer's attention may not even come 
 close to this game's potential for in every second this game made me feel that i am part of the 
 game. It was as if I WAS THERE!!! 100000 thumbs to IW ... they made feel like a true gamer once 
 again! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snakes3425
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 15, 2008 9:18 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best games, if not the best game in the entire COD Franchise. Appearences by 
 characters form other CoD games like Capt. Price from CoD 2 are a welcome site. 
  
  The campaign adds an aura of mystery to the game, for one the name of the Middle East Nation Al-Assad 
 has taken control of is never revealed. The game play is smooth and the graphics are increadible. 
 The addition of modern weapons such as M-16s, AK-47s, and others are also a welcome change from 
 the other CoD games which constently use the same style Allied and Axis type weapons, such as M1 
 Garandes. 
  
  The graphics of this game make you feel more like you're actually there, and many of the close 
 ups have details that show the ravages of war. Of course the number one feature of any CoD game 
 is it's multiplayer, and Call of Duty 4 is no different. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oni_Ookami
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 15, 2008 1:02 pm PT
Review:  The Call of duty series has always produced above average shooters. Call of Duty 4 is no different; 
 the single player campaign is fast paced and very exciting. It does suffer by being a bit short 
 overall but the uniqueness of its difference zone of conflict and how you are involved in them 
 make up for it. Combat ranges from being a regular soldier, a stealthy sniper, to being a gunner 
 in an air ship. The sheer variety in the campaign really keeps it from being more of the same old 
 stuff as previous games.
  
  As good as the SP is it's the MP that really makes COD4 shine, don't let the ranking up system 
 deter you, some of the best weapons are available right from the start and the different modes 
 are fun and unique, so there is something for everyone. All in all COD4 is a must buy for any shooter 
 fan, you won't be disappointed.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SonicKid_UK
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 15, 2008 12:19 pm PT
Review:  Visually exciting & with a compelling storyline this game successfully brought what was a fading 
 series back into the limelight. Call of Duty peaked with Call of Duty 2 & people were understandably 
 excited with the release of Call of Duty 3 but this was in essence an abysmal game in comparison 
 to its predecessor so naturally when the series announced it would be moving away from the WW2 
 genre & coupled with the tarnished Call of Duty 3 debacle it was only to be expected that I approached 
 this game with trepidation. However, like a phoenix from the ashes the series was successfully 
 hauled into the 21st century with eye popping graphics & immense gameplay. It has a sense of familiarity 
 that players of the previous games of the series will immediately identify whilst bringing a new 
 thrill to it. single player proceeds nicely with plain & simple shoot to kill missions but often 
 with a twist to each one as you vary from British S. A. S to American Infantry even if it does seem 
 a little short however if you watch the credits after completion you do get another bonus mission 
 for your troubles. Multiplayer also has some great quirks where you now have the perks feature 
 throwing a sense of the unknown into the mix. Although the game modes are much the same as most 
 other shooter games (like capture the flag, free-for-all etc) they, along with the many maps, provide 
 for hours of entertainment. A very enjoyable game indeed which really brings a new twist to the 
 series, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vengeance00
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 7, 2008 5:05 am PT
Review:  Well it seems people didn't like the review I gave this previously and I have to say upon re-reading 
 it, I agree. Call of Duty 4: modern warfare (or COD4) is a FPS shooter set in post 9/11 which puts 
 you in the boots of SAS soldier Soap and Sergeant Johnson of the US marines as they both fight 
 on two fronts of espionage and urban warfare as they stop a crazy Russian and his middle eastern 
 underlings from bring about the apocalypse in the form of nukes and stereotypicalness.
  
  As the SAS you go around sneaking around Russian camps and outposts in a hope to fix the problem 
 with as little conflict as possible, whereas the US Marines throw themselves at the unnamed Middle 
 Eastern country in the hopes of stopping this by killing the resistance leader there and then.
 
  
  The game play between the two styles of combat actually stands out (apart from the change of scenery 
 and enemies) where one will usually be sneaking through camps and setting up ambushes while the 
 other will be advancing forward with tanks and digging in when it hits the fan. The controls are 
 well laid out with the ability to sprint and a melee attack consisting of a knife which one hit 
 kills. There is a wide variety of weapons which all have there strengths and weakness that will 
 be made more apparent in the multiplayer from assault rifles to RPGs with the player only able 
 to carry two weapons and his grenades and the occasional claymore.
  
  The Sounds are also very well done and the music is very good as well (its what to expect of someone 
 who work with Harry Gregson Williams of MGS) and at some points it does remind me of MGS, probably 
 the FPS trailer they did. Also there is a lot less annoying kids in this game as many people don't 
 seem to use microphones to express their anger.
  
  The multiplayer has its own rank system of 54 (or is it 55? Oh well.) which exclusively to the 
 consoles can enter prestige mode which resets every thing back to rank 1 so that the player has 
 something to do until they do this 10 times over. After rank 4 the player will be able to build 
 their own class with their choice of weapons and perks, which are special abilities like extra 
 ammo or increased health. These come in three groups that seem to be special equipment (RPG, claymores) , 
 stat increasing (health increase, reload speed increase) and special abilities (run faster, steadier 
 aim) . The choices are endless for what you can have if you like sniping you can make a class perfect 
 for that or if you like you boom stick you can be one tough player to knock down especially in 
 urban levels, there is even choices to stealth where you can evade the enemy radar and have quite 
 foot steps. 
  
  This is probably one of the best games to be released so far for the 360 and PS3 (though I don't 
 have one) as the amount of variation you can get from the multiplayer is amazing and the story 
 mode though short it is sweet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dutch_Mix
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 14, 2008 4:36 pm PT
Review:  Despite what you might believe, Call of Duty 4 isn't the sequel to Call of Duty 3. Sure they both 
 share the same name, but Call of Duty 1, 2, and 4 have all been handled by Infinity Ward, whereas 
 Call of Duty 3 was Treyarch. Call of Duty 3 was a fine game in its own right, but the Call of Duty 
 franchise has always been at its finest when handled by Infinity Ward and Call of Duty 4 is no 
 exception.
  
  Unlike the first three Call of Duty games, Call of Duty 4 is the first game in the series to be 
 set not in World War 2, but in modern times, and this is definitely a good thing because the second 
 World War has been saturated with first-person shooters. The story in Call of Duty 4 is believable. 
 A terrorist named Khalid Al-Assad is on the brink of acquiring nuclear weapons and it's up to you 
 to stop him before he destroys anyone and everything in his path. The plot may sound contrived, 
 but it's executed very well and at times, will outright shock you with its visceral assault on 
 the senses.
  
  Call of Duty 4 borrows heavily from films like Saving Private Ryan, Black Hawk Down, and Enemy 
 at the Gates. Because of this, the game has a very cinematic feel to it. There are many instances 
 in the game where you'll have to remind yourself to breathe because the game does not give you 
 the opportunity to catch your breath. It's basically like a six hour roller coaster ride that never 
 lets up.
  
  You'll play Modern Warfare through the eyes of two soldiers. A United States Marine named Paul 
 Jackson, and a British S. A. S. soldier named 'Soap' McTavish. Suffice it to say, the variety of 
 missions provided by both campaigns is impressive because you never feel like you're doing the 
 same thing over again. One moment you'll be in an AC-130 gunship decimating enemy troops with a 
 110 mm cannon from the safety of the skies, and the next moment you'll be crawling through the 
 grass in ghillie suit in what might be the greatest stealth mission in any game ever period. It's 
 that good.
  
  If you've ever played a Call of Duty game before, then chances are you'll feel right at home with 
 Modern Warfare. Battles play out in a somewhat scripted fashion with explosions and gunfire occurring 
 at an almost mind-numbing pace. Thankfully, Call of Duty 4 doesn't feel nearly as linear as the 
 previous entries into the franchise. You'll still be accomplishing objectives and killing plenty 
 of bad guys, but how you do that is almost entirely up to you. You can equip a silencer to your 
 weapon and try to take down the bad guys quietly, or you can just equip a grenade launcher and 
 go Rambo on your enemies (the latter suggestion not recommended on higher difficulty settings) .
 
  
  Call of Duty 4 plays much like your standard shooter. You'll use the thumb-sticks to aim and the 
 right trigger to shoot. However, unlike many first-person shooters on the market, you'll spend 
 a lot of time looking down the sights of your weapon in order to aim effectively. Simply firing 
 from the hip will only waste valuable ammunition as its horribly inaccurate (Modern Warfare indeed) . 
 In addition, you'll be able to sprint by clicking the left thumb-stick (highly recommended when 
 running through the battlefield) and you'll be able to throw stun and frag grenades (even ones 
 that have been recently thrown towards you) at enemies.
  
  The AI in Modern Warfare isn't as good as I'd hoped it would be. Just like in every Call of Duty 
 game, their best tactic is using their superior numbers to overwhelm you. They also like to throw 
 tons of grenades which can be infuriating at times because the grenade indicator on the screen 
 isn't nearly as pronounced as it should be. Ironically, the AI of your squad members is quite good. 
 They'll take cover, effectively shoot at enemies, and in many cases, they'll actually save your 
 life. 
  
  As good as the campaign in Call of Duty 4 is you'll likely be spending most of your time in the 
 multi-player component long after you've beaten the campaign. The multi-player itself is class 
 based which means you'll be able to choose from five different pre-set classes before jumping into 
 the multi-player. Each class emphasizes a different playing style, but if you can't find one that 
 you relate to, you can just mix and match your own weapons in the create-a-class slot.
  
  On top of this, there's the option to add a variety of perks to your class. A perk adds a bonus 
 to either the weapons or characters traits of your class. This adds a lot of depth to the game, 
 and thanks to the online ranking system, which rewards you with XP for completing objectives and 
 killing people, you'll be constantly unlocking new and better weapons and perks with which to use 
 with your character. Unfortunately, this can and does exhibit some balance issues online because 
 the matchmaking system doesn't match you with people of your own skill level, and as such you'll 
 face off with many people who have vastly superior equipment than you.
  
  Despite these balance issues, the multi-player is excellent. There's a heavy emphasis on team-work 
 and communication. Trying to go it alone Schwarzenegger style is a recipe for suicide. There are 
 many game-types that reinforce this such as "Sabotage" which places one neutral bomb on the map 
 that both teams have to plant at their enemy bases. The catch? When your team picks up the bomb, 
 every member on the opposing team is given the location of the person carrying the bomb. This can 
 lead to some great tug-of-war moments. Also, there are plenty of people playing Call of Duty 4. 
 As of right now, it's the number one game being playing on Xbox Live so you'll be able to quickly 
 find a match of whatever gametype you want to play.
  
  
  Call of Duty 4 is a superb looking game. Just watching the fire-fights play out can take your breath 
 away when you see how much time and effort went into making the combat seem as realistic as possible. 
 Everything from the fluid animations, to the authentic weapons, to the detailed environments looks 
 outstanding. Perhaps even more important, the game runs at a smooth 60 FPS which is impressive 
 considering everything that's going on at one time. The only real complaint I can level at the 
 visuals in Call of Duty 4 is that the multi-player maps don't look as good as they should. There 
 are some rough edges that should have been polished, but that's just a small complaint in an otherwise 
 beautiful game.
  
  Call of Duty 4 sounds great. Each one of the guns sounds unique. Furthermore, when you're on the 
 battlefield, you'll be able to hear your enemies and allies calling out the locations of each other. 
 This type of chatter is implemented well thanks to the excellent writing and voice work. Call of 
 Duty 4 also supports 5.1 Surround Sound so if you've got a good setup, be sure to crank up the 
 volume to amp up the experience even more.
  
  It'll take around 6-8 hours to finish Call of Duty 4, and while that doesn't seem like much, it's 
 not a big deal since you'll probably want to replay the game almost as soon you get done with it 
 thanks to multiple difficulty levels and achievements which are all unlocked exclusively in the 
 campaign. Combine this with an outstanding multi-player component, and Call of Duty 4 won't be 
 leaving your disk tray any time soon.
  
  Overall, Call of Duty 4 is one of the best first-person shooters to come out in recent memory. 
 If you're a fan of Halo, Resistance, or Half Life then do yourself and the industry a favor by 
 picking up Call of Duty 4. You won't regret it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cptgrenade
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 13, 2008 11:57 am PT
Review:  I have been playing this game since it came out and still have not tired of playing it. Single 
 player too short? No, just right. You never feel you are repeating mission with different bad guys. 
 Single player is diverse and addictive. Multiplayer is where the game really shines. Achievements 
 that actually unlock new items is simple but brilliant. Microsoft achievements are good for nothing. 
 Online is fast and furious. Even beginners will be able to pick off Vets now and then. The balance 
 of weapons keep it interesting. Something for all. Headquarters keeps everyone moving so you won't 
 get squatters (as much) . Awesome game. After playing COD4, Halo 3 feels like you are moving in slow 
 motion. COD 4 will actually help your Halo 3 game. Buy it ,play it ,and don't bail in the middle 
 of a game because you are losing. One request, more maps!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gmrviper
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 13, 2008 6:18 pm PT
Review:  I live just outside the nearest high speed Internet zone making it impossible to get anything other 
 then satellite Internet, which if anyone has will know that it's not at all good with playing games, 
 so Xbox live is out of the question. Never the less I bought this game mainly because I heard it 
 had a good 4 player split screen making this and halo 3 the only good action games that I know 
 of that aren't only online based. One of the main reasons that I wanted to buy it was that i had 
 heard that it had 16 multi player maps but when I opened the split screen menu it only showed that 
 I had 8 maps thinking that I had to unlock the other 8 I played through the campaign which was 
 incredibly short and was over in a flash, well it didn't unlock anything finally I went on my computer 
 and looked it up and I found that it's 16 levels online but only 8 off line...... Would It have 
 been so hard for them to make the online maps off line? and the worst part is you can play the 
 maps if you make a system link game but its only one player, so I can see how fun those maps would 
 be with such as overgrown pipeline and Bloc to name a few. Another thing that I was looking forward 
 to but was left out of the split screen was that you cant customize your own class like you can 
 online so it makes me think that this whole game is a add for Xbox live but hey I'd get Xbox live 
 if I had an Internet connection that wasn't a piece of $h! t. well I heard that their supposed to 
 be releasing some down loadable maps but what am I supposed to use to download them? I cant believe 
 that this hasn't been brought up more on the chat boards I conclude that the campaign is way to 
 short and the split screen was a rip off thank you very much infinity ward. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yatesy917
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 13, 2008 6:55 am PT
Review:  It may not be a Halo killer but Call of Duty 4 is a great shooter with very nice sound and graphics. 
 The campaign is brilliant but very short [3 hours tops if your up to tune with the usual COD graphics] .
 
  
  Achivements are basic, [ Complete game on normal or hardened or veteran] But what shocked me were 
 that there was no online achivements! :O I would have expected a few online ones, i feel it would 
 have mixed well with the weapons and challenges.
  
  
  
  Apart from all that it is a pretty good game... i suggest you play all ghillied up [campaign] and 
 try and not alert any enemies ... it is amazing!
  If your deciding beetween this or Halo 3 i advise Halo 3 with a far better lifespan, a brilliant 
 campaign with 4 player online co op it does beat COD4.
  
  I still dont understand how cod4 got game of the year ... Halo should have won. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: albi_the_racist
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 13, 2008 6:11 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is the best COD to date. Although the story mode is very short, it is amazing, and 
 will probably still satisfy by the end. The online is great, it is probably the best online that 
 I have played, although it does take a bit of getting used to, because you do die very easily, 
 and alot of the people that play it are really good at it. Overall it is is a fantastic game, if 
 your friends say it great listen to them, and if they say it is rubbish, then get it anyway, because 
 it is in no way rubbish! And the graphics are amazing!!! If you were thinking of buying anything 
 else look no further, because here is the game for you even if your not into shooters you will 
 love this game. Oh, and get yours quick because I guaranty that they will sell out fast. But if 
 you buy this game without xbox live you will not get as much excitement out of it, you will get 
 alot, but the multilayer is really what makes this game what it is! So really the only draw back 
 is the extraordinarily short Campaign. But Who cares, It is Still Great! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jorila
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 13, 2008 1:14 am PT
Review:  This is the game Ive spent the most time on ever!!
  I just cant keep away from playing the multiplayer section on xbox live and I still play the singleplayer...... soon 
 completed the second time through.
  The only annoying thing is the in-game chat - to many kids just makes a lot of noise instead of 
 using it as a tool to warn friends or plan their attack. This problem is avoided when you team 
 up with your friends in a party and that is when the fun get even better.
  Another great thing is the prestige mode. A lot of games get boring when you have played through 
 it, this one gives you new challenges all the time. If you have the skill and patience, getting 
 a gold weapon gives you a chance to really show off in a proper manner - Ill have to try that 
 in my next prestige mode... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarilynMan2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 12, 2008 9:54 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty 4 is the greatest fps to hit consoles thus far, the positives of this game are great, 
 it has great sound that a console game should have, weapons are precise in the sounds they make 
 and the reloading of the clips sound great overall though the sound is great. Graphics are outstanding 
 i would have to rank the graphics in the game 2nd overall on the xbox 360, i would have to place 
 oblivion in first for graphics. Gameplay overall is awesome, the single player runs smoothly, but 
 as far as mulitplayer goes it gets lag in the servers from time to time, but with the new patch 
 being released that will be fixed soon. But a downfall i see in call of duty 4 is the weapons when 
 you compare the single player to the multiplayer, single player has the nicer stuff. They should 
 have integrated the eotech scope into multiplayer as well as the g3 automatically. That i one of 
 the downfalls that i see with call of duty 4.
  Also the multiplayer in call of duty 4 has many features i was impressed with some of the features 
 they i really like the ranking system they did a really good job on that, I like the prestige modes, 
 and the fact that there are 10 on there and the time it takes to reach that 10th prestige takes 
 forever but it is worth the fame and glory. Mulitplayer has a great leaderboard system that classifies 
 your ranking on score, wins, kills, and accuracy. I love how they did the leaderboards. Also the 
 last downfall that i see really bad with call of duty 4 is the match system, i dont like the fact 
 that you can send your friends invites into ranked games that right there is a boosting factor 
 for boosters and i have seen people on the leaderboards with insane score, that is a a big problem 
 i see there. But overall I would have to score this game with a 9.5
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Helloiseeu
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 12, 2008 6:23 pm PT
Review:  Wow, were the first thought I got playing this. I mean seriously, wow! The single-player campaign 
 was an awesome amount of great gameplay. The graphics were off the scales. And the combat was so 
 intense. I mean, RPGs flying everywhere and ak-47 shells ripping through the wall your sitting 
 by as your tryign to escape your position while blasting away enemy troops with a shotgun. I mean 
 this game was just suberb. Even though the single-player campaign was too short I enjoyed it. 
 
  
  Now, the best feature of this game is the online gameplay. It's not like Halo 3 where you play 
 online and kill someone and all you get is a, "Hell Yay!" and his gun. In Call of Duty 4 you get 
 more points to level up online and your able to get more guns, grenades, and bonus powers. I mean 
 you five free slots where you can mix and match all your guns and other stuff. Here would be an 
 example of my custom slot. M4 carbine for primary weapon. M119A pistol for sidearms slot. Special 
 grenade slot would get a smoke grenade. And a extra RPG, health, and grenade drop when I die. I 
 mean you can obivilously see that the game is very unique and not just, "Another shooter game" 
 like the Halo series. The game's map are insane. Almost all the building are open and you can walk 
 right in them and hold off enemy assaults from in there. The game's maps are very neat also because 
 they're mostly all unique from each other. The online is the most addiciting gameplay in the entire 
 game. Also when your done with online and you got your friends over you can play splitscreen mode 
 with them for a free-for all deathmatch mode.
  
  The game is overally very fun with a very short campaign. Recommended for anyone has Xbox Live. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MUSCLED-HAMJENA
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 12, 2008 5:29 pm PT
Review:  I like this game, at first when I got this I immediately went to the campaign to try an get some 
 achievements and just to have fun. My favorite mission was I think in the second act where you 
 get to use the 50 cal sniper and then get to run around with the other dude in the ghillie suit. 
 Eventually I got bored of the campaign because it was extremely easy. So, then comes xbox live!!! 
 In my opinion this is the best part of the game. I like the ranking system, how you can rank up 
 to level 55 and then have the choice of doing "prestige mode", where you basically start back at 
 level 1 and have to rank up all over again. All you really benefit in prestige mode is the loose 
 looking icon, and the satisfaction of knowing your a higher rank than the level 55 players. Another 
 thing about the online is the challenges and the maps and game modes. Now the challenges for the 
 guns you have to get a certain amount of kills and headshots of that specific gun to get a certain 
 add on for that gun. (ex: Desert Camo, Digital Camo, Red Camo, Blue Camo, and grenade launchers, 
 red dot sights, and COG Scopes) The challenges help you rank up a LOT faster. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SeacorpsePirate
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 12, 2008 4:24 pm PT
Review:  To start this off CoD4: MW is probably the best multiplayer game I have played in years, the game 
 modes and equipment are all very good. The only problem I have online is that it takes like 4 headshots 
 with some guns to count as a headshot, and the .50 cal sniper should kill you one hit no matter 
 what, considering that gun is for shooting through vehicles and buildings. The single player is 
 very engaging and is a pretty basic story about terrorists with nukes. Another thing I didn't like 
 about online is that you could only get one gun attatchment at a time, but in story mode you got 
 like a silencer, laser, and red dot sight. Overall this is a very good game and i gave it a 9.5, 
 considering some things could be better. I hope that in future CoDs they put in multiple attatchments 
 and maybe some customizable characters for each side when youo play as them!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fbasque78
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 12, 2008 2:46 pm PT
Review:  I'll make this short and simple. If you like First-person shooters with an amazing multiplayer 
 offering. Get this game! You will also get some of the best graphics and sound seen on a console. 
 This game looks amazing!
  
  The control are tight and the framerate is a constant 60 frames per second even with all sorts 
 of crazyness happening. 
  
  The single player campaign is rather short on the normal setting but on Veteran every inch takes 
 minutes to gain and it's very satisfying to finish a level on the Veteran setting. 
  
  The multiplayer is the best I've seen thus far in a FPS... especially on a console. You start with 
 basic equipement but by gaining XP thru kill or ojectives you unlock more guns, attachments and 
 attributes (like having better bullet damage or being able to run longer) . This makes the game 
 very addicting and you wanna play one more round just to unlock more stuff. The levels are well 
 done and there's no real safe spot where you can camp safely. Unlike Halo, it will take a couple 
 of good shots to take someone down.
  
  This is the best gane that came out in 2007 and you should give it a try! It's awesome!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Magebane
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 12, 2008 10:31 am PT
Review:  
  While not innovative, the Call of Duty series has always been mind-numbingly engrossing - and CoD4 
 meets and exceeds the stereotype. It has high-production value firefights mingled with epic storyline 
 twists and a extremely clean MP experience.
  
  Singleplayer: I had a friggin' blast drudging through single player on Hardened. Sure, there were 
 times when I was about to throw my controller in frustration because I didn't react fast enough 
 to an enemy 'nade. 
  
  There were times when the baying and howling of dogs freaked the hell out of me and I actually 
 felt like I was fully immersed, including shaking my view left and right frantically unloading 
 my M16 on anything that swayed in the wind in absolute fear. 
  
  The graphics, delivery, and balance of CoD4 SP is remarkable. It's one of those experiences that 
 begs you to play it again on an even harder difficulty, even though All Ghillied Up on Veteran 
 gives me shudders just thinking about it.
  
  Mutliplayer: Wow, just... wow. Fast-paced, addictive gameplay combined with RPG-styled experience/levelling 
 up and unlocking elements - tossed in with EXCELLENT FPS (Framerates Per Second) elevate the experience 
 to one of the best Xbox 360 has to offer. 
  
  Clan-Battles are ridiculously easy to set up, bragging rights in custom-made 1v1 matches just a 
 button or two away, multiple game variances combined with epic-styled balancing make CoD4 MP TO 
 DIE FOR. 
  
  Of course, there are those who just don't dig modern warfare games, or like the Battlefield vehicle 
 flair - etc. I don't think anyone in their right mind, if they take CoD4 in context of what it 
 is - a fast-paced semi-realistic shooter - can disagree that it is TO DIE FOR.
  
  All in all, one of the best in years. Good job IW.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gruntslayer150
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 11, 2008 8:39 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is possibly one of the best games of 07 and 08. Definitely worth the 60 bucks you 
 pay for it. Campaign mode is awesome. the single player mode has a wonderful story line. Graphics 
 are sweet. Its packed with over 20 levels of non stop action. The only problem with that is there 
 is no co-op mode PERIOD!!! There are tons of achievements u can get too. The game even has cheats 
 but the only way to get them is to collect the enemy Intel throughout the game. Probably real reason 
 most people buy this game is because of the online multi player. Its some of the coolest online 
 play i have seen in a while. As you progress u gain ranks, earn new weapons, and gain new ability's. 
 Its a kick ass game and i recommend it to anyone who wants a high action first person shooter. 
 I look forward to future installments. 9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mr_zombie60
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 11, 2008 7:39 pm PT
Review:  Story: I was very drawn in to Call of Duty 4, after beating it for the first time with a fairly 
 challenging difficulty of Hardcore, but the game just went downhill for me after that. After, destroying 
 that difficulty in 2 days, I went on to Veteran, it kept me addicted for the first few missions, 
 but after awhile as the missions went on and as they got harder, I realized how dumb it was. On 
 veteran you are stuck crouching down under a window with your useless allies that DO NOT throw 
 grenades back like they should. And everytime after you've finally finished off a wave of stubborn 
 grenade happy enemies and you start pushing on to the next point, they come back! Which makes you 
 fall back to the same window. This game was supposed to be realistic, but an infinite amount of 
 troops from a fiction country doesnt sound too realistic to me.. Sure its possible to beat veteran 
 but its very frustrating.
  Multiplayer: I never understood how fanboys just love how you realistically get killed in 3 shots, 
 but when it comes to them actually getting killed, they bomb the F word to the TV.. this game doesnt 
 exactly get any thumbs up from the parents that happen to be walking by your room when you curse. 
 So its not only the most frustrating thing you've ever played, but the setup makes no sense. For 
 example, if your a lowbie with a bunch of beginner weapons, you'll most likely get stuck with a 
 whole bunch of high lvl loud mouths, so its pointless to try to get the first hit because they'll 
 turn around and kill you in one hit with all their high lvl perks and weapons.
  
  Overall: Honestly I CANNOT understand why anyone loves a game that makes them hit themselves across 
 the face several times. Self-abuse is not the answer! Just sell the game and let some other poor 
 sap buy the game. I know this wont get through any of the thick skulls of the CoD fanboys, but 
 hear me out, this game is overrated and isn't worth a busted controller! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Buckeye4life
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 9, 2008 5:12 am PT
Review:  A SOLID GAME. THEY COULD'VE MADE THE STORY MODE A LITTLE BIT LONGER BUT IT IS STILL INTENSE AND 
 REALISTIC. THERES ABOUT 15 MISSIONS AND 16 MULTIPLAYER MAPS. THE GAME TAKES ABOUT 6-7 HOURS TO 
 COMPLETE. THE GAME ALSO HAS AWESOME WEAPONS .
  COD4 TAKES PLACE REALLY IN ITS MULTIPLATER . EVEN IF THE STORY MODE IS SHORT BUT IT IS ALSO REALY 
 INTENSE ILL GIVE IT A TEN. A MUST BUY. I HAVE NOTHING ESLE TO SAY SOI I I I I I I I I I I I I I 
 I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I ID DDDDDDDDDDDDDD DDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDD 
 DDDDDDDDDDDDDD DDDDDDDDDDDD DDDDDDDDDDDDDD DDDDDDDDDDDDDDD DDDDDDDDDDDDD DDDDDDDDDD DDDDDDDDDDDDDDD 
 DDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDD DDDDDDDDDD DDDDDDDDDDDD DDDDDDDDDDDD DDDDDDDDDDD DDDDDDDDDDDD DDDDDDDDDDDDD 
 DDDDDDDDDDD DDDDDDDDDDD DDDDDDDDD DDDDDDDDDDD DDDDDDDDD DDDDDD DDDDDDDD DDDDDDDDDDD DDDDDDDDDD 
 DDDDDDDDD DDDDDDDDD DDDDDDDDD 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TaintedSaint666
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 11, 2008 1:45 pm PT
Review:  I was sceptical about Call Of Duty 4 when I recieved it for Christmas. It was the old 'Gee thanks 
 mum, this is just the game I wanted, I'd better go get it over and done with.'
  
  So I did, after I played The Orange Box, Halo 3, Assassins Creed, Shadowrun and Guitar Hero III. 
 I began playing it at 9:20 at night, I thought 'I'll just play half an hour then I'll go to bed.' 
 I didn't put my controller down til' 7:20 in the morning, and that was cause my Xbox died....
 
  
  I blew through the campaign in 7 hours which took me to 4 o'clock ish. I then played multiplayer. 
 
  
  I'd always say that the game that makes my 360 die would be the best game I'd ever played, oh how 
 right I was.....
  
  The single player storyline is brilliant, like it was written by a top Hollywood scriptwriter. 
 The game range from a war torn middle eatern town, to a cargo vessel in the pacific and then to 
 Chernobyl.
  
  But it's multiplayer tht makes this game special, It's realistic, not like Halo where you have 
 to stand there with an assault rifle for 5 seconds til' someone dies, no it's 3 bullets and then 
 they drop dead like a REAL soldier!
  
  The Create A Class system is new yet unfair. Someone with a high level will get a P90 with red 
 dot sight and blow away the competition, ok, It's not going to make you spit at the screen but 
 it will frustrate you at times.
  
  Overall this game is the best shooter ever. A deep multiplayer mode and a painfully short yet brilliant 
 single player. I have 3 words left to say.... Buy It Now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigNudeGuardian
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 11, 2008 11:22 am PT
Review:  This game is by far the best anti-halo platform yet. I used to be one of those people that played 
 halo consistently but thought that it was too slow. This game allows for a wider variety of game 
 play and the best thing is, there are no shields. Another impressive feature is they have several 
 choices of games types to play. If u don't like the cursor or the real time radar, go to hardcore 
 mode. The point there is that you can go between unrealistic fighting to "realistic like" fighting 
 just by changing the game play and not hoping for a hardcore match to pop up at random. Call of 
 Duty has really stepped up their game play by far. I hope that they conyinue to make the COD franchise 
 to this caliber. They will defintly be making lots of money off of me. I am hoping that the new 
 maps they are making downloadable will continue to make the gameplay I love even better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seventy5cent832
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 11, 2008 9:09 am PT
Review:  After playing this game for 3 1/2 months I can say that it is the best online multiplayer ever 
 on Xbox360, currently the only problem is the servers but I havent played that much lately so they 
 might have fixed the problems. But overlooking that fixable problem the online is the best by far, 
 with a great ranking system which is better than Halo2,3, Different game types, custom weapon classes. 
 The ranking is based mainly on how much u play, so its not a annoying as Halo2, as u rank up u 
 get more EXP by getting kills and compleating different feats. Then as u rank up u unlock different 
 weapons and different perks. The graphics are the most photorealistic ever in a game, and the storymode 
 is really good as well but the multi just stands out among other games. Also the map selection 
 is good and there arnt too many so u get good at them fast. the offline multi is ok, I say this 
 because some one who wrote a review said that there was no offine multi but he or she was mistaken, 
 or they never really looked. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LuthorLex54
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 10, 2008 8:00 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Great Story, Great Characters, Great Voice Cast, Great Missions, Great Graphics and Sound, 
 Incredible Experience, Dark Events, Realistic Shooting, Good Multiplayer, Great Achievements.
 
  
  The Bad: Campaigns way too short, no 2-Player Co-op.
  
  First off, let me say that Call of Duty 4: Modern warfare is the best game of 2007, easily topping 
 Halo 3 (2nd Best) and paving the way for a new era of realistic, modern war games. It has the most 
 realistic visuals ever seen in a game and has a amazingly good cinematic story that keep you immersed 
 into the gameplay. With that said, let's get this on:
  
  The story and characters are exceptional. Top notch. Not to mention some of the dark moments in 
 the game (ie Character Death) make it a very realistic first person shooter. The only flaw is the 
 game's length make you want more. 
  
  The visuals are very impressive such as the prelude mission and the beautiful landscapes. The sound 
 is also top notch. The actors bring the character to life in a sense that you actually enjoy their 
 company and regret their deaths. Not to mention the music and sound effects are pretty good too. 
 
  
  The way the guns react in this game, along with the fact that you cant shoot through certain objects 
 (ie Walls, Wood, Thin Metal Sheeting) and the damage enemies can take make shooting guns very fun. 
 The guns just look great. 
  
  The achievements are very good and have you wanting to get them all, not just for your gamerscore, 
 but how cool they are. 
  
  The game also offers a arcade mode and the intense Veteran difficulty which extends the amazing 
 fun factor way up. 
  
  The multiplayer is also addictive, almost up to the way Halo 3 is. It incorporates the ranking 
 system of Halo 3, but better. The matches are intense with that realistic weapon feel and the character 
 customization classes. 
  
  Overall, Infinity Ward has done a amazing job with Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare. Let's just hope 
 that they will continue to move the series out of World War II and into the great, right direction. 
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarthMstrChf
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 10, 2008 6:15 pm PT
Review:  Up untill now, the Call of Duty series has been set in World War I. But that's one war, and after 
 all the clones, it can get pretty played out. Thankfully, Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is set 
 in modern times, hence the name. The story is pretty much summed up in the following: two terrorists 
 are trying to commit genocide, and you have to stop them. The story is okay, but it doesn't stand 
 out.
  
  The single player campaign is composed of epic battles between hundreds of soldiers. Your part 
 may seem minimal, but you will soon realize your fellow soldiers need you more than you think. 
 The only knock on the single player campaign is it's length. It's just too short.
  
  This game's real strength is it's multiplayer. Their are about a dozen different maps and game 
 modes, and you won't feel like you're playing the same thing over and over again. When you jump 
 into an online match, You select the class you want and wait for the game to start. Now their are 
 some pre-set classes, but their are 5 slots where you can create your own. You pick a primary weapon, 
 secondary weapon, and special grenade type. Their are also three slots for perks. These couldbolster 
 your attack, double your ammo, or even drop a live grenade when you die. You unlock more perks 
 and weapons etc. as you level up. You gain exp. points for getting kills, getting twenty five kills 
 with the same weapon, etc.
  
  Call of Duty 4 could just be game of the year. I would easily recommend this game to any PS3, X360, 
 or PC gamer. Buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xX-PopoviC-Xx
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 17, 2008 11:44 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty took a big turn when it left the battlefields of World War II, was this a good choice, 
 or bad. I say this was the best choice to make. COD4 offers many new things to the series, some 
 that will amaze you and some that will disappoint you. First to talk about is the campaign. Call 
 of Duty 4s campaign is set in the very near future where an well-armed group of international separatists 
 are planning to, pretty much do bad things. Throughout the campaign, you play as three characters. 
 (as in all of the Call of Duty games) Character one is Sgt. Jackson, a U. S. soldier, character 
 two is Pvt. Soap, who is the main character, is a British spec-ops soldier, and for two missions 
 you play as Lt. Price, who is also a British spec-ops soldier. The campaign takes you across three 
 Acts including a Prologue and Epilogue, each that tell you the story. Although it may sound long, 
 you'll probably finish the campaign in 5 or more hours, but you have four difficulties to play 
 on. The campaign also has a infinite enemy spawn, which won't stop until you reach the certain 
 checkpoint. This is a problem especially in the hardest difficulty, Veteran because you can't run 
 out to much and staying still will do nothing for you. But, Call of Duty 4 has an amazing multiplayer 
 with it. Probably the best multiplayer ever. Multilayer is a class-based gametype, where you can 
 create your own 5 classes or use the games own 5 classes. There are loads of weapons to unlock 
 as you advance through levels. There are 55 levels you can beat and then if you want you can go 
 through Prestige mode which takes you back to Level 1. The exp system is based on experience points, 
 you get points for killing people, assisting, and completing certain objectives. Some gametypes 
 give more points away then others. For example Team Deathmatch gives away 10 points per kill, while 
 Search and Destroy gives away 50 points per kill and 100 for defusing or planting the bomb. There 
 are five types of weapons you can use, Assault Rifles, Snipers, Light Machine Guns, Sub-Machine 
 guns, and Shotguns. Some weapons are the Barret .50 Cal, G36C, AK-47, P90, M14 Carbine, and more. 
 Then the new things to the Call of Duty series is Perks, which are somewhat like abilities, some 
 perks are like Martyrdom which is when you die you drop a grenade, some are Juggernaut which gives 
 you increased health, Extreme Conditioning which allows you to sprint longer. All the Perks give 
 you a good effect which you'll need to win a match. Now there is an even system, so if you see 
 a Level 55, and your say Level 8, you still have an even chance of winning, because although he 
 has different weapons and better perks, you can still use perks to your favor and kill him. When 
 you add everything together, the Perks, the Guns, and the Classes you get some amazing multiplayer 
 which you will stick to for a long time. Another thing about the game is the graphics. If you hate 
 games with bad graphics, then do not come close to anything in Call of Duty 4, this game has terrible 
 textures but looks amazing from a distance. Another note for online is that you will get discriminated 
 alot on this game, especially on gametypes like Search and Destroy, there are so many things people 
 will hate you for, examples, the perk Juggernaut, the grenade launcher, random grenades. People 
 in this game hate dieing and always say "That was f*cken bullsh*t" I'd much rather prefer to play 
 with new people on Halo 3 next to COD4, now many people will disagree with me with that because 
 they say there are too much kids. There is something called 'Player Reviews' and 'Mute' So in the 
 end, Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is the best Call of Duty game and would've gotten a 10/10 from 
 me if there wasn't such a short campaign and infinite spawn. Still I suggest buying it. 
  
  The End!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dms286
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 12, 2008 8:01 am PT
Review:  In the beggning it is easy all you pretty much do is hide and shhot but as the game goes on you 
 need to get more involved in helping out your teammates because somrtimes they can save you from 
 geting killed. I think the best chapter of the game would have to be the 3rd because it is has 
 a mixture of stelth and just being a mass murder. The game isn't much fun playing on recruit. I 
 would say the best two diffcultys would have to be regular and harden. Regular for peaple who are 
 not use to the gme and harden for people who are use to playing the game. Veterne I think is almost 
 imposble to beat in a few missions but it can be a fun challengs at the same time. One problem 
 to the games is that it is short and a little bit predictable when you get use to the game so it 
 can become boring. The wepons are good the pistoles are great for close range and the assulat rifles 
 you get (M4AI, M16, AK-47 etc) are good because they got good acturrace and can shoot at high rates 
 of fire. The RPDs and SAWs are great for killing alot of peple that are together or taking out 
 large amounts of people. The gerade lanchers are alos good for clearing out rooms if you don't 
 want to in there your self. (not gerades and flashbags work just as well) .The online multiplayer 
 is good the bordes have alot of places where you can hide and snipe people. The wepons in multiplayer 
 are pretty much like the wepons in campain but spme have extra stuff like slincers and red-dot-sights. 
 
  
  This is my first reveiw so it won't be perffect. Thanks for reading =] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abduls
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 10, 2008 10:21 am PT
Review:  Too good to be true.... I always took call of duty as just another no-brainer, manotonous shooting 
 festival which you could get out of any 2 Dollar hype. But COd 4 is something you get to see once 
 in lifetime. You really get confused whether your are playing a game or watching a thriller hollywood 
 movie. STORY is the best and better than ANY OTHER GAME. It has moments that ACTUALLY getting you 
 nail-biting, just desperate to know whats gonna happen. And it has those *BOOM* moments where the 
 story takes a huge twist..
  
  Combat is action packed.. It gives you that COMMANDO FEEL that gets you pumping. Use of cover is 
 now essetial and DIRECTLY-FACE-OFF combat tactic is a flaw.
  
  Graphics are TIGHT and I was surprised at how much it could offer on even the LOW TECH PC'S. Don't 
 be fooled by the GAMESPOT Hardware Guide.
  
  The game sounds like a WAR IN YOUR ROOM. Better to get, the dialogues are also pretty smart and 
 well written, and in some areas the characters crack REAL NEAT JOKES.
  
  OVERAL, COd 4 breaks the boundaries.... It is NOT LIKE IT'S PREDECESORS, expect something much MUCH 
 MORE...
  
  YOU WILL NOT BE DISAPPOINTED!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: YourEvilTwin67
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 10, 2008 9:22 am PT
Review:  I want to start off by saying that i have only played through the first level of single player 
 so im only reviewing the multiplayer. If you have live you need this game. My favorite part of 
 call of duty is that each player is a little diffrent. In the game you can choose classes to make 
 you person do diffrent things. As always some of the classes are dumb like one where you can hear 
 what the other team is saying. Pretty much nobody talks tactical. But they dont give you each class 
 right away you need to increase your level by playing the game. So it gives you a reason to keep 
 on playing through. You can also change the way that your looks but putting different camo colors 
 on it or adding a silencer so that you aren't seen on radar or put a red dot sight on your gun 
 for more accuracy. But again you have to work towards these things but getting kills with your 
 guns. This last part sounds stupid but im sure that you'll do it too. Once you get to the highest 
 level (55) you have a choice of going through prestige mode which is you go all the way back to 
 level 1 and they take away all your guns all your add ons everything. But they give you a better 
 icon. I know right now your thinking why the **** would i do that but you will just because you 
 can. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elann2008
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 21, 2008 6:05 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is set in modern warfare and it delivers gorgeous looking graphics, smart AI, tons 
 of action, an addictive multiplayer on XBL and impeccable gameplay. 
  
  Visually, Call of Duty is in the top tier amongst other giant Xbox 360 games. Physics are top notch, 
 lights and shadows are stunning, explosions are powerful, and the action-packed environment makes 
 it riveting. It's pure eye-candy to say the least and COD4 will not disappoint. 
  
  One of the most impressive qualities of COD4 was the enemy AI as well as squad AI. It's always 
 a treat when you play a video game that has smart AI. It makes the game a lot more challenging 
 and it doesnt feel dumbed down. The enemies duck for cover, have great aim, and run away from incoming 
 grenades or they throw it back. There were countless times that I died from enemy grenades. The 
 AI are just incredible in every respect. The squad AI pretty much guide you throughout the game. 
 You will NEVER feel lost or have to ever back track. COD4 is linear, obviously. The squad is smart. 
 They have saved my life many times. And they make the whole COD4 experience even more enjoyable. 
 
  
  
  
  The gameplay in COD4 performs beautiful in every aspect. From every reload to sniping mobs from 
 100 feet away. It feels great. All the guns and weapons feel the way they should feel and they 
 feel really authentic. It's extremely easy to get to know the controls and all buttons are placed 
 perfectly for easy use. My favorite function is the sprint function. Not many shooters emphasize 
 or have sprinting. And COD4 does a great job with that. But what stands out most are the character 
 classes. In these classes you are allowed to pick a weapon of your choice, sidearm, and three perks. 
 In multiplayer, this allows for an enjoyable gameplay experience and it still maintains balance. 
 A lower ranked player can go up against a higher ranked player and not notice any difference in 
 overpower. One of reasons I purchased COD4, was for the multiplayer and it's incredibly addictive. 
 It allows for you to level over 50 ranks, and when you reach a certain rank, you gain new perks 
 and weapons to customize your soldier. This is my favorite part of the game. 
  
  COD4 is a gorgeous looking game with excellent gameplay, classes and functionalities like perks 
 that really make it a lot more fun. The highly addictive multiplayer is a sweet bonus that will 
 keep you in for hours. Despite the short campaign, COD4 is easily one of the best games of 2007, 
 and rightfully deserves the nominees and awards it garnered. It is easily the best shooter ever 
 grace the Xbox 360, since Gears of War in 2006. I highly recommend shooter fans, and non shooter 
 fans alike. This is a ride you wouldnt want to miss. Thank you for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheRevanent
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 9, 2008 1:17 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is one of those few games that comes along in a great while and does everything 
 you expect it to.
  
  First off the single player has one of the strongest stories i have seen in awhile, even if it 
 is a little short, and takes you to several varying and interesting locales. You play as both private 
 Soap of the SAS and SGT. Jackson of Marine force recon, Soap's missions take place in Russia while 
 Jackson's mission are located in the middle east. There is also one distinct difference between 
 their two campaigns, Soap's missions are usually more covert and confined while Jacksons mission 
 are usually much grander in scale. The story will keep you guessing as to what will happen next 
 and has its fair share of twists and turns all the way until the end.
  
  Now onto the multiplayer. COD4 has some of the best multiplayer I have seen in quite sometime, 
 it's right up there with Halo 3 and Gears of War on this front. You start off only being able to 
 choose from 5 premade classes but after just leveling up a few times you unlock the ability to 
 create your own class, which is one of the best things about the MP in my opinion. With this unlocked 
 you can make 5 classes of your own with their own weapons, equipment, and perks (special abilities 
 such as the ability to carry more grenades, make your bullets more powerful, and blocking your 
 signal on enemy radar) . As you level up you will unlock new guns, weapon attachments, and perks 
 to add to your characters. The MP fair ranges from your standard deathmatch to territories and 
 headquarters game types. I do have one bit of advice for newcomers to the MP, check your corners, 
 you never know when some psycho with a P90 is gonna be crouched behind a wall just waiting to unload 
 into your ass.
  
  All in all COD4 is one of the must have games that every Xbox Live subscriber should own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JunoFallon
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 9, 2008 8:37 am PT
Review:  For the sake of not being too big of a slouch I thought I'd write up a quick review for CoD4.
 
  
  I wasn't expecting much out of this one honestly. I never felt like the CoD series did very well 
 beyond the first game in the series back on the PC, so when they announced this one I kind of shrugged 
 it off. That's probably why I was so surprised to get my hands on it.
  
  I was fortunate enough to get my hands on it before the hype explosion so your getting a hype-free 
 review of CoD from me. It's hard to find the cons in this game. Almost everything about it is top 
 notch.
  
  The sound, as is always the case with CoD games, is great. Every explosion and gunshot sounds beautiful 
 (especially in stereo) , and it plays just as well.
  The visuals do impress at a steady 60fps, but I think the texturing in some of the online maps 
 is a bit bland, most likely to keep the frame rate smooth. This however, is a minor complaint at 
 best.
  
  The single campaign is short, but very fulfilling. I noticed in a lot of the magazine and online 
 reviews that people seemed to think that the length of the campaign was a negative thing. By the 
 end of it I had had just enough of the experience to feel like it was a solid length, so that wasn't 
 a negative thing for me.
  
  The online multi player experience is, in my opinion, the best XBL has to offer yet, and the first 
 online gaming experience to keep me on a console. It won this PC snob over.
  
  The unlock ables are great, the pacing of the leveling system is steady, and the maps are large 
 enough to have a lot of fun in.
  
  The only other thing I can think of to mention is that the controls are REALLY solid. I don't know 
 if a FPS has had control this tight on a console yet in my opinion.
  
  In short, do yourselves a favor and play this game. Try to see past the hype and just enjoy it 
 for what it is. A damn good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CJ1145
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 9, 2008 7:33 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty has started out as an incredible series, captivating thousands of players, though 
 the quality fell like no one's business with sequel after sequel. Finally, though, a reason to 
 rejoice: WWII is finally over!
  
  With an incredible, though hard like no one's business -- campaign and hectic, chaotic and loveable 
 multiplayer, you must be wondering "why didn't you give this a 10?" The answer is simple: Eight-year 
 olds.
  
  Anyone that says Halo 3 is full of whiny brats that can't shut up and play has never played Call 
 of Duty 4. This is the perfect game for them: If you shoot first (And they always do...) you win 
 and get a kill. If you don't, better luck next time, eh?
  
  But anyways, the multiplayer is good, but a little chaotic and unbalanced due to all the powerups 
 and airstrikes on a 20x20 ft. map. However, that does not change my review. I give it a "meh" out 
 of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spoons4
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 9, 2008 7:00 am PT
Review:  Call of duty 4 is a wonderful game, definitely worth the 50 bucks you pay for it, awesome story 
 and fun online in it. But if you have siblings this one doest deliver in the field of multiplayer, 
 the have no guest option in it and cannot play co-op campaign. But other than miner flaws in it, 
 it is definitely a great game. An engrossing storyline, many weapons you can choose from. Great 
 multiplayer, Create a Class to suite for you skills, with wonderful weapons and perks to help you 
 in the battlefield. You can be anything from a sneaky sniper to a ballistic shotgunner. Great perks 
 for you too, carry two primary weapons, more ammo, more heath, the ability to run longer then others, 
 and more. Great game awesome graphics great buy.
  worth the wait, time, and money on this game. Definitely worth the 50 buck you will put towards 
 it.
  
  9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PredadorPT
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 9, 2008 5:52 am PT
Review:  The Call of Duty franchise is one of the biggest successes of video game history, so it really 
 isn't a big surprise the hype that involved the 4th installment, especially when Activion changed 
 its conception of what the game should be like, in other words, it changed from the WW II setting 
 to a Modern war setting.
  The story of the game doesn't differ much from your ordinary shooter, you control 2 soldiers and 
 your goal is to complete a series of missions in order to save the world, I must mention that for 
 the first time in the series you'll be able to play a flashback, that in my opinion is the best 
 mission of the game. Though short, the single player campaign is one of the best that I've seen, 
 it's solid, strong, and it'll give some very different experiences through out the game.
  Gameplay is perfect, the controls feel right, and are appropriate for every situation present in 
 the game. Graphically, COD 4 is perfect, it has a nice look, night vision is great and it won't 
 get in the way of the fight, every level in the game is gorgeous and you'll play through the campaign 
 just to get another chance to really appreciate the level design and beauty of the game. 
  Sound is also one of COD 4 strong points, every gun noise, air strike, scream, explosion sound 
 right which will greatly contribute to the whole experience. You'll hear bullets hitting the plating 
 of the vehicles, hitting the walls; you'll hear RPGs flying overhead, etc, which gives the game 
 an even bigger sense of reality.
  Multiplayer is probably COD 4 best characteristic, it has a ton of things to do and unlockwhich 
 will unlock more powerful guns, camouflages, attachments for guns, etc. And when you've unlocked 
 everything you can do it again 10 more times in the Prestige mode. The multiplayer has great maps; 
 great guns, and overall is extremely competitive and tactical.
  In conclusion, this Call of Duty is one of the best shooters ever, and probably the best in the 
 franchise, it has a strong and solid campaign and a even better multiplayer. A must buy for every 
 shooter and Call of Duty fan.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: armanie14
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 8, 2008 11:41 pm PT
Review:  This is the best game i've played in a long, long time. The graphics and game play are both stunning, 
 and it will be hard for me to tell you somthing that you don't already know. 
  
  I play both the story and Live multiplayer modes and both are fantastic, although the story mode, 
 is a bit too short it was still very enjoyable. If you liked the previous games in the Call of 
 Duty series, then you will love this one. The maps and gameplay are fantastic, although i think 
 the lack of strategic features brings the game down in my rating a little. I have played through 
 the story on the Easy and Hard (Veteran) and found the game to be a challenge both times, although 
 veteran mode is almost impossible to get through. Multiplayer is great, but once again cheating, 
 glitching and abuse has ruined an otherwise great game. 
  
  If your thinking of getting this game, go ahead. It will be well worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PaladinJoo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 8, 2008 8:09 pm PT
Review:  The Call of Duty series has been both at the top of the FPS pile, as well as near the bottom. Several 
 console iterations of the popular WWII shooter have been sub-par to say the least, but console 
 owners finally got a true port of the fantastic Call of Duty 2 back in 2005. The Infinity Ward 
 developed game was then succeeded in 2006 by the dismal Call of Duty 3, this time developed by 
 Treyarch. The poor quality of the game coupled with the saturation of WWII based games on the market 
 was spelling disaster for the Call of Duty series, so despite Infinity Ward being at the helm once 
 again for the 4th installment, I think it's safe to assume that some, including myself, weren't 
 too excited for another sub-par WWII FPS effort.
  
  However, the geniuses at Infinity Ward have developed, much like the military itself, and advanced 
 to deal with the changing consumer audience, and have made Call of Duty 4 about modern combat. 
 The story in-game here isn't the re-telling of any historic event, nor is it truly about current 
 issues, but is in fact an act of fiction, while still maintaining a feel like such a story was 
 plausible and all too eerily possible in this day and age.
  
  In Call of Duty 4, you'll play as a couple of soldiers (and at least a couple more) in this modern 
 age of combat. As British SAS member "Soap" McTavish, you'll be aiding Russian Loyalists against 
 Radicals trying to seize nuclear weapons to aid their allies in the middle east, and that's where 
 the other soldier you play as, US Marine, Paul Jackson, comes in, as a coup has occurred and hostile 
 Opfor insurgents are taking control of the middle east, threatening hostility on the west for past 
 grievances. There are more than a few twists in the games short, but explosive campaign, and though 
 it could've used a few more missions to extend the experience, the story here is fantastic.
  
  The presentation behind this story is equally impressive. The scale and environments displayed 
 in Call of Duty has always been impressive, and the character models and animations here are on 
 par with the rest of the graphical design. Weapons look equally detailed and look nearly photo-realistic 
 when being fired and reloaded, and explosions and gunfire is impactful and impressive looking.
 
  
  This is accompanied by a soundtrack reminiscent of other Call of Duty efforts, but with a contemporary 
 twang every now and then that really puts one into the mood that, "hey, this is still a war game 
 like usual, but apparently, war has changed". Sound effects are spot on and make you feel right 
 on the battlefield, and what voice acting is there, is fantastic and fits the rest of the stellar 
 presentation.
  
  Finally, gameplay. This is a Call of Duty game, and is therefore, has some of the most solid shooting 
 in any FPS, but like other Infinity Ward games, also throws in a multitude of varying objectives 
 and means to complete those objectives so you're really not feeling like you're doing the same 
 thing throughout the game's short campaign, as you'll snipe, call in for air support, and even 
 man the guns of an airship at one point or another. It's an FPS, but it's one of the most balanced 
 out FPS's to date, with the right amount of immersion, action, story, and varying objectives to 
 keep the audience riveted. And this doesn't even tough on...
  
  Multiplayer. Perhaps the games most surprising and addictive aspect is it's highly competitive 
 multiplayer. Although all the standard FPS modes are here, the solidity of the game shines through 
 to the multiplayer, and unique aspects like the ability to create your own class, customize weapons, 
 and calling in for support during the game's several modes makes it a truly unique experience that 
 sets itself apart while still providing a huge amount of replay value to the game.
  
  Call of Duty 4, because of it's great presentation, briskly paced and action packed campaign, riveting 
 story, and addictive multiplayer recieve a 9.5 out of 10.
  
  Welcome to the future of warfare. Let's hope the ball keeps rolling behind this rejuvenated franchise. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Huggy12345
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 8, 2008 3:55 pm PT
Review:  By far this is one of the best First Person Shooter in the series. Everything in this game is just 
 right. The graphics are fantastic, the details in game are great, it makes you feel as if your 
 actually there. But not everything is so great. The story missions were two dam short, it only 
 took me 2 days to beat the game. I was looking forward to playing it for atleast 1 or 2 weeks, 
 I had no idea I was playing the final mission until the credits showed up, I was caught by surprise 
 and stunned, I couldn't believe it. But other than the short story mission this game is the best. 
 The online content is really good too, its almost as good as playing Halo 3 online. The replay 
 value of this game is high as well, I reccommend you buy this game, you'll love it. If I could 
 give this game a 99 I would. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alarausibun
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 8, 2008 12:11 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the best ! it has an interesting subject and a very well done storyline ! based 
 on my opinion it's absolutely great ! i've rated it with a 10 !man, i mean i never saw, in any game, when 
 opening a door the player in front of you puts his hand on the door handle ! this kind of details 
 impress people, fanatics like me ! i noticed that when you are down, your character gets up very 
 realistic!
  another astonishing detail is when you`re attacked by a dog.... when you grab it's throat and break 
 his neck, i played several times just to break dog's neck.... the snipers mission - act 2 mission 
 3 - i think, it`s my favourite... when you stay low and the tanks pass near you, i kept even my breath... dude 
 it keeps you high!
  i also liked the mission when you are in that gunship and support the troops on the ground... nice 
 hits out there!
  i've also noticed that the AI is very "smart" and tries to ambush you all the time!
  Anyway, this 
 game is fantastic! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vrygar777
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 7, 2008 2:39 pm PT
Review:  CoD4 is exhilirating, exciting, and furious, a lot of games can't hold a candle to it. Its an FPS 
 employing a lot of elements to make it great.
  Its greatest factor is indeed the multiplayer, but dont shun the campaign mode either, its just 
 as fun.
  First I will explain the multiplayer aspect. In multiplayer on Live, you start out with low powered 
 weapons, and eventually earn better weapons as you rank up. There are LOTS of challenges for just 
 about everything. Completing the challenges give you a large sum of experience points (which rank 
 you up) making it worthwhile. There is a diversity of weapons, some big some small. Another neat 
 feature is the actual battles, if you can kill three enemys in a row without dying, you may use 
 a UAV radar which shows everyone on your team the locations of all the enemy. Five kills allows 
 you to call in a airstrike. Seven kills and you can call in a helicopter, it will rain death down 
 upon the enemy, the best part is that you get experience for every poor sap the chopper kills :) 
 Another great part is the perks system. These are upgrades to your character which really let you 
 customize your character any way you'd like. These range from Bullet strength to being undetectable 
 on enemy radar.
  The Campaign is also very good. You'll switch between playing as a marine in the middle-east and 
 an S. A. S. in Russia. You will always have someone to back you up, but sadly there is no two player 
 co-op, which really could've been a great addition.
  Graphics are amazing, Sound is Top-notch, and 
  The Game overall gets a 9.5, good job Infinity 
 Ward!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homes225
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 7, 2008 1:40 pm PT
Review:  Story: Played from both U. S. Marine and British SAS prospectives. Emotional at times. Great.
  
  Missions: You are never doing the same thing. Various missions as the story progresses.
  
 
  Controls: Tight, sleek, and fine tuned.
  
  Features: Intense, moving single player campaign. Upgradeable and fast paced Multiplayer that is 
 *shock* better than Halo 3.
  
  A. I.: Smart at most times but can be annoying when they keep spawning if you don't advance through 
 the battlefield.
  
  Loading Times: Average number but quick.
  
  Graphics: 60 fps. Pretty, one of the best looking games around.
  
  Audio: The CoD series is 
 known for its sound quality and the fourth title doesn't falter.
  
  Multiplayer: Better than Halo 3 in upgradeable, weapon, player, and community aspects. Many, many 
 hours of fun.
  
  Requirements: N/A.
  
  The Good: One of the best shooters in many years, definately best in series.
  
  The Bad: Single 
 player A. I. can be lame.
  
  The Ugly: Playing epilogue mission 100+ times on Veteran.
  
  Replay Ability: High in both SP and MP.
  
  The Bottom Line: Buy this game. Period.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tsuihosuro
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 7, 2008 12:19 pm PT
Review:  Being a fan of the Call of Duty series, I threw myself at the mercy of Modern Warfare, certain 
 it would be all that I expected it to be: an intense, exciting modern war shooter that would sustain 
 any desire I had to draft myself into a war. I was correct, to a point. 
  
  Let's get a big kudos out of the way to Infinity Ward for switching things up and basing the game 
 on modern days (ie: conflicts in the Middle East and Russia) rather than snuggling up to their 
 old friend World War II. The modern feel of this game alone creates intense, heart-stopping gameplay, 
 allowing the player to feel like they may be on the CNN evening news that night. You play as two 
 different characters, a British SAS soldier and a USMC Force Recon soldier, which is standard for 
 the CoD series but extremely lop-sided this time around, you only play as the US for a few missions 
 and play as the SAS for the majority of the game. A balance of the two would have been more interesting 
 by far. Gameplay is intense, non-stop action that forces you to play "smart," such as constantly 
 moving from cover to cover, choosing weapons carefully and being sneaky (no running out gung-ho 
 here, you will most certainly die) . The arsenal is plentiful and appropriate, certain weapons will 
 work in certain scenarios and vice versa, and flash bangs prove a nasty punch. Missions are interesting 
 and exciting, and give a good variety of things to do. You could be lurching around in ghillie 
 suits sniping from rooftops, manning big guns in an AC-130 gunship, or struggling to rescue a downed 
 chopper pilot in the streets of an insurgent-infested city. This variety keeps you playing, anxious 
 to see what is coming next.
  
  The graphics of Modern Warfare are sharp and gritty. Fellow soldiers are sweating, dust is swirling, 
 buildings crumble and vehicles have real texture. There is a lot of eye candy everywhere you look, 
 especially in the Middle East missions. This especially adds a lot of "wow" effects, such as a 
 nuclear blast going off and watching the force of the blast rush towards you as you attempt to 
 flee in a helicopter. Flybys from fighter jets actually will make you duck in your living room, 
 and completing a mission leaves you feeling like you should jump in the shower and wash the sand 
 and the grime off you. 
  
  Sound effects are equally incredible. Each weapon has it's own unique sound and bullet shells ping 
 onto the ground. Bullets wizz and pop near your head, buildings shudder, and choppers roar by. 
 Friend and foe alike are constantly shouting orders to each other. Battles are so loud that it 
 can actually frighten you into thinking it's reality. Music is dramatic but doesn't play a big 
 role in the game except during certain cut scenes. The sound is definitely one of the best aspects 
 of the game.
  
  Call of Duty is incredible, but there are some serious issues that keep it from being a truly GREAT 
 game. The absolute biggest problem of all is that the game on a whole is so unbelievably SHORT. 
 I started and finished the game in less than 5 hours, which in today's standards is atrocious. 
 I was so blown away when the credits rolled that it was over already that I started playing it 
 again, feeling cheated that I paid $50 for a game that I could finish in between lunch and dinner. 
 The other problems are not near as big of a deal, but still hinder the experience. Your AI teammates 
 in all missions tend to be annoying nuisances, like getting killed to easily and standing in front 
 of you when you're trying to shoot someone else. Enemy AI apparently dislikes your character the 
 most, because they seem to aim at you 80% of the time, even when allies are out in the open. Other 
 than that, the game is fine, but again, the SHORTNESS of the game damages the hell out of the whole 
 experience.
  
  Call of Duty: Modern Warfare is an excellent game on the whole, and I would recommend it to anyone 
 who enjoys the series or any war shooter similar to it, but don't expect to be playing it for more 
 than a few hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kombatmaster12
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 6, 2008 7:55 pm PT
Review:  Now when I got COD4 I thought that it looked cool when I saw it on "On The Spot" for the Cargo 
 Ship level (which turns out to be very good in the game.) I thought it looked pretty cool. But like 
 most great games the gmae still has some minor flaws to it.
  
  Plot: Instead of taking on the confusing and sometimes annoying 4 guys in the random places of 
 the world fighting Germans, instead, you play as two guys now. One is Pvt. (gets promoted later 
 on) 'Soap' Mc'Tavish for the S. A. S forces. Your team makes up of a few guys but noticibly Captain 
 Price, and Gaz. No. Not that Gaz. The guy. Just thought I'd clarify that. And then you also get 
 to use Pvt. (also promoted) Paul Jackson in the U. S. M. C (united states marine corp.) . Soap is in 
 areas like Russia and Jackson is in the Middle East but they both eventually have their forces 
 together at one point. The real plot to the game is that 3 main terrorists have joined forces together 
 and plan to wage war with us in the US. Well wear not just gonna sit there and take the stick to 
 the eye without the fist to the nose are we? Also turns out that the British are gonna help to. 
 So these three guys are Alisad, Zakihev, and his son. They both have massive armies and good guns. 
 Hey but so do we. Now we go into THEIR turf to stop their evil plan before it's to late for America. 
 
  
  Game Play: Like most FPS's on the market today you still regenerate your health after a couple 
 shots and you still have the ways of moving the camera. What is really new to most old school COD 
 fans is that instead of using a me lee attack from your gun you have a handy dandy little knife 
 now. This is good and bad for each. It's good because it adds you a little more stealth to your 
 approach. The bad things are that enemies me lee you! The knife also is not good at killing dudes 
 like a gun and should only be used in have to situations. It takes a few seconds to get your gun 
 back from knifing to. On the other hand now, the game still uses the weapon switch of killed enemies. 
 New also is the weapons. They are more modern and you should feel right at home with them after 
 a few levels. Also you get flash bangs now so thats kinda good. You can't drive vehicles anymore 
 I'm afraid. Even online. Some people like this new feature of enemy intell computers scattered 
 around for achievements since it kinda gets you shot and they are right in front of you making 
 it seem really sad to miss them. 
  
  Audio: The games sound is really good since the game is running on a new system of sound and graphics. 
 I love the sounds of when you throw a grenade of a guys head. lol. I'm so evil.
  
  Sound: The games music is really good. It captures the drama of war but yet still not often as 
 it should. Plus the mission wear you have to go into a house with night vision and the guys are 
 freaking out, the music is perfect and suspensive as you knife them in the dark. There is also 
 some good intense combat music for those big firefights to. 
  
  Graphics: The graphics are changed to look better now and they look like incredibly real! With 
 HD I think you could hardly tell if you walked in your friend was playing COD or watching the news! 
 They have some of the most realistic graphics on everything I've ever seen. But they took out some 
 of the havoc engine so like in 3 when you me lee a guy he would go flying, they kinda replaced 
 it now so I kinda missed that.
  
  MULTI PLAYER: Online is one of the main features of the game I'm quiet sure many people will agree 
 with that is best about the game. You start off at level one right. So you got some basic weapons 
 to choose from. You earn XP points buy killing dudes and other things. You can also get special 
 bonus points for things like assists in Team games, calling in choppers, air strikes, knifing, 
 UAV sweeps, and other things. You can also gain XP by doing little in game achievements like Knife 
 challenges, assault riffle kills, grenade kills, and other stuff you unlock at later levels. Once 
 you level up you get more stuff like cameo's for your guns. New and cooler weapons, upgrades and 
 scopes for your weapons to level them up and make stronger. You also complete those challenges 
 for scopes and cameos. I have very rarely seen someone with a golden desert eagle. You only get 
 that at level 55 the highest you can go. My friend has done this but, one you reach level 55 you 
 can basically instead of pwning noobs with desert eagles and golden AK's, you can restart your 
 guy from level 1 and start again with a special little rank sign to show you beat it and restarted. 
 You can only do this 10 times though. My friend has only done this mode 1 time and is still on 
 it. I guess you get some sort of special prize for it. I'm only at level like 27 right now and 
 just rock with the ak-47 like a mad beast. 
  (cool thing happened. A guy only used RPG's for one whole match! Really. Killed me a couple times.) 
 But ya know theres gonna be creeps who use only S. A. W's instead of real-men-riffles (rmr's as my 
 friends call them) and shotguns and whine when they die and dis on others. But hey. Usually they 
 die first on the match. Mostly by me.
  
  Conclusion: COD4 is one of the best games you could ever buy for your 360 and there really isn't 
 much to say bad about the game except for hackers who mod the game around for others and cheat. 
 There is nobody who can say that COD4 is a bad game at all.
  
  PS: I have to go through a lot of spelling fixes to publish this review. Guess what. I misspelled 
 what and guess the first time you just read this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tetrasoft
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 6, 2008 6:28 pm PT
Review:  Without a doubt one of the best modern warfare games that has been released to date. Being the 
 first of the CoD games to take place in modern times sets this game apart from any before it. This 
 is one of the titles that really defines the next generation of games. With its smooth frame rates 
 and quick load times its a pleasure to play. From the start you can tell it was designed with online 
 playing in mind. The first player game will pull you in an hold you for as long as you let it. 
 Although the single player game is a bit short the added online play makes up for it. You can spend 
 countless hours enjoying the quick battles. As each map is set up to a certain degree to engage 
 people. What I mean by that is that most of the maps are made so that close fire fights are almost 
 a certain thing. They are a few maps for those that like to do sniping but really just a few... 
 you have to be creative if you are going to be a sniper in this game. All in all you will enjoy 
 every moment you spend the added bonus of un-lockable equipment and ranking systems means you will 
 be spending sometime online fighting to unlock some of the really cool weapons to use. Worth every 
 penny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigCat2K20
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 6, 2008 5:01 pm PT
Review:  I've rented the game, got it for Christmas and it's an excellent game. Arcade mode is not only 
 a brilliant idea, it keeps most COD 4 fans happy. I haven't played multi player yet, so I can comment 
 on it. What's with people trashing this game? Those are the same people who moan and whine about 
 Infinity Ward not going a different direction (Go from World War II to Modern Era) . They need to 
 go away and enjoy it. There's pros and cons of Call Of Duty 4 Modern Warfare.
  
  Pros: powerful weapons, Enemy A. I. are well balanced, single player mode is sweet, multi player 
 plays strong by video game critics and environments of the war zone looks like real life.
  
  Cons: Single player mode is VERY short and you get killed by grenades way too much.
  
  
 I hope Call Of Duty 5 keeps it going by staying in the Modern era. No more World War II! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jolsen
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 6, 2008 11:48 am PT
Review:  Regardless of your opinion of World of Warcraft, you can't deny the game is a juggernaut. Sure, 
 it may not have implemented many new ideas, but what it offered was a package of elements so refined, 
 it may as well be purest heroin to people who like that kind of game. Call of Duty 4 has managed 
 to do the same thing with the FPS. Sure, you've played the modern combat shooter before in other 
 games; you probably already know by heart the assortment of weapons you'll wield throughout both 
 single player and multiplayer campaigns. You've probably even been in the virtual Middle East enough 
 in the past few years to pick up a little Arabic. But Call of Duty 4 isn't just another modern 
 day shooter; it's not even just another FPS. It may well be the pinnacle of the genre to date-and 
 that's saying a lot given the competition this last year.
  
  Doubtless, you've already seen the game in action, so I don't need to tell you the game is graphically 
 stunning and aurally amazing. But they're more than just pretty graphics and high-fidelity sound. 
 Developer Infinity Ward combined next gen sights and sounds with story elements to make this virtual 
 war both dramatic and evocative. Dust motes drift to the earth in quiet moments. Laser sights lance 
 across the night sky when you don night vision goggles. Distant gunfire echoes hollowly. Mortally 
 wounded enemies crawl away from you, cough out gurgled last breaths or even take shots at you before 
 they expire. Obviously, this isn't your father's World War II game; this is modern combat with 
 all its moral intricacies. On top of all this, COD4 takes an event I've witnessed thousands of 
 times in a video game and made it a truly stunning event. When you play it, you'll know what I'm 
 talking about. Just like they did with World War II in previous Call of Duties (Calls of Duty?) , 
 Infinity Ward created a single player campaign that made me all the more grateful toward our veterans. 
 The video game is intense and enjoyable, but at the same time makes it all too easy to imagine 
 how horrible war can be in real life.
  
  The single player campaign may leave you shaken, if not stirred more than other shooters, but there's 
 still more. The multiplayer campaign may lack some of the community features and outlandish weapons 
 of your Halos or your Gears of War, but once I played COD4 online, I never looked back at those 
 admittedly excellent games. COD4 borrowed some of that video game heroin from WoW: leveling up. 
 The more you play, the more experience you earn. The more experience you earn, the more weapons 
 and options you unlock. The more weapons you unlock, the more you want to play. Rinse, repeat and 
 never sleep. In addition to weapons, ranking up on COD4 also opens up more perks. Perks are COD4's 
 equivalent of power-ups, and you pick three before each match in either pre-loaded player classes 
 or in classes you create for yourself. Want more hit points? Pick Juggernaut. Want to do more damage? 
 Pick the Stopping Power perk. Tired of those damn teabaggers? Pick Martyrdom and drop a grenade 
 every time you die. The highest praise I can give an online multiplayer game: it's fun enough to 
 make tolerating the mental 12-year-olds who seem to flock to the online FPS more than worthwhile. 
 
  
  If you're even remotely interested in first person shooters, play this game. If you're even remotely 
 interested in marital or neighborly harmony, play this game with headphones.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mrgmandathird
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 6, 2008 7:47 am PT
Review:  First of all the single player campaign is a straightforward go there and kill that quest with 
 a ton of obstacles in between and is just plain boring .
  Multiplayer basically rules . The variety of weapons , perks, challenges , maps , game-types and 
 awesome gameplay makes this online FPS highly addictive . The only downside is the waiting time 
 for some matches during some parts of the day which may extend to 30 minutes or more if you do 
 not know what you are doing . The leveling system just makes it even more addictive and when your 
 a high level and have acquired lots of experience its always fun to kill "noobs" . Overall this 
 is a magnificant game and deserves a standing novation from you right now , the only let down was 
 the single player . Go out and buy this game its garenteed to be the game of you life . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xXJ0N0K3RXx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 6, 2008 6:24 am PT
Review:  So the fourth call of duty in the series hmmmm some though oh crap not another ww2 game gonna ruin 
 the whole series , but nope a modern game from call of duty and what i belive is the best modern 
 shooter. THE MOST AMAZING GRAPHICS , THE MOST AMAZING GAMEPLAY. So now for the story
  
  In the opening tutorial chapter you play as Soap Mac Tavish a new F. n. g to the S. A. S , the opening 
 mission is just a simple tutorial aim a rifle downrange shoot targets slash watermelons with a 
 knife (Yes a watermelon) and then go to cpt Price to get the mickey taken out of your name (what 
 an arse) then you run the cargoship mission solo in a time trial.
  
  so afterwards you pick your difficulty and go to kick some ass on the cargoship in the bering straight 
 to retrieve some intel . and well the rest of the mission ill leave you to find out what happens.
 
  
  The other character you play as is Sgt Paul Jackson in the middle east kicking some opfor butt 
 .These missions take you from escorting tanks to saving viper (helicopter) pilots with a suprise 
 end.
  
  another nice little feature is being able to play some cross missions with the American and British 
 forces working together to bring down some baddies .
  
  Now onto the online . WOW! Team deathmatch, Search and destroy, Headquarters, Domination and many 
 more! . The maps could use some work on but hopefully the new downloadable maps should tend to 
 some peoples wants .
  
  Overall its a perfect game which i think is amazing , but thats my opinion .
  The bad is the 
 story lines too short ,bad maps online (i think their good myself) and thats about it .
  
  buy it or if you dont like Fps that much rent it first! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jadenmoody
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 5, 2008 9:14 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty, when you think of that name you might think, oh great, another world war 2 game. 
 Well, its not and its better than ever, gripping single player, although short, and a very fun 
 and succesfull multiplayer. lets talk single player, overall story is very good coming from the 
 old games you play as different soldiers. The overall combat system is a bit somehow different 
 which in a way is good and bad at the same time. The action is very deep and gripping which put 
 those HD picture perfect looks gets put to a test, and let me tell you, they succeded greatly. 
 Now the multiplayer. the combat is well done with great realsistic health which can make it easy 
 to kill a guy, unless your good. The level design could use work because after a few times playing 
 the levels i get a little bored. The level up system is fantasticly well done, which is some of 
 the reasons i still play those boring maps. overall the game deserves good attention. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxhell04
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 5, 2008 8:48 pm PT
Review:  This game is absolutely amazing! Its is one of the most realistic games ever made. There is a great 
 selection of different weapons to choose from. One of the best features is the experience system 
 on the weapons. You essentially level up the weapons and get diffrent attachments, such as diffrent 
 scopes and silencers for each weapon. Also you can change the appearence on the weapon from standard, 
 to camo to the sought after, blue and red tiger cammo. The game is very realistic. When you get 
 shot, you die! What a concept! Its not like other shooters that you must shoot a person 87 times 
 before they die. (A HUGE improvement from part 3 which was riddled with glitches that people just 
 never seemed to die)
  
  Also, each game gives you experience and your character levels up and gains new ranks and perks 
 associated with the ranks and new weapons and such. When you reach level 55 you can reset your 
 level and start "prestige" mode. You start back at level one but your level designation has a special 
 sign stating that you passed level 55 and restarted. You can do this up to 10 times.
  
  Also has a great single player mode. Normal difficulty is pretty easy and the hardest, Veteran, 
 is INSANE!!!!
  
  One of the best shooters I have ever played. I totally recommend this game to anyone who like shooters. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metalhead164
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 5, 2008 7:10 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is amazing and makes you continue playing. In the game, you are "Soap" Mactavish, 
 and you have to kill the game's biggest corrupt leaders, Al Asad, and Imrad Zakhaev. The game is 
 intense and way harder than the others. The graphics are sick! If you look at your tv really close, 
 this will actually put you in the war! The games achievements are hard. The veteran mode achievements 
 are way harder than Call of Duty 2 and 3 and make the game more of a challenge to the seasoned 
 players. The multiplayer is great, you can create your own guns and choose perks for your weapon. 
 Perks are what are the good parts of your gun and for example, stopping power can make your gun 
 power more likely to kill your enemy faster. The only negative about this game is that the story 
 mode is a little short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zach68486
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 5, 2008 6:29 pm PT
Review:  Well, finally Infinity Ward has decided that World War II is just too played out, and have made 
 their debut in the modern world of first-person shooters. And Call of Duty 4 does not disappoint.
 
  
  The campaign has a simple Tom Clancy-like story of classic good vs. evil mentality. The campaign 
 is fun and fast-paced, with alot of variety in the environments and settings. However, it is chronically 
 short, and leaves you wanting more.
  
  But the multiplayer makes up for the shortness of the campaign, allowing an excellent chance to 
 have fast-paced fire fights with other players through Xbox Live. Although some of the weapons 
 are a little cheap and overpowered, the multiplayer play is addicting and extremely fun. This game 
 will challenge your first-person shooter skills alot, and there is almost never a dull moment.
 
  
  The graphics in Call of Duty 4 are top notch. Every texture was modeled with care, every character 
 model was designed to look realistic, the guns all look excellent, and the explosion/smoke effects 
 are amazing.
  
  Sound effects are equally awesome. The explosions sound real, the barking of an AK-47 sounds realistic, 
 and the voice acting is just as excellent.
  
  The gameplay and controls work just fine, and feel robust. You can edit the sensitivity of the 
 joysticks and what-not.
  
  Overall, Call of Duty 4 is an amazing game and is no doubt one of the best games ever made, and 
 provides an extremely addictive multiplayer and a great campaign. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Turokkilla
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 5, 2008 5:57 pm PT
Review:  The game that we have been waiting for has been out for some time now and is going to make halo 
 go to heaven, and make Unreal tournament become non-living... Anyway with the AGR acurate. game. 
 review
  
  Pros: Gameplay: call of duty has always been shoot this blow up that but in modern warfare there 
 are some new tricks, like the knife for instance which results in a instant kill, and that the 
 overall gameplay is great with enemies are completely utterly dead alone but the catch is when 
 there in packs if you run out there like, in the other games, say hello to goodbye. The shooting 
 and kiling is fun, now you switch off between two characters, soap, and john mactavish i think 
 it is i havent played campaign sence i beat it on hard or what ever so i dont remember.
  
  Graphics: the graphics are outstanding to the water on the floor to the gillie suit you are wearing 
 even the rain looks good. Everything looks real the faces, the guns, and even makes you sorta like 
 you are watching a insane movie were you dont want the main character to die or his other teamates, 
 everything is perfect here except for sometimes the ground can look a little bit choppy and unfinished 
 but that can be forgiven
  
  Multiplayer: The greatest reason to buy this game is multiplayer, creating your own class with 
 a main weapon and a side arm *spoiler* you do get a perk at level 40 somthing called over kill 
 sence i level 53 overkill is the best perk it lets you have 2 main weapons you can have a m14 and 
 then a 50. call sniper, perks are what these are called like martydum which is when you are killed 
 you drop a cocked grenade and proabably end up pissing some one off. There are a crap load of game 
 types "search and destroy, the ol' famous teamdeath match, free for all, domination, cage match, 
 etc" and all of these features will keep you occupied for about 3 years so say good bye to your 
 family and friends... for quite a while.
  
  
  Cons: The only con i ever had... was proably sometimes when you shoot with a sniper rifle and you 
 know you hit them in the head and completely misses and your holding your breathe that the only 
 problem, and sometimes the multiplayer lags like hell, The game was very short i counted on medium 
 it took me 5 hours to complete in 1 night i was very disappointed, but still.
  
  Concept: a modern, advance of iraq.
  
  Graphics: watching a animated 3d movie on blue ray
 
  
  sound: great intense moments that play at the right time when you need them.
  
  Gameplay: halo 3, graw 2, modern combat 2 combined.
  
  I end the review with a techinaclly 
 perfect review of call of duty 4 9.5 buy this game if you have 360 pc ds or mac NOW
  
  The difficulty varies by the way 
::::::

::::::
UserName: delta_116326
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 14, 2008 7:25 pm PT
Review:  A Great Action Shooter. This is my third Revised review and i am going to tell you why. First the 
 game. Excellent story great characters and awsome weapons. Second the Visuals. It just looks great. 
 =And third the multi-player. A new step in online gaming. possibly the most played online game 
 around. I played through the game several times on all difficulties and played online some too. 
 A all out gaming extravaganza. A must play for any FPS fan or CoD fan. Here are some Charts.
  
  Graphics. 10/10
  Game play. 9/10
  Story. 8/10
  Single-player. 9/10
  Multi-player. 10/10
 
  Extras. 8/10
  
  enough of that.
  Somke things i dident like where the attck dogs (although if you win over one you get a good 20g 
 Achievment) and the Shortness of the single player campaign. But other than that i give it a 9.5 
 out of 10. A Steller game.
  Move Out Soldier! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingcole225
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 5, 2008 3:26 pm PT
Review:  ok first of all the graphics make me feel like im in the characters view they are amazing. now 
 you might think oh that doesnt matter its the gameplay not only is the gameplay amazing but the 
 graphics and the gameplay mixed makes this game feel real and as an effect of that your body thinks 
 your actually there and you get an adrenaline boost because you gotta jump away from that grenade 
 or throw it back. the story is great and so are the interactive movies. so far i havent found an 
 invisible wall but i havent been trying much. at one point i saw a bus and i was likeah yes 
 i bet theres an invisible wall i bet i cant get in here."..... but i could and it wasnt a good 
 idea because the windows were all shot and i almost died. i havent played the multiplayer yet but 
 im sure its amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SDMF_TrueBlue
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 5, 2008 10:08 am PT
Review:  One word describes this game- amazing. I have never played a CoD before, but shooter fans will 
 love this one. The outdoor environments are amazingly detailed. The audio is top notch as well. 
 Bullets buzz by and ricochet off walls and cover. Grenades bounce, tick, and go boom. Teammates 
 and enemies alike bark orders based on the battle at hand. Controls are slightly different than 
 typical console shooters, but are easily learned and mastered.
  
  The campaign, while short, is amazing and can best be described and a blur of bullets, grenades, 
 and awesomeness (ever lay prone while a platoon of tanks and soldiers pass you by?) . The story 
 is typical real-world affairs.
  
  The multiplayer is the real winner here. Matches range from 12-18 players and the action is fast 
 and furious. The create-a-class system works wonderfully and keeps every match challenging and 
 unique. The rank system also makes Halo 3 cry. Every match you complete gains you experience. No 
 back-peddling just because you played a bad match against modding bastards. New weapons, attachments, 
 and perks are unlocked as your rank rises. Bottom line- the more you play it, the better it gets.
 
  
  Fans of shooters must play this. Period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Boogie_Mann666
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 4, 2008 7:46 pm PT
Review:  The BEST war/shooting game i have ever played. Best graphics i have ever seen. Explosins and fire 
 are very realistic. Definitely the best Call of Duty game out of the series. The story line is awesome. The 
 weapons are great. I love the red dot sights and scopes. I also love the "last stand" feature. It 
 gives you a chance to kill the person that killed you. The two player mode is the bomb. I could/have 
 played for hours with my friends. The features in Free-for-All mode is two player is great. Once 
 you kill each other so many times, you can call in air-strikes, and helicopters to the location of 
 the enemy. The health is strange but in a good way. You dont have a bar or anything, its only when 
 you get shot you can see how much health you have, because your view starts turning red, and if it 
 gets to red, you either die, or do a last stand, which lets you shoot at the enemy until you kill 
 them, they kill you, or you die. The flash grenades are awesome. The view if you get hit by one is 
 crazy. It is very disorienting, so it helps to know the maps a little bit. The enemy AI is pretty 
 smart. I havent played the game in any other difficulty other than normal, so i dont know how much 
 smarter they get. The night vision is very helpful in some levels. Overall, this is the best game 
 i have ever played. Its gonna take a while before they make another game as good as this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CRM114
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 4, 2008 4:25 pm PT
Review:  Great multiplayer gameply and customization make COD a must-purchase for any FPS fan. As far as 
 gameplay is concerned, COD is (in my opinion) superior to halo 3, with great weapons mechanics 
 and game environments (not to mention spectacular graphics) . COD's map design, weapon lethality, 
 and Iron Sight based gameplay are a testament to the series' PC roots, and a welcome change to 
 the Halo/unreal style of more typical of other console shooters. Weapons lethality is a huge game 
 changer, as even a novice console gamer can quickly hang with high-ranking players as long as they've 
 had some previous experience with PC COD iterations, or titles such as BF2. This makes for a welcome 
 change from halo, which many of my buddies simply could not get into.
  
  COD also includes an XP based career system that resembles similar systems pioneered by PC titles 
 like Battlefield (though without as many features) , which adds to the games longevity. 
  
  These points aside, COD 4 is weak on functionality. Had the the developers included split-screen 
 system link, or online guest matchmaking, there is no doubt in my mind that COD 4 would replace 
 halo as the default console pastime for chilling with your buds/roomates/co-wokers etc. Its an 
 unfortunate omission that hopefully will be addressed in the next COD installment.
  
  I didn't bother to mention singleplayer because this game does not have any. Unless you consider 
 3 hours (tops!) of scripted target practice to be fun, then I advise you to play through it once 
 and forget about it as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: overkill_
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 4, 2008 11:31 am PT
Review:  COD4 is currently my favorite game. The campaign is fun (I didn't enjoy the ending so much, and 
 I saw most of it coming) , but you really get into the storyline. The graphics are amazing, and 
 there is a lot of great detail. This is the first game that actually brought out multiple emotions 
 out of me, all which made me fully engaged in the game, like a good movie would do. It's an amazing 
 game and it deserves a 10 in my opinion. 
  
  As for multiplayer... It is an extremely fun game to play with some friends. I actually enjoy doing 
 so more than I do with Halo. I happen to get more into it, and don't get as discouraged. But, I 
 only seem to play well with FPS =p
  
  There are too many great things to say about this game, but I don't want to spoil anything for 
 people who haven't had the chance to play it yet. It's a must play game =)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: acklawhunt
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 4, 2008 11:03 am PT
Review:  When I played the beta for this game, I automatically knew this game would be awesome. I played 
 the story and the multi-player and enjoyed both greatly. This is the first Call of Duty game that 
 started a knew time-line. MODERN. Which is a very good start when you think about it. If you hated 
 Call of Duty 3 but not 2 then you will most definitely love this game. Infinity Ward is back and 
 has created a amazing game with top notch sound. The multi-player which has many different types 
 are all very enjoyable. Reviewers gave this game a 9. But seriousally I am so bored of Halo 3 that 
 this is the next game that all FPS shooter fans should get. I love this game and will be playing 
 for a very long time. Fans of the series this is a must buy game. A 10 out of 10. (SORRY HALO 3) 
 
  
  
  
  WHY DO THEY MAKE YOU WRITE 800 WORDS. WE WERENT ALL MEANT TO WRITE THE MOST AMAZING REVIEW!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tunderball
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 4, 2008 11:02 am PT
Review:  Its impossible when looking at this game not to compare it to Halo 3. After all they are clearly 
 the two most ground breaking and down right fun to play games of recent times. 
  One thing that CoD deffinately has over Halo is the realism, I think that its fantastic that finally 
 a shooter has come out that when you stand in the middle of a battlefield shooting at shadows you 
 die, without the use of automated cover that games such as gears of war and ghost reacon have which 
 somehow don't make you feel as though your totally in control of your actions. For instance by 
 pressing A on gears of war your character will instantly jump to the nearest cover and hide, a 
 good idea but on call of duty your in control you have to get into cover and check all your corners 
 and if you play the game on any difficulty other than the lowest forget about one guy or drop your 
 guard you will die. What CoD manages to do is give gameplay that is as fast and frantic as Halo 
 while still keeping the realism of being in a firefight. 
  
  Everybody for some reason goes on about how short the campaign is. I dont really see it, its as 
 long as Halo's campaign and if you dare try and attempt it on the veteran difficulty you'll be 
 there for a long time as its so hard. People who say that they breazed through the campaign in 
 a day have obviously only tried the easiest difficulty, veteran is one of if not the most challenging 
 things in gaming and the final mission 'no fighting in the war room' is nearly impossible, so people 
 who say that there is no length in the campaign are wrong. 
  
  The online play is also amazing, partly because everybody plays it! However due to the incredible 
 difficulty of the game and the step out of cover you'll die some of the online games don't always 
 work. For instance the team deathmatch games have no bases or set starting points which sometimes 
 works, but means that the teams are constantly moving from one side to the other. Sabotage is also 
 a bit of a joke where teams tend to stay in cover around the bomb for ages until somebody is brave 
 enough to step out and instantly killed. But its still pretty amazing and the experience points 
 and the gaining of weapons and upgrades gives you a reason to play more. 
  
  In short the game is fantastic, theres no point about even talking about the graphics and lighting 
 effects etc because anybody who has played the game of seen a screenshot will know what im talking 
 about, its perfect. They games amazing and a must have for anybody who owns an XBOX, its impossible 
 to say that its better or worse than Halo 3 however but it still remains miles ahead of the rest 
 of the competition. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MexicanMonster2
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 4, 2008 9:01 am PT
Review:  Well I'll start by saying thank god that the series is finally out of WWII...
  
  This game is obviously one of the best out there. The single player is a decent length and pretty 
 difficult when on the veteran difficulty. A lot of action and I never wanted to stop playing. Graphics 
 are state of the art and make the game look amazing.
  
  Online multi-player is also very good. In my opinion the only thing wrong with it is it seems that 
 you rank up terribly quick. But it helps that you can use the prestige mode to reset and start 
 all over 10 times. I'm not so much of a "run 'n gun" type of person but that's the style of gameplay 
 for this game and I like it just fine.
  
  The balance and variety of the guns is also top tier. You can pick a gun to your liking and you 
 probably wont use the same gun all the time because of the challenges you unlock with every single 
 one of them to help you rank up even faster then you already do.
  
  Overall CoD4 is a great game and I recommend it to everyone. It's a must have for all FPS fans.
 
  
  Keep 'em coming.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grandmaster_Fly
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 4, 2008 4:09 am PT
Review:  I was fan of Infinity Wards COD2 when it launched with 360 but skipped on COD3. Im back in a big 
 way with modern warfare and am happy to see the game move out of the WWII arena and to a contemporary 
 setting, albeit fictitious.
  
  The graphics, sound and tight game play all come together for a totally immersive experience. Sure, 
 the single player campaign is on the short side, but what an intense experience it is. Infinity 
 Ward know their warfare and this is the closest you can get the theatre of war with actually enlisting 
 (well maybe paintball) . The attention to detail is second to none, especially the weapons. The 
 flashback mission in the campaign I rate as one of my all time favorites for any FPS, ever! 
  
  And then there is the ever addictive multiplayer which gives the game a seriously extended 
 shelf life. An instant classic. A must own for any gamer serious about FPS... or gaming for that 
 matter! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BreezyGamer
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 3, 2008 7:24 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best games I have ever played on the 360 and is just incredible. The graphics 
 are very realistic and the blood makes me want to cry it's so awesome. I've beaten it on Veteran 
 in only 2 days and is actually pretty simple except for the levels "One Shot, One Kill" and "No 
 Fighting In the War Room". The first level is the easiest because all of your guys kill everyone 
 and that's actually what you really just want to do. Sit back and if your guys die, don't worry 
 more will come. The multiplayer is sweet too and has a lot of different types of games to play. 
 Just be aware it is extremely easy to die within a few shots. One of the coolest things though 
 is that you can create a custom guy and use different weapons and grenades. Basically what I'm 
 trying to tell all of you guys is BUY THIS GAME RIGHT  Trus 
 me you won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: donoghu
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 3, 2008 12:09 pm PT
Review:  Ok, first, don't get me wrong! I love this game more than most of other XBox 360 games! It's really 
 good and all! But there isn't enought "bad things" that have been told, about this game, which 
 is far from perfect.
  
  In this review, I'll put the bad things since other review pass the good things and left bad things 
 for others to tell...
  
  Single Player Campagne :
  
  Ok, this will be hard to accept, but I'll describe my point of view on the bad things.
  
  First 
 of all, the most "inconvenient" side of the single player campagne is the Artifical Intelligence 
 of everything that isn't you. To be honest, it's may look good like "ho! He's hiding" and "ho! 
 he thow back grenades like a dog...", but it's simply like that. The AI isn't new in any kind from 
 past game. (You could see it like F. E. A. R. little brother...)
  The AI will hide behind anything... yes... but it's enought stupid to hide behind a wooden wall 
 instead of the steelplate just 1 meter next to the wooden wall... So you just have to shoot throught 
 the wooden wall like if there weren't any wall. (All guns can "kill" throught wooden things like 
 wall...)
  
  Another thing might not has been "seen" from other since most of the time, it's intense fighting 
 or run&hide. I don't know how AI have been programmed and how it's really working, but I can tell 
 this : Allie NPC are seen as NPC and you, the player, are seen as player! So, if your friend, NPC, 
 are shooting at the enemy to "simulate" covering fire, it won't change ANYTHING from if you were 
 running without allies... Ok, some should fall, but the concept that was put in it show that NPC 
 are appearing in infinite number until or you shoot a LARGE number (around 30-100 enemies or even 
 more!) or until you pass some "checkpoints" like "target doorframes".
  That makes the fact that your allies shoot enemies like useless.
  This brings another problem 
 : You're seen as the principal target.
  Yes... This is quite problematic... Even if you were surrounded by a thousand of allies NPC, you 
 would be THE target of the enemies... If you hide, your allie will become the target, but if you're 
 with them, you're the principal one to be shoot at.
  That mean that, even if you run with your allie, while being under fire, it's almost certain that 
 you'll be killed instead of your allies NPC.
  So don't even think about "running into enemies holes", while in Veteran difficulty because it's 
 simply... impossible! As soon as you're in their "view", you're dead... (it takes, in Veteran, 
 up to 5 bullet hit to be killed... But at close range, it's from 1 to 3 from the most weak weapon 
 and NPC instantly shoot on sight.)
  
  As some already mentionned, the life time of the game, in single player, is quite small for a actual 
 game. To do the whole story at the most easy difficulty will only from 6-7hours for FPS veterans 
 to 15-18 hours for new player to the kind.
  But, with the content of the game, it don't really matters! You'll still have quite a bunch of 
 fun moment playing this game!
  
  For the multiplayer bad sides :
  
  The bad sides of the multiplayer is much more personnal than 1 player campagne.
  Maps can be 
 quite small, which make it easy to run at the enemy's snipers and knife them.
  From all the guns you can choose from, once on high rank, you will certaintly always use the sames 
 ones over and over, until you choose to take the others one to complete challenges and, after, 
 going back to the ones you mastered... Most of the assault riffles feel the same, except for the 
 fire mode... Since you can't switch the fire mode of the guns. 
  Most of the sniper are all the same, except for the powerfull Barett and the russian semi-automatic 
 sniper (which is like the assault semi-automatic weapon) .
  You have 2 choices of shotguns, which is simple : Lot of bullet before reloading and less power 
 or lot of power and 4 bullets between each reloads.
  If you ever use you pistol, it would be for its silencer, the fact that you don't have any bullets 
 left in your primary weapon or just for fun. Pistols are weak and useless in multiplayers, if you 
 don't equip the perk "last stand" which give you 10 seconds of "seconde life" with your pistol 
 while you can be killed right after falling.
  
  In some maps, the mounted machines guns that are put in the field haven't been well adjusted. It's 
 happening often that someone use them and, since it's the "most powerfull" gun in the game to be 
 used, it can shoot throught whole buildings... Which is simply ridicule for a multiplayer game 
 which have little maps only!
  
  On of the things that, I am sure, can be bothering is the fact that there isn't any "real" control 
 of the game servers... The host of the game, once he created the game, can't change anything from 
 it, if it's a ranked game, and the only "option" that is given is the one that 50%+1 of the player 
 can vote a "map skip" once per lobby time.
  
  Another annoying thing is the fact that game servers close once the host quit. That mean the host's 
 statut can't be given if the host got problem with his connection or if he's boring of playing 
 and decided to quit.
  Which make it simply close the game and all player are disconnected...
  
  Ouff! I don't have 
 much more time to review... : (
  But this is quite most of the bad things I have experienced, while playing this game...
  If those 
 kind of things doesn't bother you, well you WILL love this game!!!
  For myself, sometime, I'm quite angry and something, I find it funny... Depend of what situation 
 I'm in... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skatefan2764
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 3, 2008 6:21 am PT
Review:  Call Of Duty 4 is probably the best game in the series, it's good to get out of the World War Two 
 era. The best feature in this game is most likely the visuals, the graphics really show what these 
 next generation systems can do. The mutiplayer is also really good, the way you rank up or "get 
 promoted", is so addictive that you will be up in the middle of the night just trying to get the 
 50 cal sniper rifle. The variety of weapons you will use in online and offline play ranges from 
 a small pistol to huge rocket lauchers and rapic fire machine guns. What makes the story really 
 good is the realistic feel as you struggle to kill one enemy after the other, trust me, that's 
 a good thing. Call Of Duty 4 is a really good game for any gamer, but if you like realistic action 
 and great visuals than Call Of Duty 4 is a great game to add to your arsenal. Happy Fraging! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: InfamousDeezy
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 3, 2008 4:12 am PT
Review:  Call Of Duty 4: Modern Warfare, this game has changed what you call "War".
  
  Possibly the best war game ever made, and this is coming from a person who despised war games, 
 myself.
  
  We all know Call of Duty, aswell as Medal of Honor, etc. stayed in the WWI or WWII stages, and 
 finally one puts its foot down and changes its path... and does an excellent job at it. Most video 
 games that try to adapt to something new usually are horrid or fail completely (Movies that are 
 turned into games.) COD4 changes all this. Its an addicting ride from start to finish, and even 
 when the ending is over, you still will be asking for more...
  
  This game is just what the title is about, Modern Warfare. Guns, the army, and nuclear missiles 
 set to destroy the home of the brave. But the way the storyline is written, which is probably one 
 of the best written in a video game, and Im not just saying that, will have you expecting to know 
 what will happen, but will end up being the exact opposite, leaving you on the edge of your seat, 
 and the game has plenty of heartpounding action, twisting turns, and huge shocks.
  
  You work for many organizations across the globe (S. A. S., Marines) , but you spend most of your 
 time with a rebelling, unpredictable back-sassing captain named Price, also a team of characters 
 that you still wont forget when you are finally done with the campaign mode, and as time grows 
 you will even become fond of your squad and wont want to be away from them, they will actually 
 feel like buddies of yours, and their A. I. is remarkable, when they see an enemy or enemies, they 
 dont just stand around, they give you a shot at them and if you dont succeed, they will finish 
 them for you, but they dont just shoot now, ask questions later, they call for backup, assemble 
 themselves in smart, thought out coverage, and sometimes, they even tell you things that will help 
 you out. Grade A
  
  Now for the graphics, 4 words, amazing but not astounding. Sometimes you could get it confused 
 for real life, sometimes it looks like a video game, depends on where you are or your sights, some 
 locations look incredible, some look like they couldve done better, overall it still looks great. 
 Grade B+
  
  Sound, the most noticed well done point of COD4, when you shoot, you can hear it miles away, aswell 
 as your teammates screaming to let you know they just threw a frag. The sound is top notch. Grade 
 A+
  
  Gameplayand control is easy for anyone to get use too. And it makes you feel at home with this 
 title, its not clunky and dead feeling, but there is times where you try to run from an enemy and 
 get caught on something you didnt see or even notice which can be extremely annoying at times. 
 Grade B
  
  Now for Multiplayer, theres already the goods and the bads for this, which you probably already 
 know I have to mention the immature annoying live'ers who talk so big and bad because there on 
 screen and not in person, which gets on my nerves big time lol, but thats just me, nor does that 
 have to do with this game, but just saying... Multiplayer is fun, to an extent... Ranging from Team 
 Deathmatch, to Sabotage, to a simple Cage Match. And you have selections of guns to choose, but 
 you have to unlock mostly the best ones and their accessories that made you the Don in the campaign 
 mode. Sometimes it doesnt even matter if you have the best gun though, you can still get owned 
 by a small pistol that you know couldnt have done that in another match, especially sniping, which 
 you may have a dead on shot on the target, but somehow... still miss? There is minor glitches like 
 this, aswell as connection errors and moving astray and your not even moving your analog stick. 
 By far the most pain in the butthole one, is shooting a target many times, and not even harming 
 them, and than them murdering you with just a shot, this by far will have you gritting your teeth 
 to the point of cracking them. Hopefully they will have a patch for these problems soon, maybe 
 not. But Overall this game is definetely a keeper and well worth 59.99$ Go buy it as soon as possible, 
 I know your skeptical about my review, but take my word for it... When in a lifetime will you ever 
 get to play an Army game that did it this perfect?
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jorge_Cervera
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 2, 2008 11:58 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare
  
  MISSION INTRODUCCION: Maybe it's too late to make a review of this game soldier, but I never played 
 something like this before, there is something about this game that really put you in the battlefield, 
 and I don't know, but the industry could learn something about this game, in a time when "Big Name 
 Titles" are postpone, this game deliver a unique experience, that many games that have long developed 
 times can't.
  
  GAMEPLAY: Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is a short experience in his Single-Player portion, but 
 never the less, is a unique ride from star to finish, "FPS" have one problem, even the best like 
 Half Life or Halo, and that problem is that before you reach the "Ho my God" moments, you have 
 to past hallways, and another boring things full of bad dudes to have the good stuff, CoD 4 cuts 
 all that and put you in situation after situation that you may have a hard time catching your breath, 
 you go to Chernobyl to make a snipe shot, you are in the middle of a nuclear explosion, you are 
 in sinking ship, you are in a road making your way to safety, only to put some of the moments you 
 will live in the game, yeah, Halo 3 is long, HalF Life 2 is even bigger, but if you put the moments 
 you remember the most, and compare them to Call of Duty 4, you couldn't make the half of this game 
 with the two together, maybe is short but its intense, dramatic, and satisfying, the difficult 
 its excellent, you will respect the veteran, hard its fair but not forgiven and normal it's a sweet 
 but a respectable ride, the missions are linear, but the levels give you a lot of option to attack 
 the enemy, its like a rollercoaster, the ride is determine by the road, but you can chose the seat 
 that please you the most, it's a cinematic experience, the history is like a big action Hollywood 
 movie, its simple, but the way that is deliver it's that is how games should tell they histories, 
 twist, betrayals, plots, to make the things simple, the soldiers fight impossible battles thinking, 
 "This couldn't make any worst" and !BANG!, something big happens, with a good aiming system, a 
 lot of weapons, perfect control and good vehicle sequences, this game its like no other.
  
  SOUND AND GRAPHICS: Perfect, you don't believe me? Play this game and you will see.
  
  MULTYPLAYER: 
 Addictive, in one word, addictive, put all the good things about single player, put them a level 
 system, new abilities and weapons to learn and have, and you will have a winner.
  
  CONCLUSION: The game of the year, it came like a new and solid sequel with new environments, like 
 a good but nothing more game, and like flash grenade it surprise us with a impressive single player, 
 a good history, addictive multiplayer and with extraordinary presentation of sound and graphics, 
 this is a call to fun that you should not miss.
  
  9.5
  
  You can't miss this call it's a solid, impressive and addictive game
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheDanwich
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 2, 2008 6:16 pm PT
Review:  Last year was a great and not so great time for gaming. With my recent disapointments of Halo 3 
 and Assassins Creed, I needed to play a game that was actually worth my time. Fortunetly, Infinity 
 Ward was listening to my desperate plea's for help and decided to make me a game that I would actually 
 like. The game was Call of Duty 4 Modern Warfare. 
  
  Shockingly enough I didn't want to purchase this game when it first came out. I figured it was 
 like all of the other Call of Duty games. I mean just because its not based in World War II anymore 
 ( which is where the sigh of relief comes in ) doesn't mean I should give a hoopla about it. So 
 I didn't pick it up for quite some time after the release. 
  
  Of course all of my friends decided to pick up this game and just couldn't stop blabbing on and 
 on about how epic it was. Of course when your dealing with my friends every game that comes out 
 with guns and killing people is amazing, at least until another one comes out. So while my friends 
 are about as resourceful as a stick of butter that still didn't change the fact that I didn't want 
 to play this game. 
  
  After Christmass was over I had some extra money so I decided to pick it up, yes thats right. I 
 have no idea why I bought this game in the first place. Maybe its because I have a special place 
 in my heart for Call of Duty games ( Except Call of Duty 3 and those dreadful console ports ) . 
 Or maybe its because I was just high, either way I had this game in my hands. 
  
  When I started to play this game, I slapped myself up side the head, literally. I can't believe 
 I thought this game was bad by and stretch. This is by far the most polished shooter I have played 
 in a long time. I figured I would come right out and say that, because after the rehash that was 
 Halo 3 came out I needed a good shooter. This game was that shooter. Here's a short list of why 
 I thought so. 
  
  
  The sound is pretty excellent. Something that I have come to expect from the Call of Duty francise. 
 Nothing new to report here.
  
  Singleplayer, while short, is one hell of a ride. Playing through on any difficultly besides Veteren 
 is a breeze. But once you crank up your game's difficultly for Veteren, be prepared to die. 
  
  The graphics are smooth, crisp, and gritty. It looks and feels like a real war setting. Running 
 at a 60 fps frame rate also helps a lot.
  
  The gameplay is polished, and it shows. Everything just seems to run so much smoother. This game 
 is a fine example of what gameplay can be like in the Next-Gen.
  
  Multiplayer is hard to get into a sentence or two. But since I am the reviewer its my job to. So 
 here we go. 
  
  Multiplayer is fun, believe it or not. Its not boring, its not repetitive, and its not over rated. 
 The games run smooth, they look good, and there are plenty of various locations ( most from singleplayer 
 maps ) that all have their own distinct look and feel. The weapon system and upgrade system are 
 neat, and are always something to look forward to as you level up your character. I didn't get 
 all of the Multiplayer into this one section so lets get one more body paragraph shall we?
  
  There are a couple things that I dislike about COD4's Multiplayer though. For one there are 
 some balance issues with the weapons ( M16 I am looking at you ) . Servers freeze up and end if 
 the host leaves the game. There are some whiney kids and adults who like to talk about dick and 
 other parts of the body not worth mentioning. I actually think that there is more of a problem 
 with COD4 and stupid people than Halo 3. Just putting my opinion out there. Thats really all I 
 have to say about that. 
  
  So my overall view of this game? Very good, normally I am a stickler when it comes to rehashing 
 previous franchises, slapping the name on the box and shipping it out. But it actually feels like 
 Infinity Ward put a lot of effort into this game. Also my biggest saving grace of this game is 
 that its not based in World War II. Obviously after years of people pounding the idea into the 
 head of developers that World War II games are not fun anymore, someone at Infinity Ward was listening. 
 For that I commend them. Also if I affended someone who likes World War II games let me explain. 
 I loved World War II games. Medal of Honor: Allied Assault, Call of Duty, Call of Duty 2, and I 
 think thats it. Those games were fun, everything else was not. So enough of my rambling, you probaly 
 want to see what I gave this game right?
  
  For being something fresh, for polishing gameplay, for a great ( but short ) single player, for 
 addicting multiplayer......
  
  I give Call of Duty 4 Modern Warfare:: 5 purple hearts, out of 5
  
  
  RIP World War II genre. 
 You will have a special place in my heart. 
  
  By the way, a 5 for me is having gameplay so good that I can overlook some MINOR issues. No game 
 is perfect....... remember that.
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KillErmarinE15
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 2, 2008 4:44 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty: Mordern Warfare is a simply amazing game. This game is one of the most exciting single 
 player experience ever. The story is absoulty fantastic, it has some great story telling. However, 
 if you play on the higher difficulties, the game is near impossible. Veteran on the last two levels 
 will make you want to blow your brains out. I have never seen anything harder then that. (All achievements 
 are in the Single player mode) .
  
  The online play in COD4 is where it really shines. Besides all the little kids and high-level prestige 
 "badasses." Yes, little kids, the Gamespot team said Halo was bad. But this game, the little kids 
 are so incredibly rude. They pick i fight with you for no apperent reason. Then there is the "badasses." 
 These guys are level 10 prestige (i'll talk about prestige later) . They think that they are the 
 greatest thing since sliced bread. They (not all) trash talk you like crazy, if they are losing 
 to a lower level they will quit out awfully fast after they trash talked you in the begining of 
 the round. Last thing is poor hit detection on snipers. Your prey could be standing still and you 
 will still miss. WTF?
  
  Enough with the negatives, COD4 has many more pluses anyway. I'll start with perks, perks are like 
 a special skill. Perks can do things like increase your health (NOOB SKILL WARNING, YOU WILL BE 
 FLAMED FOR USING THIS SKILL!) Give you more ammo or be shot to the ground, making that last ditch 
 effort to kill some enemies.
  
  This one can be considered both good or bad. Bullet prenetration is present in this game. You can 
 shot through simple brick walls, wood and cars. But not re-enforced concrete. This will cause a 
 lot of people to freak out, so be prepared!
  
  Ghillie suits are also great fun, running away from people just to lay down tall grass leaves the 
 enemy saying "How the hell did he get away from me??!" 
  
  However, one of the greatest editions to this game is blood. Seems awkward for me to say this, 
 but one of the things that annoyed me with other Call of Dutys was the lack of blood. Other then 
 a puff of blood, dust or snow, that was the goriest Call of Duty ever was. 
  
  Prestige is where you level up to the highest level (55) and your presented with a choice. Do you 
 want to give all of the things you earned back, or keep them? This is a "tough" choice, give all 
 your weapons back for a icon, or keep them? Even though this is a "tough" choice, you'll do prestige. 
 It gets very boring not ranking up.
  
  All in all, I highly recommend this to any fan of FPSs. Get this now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hornymushroom
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 2, 2008 3:48 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty 4 modern warfare is the best shooters of the year and deserved
  best xbox 360 and ps3 game. ill start of with the storymode that half decent
  but could have 
 used a longer last mission but its still great. Soundeffects are top notch and AI for enemies is 
 pretty decent but you allies at times can be really stupid and just stand there staring at the 
 enemy while your getting shot in the back. Missions are diverse as they can be, through the story 
 you will pilot a gunner ship and play as a sniper being really stealthy.
  Now we move onto mutliplayer that is probably extremly fun and will keep you busy for 100s of hours 
 and 550 levels plus being able to make any charector you want from a sniper, close quarter fighter, 
 gunner and sub machine gunner. The online is better than halo with less profanity and better maps 
 with teamwork making is a 9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dailyderek
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 2, 2008 12:41 pm PT
Review:  Best of the Call of Duty Series! Must have! The game delivers a medium to short campaign although 
 it covers a big story and awsome missions. From Cherenoyble fighting tangos to middle east fighting 
 some other gang of terrorists and even to a cargo ship or hijacked airplane! There are many enviroments 
 to take down those baddies in. One of the best shooters I've ever tried. This is a great game. 
 Even for those who hate old Call of Duties. (Me) The modern setting delivers awsome new weapons 
 and fun mission objectives. Multiplayer gets tiring but has so many goals, upgrades and stuff that 
 it'll take quite a while for the bordom to kick in. Plus non live people can enjoy the game with 
 it's many secrets, bonus levels and all offline achivements! In other games there are normally 
 achivements that fill half the gamerscore for multiplayer.
  All in all it's a great shooter with a seemingly realistic storyline. Any fans of fps' should definatley 
 get this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mage_7
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 2, 2008 11:44 am PT
Review:  Well I got this game for Christmas. I had already had the beta which made me really want it horribly. 
 So I had to wait buy, believe me it was so worth it. The story was pretty short but, sweet. It 
 really gave me a very realistic feeling when playing the story. Well enough about the story lets 
 get to the part where it really shines the multiplayer. There are 55 levels and, then you even 
 have prestiege. If you don't know what prestiege is it is when you hit level 55 you can do it all 
 over 10 times! It has a great variety of weapons. You'll find yourself playing this game a lot. 
 Also you will find yourself putting at least 50 hours into this game. Its multiplayer is just amazingly 
 well balanced. Even though I have to admit that higher levels have some better weapons like the 
 P90 and, also they have some better perks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hierark123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 2, 2008 7:19 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is the 4th installment to the great call of duty WWII series. It has a great campaign. 
 It takes place in Russia and the middle east in, about present time. There are no returning characters 
 but, there is Captain Price.... people who played other CoD know him..... but it is him from WWII. 
 The campaign has a great storyline. The only problem is that it is SUPER short. Not many levels 
 but the story keeps it entertaining. Then there is Xbox Live..... ohhhh were do I start..... Xbox 
 Live has a very fun multiplayer. You get to choose your weapons and customize them and even customize 
 their skills. But the problem is you unlock weapons/skills as you level. There are 55 levels to 
 unlock every thing but if you get bored at level 55 you can choose to go to prestige mode. It makes 
 you start over from level 1 without any of you fancy weapons but you get a new symbol...
  
  All in all I give it a 9.5/10
  
  
  Im a lvl 55 that never prestiged,
  
  my gamertag: 
 vinny d123
  
  
  Peace out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpartanTnT
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 1, 2008 5:16 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is one of the best games I have ever played. One of the breakthrough 
 games in the amazing 2007 line-up, it provides an outstanding campaign mode that feels almost like 
 an action movie in some of the moments inside of it, and a multiplayer that might even be better 
 than Halo 3's, and that's saying something. The graphics are amazing as well, one of the best I've 
 seen for any console. The controls are also very smooth, I never once thought of the controller 
 in my hand since the playability is great. The campaign mode follows the USMC and the SAS (American 
 and British) when the face what seems to be Middle Eastern and Russians. The variety of locations 
 is very satisfying, along with variety of mission objectives. The sniper mission in this game is 
 a unique experience that made me mutter to myself how awesome it felt playing it, given the tasks 
 and how you complete them. One thing I really like about this game, there are no online achievements, 
 and all of them have to do with the single player campaign. I like that because in many other games, 
 people just farm for achievements during online games instead of trying to win, but not in this 
 game. The online play is probably the best part of game, given all of the options you have. You 
 create your own class, which lets you chooses which weapon you will use, so there is no fighting 
 with your team on turns to use the best weapon that is spawned on the map, in Call Of Duty 4, you 
 always spawn with your weapon of choice. Every aspect of Call of Duty 4 is flawless, and it provides 
 outstanding single and multiplayer. If you're a fan of first person shooters, there is no reason 
 at all why you should not pick up this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Charybdis22
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 1, 2008 3:47 pm PT
Review:  well I don't have much to say.. but when I first played the demo of call of duty4 I wasn't so happy 
 . lol
  I first felt like it was like another version of call of duty2 After playing the original game 
 it was a different experience I really saw the difference.
  I have notice that the weapon looks good and the enemy reaction are more realistic because in COD2 
 it was like the enemy where headless chickens. LOL.. ( really stupid *)
  And some other good things in the fourth was the story, it isn't bad at al but it's too short That 
 works on my nerves.
  Beside all of that I just want to say. ( the rest of the tekst is garbage )
  -Raise your fist 
 for the ANGERFIST!!!!!!!
  -Raise your fist for the ANGERFIST!!!!!!!
  -Raise your fist for the ANGERFIST!!!!!!!
  -Raise your fist for the ANGERFIST!!!!!!!
  -Raise 
 your fist for the ANGERFIST!!!!!!!
  -Raise your fist for the ANGERFIST!!!!!!!
  -Raise your fist for the ANGERFIST!!!!!!!
  -Raise your fist for the ANGERFIST!!!!!!!
  -Raise 
 your fist for the ANGERFIST!!!!!!!
  -Raise your fist for the ANGERFIST!!!!!!!
  -Raise your fist for the ANGERFIST!!!!!!!
  -Raise your fist for the ANGERFIST!!!!!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamer52354
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 1, 2008 3:17 pm PT
Review:  Every since i have played call of duty 4 i cant seem to find a game besides halo3 that can compair 
 to this game. I can ealy tell that this game will become one of thoes games thats mentioned far 
 after it has been released. This game has restored my faith in the call of duty series and only 
 hope for more games like this. The only things i didnt like was the fact it was a little short 
 and the nuke killed one of the main guys. The graphics and gameplay and the way you can use your 
 sights on your gun is why this game deserves a 10 perfect. I hope that all of you that play this 
 game can realy relate to this. I have also realized that alot of games have been using the sights 
 thing that call of duty has started, but still cant compair to it. So i recomend this game to anyone 
 that does not have to dont think about it just buy it trust me you wont regret it and if you dont 
 like this game then you dont have taste. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Strife88
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 1, 2008 9:59 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 has broken away from the WW II setting and stepped into more modern times. This 
 game to start off is well-done, everything from the visuals to the gameplay are just amazing to 
 say the least. It still has that touch that will familarize people that they are playing a Cal 
 of Duty game.
  
  The story has a lot more plot twists because this game was built from the ground up. The creators 
 at Infinity Ward didn't have to break out the history books for this one. The campaign is immersive 
 and it will have you right in the middle of it. You play through the eyes of two soldiers; a US 
 Marine and a British S. A. S soldier each with their situations. I just have to say that the Sniper 
 level was very well done and it definitely shows what the people at IW can do. The intensity of 
 the single player campaign breaks the standards of how a game should feel and if they can keep 
 this up then I'm looking forward to COD5.
  
  The multiplayer for COD takes you up the ranks of a soldier starting you off as a Recruit to eventually 
 work your way up to a Commander. One of the key things that make this so good is it actually feels 
 like that. At first you're limited to what you can use and the combinations of perks that are available. 
 The online is very deep and It keeps track of every little detail with a comprehensive leaderboard 
 tracking system. I know a lot of people realized that there aren't any multiplayer achievements 
 in the game, but that's for a good reason. As you work your way up the ranks you unlock new challenges 
 that when they're completed give you bonus experience points. The more that you accomplish the 
 faster you rank up and unlock those better weapons and perks. There's a lot of depth to this and 
 gives you a lot of replayability. When you reach the highest rank you can do what is called the 
 "Prestige Mode" and this resets your rank and shows everyone that you already achieved the highest 
 there is. The gameplay for it is amazing, if you want to find out all the details you can check 
 out my COD4 blog.
  
  All in all this game sets a new standard for the way FPS should be made and this title is a definite 
 buy so check out Call of Duty 4 on the Xbox 360 and Playstation 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: king_halo_king
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 1, 2008 9:28 am PT
Review:  This game has been much hyped especially since E3 , but as most people will agree, its definitely 
 been worth the wait! The Call of Duty series has always been stunning but now its changed from 
 WW2 to modern warfare. There are many war games out there but this one easily shines through as 
 the best. Here's why:
  
  While the single player campaign may be short its certainly something you want to get your teeth 
 into (well you know what i mean) , and with the different difficulty settings it'll keep you playing 
 them again and again.
  You play as a British SAS recruit and an America marine tackling modern day's wars and conflicts. 
 The multiplayer side is fantastic and you'll be playing on a good range of maps for hours. The 
 missions are mostly different with hardly any repetition, so you won't be bored as you battle your 
 way through. The graphics are fantastic provided you have a PS3, 360 or good PC but still look 
 impressive on what ever platform you have. The sound effects are also great, with a good soundtrack 
 too. Overall the gameplay is fantastic and will suck you straight in from the very begininng. This 
 is one of those games that you'll still be playing in the far future. The only bad note is that 
 it will be years until Call of duty 5.
  
  This is without a doubt one of the best games of 2007 and you dont want to miss it. Buy it now!
 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: WalkinRobot
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 31, 2008 8:10 pm PT
Review:  Let me start by saying this game is the best of 2007 and definitively one of the best military 
 shooter I have experienced.
  
  The game is set in modern warfare and somehow it feels like the COD2 formula is applied just the 
 controls are almost the same and they actually capture that same intensity that every COD has on 
 Modern times which is like the best part of the game, I mean without this intensity that COD builds 
 up it just maybe some other shooter like halo, Fear, etc.... 
  
  The I think the multi player is the best part of the game cause, its so addictive because its doesn't 
 take like much playing to lvl up, which it just pushes you to play more, more , and more until 
 your eyes bleed. Plus theres this halo alike lobby which I like, because you don't to wait like 
 gears its just way better and I think more and more games should do this lobby in the future.
 
  
  Overall the game is amazing and although the single player is short. The multi player will keep 
 you busy until like I said "your eyes bleed" 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: _SMYLEY_
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 31, 2008 5:59 pm PT
Review:  Beautiful. I could end this review right here. But ill extraplate, dont worry. Call of Duty was 
 always a great franchise; WWII was a great topic and this game milked it for all it was worth, 
 even more. I can only imagine how beautiful this concept would look to sales: a huge legacy of 
 shooters makes the jump from classic 1940 guns and warfare to modern, high-tech, and cutting edge 
 combat. I swear i love these men who made COD4. They could have dumped this game like a piece of 
 hot crap, but instead they improved all the features from the other games and put it together in 
 a creative manner to construct a semi-futuristic plot as well as develop a depthful, overall beautiful 
 in graphics and gameplay, online mode.
  Its beatuiful, i state again. Although it doesnt live up to the online legend of Halo 3 in terms 
 of options, it still delivers a thoughtful and free-reign number of game types and maps, as well 
 as party options. But, like i said, nothing can compete with being able to watch games through 
 an online theater, watch those fims with friends, edit maps with forge, edit maps with forge with 
 friends, edit game variants and play them, and then send it all to your file share for others to 
 openly download.
  Unfortunatley, i dont think any game will come out rivaling Halo for online capabilities, but COD4, 
 i think, has an overall higher quality to gameplay than most aspects of halo.
  So i conclude; Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is beautiful. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skilo2
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 25, 2008 3:10 pm PT
Review:  Many people would argue that Halo the best shooter, but Halo is not nearly as good as CoD. Not 
 even the campaign, which was the best part about Halo. The fact that CoD gave the feeling of a 
 RPG was great. Being able to gain levels and abilities and use new weapons in a shooter is just 
 a revolutionary idea. The only thing that you can gain from playing in Halo is armor!!!!! I mean 
 even an old game like Rainbow 6 gave you the ability to customize more than Halo3. Halo3 is a waste 
 of $60. I would rather spend it on Rainbow 6 even!!!!! Anyways, CoD is definitly the best shooter 
 on the 360. The perks are great, they really reward you for being skilled. Also being rewarded 
 for getting so many kills in a row with the ability to call in airstrike and helicopter is great. 
 And even if you are a noob you can still get kills in deathmatch. However, I would not recommend 
 playing on hardcore when ever you start because it will seriously ruin your kill to death ratio. 
 There are somethings that could use revising. I do dislike how noobs just run around with the noobtuber 
 and they always manage to kill me from across the map, and that goes with grenades. Other than 
 that, this is the best game I have played to date. Buy it !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xTalkative_Mime
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 31, 2008 2:15 pm PT
Review:  This is no doubt my favorite game for my 360. It is incredible everywhere. Nothing wrong with it. 
 I really can't say anything wrong. The campaign is challenging yet fun, the online is almost as 
 good as Gears (haha) . No but seriously, this is definitely the best game of the year, not Bioshock. 
 Modern Warfare is so great that I can't say enough about it. The guns, perks, class customization, 
 online game modes, campaign, graphics, sound effects, teamwork, and the best part is the online! 
 Great maps, terrific ranking system, tied for best game on Xbox 360 to date!!!! (It is tied with 
 Gears Of War) . I got this game on the release date and I also played the Beta game for it. I already 
 played 98 hours on multiplayer alone! I love this game so much. I play this game and I have 10 
 other great games. I rarely play the other games. Call Of Duty 2 & 3 aren't even close to being 
 as good as this one. They're not even ha; f as good. Instant classic, masterpiece, fun, addictting, 
 great multiplayer, great campaign. No complaints. !10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dan_scfc
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 9, 2008 4:12 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare suffers from what a lot of shooters do nowadays, a stupidly short 
 campaign. Play it on Easy and you're guaranteed to be done with it in around 5 hours. However, 
 it's got to be said those 5 hours will take you closer to war in the modern era than any other 
 game will. You play Sgt. Soap McTavish, part of the SAS squad along with your leader Captain Price 
 and a loud-mouth Gaz. You also play Pvt. Jackson part of the US Marines. The game hits you in the 
 gut, leaving comedy for a more grim, more shocking approach. There isn't much as a story but who 
 needs one when you've got the most chaotic, frag-filled campaign to date? Night Vision has never 
 been so convincing. The visuals are fantastic, leaving your mind blown away. Every frag will tear 
 a tiny bit of the fence you were taking cover behind, and you will see every splinter. There are 
 plenty of stunning, jaw dropping moments in the campaign. *SPOLIER* Like when the town gets nuked. 
 "SPOILER*. Many moments will leave you on the edge of your seat like when your on an assassination 
 mission for the British government. There's a little GPS map in the corner of your screen, shows 
 where your enemies are, and it works reasonably well. It may be 5 hours long but it is the most 
 action-packed, jaw-dropping 5 hours in any game. *TIP* Definately start on the 3rd hardest difficulty, 
 "Hardened" it will leave you much satisfied when you complete it. 
  On to the multiplayer, where the customizations never end. When you reach Rank 4 you unlock 5 custom 
 classes. You can choose which perks you want, or whether you want a silencer on your MP5, it truly 
 sets the benchmark. Up to 16 players can play in a single game. All the maps offer benefits for 
 all type of players from sniper to CQB. Shipment is one of those maps where you hear about it, 
 think that will never work, then play it and find yourself having so much fun. There are plenty 
 of game modes, from Team Deathmatch to Search and Destroy. If you just booted the game up it seems 
 quite simple, kill a few people, get promoted, done. However, as you get higher you realize that 
 grenades, flashbangs and silencers and vital to staying alive. You start to realize that when you 
 see two people, taking one out alerting the other and getting owned isn't the way anymore. You 
 try and find ways to take them both out. the game is definately rewarding. The higher you are in 
 ranks the more guns you get to choose from for your custom classes. Also you get challenges which 
 you can earn to get XP or earn camos for your guns. You also get rewards in the game like a UAV 
 Recon for getting a 3 Kill Streak, now letting you see the locations of all your enemies. 5 Kill 
 Streak will reward you with an airstrike on a position of your choice anywhere on the map. Combine 
 this with the UAV Recon you just got and it can be devastating. 7 Kill Streak will give you a helicopter, 
 which will nail any noob who dares come out of a building. the only criticism I have of the CoD4 
 multiplayer is the matchmaking system. it won't care if you just picked up the game, it will put 
 you with people in the top prestige who have been playing 24/7 since release. 
  Overall, a must buy for any shooter fanatic. A breathtaking campaign with an amazing multiplayer 
 is a great package. Ooorah! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -owenG-
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 31, 2008 3:49 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is a landmark in the call of duty series, featuring a new time-era, aka "Modern 
 Warfare"
  
  yep thats right its set now days, well slightly in the future but still.
  
  That games campaign mode is pretty nifty, with plenty of intense moments the franchise has been 
 known for it has several twists and turns but sadly falls short, yes thats right this game will 
 take you around 7 hours to beat.
  
  The short campaign mode doesnt really make up for itself with replayability, sure theres achievements 
 but its really nto going to keep you interested for very long.
  
  Along with campaign mode theres is multiplayer. Call of Duty 4's mulitplayer includes rank leveling 
 ( the higher rank you are the better weapons you have) and a new perk system. With these features 
 in mind the multiplayer isn't really outstanding but it has enough to keep you intersted, for a 
 while...
  
  the sad thing is that the maps a fairly compact (just like every other call of duty game) so theres 
 a few things that didnt really make sense to include, for example; sniper rifles. Standard assualt 
 rifles and pistols are more accurate then them, making sniping feel very impractical and not much 
 fun to use.
  
  With all that said multiplayer feels to in-your-face and is paced way to fast to feel any satification 
 in your kills..
  
  Call of duty 4 was a good idea but its linear and short campaign plus a thrown together multiplayer 
 mode just doesnt live it up to the hype. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rentar74
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 30, 2008 4:34 pm PT
Review:  So you think you, ve played them all... I've been hooked on FPS since Goldeneye on N64 ( and probably 
 way before that on the good old n64, MSX) but for me Goldeneye kind of set the standard those days 
 in terms of gameplay, eyecandy and visceral game experience. Years have past since those days and 
 I've played my fair share of shooters since, all with their own merits that made them stand out 
 above the rest. 
  
  Who didn't stay up way to long to finish the next level in Vietcong, Max Payne, Medal of Honour, 
 Far Cry, Half-Life2, GRAW and so on. 
  
  The first Call of Duty was mindblowing after MOH because it stuck you right in the middle of the 
 battle with not much time to overthink your next step combined with awesome graphics on even a 
 mediocre rig. CoD 2 turned up the nodge even more and made the MOH franchise look like a relic 
 from the stone age.
  
  Back to 2007. 2007 has been a great year for FPS and I've waited for many FPS games to be released 
 and left CoD 4 hanging for a while because the previews stated that the singleplayer campaign was 
 kind of short compared to other great releases at the same time.
  
  So since November I've played Bioshock, Gears of War, Crysis, Half-Life 2: E2 and Timeshift. I did 
 not purchase CoD4 untill yesterday but what a ride compared to the rest!!
  
  CoD4 stays true to it's legacy of delivering intense gameplay with great graphics that doesn't 
 require a $ 1500 + rig. For a lot lot of the new games I had to tune down a lot to get an acceptable 
 framerate and appearance!! And it's not that I have a 1st generation X86-based computer (AMD 64 
 3500, 1 GB, ATi 2600 XT) .
  
  CoD4 is looking great, has a gameplay that really sucks you in and is a commercial succes because 
 of that and the fact that you can play it on a mediocre rig. If Crysis would have done the same 
 thing it would have been so much more succesfull.
  
  In conclusion, as it comes to delivering a true FPS experience, CoD4 to me is the Game of the Year 
 2007. Infinity Ward, never change a winning team just keep on improving it!! Well done!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kokiri-Kid
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 30, 2008 3:26 pm PT
Review:  Its a bit easy for my liking, both online and off (On Vet)
  
  Online
  
  Perks kinda dull the online play down rather then spice it up. Killing someone should be accomplishment 
 enough, I would rather not have to kill him, and avoid the grenade his dead body drops. Lobbing 
 grenades can just kill everything with proper/lucky aim. Although airstrikes/helicopters is an 
 awesome idea. Kept me playing a few hours longer. 
  
  Offline
  
  The offline play is in my opinion much better then the online play. Its story twists and objectives 
 are very fun. Although it is way to short. It is also a bit easy, beating the game really only 
 takes patients, I found myself only dieing when I sprinted into the open. It was a fun game, I 
 sold it about a week in but thats just cause I like money. Buy it, Rent it, Either way enjoy it, 
 because modern/present day war games even slightly worth while have been scarce lately. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smoking83
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 30, 2008 10:09 am PT
Review:  I was very unfortunate to have not had a go at the COD 4 Beta programme so when I was waiting for 
 the release of COD 4 I was listening to the comments that my friends that had a blast playing the 
 beta. Well what can I say when it was released I have never dedicated so much time and patience 
 to one game in a long time! ! ! ! The custom options that are available for weapon selection and 
 other things like perks. I mean you customise each class to suit the game type you playing, your 
 style of play and any clan tactics that you might have as well.
  
  Alot of my friends were looking forward to getting into the Multiplayer straight away but the multiplayer 
 isn't just the only thing that this game has to offer, there is a very good, strong single player 
 story as well. The only thing I could possible knock about this game is a lack of Co Op campaign 
 on Xbox Live if they had that I can't really think of any game that would beat it.
  
  Well that is my 2 cents so good luck and be gone ! ! ! ! ! ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ajaa
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 30, 2008 6:07 am PT
Review:  I got this game a while back and the story is really good. Some say it is short but it depends 
 on how long you play it. The controls are really nice and it never really confuses you. If you 
 own an Xbox you should get this game. But you really need to have online to get the best of it. 
 It is really easy to play online and it does not ever seem waited. What I mean is that you can 
 be a beginner and still kill someone who is really high in rank. The graphics are really nice it 
 looks crisp and clear. The game does have some down falls like some times it feels like a part 
 is not possible to beat. Or your teammates do not do any thing. Also the game does not explain 
 it self that well. Like in halo 3 you know right where to go right at the beginning but this game 
 kind of leaves you hanging. The last thing that disappointed me was there are not achievements 
 for online multiplayer so you kind of feel like the online are holding back. If you are in to first 
 person shooters then get this game but in my mind it does not top halo 3. So 360 owners get halo 
 3 instead of this game but everybody else should get this game or if you are not in to halo 3. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: markingonline
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 29, 2008 9:30 pm PT
Review:  when i saw the first Trailer to Call of Duty 4 i was extremely excited and could not wait for it, 
 when the day came when i could rent it i beat the painfully short campaign in a single day , so 
 i say to myself, "not a bad game a little disappointing but the online going to be EPIC!" once 
 i played around with the online there were lots of thing i didn't like, including the fact that 
 not all weapons (only get like 6 guns and all the good ones are at the real high ranks) , game modes, 
 maps, and options ( like making clans) are available to use until higher ranks, i don't know about 
 you but i only play online to play, not to earn crap ( except achievements) . for me the online was 
 real leggy ( and i have a great connection lag free) and not that fun compare to other shooters. 
 
  
  
  back when COD 3 came out it was my most played and favorite game and played endless amounts of 
 hours on it, so for me i did not like the whole modern war thing, online was odd and weird, campaign 
 way to short, over hyped, and just not worth the money, i would recommend renting it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ravi_1900
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 29, 2008 5:12 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay 10
  Graphics 10
  sound 10
  Value 9
  Tilt 10
  Instant classic thats what activision latest COD4 is, the game is set in modern era and is abt 
 terrorist attack. Setting the game away from WW2 settings is really good for the series. The story 
 is the brightest part in the title it has been given a AAA Hollywood movie like presentation wtih 
 direction quality and coice acting that is second to none. The ingame cutscene are done perfectly 
 they present they present the plot such that you wiil miss no part of the story may be thats a 
 brief disscussion between soldiers or small quarells even a starting assissnation plot is presented 
 in a new but amazing way. 
  The gameplay sequence is as good as previous COD's the game is fast has a lot of action and requires 
 the same amount of shooting and has objective based misson but in addition the story driven gameplay 
 is seen which makes you feel like you are almost playing a movie. In one mission you have to deep 
 inside enemy territory that mission is done in such a way that you have to just play to see. 
 
  The graphics are as good as they could get they are really sharp and not to mention they run on 
 60 fps. Possibly COD 4 almost at all places looks superb at some of the end stages there are places 
 that are not so good thats only because other levels are done very well. Also places like such 
 are very few and the same level might contain some exotic places as well. One more thing to be 
 seen is that the quality of light used degrades resonably in monitors with low contrast ratio, 
 such that you might even feel nothing special in visuals.
  
  The sound effects are realy good the soundtrack of the game has been changed for good and soundtrack 
 comes into action in such a way that it makes a immersive experience. The sound effects are also 
 sharp and are elements of gameplay in some places. 
  In all only thing not so good is the short span of the game but the multiplayer covers up for it 
 with 16 player matches that could be played on the 360 its more than to ask for. The new changes 
 done to multiplayer makes it interesting and the maps are large in size and still play as smooth 
 as the single player campaign.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rcxcarey
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 29, 2008 2:22 pm PT
Review:  I have spent so much time playing this game. Once you have played online a couple of times you 
 get the hang of it. THe online games are unique in their own ways. Private Matches can be a lot 
 of fun. You get lost in this game for hours on end when you play on LIVE. When you play with a 
 friend the game gets a lot funnier. Being able to customize your own class makes it better. The 
 kill streak awards are nice too.
  The campaign story line is so realistic. The missions take time and strategy. The guns that you 
 use are incredible.
  The coolest mission i think is Gillies in the Mist. This is because you only use stealh and wear 
 really cool suits. Then having the corolis effect take appart in your sniping also makes it really 
 good. 
  This game should win the game of the century because it is the most played game and shows the aspects 
 of a real war. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ben__360
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 13, 2008 6:03 pm PT
Review:  This is the best FPS I have ever played in my entire life. Im not even kidding either. Finally 
 a Call of Duty game thats not about WWII. This game is 1,000 times better than Halo and 100,000 
 times better than Call of Duty: World at War. If you want to get a new game and can't decide between 
 COD 4 and COD World at War. There is absolutely no comparison between these games get Call of Duty 
 4. If you don't your retarded. They are the exact same game except Call of Duty 4 has sweet modern 
 weapons and Call of Duty: World at War has old peice of sh*t WWII weapons that suck balls. The 
 campaign pretty much sucks, but who cares about the campaign. The online is the best thing ever. 
 If you get this game but never play it online you will probably think that it sucks. I would rather 
 play this than call of duty world at war any day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ElMariachi25
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 29, 2008 12:34 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty 4 is perhaps the best game of 2007. With the most theatrically engrossing single player 
 campaign and intuitive ever-evolving multiplayer, you'll never get bored. The campaign takes you 
 from a late-night tanker raid, to a news room shootfest and beyond. It includes, personally, the 
 most intense single player mission I have ever played!, and I have played them all. The intense 
 "Ghillie sniper" level is not what you might expect. The primary objective is to get to the objective 
 WHITHOUT being detected, shot at, etc. The multiplayer is an in-depth, evolutionary process. Its 
 more than just two teams trying to get the most kills. Through gaining experience points, you unlock 
 weapons, upgrades, and perks. Perks are special abilities you can assign to any custom class you 
 create. They vary from extra grenades, to running faster, to even more lethal weapon performance. 
 The other key improvement is challenges which, along with kills and objective points, net you experience 
 and overall re-playability. Overall, I highly recommend this game to FPS vets and newbies alike. 
 Thanks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StormiestBUCK
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 29, 2008 11:17 am PT
Review:  From the amazing graphics to the amazing sound effects, Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is the best 
 in it's series. Infantry ward took a big leap into futreistic war and made it look very very good. 
 The graphics are inccredible and the sounds are great, it really feels like you are there. What 
 they did with the whole cut scences were really cool and very detailed. The only thing i wish was 
 that the story just lasted a little bit longer, that is the only thing that i think is it's flaw, 
 everything else runs smoothly from the multiplayer to the single player campaign. Hopefully next 
 time they can come up with a co-op game that would be really cool. Makes you wonder what will be 
 instore this year for Infantry Ward? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ag3ntz3rox0x
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 29, 2008 9:36 am PT
Review:  If halo cant get a 9.5 i have no idea what gamespot is thinking giving cod4 a 9.0 . its unheard 
 of, this game is amazing. first of i love how the achievements are offline for one reason. in most 
 games if your not an elite player and they have ridiculosly hard online achievements, theres no 
 way you can get them. cod4 every single achievement is offline, love it. now lets move onto the 
 game itself. the graphics on an h. d tv are outstanding. if you have surround sound you will be 
 in heaven, this game makes you feel like your right there actually killing the towel heads. i love 
 how you jump from guy to guy from mission to mission to tell a great story. then at the end both 
 teams partner up to work together in taking down the badass name al assad, great story. there is 
 also alot of tense moments where your outnumberred or you have to sneak around guys, and one false 
 move and your history, now lets get to the online. its great, simply said, the rank up system is 
 flawless, only problem i have is that when you first start out as a level 1 recuit they throw you 
 into matches with prestige guys. but thats a minor setback. but now it wont let me play online, 
 i have no idea why i will get halfway through a match and it will kick me off, but i can play halo 
 and all of my other games with no problem, so idk if its the servers or whatever but im getting 
 frustrated about that. but overall this game is a gem. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mmerrill26
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 29, 2008 9:02 am PT
Review:  This is one of the best FPS games out to date. Not only is it realistic in its own state but XBL 
 is where this game shines. The ranking system makes you want to keep playing. Weapon challenges 
 forces players to use different weapons, so you dont have someone dominating with the same weapon 
 over and over (accept for the few who wont put down that P90....) . The only part of the ranking 
 system that I don't like is the fact that you ALWAYS level up. There is nothing built in to "de-rank" 
 a player. So unlike in Halo , where you may have a bad game and go -10 let's say, you don't actually 
 go down in rank. This only causes the problem of always leveling up and almost creating false ranks 
 on most player out there and makes it way to easy to reach the top rank of 55. Overall gameplay 
 is top notch. You can tell they spent time on this game and is a must for FPS fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: motownboy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 28, 2008 3:58 pm PT
Review:  This game sucks you in. Plain and simple. That's what pops out at me when I think about this game. 
 I've never felt like I'm part of the action as much as I have when I played this game.
  The graphics are pretty darn good, and the sound is stellar. Both of these things are very important 
 in terms of sucking you in. The AI isn't bad, but it's not great either: It's good enough that 
 it doesn't bother you, but it's bad enough that you wonder at times if you would do the same thing 
 the enemy did, like sending countless men over the same area of a barricade. After getting sniped 
 fifteen times, don't you think they'd try a different route?
  I digress. Overall, there's not too much to add to this fact: This game will have you tilting your 
 head as you escape a crashing cargo ship. It will have you cringing whenever you get hit with something. 
 And it will make your heart race when you come around the corner and see the enemy staring you 
 in the face. You really feel like a part of the action, as your allies aren't overpowered, but 
 you don't have to fight the whole army on your own either. It's a very realistic game that grabs 
 you and doesn't let go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: psycogamer1996
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 28, 2008 2:16 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare for the xbox 360 has great graphics. very realistic, and is educational 
 (Just kidding) ending is awsome and pretty intense. pretty bloody ( if you dont want to see your 
 throat get ripped out by enemy attack dogs press R3 when they jump on you) . call of duty 4 has 
 a great xbox live with maps from the game and the online players are normally very good. when you 
 are teamed with the S. A. S. and the U. S. Marines. highly addicting. strong language is used in some 
 levels when you beat the game you unlock a feature called "arcade mode" in arcade mode you can 
 replay levels with limited lives and you get a score based on your kills, moves the way you kill, 
 and skill. this game is great no matter what the other reviews tell you i have played it and beat 
 it twice loved it both times! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unit54321
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 28, 2008 11:42 am PT
Review:  A really good game but it will get tired if you do not have multiplayer
  
  
  When writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. 
 We encourage you to try to get your review right the first time - you may choose to edit it later 
 on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage 
 you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy 
 and paste it into the posting box belowWhen writing your review, remember to keep the language 
 clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. We encourage you to try to get your review right the 
 first time - you may choose to edit it later on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback 
 associated with the review. We encourage you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, 
 save it to your local disk, then copy and paste it into the posting box below. . When writing your 
 review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. We encourage you 
 to try to get your review right the first time - you may choose to edit it later on, but by doing 
 so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage you to write your 
 review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy and paste it into 
 the posting box below. When writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must 
 be 100 words minimum. We encourage you to try to get your review right the first time - you may 
 choose to edit it later on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with 
 the review. We encourage you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to 
 your local disk, then copy and paste it into the posting box below. When writing your review, remember 
 to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. We encourage you to try to get your 
 review right the first time - you may choose to edit it later on, but by doing so, you will lose 
 any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage you to write your review in a word 
 processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy and paste it into the posting box 
 below. When writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words 
 minimum. We encourage you to try to get your review right the first time - you may choose to edit 
 it later on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We 
 encourage you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, 
 then copy and paste it into the posting box below. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: llSapphyrell
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 28, 2008 9:56 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is the most extreme war video game. Playing it in veteran level shows that being 
 in a war is not cool. The game gives the player a realistic feel of being in a real combat. Death 
 is always there and getting hit by a bullet is inevitable. The threat of being side by side to 
 a thrown grenade or blowing cover during a stealth operation can all be experienced in this game. 
 Every move you make counts as you complete missions in the veteran level.
  
  The quotations which flashes after dying ingame gives us enriched knowledge about war. I have learned 
 alot from those words of famous war veterans and anonymous soldiers. This game truly gave importance 
 to the lives of our soldiers who risks their lives for us. Play this game in veteran level and 
 you will feel the danger our soldiers face everytime they step on the battlefield.
  
  The game also shows how ugly terrorism is. It shows how terrorists destroy lives of many people. 
 Terrorists not only kill people but they also kill nature.
  
  Overall, the game's message to people about war added with the perfect strategic first person shooting 
 game, gives this game the reputation of being the ultimate Xbox 360 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Perskesop
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 28, 2008 1:30 am PT
Review:  Firstly, the call of duty series has been in my opinion the best war shooters around for PC. Call 
 of Duty 4 has set a new bar and is an amazing game. I first finished single player which is somewhat 
 short, but perfect in every way. Diverse missions, story line and great music score.
  
  But it is the multi-player that has really been the highlight to this game. It is the most addictive 
 online play that i have experienced where skill plays a large role and so many various tactics 
 can be employed by you as the player. For fans of first person shooters, this game is a must! The 
 game continues for hours on end after completion of single player mode with arcade mode and multi-player.
 
  
  The graphics are beautiful and does not demand the greatest PC that there ever was, like some games 
 being released now. In terms of glitches have not experienced any and it all round great game play. 
 I expect an expansion release would be great for extending single player game time as it somewhat 
 short like previous call of duty titles. This game has not disappointed me in any of its aspects.
 
  
  Best shooter ever! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bokoooos
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 27, 2008 4:47 pm PT
Review:  As said above this game has its connection issues with Live, and yes sometimes frustrating with 
 aiming. "Why didn't he die.... COME ON I SHOT HIM 50 TIMES!" Thes glitches set aside, this game 
 is still game of the year 
  
  The single player is short but is quite good. Where this game shines in the multiplayer aspect. 
 The Multiplayer is what makes this game so addictive and often find yourself playing it for 3 to 
 6 hours at a time. And if you get bored after you've leveled all the way to 55, you unlock prestige 
 mode which lets you start the level up process all over again and gain bragging rights with a new 
 badge. You can do prestige mode upto 10 times over again.
  
  With all this said get up and grab a copy of Call of Duty 4 today if you have yet to do so. I will 
 gaurantee you its an experience like no other online game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: turk4eva41
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 27, 2008 3:46 pm PT
Review:  This game will grab you and wont let you go. It is such an amazing game. I hope more games will 
 be like this. Bye Bye WWII & WWI Call of Duty 4 is not about Nazis anymore. Set in present times 
 its a must buy. I've been waiting for a game like this i am a huge fan of halo 3 but Call of Duty 
 4 owns halo 3. But overall they are both monster games. Just Call of Duty 4 is just a bit more 
 viscous. I heard Call of duty 5 was confirmed. It should be amazing. I cant wait come on guys hurry 
 up with the greatness. I hope they use an amazing software where i can blow stuff up. amazing. 
 great job. I cant wait for more. Please Please make it so we can drive and fly airplanes. now not 
 that i am saying call of duty 4 was boring on foot noooo way. I wanna drive and run over people 
 but thats just me. I think there should have more missions where we could get on the war plane 
 and bombard everybody. OMG that was amazing. I wish i could play this game right now but my 360 
 is in repairs i cant wait. What would have been better is more destruction and suspense filled 
 missions. What an amazing game such a great game. i cant wait for COD5 and hopefully COD6. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OGTiago
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 27, 2008 3:23 pm PT
Review:  Let me start by thanking IW for returning as the developer of the COD series. I thought COD3 was 
 a bit of a letdown in a sense. The game just didn't feel as smooth as COD2. IW had a lot to do 
 with that. Treyarch just didn't hit like Infinity Ward did. But my goodness is COD4 back and better 
 then ever with IW. I have never gotten into a game as much as i have with COD4. The realism and 
 sense of being there is unlike any gaming experience i have ever been apart of. It's almost as 
 if i had joined the military or something. It's so incredibly intense and realistic.
  
  To start COD4 is not a perfect game, but it really comes damn near it. I continue to say that i 
 am sick of people just giving games a 10 or 0. Rate the game based on how it is and not by just 
 inputting a score. Games get devalued when people do this. I don't quite understand how anyone 
 would rate this game poorly.
  
  But anyway to start COD4 is a brilliantly mastered piece. It dominates on almost all phases of 
 the game and really steps up the bar for games to come.
  
  This game looks absolutely stunning. The menus and interface are clean and super easy to understand. 
 COD4 has built up quite a name for itself and it definitely doesn't dissapoint.
  
  COD4 will be debated as being the best looking game on the 360, and for a change i have to agree. 
 I do believe that to date COD4 is the best looking game available. But with that said COD4 is so 
 detailed and so incredible looking that you almost don't have time to really look at everything 
 because of how fast paced the game is. The attention to detail is something remarkable and excelled 
 tremendously. COD4 beats out Bioshock, Halo, and the Orange Box graphically on almost all levels. 
 While some will disagree with that, it truly isn't hard to understand or see why it is a better 
 looking game then the mentioned titles above. Graphically it has a very different feel, but i do 
 believe that it beats out the other titles. Graphically this game is absolutely stunning on all 
 levels. The lighting, bump-mapping, texture details, modeling, animation, and almost every graphical 
 aspect is incredibly well done. Major kudos to IW for returning on this title.
  
  I only have a few things to say about sound. This might be the best sounding game on the 360. I 
 shouldn't even say might, it IS the best sounding game on the 360. Surround sound blasted in volume 
 is something no other game can compete with. If you don't belive me then you aren't playing the 
 same game. When you are out on a mission and you hear constant screaming and talking and gun shots, 
 you would swear that you are there. Sound design in games is incredibly difficult to pull off! 
 While working in the industry i really appreciate the amount of sound design that has gone into 
 this game.
  
  Thank god IW is back and better then ever in this category. Last years game just felt different 
 with Treyarch. The game just didn't feel right to me. But this year IW is back and delivers the 
 punch that made COD2 game of the year material. Whether you are playing the campaign or multi the 
 gameplay is exactly what you would expect from IW. Dominate 60FPS and incredible variations in 
 animations really pull off some of the best gameplay in any game. H3 really has some company in 
 this category.
  
  The game rocks. Anyone who disagrees honestly either doesn't like the genre or doesn't give a crap 
 about games. The game is a masterpiece and deserves a buy instead of a rental. The game is packed 
 with loads of stuff to do and might just be enough of a game to beat out Halo. The game is dominate 
 on all aspects and is hands down a game of the year canidate.
  
  COD4 is one hell of a game. It packs realistic gameplay with kick ass weapons and super smart AI. 
 It blends together what might be one of the best FPS ever made. While the game isn't perfect it 
 still is enough to be quite possibly the best FPS ever. Some may disagree, but the realistic feel 
 and distinctive design really makes for one hell of a game. 
  According to the online menu, I have spent over 2 days playing just online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RichyRulez
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 27, 2008 3:03 pm PT
Review:  By no means is Call of Duty 4 perfect. That doesn't mean it can't be an awesome game. COD4 often 
 criticized because you can probably complete it in 5-10 hours, maybe shorter. Throughout the game 
 you get to play as two people, Sergeant Soap MacTavish, of the, SAS British Regiment and Sergeant 
 Paul Jackson, of the United States Marine Corps, Force Recon. However, that's probably on Regular 
 mode. Either I suck or I'm moderate. Honestly, I started on Veteran and purchased this game when 
 it was first released. And did not complete the campaign on veteran until early December. (That's 
 playing about an hour a day, going for all the achievements, IE: destroying all TV's, not getting 
 caught etc) So if it took me that long to complete it I don't see how other people can say it's 
 short unless they are playing like 10 hours or more a day. Oh, and good luck with that bonus mission 
 on veteran mode!
  
  I have to admit there were some glitches in the game. On the last level you have 7 minuets to complete 
 the mission, I don't know if it's different in veteran mode or not, but thats how I did it. Anyways, 
 sometimes I would not get a checkpoint, so I'd have to do areas over and over again. However, I 
 though maybe it was incorporated with the times I made it to a certain point. If you really get 
 into this game, the story is actually really good and you have some emotional moments, depending 
 on how into it you were, no I didn't cry.
  
  I don't think I need to even explain the graphics or sound for this game as they are obviously 
 excellent in all aspects. Well, if you have a garbage tv, and you're playing off of the speakers 
 on a TV, don't go crying to Activision that the sounds sucks. Save up some money, buy a nice 20" 
 or 42" tv and get a surround sound system. Get the most out of your 360!
  
  The controls, game engine and everything is basically the same as the previous Call of Duty games, 
 which has proved to work very well, so obviously the controls are great. The only thing is, sometimes 
 I wish all the game makers would come together and create universal controls for an FPS game. I'm 
 tired of throwing down my items on Halo 3 when I'm thinking I'm pressing the button to reload.
 
  
  If you're into playing a game at a harder mode, arcade modes and going through games again to get 
 achievements, then COD4 will be very repeatable for you, as arcade mode can be a challenge when 
 you get to those points where you will die multiple times. You might realize that in order to get 
 achievements for beating a mission you will need to play it on veteran. Also, you probably will 
 not find all of the collectible "intels" your first time unless you have a large sense of adventure.
 
  
  The multiplayer on COD4 is superb with only a few flaws. There are only a few maps to play on and 
 some of them get repetitive if you play for a prolonged period of time. However, if you want to 
 spice things up a bit, there are many different game modes, like Headquarters (CTF basically) , 
 Team Deathmatch, Free For All, Search and Destroy, etc. There are also many "challenges" to complete. 
 Some of them are silly like jumping out of buildings and such, but some of them take skill like; 
 getting "x" amount of headshots with certain guns. These challenges are not pointless as they will 
 give you experience. The random grenades are pretty bad too as people will throw them randomly 
 on small maps and they will explode in your face or at your feet, causing death. COD4 is probably 
 one of the most realistic FPS games I've played, as you don't need to empty an entire clip in order 
 to kill someone. A few well placed shots should do it. People say "Well if it only takes a few 
 good shots then noobs will be good!!!" well not true, you don't play this game like a mad man and 
 run into the open. There's something called "tactics" you know? Hide and shoot? Stay crouched? 
 Silencers? This game is not Halo 3 and should not be played like Halo 3. 
  
  In COD4, you create classes or can use the automatic ones. Classes consist of a main weapon (a rifle, 
 shotgun or machine gun) and secondary gun (your pistol, but if you level up to get a perk, you 
 can use another primary weapon) . You also get perks. This are like abilities, there are many of 
 them, some of them are "start with more ammo" or "you do more damage" etc. You can create a maximum 
 of 5 classes, which I think should be bigger. Much like Halo 3, you have levels and rank. Personally 
 I like the system better in COD4 because it bases your experience from the kills you get, rather 
 than the games you win. Therefore it's based more on your personal skill and you won't pay such 
 a heavy price if your team isn't very good. Through level ups you gain access to new guns and perks, 
 which there are a wide variety of guns to pick and choose, all with ups and downs. The only thing 
 that I would do to change this game is to make new maps which would be available for download in 
 the xbox live marketplace
  
  In the end, COD4 is a superb game that is realistic, very entertaining and something anyone can 
 pick up really quickly. With great controls, graphics and an excellent multiplayer, Call of Duty 
 4 Modern Warfare is definitely a game everyone should try and will be remembered.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: starstriker11
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 27, 2008 1:13 pm PT
Review:  The only thing that is wrong with this game is that it is too short.
  It is the best game ive ever played, and maybe even better than the one and only Gears of War.
 
  The graphics are incredible, the best ive seen on the xbox 360.
  The gameplay is the same, and using a sniper rifle and getting a headshot is just exhilarating. 
 There is a level on the game where you wear a ghillie suit making you nearly invisible, that being 
 my favourite level of the entire game, as you sneak through long grass and under cars past your 
 enemies towards your assassination target.
  The sound is also great, it is realistic and the music is decent, and the sound of grenades and 
 bullets and shouting at the same ime is incredible, exactly like war.
  This game is more than worth its money, it is purely amazing, and i would recommend it to everyone. 
 Youd be mad to pass it up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lamb-of-God
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 27, 2008 10:28 am PT
Review:  If you hate C. O. D. 1,2,&3 then good I am right there with you, but this game is amazing, it is 
 exactly what a revolutionizing game should be because it gives you so much to appreciate for months.
 
  
  First off, the one thing I noticed first was that it had brought back an old video game style I 
 had missed; That you have something to unlock other than achievements, such as getting intel to 
 unlock cheats, or leveling in multiplayer, it gives you back that feeling off complete to shred 
 with what you have obtained other than some achievement that says, "Hey I beat the Hardest level." 
 
  
  Secondly, about the multiplayer, its cool there is a ranksystem although there are several games 
 that do that, but it gives it a meaning too, its nice to level then shoot someone in the face with 
 your newly acquired sniper rifle. 
  
  And lastly, Campaign and multiplayer are both top-notch amazing, everyone and anyone who buys this 
 will have a blast calling in airstrikes and choppers to mow down the opposition, its a game that 
 was destined to PWN. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: njnaz765
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 26, 2008 11:35 pm PT
Review:  When the words, Call of Duty are muttered, one's mind can't help but think dismally back on storming 
 the beaches, Nazi's and Thompson machine guns and say, here we go again. But thanks to Infinity 
 Ward, World War 2 can finally end, unless your the Medal of Honor series, then no such luck. Call 
 of Duty 4 hurls you into the world of the present... ish. In this installment of the series, you 
 play as both an operative of the British SAS forces, and the American Marine Core. Through which 
 you will play through an assortment of different locales with a story that will do in the least, 
 drive you to completion.
  
  When it comes to sound, the Infinity Ward guys are no amateurs. We all know that explosions sound 
 great in just about every shooter, but this is a bit over the top. Every explosion sounds different 
 depending on what situation it is in. Lets use a grenade for example. Say a grenade goes off in 
 an open field, depending on how many obstructions, how far you are from it and when it explodes, 
 a sound will appropriately play. Say your in a closed corridor and some moron tosses a grenade, 
 the sound will be louder or softer depending what room your in and be more suppressed rather than 
 an all out boom fest. The game seems to have created some sort of video game sound wave technology. 
 Guns sound like they should, with plenty of bang, boom, and so on and so forth. The downfall here 
 is that in a multi player game, you will hear nothing but distant gun fire. At first I thought 
 that there was some epic battle going on in the distance, but it took me to just start a local 
 split screen game to realize that it is just ambient noise. In theory it is a good idea, but it 
 really doesn't help to hear gun fire and run out into the open like a dolt only to realize the 
 vast error of your ways and get sniped a quarter of a second later. Voice overs are top notch and 
 really help drive the game. Characters are just so lively and feel alive and make you forget that 
 they are fake. Meanwhile your guy huffs and puffs about while running, grunts appropriately and 
 pretty much thats his full vocal extent.
  
  If I say anything about the graphics, I think every reader will go ahead and skip this passage. 
 See, you've seen the videos, the screens and all of that, and everyone and there mother has probably 
 told you that these graphics will take real life, bend it over, and give it a reality check. So 
 instead of throwing my praise at at the graphics and telling you how amazing they are, I'm rather 
 going to nitpick. While the characters look phenomenal and all, you can't help but feel like they 
 were all a model at one point. Everyone looks like they just got drafted after they posed for a 
 magazine or something, they don't look too war torn. As for realism, the game may be too real, 
 in the sense that, you hardly know if thats a tree in the distance, or a sniper who has already 
 decided he is going to end your life. All in all, the graphics are stunning, like you had no idea 
 or something.
  
  Here is the interesting part though, the game looks amazing, sounds amazing, but let lightning 
 strike a third time, and yes, play amazingly. The controls are tight and responsive, while being 
 unforgiving and pointing a finger at you for your insolence if you die for being some ham handed 
 moron. The game will punish you if you run. Say you decide to be Master Chief for some odd reason, 
 aside from finding out how swiss cheese is made, you'll find that charging into any situation will 
 leave you open to attack and unable to holster your weapon as fast. A subtle thing yes, but subtle 
 enough to kill you dead. Once again, if I add one more word of praise to the millions of sacks 
 that contain them, we will have an overflowing mess on our hands. So to prevent this from happening, 
 lets go on to the game play flaws. Most of the gripes are in the multi player, but when it comes 
 to single player campaign, there are some issues. First of which being, you always seem to be out 
 maneuvered, as in, no matter how well you think you are covered, there is some jerk flanking you 
 just as you hunker down in supposed safety. Another thing is, why do some soldiers have a god-like 
 tolerance for bullets, it seems like you're fighting some sort of supermen whose kryptonite is 
 a clip of bullets, one short, and your out of luck.
  
  Now to move on to multi player. I know what the first complaint is out of every persons mouth will 
 be, and that is "martyrdom". Martyrdom is the ability to drop a grenade as you die, leaving any 
 corpse humping moron to die. Now, for those who complain about how cheap it is, I have but one 
 message for you, and that is shut up. Not because your whining is annoying, or you think its cheap, 
 or your web petition to ban it has gotten 100 signatures, not because of any of that. Because in 
 any situation, if martyrdom had gotten you a kill, you would jump around for glee and attest it 
 to skill when really it is the fault of the oblivious fool that killed you to stand around and 
 wait for death. Another thing is, people complain about the Halo 3 online community to be a bunch 
 of hooting, whining, prepubescent 12 year olds who have never had any other female interaction 
 than that of Cortana and DOA Volleyball. While this may be true in every aspect, I can't figure 
 out which is better, a bunch of whining little boys, or a bunch of whining old guys. Yeah, thats 
 right, Call Of Duty is infested with men who sit around all day, and complain about how "nOOb" 
 like it is to use an M16. Also, I am so glad that all of them have households infested with children 
 and a screaming wife. I know this not because they told me, but because I can hear them. For some 
 odd reason, you are able to hear every aspect of a person's life while they play this game. Why 
 do people feel the need to not pay attention to the game, and talk on their phone for a match or 
 three, letting us in on one half of a conversation? Was the mute button to hard to use that we 
 are punished by your inane ramblings. My last complaint goes out to the game itself. What is with 
 the matchmaking? If the creators of the game intended to isolate newer players, than mission accomplished. 
 Since no one realizes how easy it is to kill online, they nearly brick their pants when they see 
 a level 50 just chilling out in the lobby along with the rest of his man loving clan. I don't think 
 that this is the way to "hook" players into the game, by basically telling them, "man you are so 
 f****d!".
  
  Nitpickings aside, Call of Duty 4 is perhaps one of the most fun you'll have shooting things that 
 aren't you. Listen to me very closely, if you liked Halo 3, you may not like this, you are not 
 Rambo the Magnificent in this game, you are some guy, with a gun, who is going to get messed up 
 if he tries some crap like that. When it comes to shooting stuff, Call of Duty does the realistic 
 murder thing quite well. While the game could've have been better, this is one giagantor sized 
 step in the right direction. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: isthisnametakn
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 26, 2008 9:40 pm PT
Review:  As I recount on my first few brushings with Call of Duty 4, I find that my emotions are hard to 
 put into words. Perhaps if I illustrated it in a narrative I might be able to find a place to start. 
 Picture this:
  
  One fine, very fine, afternoon I was ravenously playing my favorite game of all times, Halo. Feasting 
 on the artistic beauty, the gorgeous landscapes, the magnificent scenery. My life was complete, 
 gorging on such superb game play. Everything was perfect; the guns, lighting, graphical design. 
 And then from behind, the hand of hype grabbed me by the neck, pulled me off my couch, and plunged 
 my head into the trough of mediocrity! 
  
  Ok so it wasn't that bad... and not as nearly corny. As you can see I gave this game a great score, 
 but you can relate. Good will always be good but stepping down to it from Heavenly may as well 
 be a free fall plummet into Hell. Seriously though, with personal preference and bias set aside, 
 Call of Duty 4 is actually a very good game. Now if my intro hasn't scared you off, I'd like to 
 get down to what makes this game so good.
  
  
  -- Graphics. Quite obviously this game is probably the best looking to date and if you're some 
 Neanderthalic thicky that's a sucker for shiny things, this may very well be the best game of all 
 times for you. The lighting and detail are superb. However, Infinity must have taken an "if it's 
 not key then don't even bother" mentality into making it. While everything that would be of interest 
 (assuming you're not on pot) is detailed down to the threads on a shoelace (figuratively) other 
 areas were done more poorly. Not that I'm going to stare at some pixilated, digital rendering of 
 a doorknob for eight hours, but I'm just saying... I don't do drugs!
  
  -- Plot. While the general idea has been reused and rehashed a hundred times, this game had some 
 unique changes and somehow managed not to drag you by your nose down the same clich terrorist 
 threat scenario. I actually liked that we revisited our old Commy friends; it seemed about time 
 we paid them some attention. Ignoring the fact that we're still waste deep in phlegm, I was beginning 
 to wonder if terrorism existed outside of the Middle East. For some reason that eludes me, the 
 scenario of a Russian rebellion strikes me as fascinating.
  
  --Theatrics. This game is so cinematic! Call of Duty had plenty of action with amazing firefights 
 and beautiful explosions. However, every so often you'd be going through an area where, you might 
 not be fighting, but there are things going on around you that help pull you into the plot. I've 
 had other gaming designers that tried to do the same thing (*cough* Valve *cough*!) but failed 
 miserably.
  
  -- Game play. Overall the shooting, mechanics, AI, etc. were all done very well. The enemies are 
 very smart. They rarely ever just stand in one spot. They're constantly moving, taking shots, and 
 taunting you. Sometimes they're really agressive and other times, they try to play sadistically 
 twisted waiting games with you. However, the friendly NPCs... there's a different story! Getting 
 in front, cutting you off, taking your shots. One time my squad literally boxed me in. The mechanics 
 play very well. I'm not too fond of fall damage but this game brings it to an acceptable level. 
 All the guns are cool and fun to shoot. There are many that overlap others as far as purpose but 
 for the most part, Infinity did a good job at giving us plenty of unique and individually satisfying 
 weapons.
  
  - Multiplayer. This game has a stellar multiplayer. Up to twelve people can play in a match. The 
 battles are intense and do a good job pulling you into a very life-like battle.
  
  
  Now that I've discussed the goods, let's focus a little on some of the stuff that weighs it down.
 
  
  - Longevity. This game is great and well worth the sixty bucks. However, It's wearing off fast. 
 I can't stand to play the MP for much more than a few hours straight, which is a bit of a step 
 down from the all-nighters that I'd pull with Halo. While the campaign was excellent, I can't really 
 see myslef going through it again. It's like they made a great game, but then they didn't do anything 
 to mix it up. You know how Halo has stuff like Forge, Metagame, Theater, etc. A saved films system 
 would have been awsome.
  
  - Repetetiveness. There just isn't much variety to the campaign or the Multiplayer. Some of the 
 Maps and story levels are unique and different looking but overall you're stuck in the same, old, 
 second-world, Russian towns. And the maps that try to add some variation just don't appeal to me. 
 The MP levels on the ship and at the silo base aren't that fun.
  
  - Realism. When I duck behind a wall, I want my enemy to have to duck behind after me. I'll get 
 chewed up for this, but it's just my opinion. I'm not a big fan of that stuff. Not to mention, 
 some of the gun's sites tend to be finicky. Once again, I know it's realistic, but it upsetts me 
 to no end when I place that little red POS dot they call a reticule as centered on some as I possibly 
 can, fire only one or two shots and miss. For the most part, realism runs parallel to balance, 
 those two instances aren't one of them.
  
  Anyways, take my personal prefrences with a grain of salt. I'm not trying to convince you that 
 red dot scopes suck. I'm just giving you my opinion and telling you a little about the game. After 
 all that's all I can give you. Disregarding my opinions, if the aspects I mentioned about the game 
 appeal to you, then I can vouch that Infinity did a good job at executing on that style of shooter. 
 However, even if what I said doesn't appeal to you, I still recommend that you at least try the 
 game. With its fault, Call of Duty 4 is still a great game and should not be overlooked.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fireheart555
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 26, 2008 8:51 pm PT
Review:  This is simply the best game I have ever played, even though the single player can fly by its not 
 all that short really, "Time flys when your having fun." Even after you beat the game, it is so 
 good, it will make you want to play it again and again until you have beat it on Veteran and you 
 have all the achievements. After that, now you get to experience the multiplayer, which brings 
 innovative new ideas to the table, like perks (Enhancements for wepons) such as stopping power (Increased 
 damage) and other such things. Also, there is the create a class option that lets you customise 
 the weapons, camo, and perks on different wepons in your arsenal. The game also has some of the 
 very best graphics to date in a first-person shooter, and controls that in manys opinion work better 
 than Halo 3's. I highly recomend this game to any X-Box 360 owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: H0LY_BL4D3R
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 26, 2008 4:54 pm PT
Review:  An exceptional game, a must buy for anyone who likes shooters and endless hours of online play! 
 Once you have completed the game you can try doing it again on Veteran, that is if you did not 
 try it on Veteran your first time. I've had the game since release and I'm still enjoying the fast-pace 
 action.
  
  I would of given the game a straight 10, but the 9.5 is due to the prestige mode. Basically you 
 get to level 55 and then you have a choice of doing a "Prestige" where you get a different badge... 
 There is 10 "Prestige" badges. The only downfall is that you lose all your weapons, Barracks challenges 
 and get nothing but a little badge next to your name, in return. If they would of given you a new 
 gun, new perks, etc then I would do a Prestige. I'm still on Level 55 (not done a Prestige) and 
 I don't plan to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oddfan13
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 27, 2008 8:21 am PT
Review:  Call Of Duty 4 successfully masters the two most important aspects of a next-gen FPS, realistic 
 and well thought out Single Player or Campaign mode, and an Online Mode that is amazingly fun and 
 addicting. The Single Player Mode is not only fast paced, but in some areas can be quite different 
 as apposed to ordinary war games where your objective (in the long run) is to shoot everyone and 
 then accomplish your objective. In Call Of Duty 4, you will use a vast array of various weapons 
 and tools, including some we haven't seen in previous games, (such as the stun and flash grenade) 
 to overtake your enemies as you push through the level towards your main goal, while accomplishing 
 side-objectives along the way. Although for some, this main goal may seem too similar to Call Of 
 Duty 3, or even Call Of Duty 2, the various arrangements of new weapons (all of which you can pick 
 up from dead enemies or fallen comrades) makes up for this common repetition, and with the addition 
 of "Perks" (Abilities you can add to your soldier) in multiplayer mode, the new types of maps and 
 the very improved graphics, almost every flaw has been overlooked from this game, and it is hard 
 to find it boring. The Multiplayer is nothing short of epic, with wide-scale games of up to 18 
 players in the "Ground War" matches, and 1 on 1 battles in "Cage Match." All the different types 
 of matches to choose from, new and improved maps that make you feel like you are really there, 
 the ability to earn ranks up to level 55 (each with it's own title) , unlocking guns and gun accessories 
 one by one, and the challenge features that make you keep playing as long as you possibly can, 
 make this game an instant classic. Xbox Live is easy to connected in this game, and not too many 
 hassles are required, the only problem is the occasional "Connection Interrupted" message, followed 
 by your character glitching uncontrollably, followed by a message saying "Server Connection Has 
 Timed Out." But considering how addicting online actually is, and how rarely this message comes 
 up as opposed to how many games you can play before it happens for the first time, it can be almost 
 completely overlooked. Every game has it's flaws, and though this problem is small, as much as 
 I like the game I will admit it is very annoying seeing as it causes you to immediately lose the 
 points you scored previous to this error, and due to the frustration it causes, so simply for this 
 reason only I will drop my rating from a perfect 10 to a 9.5. Either way, the game is amazing and 
 an experience many people will recommend. It is most certainly worth your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 3eyedrazorback
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 26, 2008 11:43 am PT
Review:  The creators to the Call of Duty series decided to switch it up with us gamers, and give us a taste 
 of "Modern Warfare." Let's just start by saying, it was a great idea on their behalf.
  
  Campaign.
  Starts off with a bang, and continues throughout the game with challenging aspects 
 to parts where you just want to throw your controller in frustration because you try repeatedly 
 on Veteran to get past a part... and you fail....... repeatedly. But, to the victor go the spoils. 
 After you beat it, you feel completely relieved and continue the game unto the next challenging 
 point. I must say though, no other game has frustrated me to the point of saying, "to hell with 
 it." Congrats CoD4. You did that! :) But I eventually made it through, beat the campaign. The visuals... stunning! 
 Best yet. Gameplay... smooth! Best yet. Sounds... amazing! Need I continue?
  Solid 9.5/10
  
  Multiplayer/Online.
  So in depth, that I was completely tempted to throw every other game 
 that I thought was better in the trash. From the upgrades you can make with your weapons, to the 
 perks, to the weapons you receive whenever you rank up to a certain point. Create a Class is the 
 best invention since television. Oh please be in the next installment!
  Solid 10/10 in Multiplayer. Don't hate me :)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xcKUN1Txc
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 26, 2008 9:48 am PT
Review:  Buy it. Now! Thats all that really needs to be said about this game. Great (yet shot) single player, 
 best class-based multiplayer on any system, and great production values all around make this one 
 of the best shooters of 2007 and all time. Aside from the usual multiplayer modes, Battlefield: 
 Bad Company will also include a fully fleshed out single-player mode, where you control of a squad 
 of renegade soldiers and infiltrate enemy territory to obtain riches as well as revenge. Conflict: 
 Denied Ops is a next-gen FPS set in volatile areas around the globe and features two player co-op. 
 EA's new next-gen action game features an emphasis on co-operative tactics - either with a friend 
 or using an AI partner. EA's new next-gen action game features an emphasis on co-operative tactics 
 - either with a friend or using an AI partner. EA's new next-gen action game features an emphasis 
 on co-operative tactics - either with a friend or using an AI partner. EA's new next-gen action 
 game features an emphasis on co-operative tactics - either with a friend or using an AI partner. 
 EA's new next-gen action game features an emphasis on co-operative tactics - either with a friend 
 or using an AI partner. EA's new next-gen action game features an emphasis on co-operative tactics 
 - either with a friend or using an AI partner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cradleofbodom
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 25, 2008 5:46 pm PT
Review:  I didn't think this game was going to be very good, so I waited awhile before buying it. Boy was 
 I wrong. I thought this game was going to be another halo rip off, but it's ALOT different. First 
 off, the controlls are a bit different, the graphics are alot better than halo 3 (halo 3 had same 
 as 2, just smoother) the badguys arn't as easy as they are in halo, because they hide behind stuff 
 and chuck s**t at you without your knowledge! It really gets on your nerves sometimes but I find 
 it funny. The game isn't easy, although the levels are short, they are challenging, even on normal 
 sometimes. Online matches are really different than halo, but there are alot more cheaters on it. 
 Like the old "hay let me get 9 kills on you and ill let you kill me 10 times" cheaters who just 
 want xp then quit, don't fall for this, my friend does it all the time (he's a total noob)
  
  Recomend buy for the 360, very good game, it's worth the hype going around, don't believe me, 
 try it and say its not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 8bitantichrist
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 25, 2008 3:21 pm PT
Review:  It seems like forever since the 360 was graced with a new Call of Duty (besides Treyarch's craptacular 
 CoD 3) , but Infinity Ward is fast proving themselves the masters of the First-Person Shooter. In 
 a year filled with The Orange Box, Halo 3, The Darkness, and BioShock, the fact that CoD 4 bests 
 them all is nothing short of staggering.
  
  A lot has happened in the field of warfare in the past 60-odd years, but IW made the transition 
 from World War II to modern-day combat incredibly smoothly. The game opens up with a simple tutorial 
 to get you set on the basics of aiming with or without your sights, using the new equipment like 
 flashbangs and your knife, and even puts you on a time trial to best determine the right difficulty 
 for you. After that, you're on a worldwide terrorist-hunting expedition to do everything from ending 
 a coup in the Middle East, rescuing informants, escorting tanks, and even fighting aboard an airplane 
 plummeting from 39,000 feet. Every step of the way you'll be treated to smooth, detailed graphics, 
 panicked battlefields, high-tech weapons and plenty of memorable moments. Nobody makes combat as 
 tense and brutal as Infinity Ward, and this one never lets off the gas. The only drawback to the 
 campaign is its relative brevity (around six to ten hours) , but you can always challenge yourself 
 with Veteran difficulty, and many of the levels are awesome enough to play over and over. Still, 
 some scenarios involve endlessly respawning enemies until you reach a certain point or accomplish 
 a particular goal, but for the most part these are forgivable given the brilliance of the overall 
 package.
  
  Multiplayer is where the biggest jump of all happened. Going from the antique weapons of WW II 
 to the fully automatic weapons of today was a huge challenge, but IW rose to the occasion and crafted 
 a unique, fast-paced, and highly entertaining experience. All the smoothness and audiovisual sweetness 
 from the campaign made it into multiplayer, and the (mostly) well-balanced new Perks for the Create-A-Class 
 feature make every match an opportunity to experiment, improvise, and adapt. It's about as compelling 
 and addicting as you can make an online FPS, and puts Rainbow Six Vegas and Halo 3 to shame with 
 a sheer wealth of possibilities. 
  
  I don't care what any Halo fan tells you, being no-scoped with a sniper rifle isn't "L337" or "PWNAGE", 
 it's cheap and ridiculous. Here you have to carefully draw a bead, hold your breath, and make the 
 shot count. That is, of course, after you've chosen a good spot, set Claymore mines to watch your 
 back (if you're smart) , and found a target. And choosing the right Perks won't hurt either. Sounds 
 more interesting than standing on a hill or hiding behind a rock, doesn't it? That one example 
 is only one of the reasons why this multiplayer has the depth and insanity to keep you hooked for 
 months, and no matter how you play your deathmatches, there are weapons and perks to support and 
 enhance it. Everyone who plays is bound to enjoy it, whether they're calling in an airstrike on 
 the enemy team's headquarters or desperately trying to get revenge on their killer with the Last 
 Stand perk. All the components come together perfectly.
  
  The superb balance achieved here only adds to Infinity's reputation, this absolute gem of a game, 
 and makes it the new benchmark for not just shooters, but video games as a whole. The first true 
 next-gen war has arrived. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: __Chris__
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 25, 2008 1:41 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is probably the best in the series. Its multiplayer and single player are both great 
 in this game. Its single is short but has a lot of action. The story plays out like a good movie 
 and you always want to know what happens next. It takes place in Russia and in the Middle East 
 where you play as Marines or British SAS. The only problem I saw with the campaign is that it was 
 short but they definitely went for quality over quantity.
  
  Multiplayer is also equally immersive and very addictive. Its maps are based off of levels from 
 the story and are very well designed. There are many different play modes in this game for different 
 game play. Multiplayer allows you to gain rank. The max rank is 55 and you can reset your rank 
 10 times once you reach 55. This adds many hours of game play trying to unlock weapons and gain 
 ranks.
  
  The graphics and sounds in this game are great. Everything has a lot of detail and the weapons 
 and voices sound like they should. I would recommend this game to anyone. I would say this game 
 is a 9.5.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pip0027
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 25, 2008 12:54 pm PT
Review:  I must say that this game has to be one of the greatest first person shooters out there. It is 
 so realistic and intense that you lose track of where you are. You will feel as if you are right 
 there fighting along the SAS or Marines. I couldnt beat the controller down when playing the single 
 player mood. It was short but that is not where the true meaning of the game comes into play. The 
 true gameplay is when you play online. THe realitic experience of the game is just so impressive 
 i cannot even begin to state how well this game was made. The game designers truely deserve the 
 credit for this game. Even the story is great which is really impressive for a first person shooter. 
 There are only so many words i can use to truley tell you how good this game was. I honestly think 
 this game can keep up with the halo series. I hope there are more games like this and other game 
 designers who are working on first person shooters take something out of this game cause it is 
 truely one of the best first person shooters out there and i would tell everyone to go and buy 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ahmedbilal1993
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 25, 2008 7:08 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty series has always been known for its ideas over the world war9esp. the world war 2) . 
 The series always featured intense yet old world war battles and we had to suffer the same over 
 and over again with the previous three games. Finally, it took a while for them to see the look 
 of people whenever world war 1 and 2 were mentioneed and so, the chefs brewed up a quality time 
 intersesting fast paced yet short first person shooter marinated with fresh ideas.
  
  As the name suggests it, Call of Duty 4 revolves around modern warfare focusing much on current 
 affairs and situations. Its a great game and what you will like most about it is how it sucks you 
 alongside with its interesting way of telling the story. One can carry only two weopens at a time 
 and so, he has to make a wise choice when selecting them. The graphics of this game have been have 
 been buffed up from its previous version and they look amazing on a next gen console. 
  
  Despite its strenghts, it is quite short for a call of duty game but its strength overides its 
 weakness. A MUST HAVE! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BurninNitrous
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 25, 2008 2:55 am PT
Review:  This is by far one of the best games I've played in a long time. Infinity Ward has really done 
 their homework during their planning stages. Realistic graphics, weapons, explosions, vehicles, 
 and characters. Campaign gameplay is extremely immersive and offers something for everyone, from 
 missions with an average, better-safe-than-sorry pace, to slow, stealthy approach types, to all-out-save-the-world 
 type missions complete with a timer and plenty of Oppostion Forces (OpFor) . The multiplayer alone 
 is something worth buying the game for. Jump in with all of your buddies and feel free either spit 
 lead in every direction or tactically take out (a. k. a. pwn) the other side. The only thing that 
 I miss is the Rainbow Six-style of taking cover while maintaining situational awareness. It can 
 get bothersome poking your head out on Veteran with the sights already up and getting sniped by 
 a guy 40 feet away with a pistol or, worse, an AK-47. All-in-all though this a game worth the money 
 and I certainly don't foresee a price drop anytime soon. Pure excellence.
  
  ~Rabbit
  Gamertag: SerialSniper15 
::::::

::::::
UserName: imafnpro
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 28, 2008 11:49 am PT
Review:  As perfect a shooter as ever one was made. Great sound, great graphics, great controls, balanced 
 weapons, beautiful and very playable maps... COD4 is the H3 for gamers over 15. Why 15? I'm tired 
 of hearing pre-pubescent voices cackle which fill the H3 rooms. After recording over 100 hours 
 online in COD4 I have yet to hear a single punk kid use the word noob.
  
  In addition to playing the multi-player for days on end I have played through the single player 
 twice as well as having logged many hours playing the COD4 arcade mode.
  
  If you haven't picked this game up and you aren't one of the afore mentioned punks do so today! 
 It's the best $60 I have ever spent on a game.
  
  Oh, and as I said, Bungie can take their stupid Recon armor and shove it. In COD4 there is much 
 to unlock. Never will you see the COD4 developers running around in special outfits as is the case 
 with the Bungie developers. Why, because the developers of COD4 gets it. You build games for the 
 community. Community... Hey Bungie... Your flaming heads... yep, you know where to put those as 
 well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LycanBane
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 24, 2008 8:21 pm PT
Review:  Where to begin with this review? I along with the average fan were waiting for this game plain 
 and simple. I mean, I myself haven't seen a game with so much substance and killer gameplay since 
 the original Golden Eye for N64. This game is literally from top to bottom a complete action packed 
 thrill ride. Not to mention a multiplayer that I'd alone fork 50 dollars for to play. 
  
  I remember reading many a magazine about this game a year back and eagerly anticipated it's release. 
 I in know way expected this game to be as good as it turned out. Just last week I put in COD 4 
 into my 360 when I meant to put Halo 3 and it was at that point I realized COD 4's Multiplayer 
 dominance over Halo 3. Don't get me wrong, Halo 3's online is a blast to play but the rankings 
 and skill gains in COD 4 are second to none. That and COD 4's realism is yet to be surpassed. I 
 feel deeply sorry for Activision/Infinity Ward when they have to follow up this gem with COD 5. 
 I'll be amazed at what they could do better with something this amazing. I'm not stating this game 
 is perfect, but thinking of flaws could take a while...... haha
  
  Once again I'm going to mention COD 4's dominance over Halo 3. In Halo 3's Multiplayer when you 
 want to gain experience you have to rank 3rd or higher in a multiplayer match. While in COD 4, 
 gaining experience is based purely on one's skill. Every kill you get goes towards your over all 
 experience and anytime you complete a challenge you also gain a hefty amount of experience. Which 
 is something you don't see in Halo 3. All do respect to the Chief, but COD 4's Multiplayer and 
 Campaign is simply the best, barnone. 
  
  As stated above, for me, finding any really con in this game comes hard. But here is the run down 
 of the Pro's and the Con's.
  
  Pros:
  
  1: Multiplayer: COD is an unmatched online experience like no other. Rankings, Tournaments, Rivalries, 
 Experience points... where can you go wrong?
  
  2: Campaign Gameplay: the Controls are still amazing. You have complete control over every aspect 
 of your character. The croutch buttons are still questionable but it in no way effects the controls. 
 
  
  3: Sound: Still has the top notch run and gun sound in past games but twice as symphonic. Turn 
 on your 5.1 and say farewell to loved ones.
  
  4. The Story: After that A bomb went off I was quite literally hooked to this game like a smoker 
 to nicotine. The ending is quite emotional but serves the over all purpose of it's WW3-esque feeling.
 
  
  
  All in all this game is a perfect FPS game and thankfully with it comes a great multiplayer experience. 
 That alone is a reason to pick this game up. So look at it this way, the story mode is nothing 
 more then a precursor to what you really should do with this game..... TAKE IT ONLINE!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SK64killer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 24, 2008 8:14 pm PT
Review:  The story mode is actually fantastic! it has to be one of this sickest games ive ever played... 
 the graphics are tight, they just cant get any better. this game is so realistic, i mean in real 
 life you get shot in the head your dead! just like in this game any weapon in the head its a one 
 shot one kill even through online multiplayer... did i already mention the graphics? because they 
 are tripin online too, theres a little change but still the graphics are still good. Online there 
 are 10 prestiges you gotta go through but the thing is that it keeps you into the game you never 
 wanna stop playin. and its not like halo boring either you get experience when you get a kill, 
 capture a flag, plant a bomb, kill a carrier, defuse a bomb, win a game, lose a game. and so on... 
 so that way everyone is happy! and i really think there is less trash talk in this game then halo... 
 call of duty 4 has all the mature kids and adults playing not any of the little kids that think 
 there so big because they can talk trash on there enternet... so i recommend this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theafiguy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 3, 2008 4:47 pm PT
Review:  Note: I do not hate Halo 3 and/or the Halo franchise. I use it simply as a comparison. Thank You.
 
  
  With a slew of WWII shooters still coming out, it was finally time for one of the kingpins of the 
 genre to step out of 1944 and move away from the overused forests of France. Infinity Ward's Call 
 of Duty franchise was the first to catch on to this, and in doing so they came out with one of 
 the best shooters of all time. 
  
  First off, the graphics are phenomenal. About 99% of Call of Duty 4 is so beautifully rendered 
 you will get lost just looking at random things throughout the levels. The character modeling is 
 still a little drab, but the environments and weapons look amazing. Explosions have never looked 
 so sweet. The lighting in the game is just awesome; everything is lit (or darkened) to just the 
 right amount. When it's time to use your night vision, the game just looks that much better (it 
 seriously looks like real NVG) . Some of the more entertaining graphical effects are actually harmful 
 to yourself. If you happen to die by a near-by grenade it will shift to the third person view and 
 show your character falling to the ground, which I think is pretty cool. Also, when you lose health 
 (it has been this way for a while now) you start to have a red glow appear around your screen; 
 when you're actually about to die it engulfs most of the screen which can add to the tension and 
 feel of the game.
  
  The sound in the game is brilliantly orchestrated as well. When you are near a firefight the guns 
 are blazing loud and very clear. If you hear a firefight in the distance then the shots will sound 
 more like cracks and it will be hard to distinguish where it's coming from and who is firing what. 
 The voice-over in the game is very well done, in both single and multiplayer. During the single 
 player game your team will have full on conversations with each other and keep you entertained 
 and informed. It also brings a more tactical sense to the overall game. In multiplayer your teammates 
 will tell you when they are re-loading, planting a claymore, and throwing grenades; which is a 
 nice touch that another game ::cough cough::Halo 3::cough cough:: should have implemented. Even 
 the vehicles in the game are well recorded and sound very much like their real-life fathers. 
 
  
  The controls in the game are well constructed as well; although I'm not sure if it the best scheme 
 in the world. All of the commands are very well adjusted and placed in a well balanced fashion; 
 although some purists would say otherwise. Firing the weapons throughout CoD4 felt very intuitive 
 and natural; there were very few guns that I had to actually take time and work with. Grenades 
 did feel a little awkward compared to older Call of Duty games, but after you get the hang of it 
 it's really quite simple. Moving around your maps was nicely done, although when you aren't sprinting 
 you feel like you're moving at .02 mph. Sprinting is a nice gimmick but the deal with it is that 
 you click the left stick down and you just keep running until you run out of energy or you pull 
 back. It would have been a better move to have you hold the stick down; which would have also added 
 to the point of not using your weapons while sprinting. 
  
  The single player game is one of the best in the Call of Duty series, but it's also one of the 
 shortest. Although there are technically many missions, they are about 10-15 minutes long at the 
 longest. Vets of the series should be able to blow through the single player in about 4-5 hours. 
 The story of the campaign is very well constructed, leading off with a president being assassinated 
 and your informant being held hostage. Going through different parts of Russia, Ukraine, Azerbaijan, 
 and Saudi Arabia was a very fun experience. The level design was very well done and very few parts 
 felt linear (although they technically were) , which left me in awe. Your squad-mates aren't the 
 brightest crayons in the box, but they are smarted than your typical ally AI; they move around 
 enough to dodge fire and do provide very good suppressing fire. The objectives throughout the game 
 are fairly clich; go find him, man this gun, kill this guy, plant this explosive, etc. It lies 
 more in the execution of this objectives that really catches the attention. The campaign in Call 
 of Duty 4 is probably the best single-player FPS that I've ever played.
  
  The multiplayer, this is a very sensitive subject. Everyone relates every other Xbox Live interface 
 with Halo 3; however.... I find that CoD4's online multiplayer is not only more rewarding, but significantly 
 more in depth as well. Halo 3 has better matchmaking, sure, but CoD4 actually gives you things 
 besides meaningless ranks when you level up. You start at level 1 with only the basic classes and 
 weapons that you can work with, once you reach level 4 you can create your own class. Choose whatever 
 weapons, "perks" (which are pretty much just abilities) and attachments to your guns. The catch 
 is though, you have to continue to level up to earn more guns, attachments, and perks. Thus even 
 though you have the ability to use create-a-class, that doesn't meant that's it. With almost every 
 level something new is unlocked, and leveling up doesn't take all that long either. You also have 
 challenges with each gun that you get which helps you unlock attachments (scopes and silencers) 
 and new forms of camouflage for the gun.
  
  The actual online matches in CoD4 are far more intense than that of Halo 3; the reason being... it 
 doesn't take 24 shots to kill someone. You can typically take someone down on CoD4 with about 2-3 
 bursts from an M16A2; and around 10 shots with some of the faster firing weapons. You respawn quicker 
 and you can change your class at any time in the match; which means you aren't limited to just 
 one starting weapon. A big thing for people as well is that you do get credit for assists in CoD4; 
 unlike most other online shooters. A normal kill gets you 10 exp, while an assist gets you 2 exp; 
 it's not much but it can help add up. The game variants are also well constructed and balanced 
 as well; not one game feels like the other team has the total advantage. During matches you also 
 have the ability to call in recon helicopters to provide radar (yea, it doesn't just stay there 
 the whole time) , air-strikes on held-up buildings, and helicopters to roam the levels and take 
 down your enemies. 
  
  The maps in the game are very well constructed, although some of them could have definately been 
 left out (Wet Work) . There are levels that cater to every different kind of person; as in snipers, 
 LMG lovers, and full out assault maps. Although, not having the ability to change anything on the 
 map is a little lame going from Halo 3 where you have almost 100% customization. 
  
  The thing that is noticabely absent from CoD4's online play is any form of match where you are 
 paired only with people that are within your rank range; which means that several times you will 
 be placed in matches where you can get completely annhilated. This is going to make it difficult 
 to get into at first for some new players, although after you get the hang of it you do get better 
 at the game. Another thing that would have been nice is if Infinity Ward had taken the nod from 
 Halo 3 and added a Theatre kind of deal in there. Being able to watch some of the better snipes, 
 or look back on some of the more mysterious deaths would have been nice. 
  
  
  There are very few flaws with Call of Duty 4; some minor graphical issues (I swear that some of 
 the foliage looks like poorly rendered foil) and other minor control issues, but nothing to really 
 debunk the overall game experience. If you aren't a huge modern shooter fan or an online junkie 
 then this game probably isn't for you, but if you're looking for a longer-lasting and more intense 
 remedy to Halo 3 then this is perfect. Both games are amazing in their style, but Call of Duty 
 4 just happened to do a few things a little bit better. So if you have a 360 and you have money 
 lying around, then you should go pick this game up as soon as possible.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: danalfmon
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 24, 2008 3:53 pm PT
Review:  Pros: Great Graphics, reasonably good A. I., Multiplayer, and a good story.
  Cons: LENGTH, weird latter level design.
  
  
  The Goood:
  CoD: MW is a fantastic game. The 
 graphics a re really good I only have a few other games that have such a high level of detail. 
 The A. I. is not the best I've seen but on the majority of the difficulties it will be good enough. 
 MULTIPLAYER is pretty much the only reason I still play, NOT to knock on Halo 3 but CoD: MW has 
 one thing better: a much better maturity level. The stroy is really well written and doesn't leave 
 any loopholes.
  
  
  The Bad:
  This has to be the shortest game in my collection. I mean it could take a round 5-6 hours to complete 
 on regular. The latter missions more like Act 3 has levels that are so small it makes no sense 
 to me. Act 1 levels a re much larger than Act 3's. Probably due to time constraints or something 
 it just brings questions to mind.
  
  Now go deep and hard! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sharvie
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 21, 2008 3:22 pm PT
Review:  Infinity Ward has finished with the World War II era and has finally embraced a modern twist. The 
 game brings the superb gameplay of past Call of Duty games and throws in a crazy blend of more 
 technologically advanced weaponry and a new refined story to match -- and it works extremely well.
 
  
  Call of Duty 4 has one of the most interesting singe-player campaigns in a FPS. The single-player 
 will put you in the shoes of a British S. A. S soldier and a American Marine, each with their own 
 story where shocking events will arise along with some seriously jaw-dropping moments. The campaign 
 will leave you out of breadth from the very start to the very end -- no matter how short it may be. 
 The campaign is frustratingly short for such an excellent story, most gamers accustomed to FPS 
 will be able to compete the campaign in around five hours on the easier difficulty. Needless to 
 say, the action and gameplay make the short campaign a very enjoyable experience.
  
  The gameplay in Call of Duty 4 is very much like previous Call of Duty games. You have a compass 
 at the bottom left of the screen with objectives marked and you must make your way to these objectives 
 with your AI controlled comrades. Something Call of Duty 4 does very well is your interactivity 
 with your team, each man has their own personality and will offer tactical information on enemy 
 positions and help you in completing your objectives. Your objectives will take you deep into enemy 
 territory in the Middle-East repelling rebel ambushes and to the cold of Russia partaking in Special 
 Ops missions. Even though the campaign is painstakingly short, you'll not want the experience to 
 end there.
  
  However the excellent multiplayer certainly makes up for the lack of singleplayer action. Up to 
 18 players can get into a match on one of 16 equally different maps varying for a more sniper-friendly 
 landscape to wild grenade pounding and manic shooting maps. There are also six game maps to choose 
 from. There is the familiar team death match and free-for-all deathmatch, also the more objective 
 orientated maps like headquarters. Call of Duty 4 also gives players the choice to tackle more 
 hardcore modes like disabling the HUD but making weapons more powerful -- if you dare to try these 
 modes.
  
  The multiplayer adds more tactical abilities for the skilled players among you. For three kills 
 you will be granted UAV support which will highlight all enemy position on your HUD, for 5 kills 
 you will receive an airstrike on any position on the map, and finally if you reach a seven kill 
 streak without dying you will receive helicopter support for a period of time. This helicopter 
 is AI controlled but will circle the map shooting down any enemies it comes into contact with, 
 though enemies can shoot it down but it will take a fair beating before it does. All these add 
 a little more variety to online play and gives you some rewards for owning the battlefield.
  
  Playing the multiplayer does not go without rewards. Every time you get a kill, capture an 
 objective, call in air support and completing challenges gives you experience which will help you 
 to rise up the military ranks in multiplayer. Ranking up will unlock various weapons and challenges 
 to complete which will help you gain a lot of XP points to go toward ranking up.
  
  The class feature on Call of Duty 4 is also very interesting. Each class has their own pros and 
 cons, much like the classes in Call of Duty 3. However Infinity Ward have evolved this and added 
 perks to these classes which offer some variety to them. As you rank up you will have the ability 
 to create your own class. This allows you to pick your primary weapon, your sidearm, weapon attachments, 
 what grenades you carry and 3 perks. The perks are split into 3 categories to which you can choose 
 and you can unlock more perks as you rank higher. This system gives some variety to the game as 
 no player rarely has the exact same character and offers a wide variety to create a class which 
 suits your style of play.
  
  The perks system is very customisable. Perk number 1 is orientated around explosives, letting you 
 choose from RPGs, claymores and even more frag or flashbang grenades. The other perks are more 
 miscellaneous, but never-the-less important. They include cool things like increased ammunition, 
 the ability to hold your breadth longer when sniping and dropping a live grenades as you die. The 
 different perks vary for what ever tactics you choose to opt for but is great fun mixing and matching 
 between each perk.
  
  Not only does Call of Duty 4 have an exciting singleplayer and multiplayer, but it also has top 
 class graphics. Levels are beautifully rendered, especially those in the Middle-East and effects 
 such as explosions and smoke are superbly crafted to near perfection. Even the multiplayer maps 
 are stunning and full of life -- or what was left of it. The sound value of Call of Duty 4 is also 
 top-notch. Guns sound crisp and realistically terrifying, explosions are also equally scary and 
 you really feel like you're in the middle of a battle, fighting for your life. The voice acting 
 is great too from the humorous banter of your squad in the cutscenes to the serious cries of communication 
 during gameplay.
  
  Call of Duty 4 is an excellent FPS with a superb, but speedy singleplayer campaign, however the 
 multiplayer is where the heart of the game is. It offers plenty of choice and is a lot of fun to 
 play from exciting modes and maps which will keep you entertained for a very long time to come. a 
 very long time to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: excileEVK
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 24, 2008 3:20 pm PT
Review:  Many questioned Infinity Ward when they announced that the new Call of Duty game would not be set 
 in a past world war. Instead it would be set in modern times, hence the title Call of Duty 4: Modern 
 Warfare. After Call of Duty 2, Treyarch and Pi Studios developed COD3, and to be honest it didn't 
 really live up to the previous game. COD4 however really has surprised me a lot!
  
  Modern Warfare equals for modern weapons, modern environments and the most realistic warfare experience 
 any Call of Duty game to date. To get the full experience out of this game however, you're going 
 to need a pretty decent PC, that's why I chose the Xbox 360 version. The graphics are incredible. 
 Next generation games continue to impress me with the technology still developing, and I think 
 it's going to take some effort to beat Call of Duty 4's graphics. They have held back on nothing, 
 I got the impression from Call of Duty 2 that they got a little lazy with the graphics towards 
 the end of the game. The characters look almost realistic; they have fine tuned the animation and 
 got it spot on, there are no more jerky transitions between each animation. The levels are equally 
 as impressive there is so much open space which makes you think carefully about were the next cover 
 spot is and how you're going to get there without being killed.
  
  A lot of people have been complaining about the games length, if you play it how it's meant to 
 be played, on veteran, then the game lasts MUCH longer. Besides you get can get around 900 gamer 
 points just by completing the game on Veteran. I think that Veteran difficult is the best to play 
 anyway because again, it makes you think about what you have to do in order to defeat the enemy 
 and stay alive. As for the games storyline, there is only one word which can describe it well enough, 
 incredible. Never before have I seen so much raw emotion and appeal towards the characters in a 
 game. You play mainly as two people throughout the game, Sergeant John "Soap" MacTavish and Sergeant 
 Paul Jackson. Sergeant John "Soap" MacTavish has been enlisted for duty with the 22nd SAS Regiment 
 under the command of Captain Price (You may recognize the Captain Price character from COD2) . Sergeant 
 Paul Jackson is part of the USMC 1st Force Recon squad and for the most part leads his team into 
 battle. The best part about the storyline is how both characters storylines has an effect on the 
 other, even though they never meet each other. You also play small parts of the game as other characters; 
 you play 3 missions as Captain Price. Captain Price's storyline is set about 10 years before the 
 present date and acts as a flashback; he is a Lieutenant sniper with his commander Captain MacMillan. 
 Together they team up in a very stealthy mission which is the best in the game.
  
  The multiplayer is the best part of the game by far. You start off at rank 1 and you have to level 
 up by gaining experience points in multiplayer matches. The player gains experience points by killing 
 enemies, planting/defusing bombs as well as completing an extensive list of challenges. As the 
 player levels up they unlock new weapons, challenges and game modes. The highest rank is 55, which 
 is a general, and at that point you get a choice to restart all over again. This may seem a little 
 stupid because you getting rid of your great weapons, but they reward you with a unique symbol 
 depending on how many times you have re-restarted the ranks. This gives you a chance to unlock 
 all the challenges and get the experience points all over again. This defiantly does add alot of 
 longevity to the game because you can do this up to 10 times, by that time you get a very cool 
 medal of honour styled badge by your name.
  
  This is the best game I have played to date; no joke it's incredible. Infinity Ward has got some 
 work to do if they want to make a better game after this one. It's the best FPS out there, way 
 better than Halo 3 (which I will be putting a review up that game soon) . The single player has 
 a very compelling storyline which drags you in. The Multiplayer, in my opinion, is the best Online 
 FPS to date. Together it makes the most action packed and realistic gaming experience ever. If 
 you're thinking about getting this game, stop thinking, get to your nearest game retailer and get 
 it as soon as you possibly can because you will not regret your purchase.
  
  Breakdown of scores:
  
  Graphics: 10/10  Incredible
  Sound: 10/10  Perfect, absolutely 
 spot on
  Game play: 10/10  So much to do in both single player and multiplayer 
  Value: 10/10  Even if you have to play the full retail price, this game offers a priceless gaming 
 experience
  Reviewer's Tilt: 10/10  I am hooked on this game, and for a good reason. Hands down best game 
 of 2007
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mergedsalem23
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 23, 2008 8:22 pm PT
Review:  No fps comes close to the multiplayer action not even rainbow six vegas. Rainbow six is a good 
 game the multiplayer is awersome when I first played it. Now that I got a copy of call of duty 
 4 I played nothing like it. The single mode is awersome, but the multiplayer is something else. 
 I got my whole family playing the game. My uncle was in the military and he hate video games he 
 ask me they are destroying youth, and make us spoil and lazy, so he sat next to me on the couch 
 while I was playing call of duty 4. His reaction was his eyes balls got real big, and I ask him 
 was he alright, and didnt say a word he look real scary I thought he was having a stroke so got 
 up went in the kitchen to call 911, and I walk back in the living room my uncle had took over my 
 game. Ever since then me and him and my cousin play cod4 to death, we even got cod4 family night. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkstar_Sinada
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 23, 2008 5:15 pm PT
Review:  With Halo 3 released in 2007, most people expected that to be the major shooter of the year. Now 
 I've been a fan of the Call of Duty series, but mainly the single player. When Call of Duty 4 details 
 began emerging, I knew I would buy it for that reason. However, not many expected a multiplayer 
 experience as deep, addicting and rewarding as Infinity Ward provided.
  
  Call of Duty 4 was hands-down, the best shooter of 07 for me.
  
  STORY: Call of Duty 4 is the 
 first game in the series to break away from World War II. I'll admit, at first I was kinda worried 
 about that. I'm not a huge fan of modern games like Ghost Recon, but Call of Duty 4 does a good 
 job of bringing the same excellent story-telling into the 21st century.
  
  The story has you play as a character from the English and American forces, and pits you against 
 the Russians and Middle-Eastern forces. The missions range from rescue, to storming buildings searching 
 for people, to an amazing stealth/sniper mission. All of them are rather unique, some are rather 
 short though.
  
  You'll probably have to play through the campaign a few times to link together the chain of events, 
 but since there is multiple difficulties and the game clocks in easily under 10 hours, that's no 
 big deal.
  
  GAMEPLAY: First off, the single player plays much like Call of Duty 2. You go from one objective 
 to the next, killing people and forgetting names. Some missions are different, one has you controlling 
 a huge ship than blasts everything to bits, and you can't be touched. Still, the gameplay is rather 
 linear. No shock to anyone who's played through most FPS campaigns.
  
  There are your standard guns, pistols, machineguns, snipers, rifles, etc. You also have grenades, 
 along with flash-bangs, stuns, and smokes. Really, normal stuff. But the campaign does a good job 
 of feeling epic and intense. 
  
  As I stated before, the multiplayer hit me by surprise. There are tons of gametypes, from deathmatch 
 and free-for-all to bomb game modes and holding points. Much like the Halo series, you have a level. 
 This level is from 1-55, but unlike Halo, it really only goes up. You gain experience from killing, 
 assisting, holding objectives, and just playing the game. 
  
  The big addiction here comes with what happens when you level up. You first unlock the ability 
 to create a class. You can choose primary gun, secondary gun and grenade, and 3 perks. Perks are 
 little bonuses that help you out, such as extra damage, more life, radar-jamming and longer sprinting. 
 In combination with all of the guns, they give you a unique gameplay.
  
  Next you unlock challenges, which are tasks you can complete for rewards. Most of the rewards are 
 more experience points, but some are scopes, silencers, etc. for the guns you've been murdering 
 people with. You can also unlock better looking camoflouge for said guns.
  
  So when you hit level 55, you have everything. However, you can drop back to Level 1 (aka Prestige) 
 and gain a special symbol. This way, you can keep leveling, and getting rewards. Players can do 
 this up to 10 times, each time getting a new symbol. This little touch keeps the game from getting 
 stale after hours of sitting at level 55.
  
  GRAPHICS: What can I say here? Photorealistic. Seriously, Call of Duty 4 is a beast, most of the 
 time the game takes your breath away. Smoke effects, gun graphics, explosions, animations, they 
 all look triple A. Just see for yourself.
  
  SOUND/MUSIC: Eh, there is not too much music. Sound effects are all on par. Bullets wizzing by 
 your head is a highlight, as is the little "pfft" when you hit an enemy in multiplayer. Voice-acting 
 is superb in the campaign also.
  
  A few complaints: offline multiplayer. You can play 4-player splitscreen, which is always welcome. 
 However, system-link (1-18 players) is only one person per console. WHAT?!?! Who LANs 18 xboxs? 
 If they would have allowed 4-player per xbox for system link, I wouldn't be playing Halo 3 at LANs. 
 Oh well, can't have perfection.
  
  OVERALL: Amazing. Great single player that's the trademark of CoD series. Add that with some addicting, 
 intense multiplayer, and you have an A+ shooter. Must buy for those who love some good, clean, 
 killing competition.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: alexruss2007
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 23, 2008 3:25 pm PT
Review:  From the moment you insert Call Of Duty 4 into your 360, you are guaranteed a hell of a ride. I 
 never played any of the other Call Of Duty games, getting this simply due to the ranging hype surrounding 
 it and the fact the graphics looked fantastic.
  
  Firstly, whilst many people say the game is short I urge you to complete the game on the most intense 
 difficulty (Veteran) and then say that. If you like blasting through a game then you can finish 
 Modern Warfare in about 5 hours on Regular. But crank the difficulty up to Hardened or Veteran 
 and you must prepare for a tactical warzone which will take you between 10 and 15 hours to complete, 
 depending on your skill - the very final level, and I won't spoil it for anyone, was for me the 
 most insanely difficult level to complete (when playing on Veteran) .
  
  Next, the graphics. One word: phenonemal. They are sheer beauty, gripping you with their look and 
 making you become absorbed in the world of modern conflict. Admittedly, as in all games, there 
 are areas that could do with a little polishing up, but overall the weapons look realistic, the 
 characters life-like, and the explosions and bullets do the damage you would expect them to do, 
 i. e. massive fireballs thats send smoke waves into the air.
  
  Gameplay wise I can't compare it to any other CoD games. But it is truly amazing, easily ranking 
 up their with Bioshock, Halo and Gears of War. Its hard to explain how much it makes you feel as 
 though you are actually in a war, but everybody acts in their own way and you don't feel as though 
 you are alone in the war as you do with Medal of Honor. Squad mates shout 'Cover me, I'm reloading!', 
 and if you don't they're dead. That being said they know how to shoot a rifle, and are a huge asset 
 in clearing areas full of the enemy.
  
  The plot is reasonably simplistic, and whilst some have compared it to the series 24, I've never 
 seen that and so won't comment. It's your typical war scenario, but I won't go into details for 
 those of you who prefer not hear anything about the plot before they play it. Needless to say, 
 however, that there are going to be a lot of people dying...
  
  Multiplayer is, honestly, awesome. With new ranks, unlockable weapons, customisable classes, and 
 perks (i. e. drop a grenade when you die, perform your Last Stand and square off again the man who 
 is about to kill you or reload twice as fast) you have more incentive to continue playing than 
 you do with, say, Halo (an amazing game in its own right) . Modes are constantly being updated to 
 remain fresh, and hopefully more multiplayer maps will become available through Live Marketplace 
 as time goes by.
  
  Overall, I seriously recommend buying this. If you have doubts about paying full price for a potentially 
 5 hour single-player experience, just jack the difficulty up to Veteran and it will keep you 'amused' 
 for much longer. It is a truly rich experience, and one not to be missed on your 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shootingrobot98
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 2, 2009 3:02 pm PT
Review:  This is the highly anticipated sequel to the crapsterpiece CoD 3, but it is not the "best game 
 ever" as most kids in my school say. This game is nothing but Marine Corps propaganda (and very 
 good at it, as it appears at my school) and a completely false idea. The game also has an unbalanced 
 and frustating mulitplayer, that throws the false and very short campaign out the window.
  
  What most people think otherwise, this game's graphics are downright ugly when looked at close-up. 
 Sound effects are pretty good, and that is one of few strengths of this game. The campaign, which 
 is ridiculously short, is completely false and functions as nothing more than U. S. Marine Corps 
 propaganda. In fact, the game is so popular at my school, that several people I know want to join 
 the Marine Corps instead of going of going to college. It almost seems like the recruitment wing 
 of the military contacted Infinity Ward to make a game that will fool video-game obssessed teenagers 
 into joining the Marine Corps. Besides, it overall glorifies the War on Terror, with making Insurgents 
 that will normally sneak up on you and fire off a few rounds or throw an IED instead run up to 
 you guns-a-blazing like the Germans in previous games. This will seriously mislead people about 
 what really happens in these conflicts.
  
  Combined with the campaign, the unbalanced multiplayer makes the game even worse. There are only 
 three weapons people use in the multiplayer: the M16, the M60, and M82. And with the ever-annoying 
 Martydom perk, this just ruins whatever is left of the fun factor. I got off the multiplayer after 
 just a month of play, just because it was just that frustating. This game has also fallen victim 
 to the "LIVE syndrome", which apperently gives videogame developers an excuse for a crap or short 
 single-player by making up for a good multiplayer. I look past the multiplayer, and see this just 
 about everywhere. This game didn't even have a fun or addictive multiplayer, so nothing more can 
 be done to be saved.
  
  Personally, the game should have stuck with World War II. It's better to make a combat simulation 
 of something that happened already rather than falsify something going on right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeroxin
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 22, 2008 5:52 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is probably overall one of the most fun games I've ever played. Down side is the 
 Campaign is pretty short although it covers quite a lot with a pretty amazing plot. This game in 
 my opinion the best game of they year, people from almost every age place Call of Duty 4, I have 
 played with from a 5 year old to a 55 year old. There are a few downsides, no game is perfect. 
 Sometimes it can be very laggy on Xbox Live, but it seems to be getting better. Prestige mode is 
 a great new idea but some people get kind of stressed having to get all there guns back, yes I 
 know what your thinking, you can just stay level 55 but a lot of people think that there not going 
 to be good if they don't do prestige. Well that's it overall this is my favorite game and it is 
 a great game. If you were someone who has never played call of duty 4 it is 100% worth trying. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thewtfpwner
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 22, 2008 3:39 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 continues the line of excellence that the Call of Duty series has set. Apparently 
 Infinity Ward realized that there are more WWII games than gamers, and has moved on to modern times. 
 While some may have been hesitant of this decision, it has payed off.
  
  Call of Duty 4 delivers one of the best single player experiences in it's genre yet. It never has 
 a dull moment, always propelling you toward a new objective, whether you be on foot, on the back 
 of a truck, or in a AC-130. You alternate back and forth between controlling Sergeant John "Soap" 
 MacTavish, a member of 22nd SAS Regiment, and Sergeant Paul Jackson, a marine. There is a nice 
 variety of locales, from the arid desert of the Middle-East to the small town settings of Russia. 
 Single player missions can consist of assaulting a sea barge, rescuing a captured comrade, and 
 assassinating an enemy leader. The campaign mode is full of exciting moments and plot twists, and 
 will always leave your adrenaline pumping in between levels. Call of Duty 4 has one of the best 
 single player experiences in an FPS to date.
  
  Along with the stellar single player experience comes one of the best multiplayer experiences yet. 
 The sheer amount of game modes is staggering, 9 modes on the PC, 13 on consoles. One of the main 
 draws of multiplayer is the ranking system. You begin at level one, and work your way up to level 
 55, unlocking challenges (they're like achievements, but award you experience) , weapons, and perks 
 (examples of perks are a faster reload time or more health) along the way. Prestige Mode allows 
 you to start over at level one and play back to 55 up to 10 times. Each time you start a new prestige 
 mode you get a new insignia. Multi player is well balanced and is a lot of fun.
  
  The graphics of Call of Duty 4 are also amazing. AI is generally smart, though there are some rough 
 patches. Music and sound are also quite good. My one gripe about this game is the fact that you 
 can't have multiple people playing online on a single console, like you could in previous Call 
 of Duty games.
  
  All in all, Call of Duty 4 is one of the best games in the world. It has a solid (though short) 
 single player experience and an amazing multiplayer one. Any fan of the the Call of Duty series, 
 or first person shooters in general, should definitely give this game a look. Given the choice, 
 I would recommend purchasing the console version for access to more multiplayer modes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: imacritic814
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 22, 2008 1:46 pm PT
Review:  Fun, and the best Call Of Duty yet! Weapons have changed for more thrilling combat, but soldiers 
 are the same hardcore tough men. I started playing this game at my friend's house, and was amazed 
 on how it worked! It was fun on multiplayer, and I kept on begging for more. The weapons and maps 
 are sweet, and on X-Box live, its just INSANE!
  
  Fun multiplayer
  Modern weapons for intense combat
  Strong graphics
  Very realistic
  The best in the whole 
 Call Of Duty series!
  
  I just loved playing this game. It was very enjoyable, but the campaign wasn't really good. It 
 wasn't exactly exciting, but multiplayer and gameplay plus graphics make up for it big time! Hope 
 you all play this game too, because its an awesome first-person shooter! 
  
  9.5/10 This game definetly deserves a great and high score, and here it is! If the campaign was 
 better, this game would be perfect! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killer_Prey
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 22, 2008 9:34 am PT
Review:  Hate To say it.... That this is Better Then Halo!!
  
  For me ever since Halo 3 came out, i was really excited for it, but it only lasted for a week! 
 But now, COD 4 is so much butter then Halo, So it wants to make me throw Halo across the room for 
 it's instead boredom!
  
  Story: You play as a SAS and a US Marine. Were you are to stop a terrorist from launching a nuke 
 on the whole world.
  
  Graphics: The best looking game to come out in 07.
  
  Gameplay: The feel of the controls are handled perfectly, which means that ever fps to come out 
 should have the configuration the way Cod 4 does it.
  
  Sound: The sound of the game is just making you feel that you're in actual war
  
  Multiplayer: 
 The best multiplayer game to play overall others. The use of customizing weapon classes, camo, 
 attachments, and the use of perks and challenges, just makes the multiplayer side of the game re-playable.
 
  
  The Good: Solid Storyline, weapons, not WWII, voice acting, surrounds you with a feeling of that 
 your in war, Great multiplayer ever made period.
  
  The Bad: Short story, No multiplayer achievements, LOTS of Campers in multiplayer.
  
  Overall: 
 Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare should be known as both the best first person shooter and game of 
 the year in 2007. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: daveon_mako
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 22, 2008 7:05 am PT
Review:  The single player game has some of the best moments in gaming I have ever come across, the Ghillies 
 in the Mist level is THE best level I have played ever.
  
  The controls are tight and well laid out, the issues with the single player game are minimal, i. e. 
 your squad mates will often wait for you before advancing, so if you are providing sniper cover 
 for their assault, it will not happen till you come and lead the assault. The single player side 
 of the game has also been critisised for being too short, however, this could well be to encourage 
 you to play the online side of the game, and this is where COD4 excels.
  
  The online play is excellent, anything from tense to frantic. There are lots of game types and 
 rather than encourage gamerpoint chasing they has added challenges which provide you with something 
 to play for to keep you interest and encourage you to try new weapons and different play styles.
 
  
  All in all a very rounded game, which looks great and plays better.
  
  If only it had co-op it would have been perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: michaelpm15
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 27, 2008 10:55 pm PT
Review:  The past Call of duty games have all been fine but nothing compared to this one. The campaign isnt 
 really that short epecially when completing it on veteran. Its actually pretty intresting too, 
 it lets you play as a sort of irish man named soap an american named jackson and captain price. 
 It alll ties the story together of a terrorist plot to bring back communism. And lets just say 
 not all the chracters you play as survive the war.
  
  If you have online than you know that you just want to get it over with so you can get out their 
 and prove yourself. Online has changed dramaticlly. Now their are diffrent classes such as sniper 
 shotgun etc. but most people just use their own custom made classes. As you progress in online 
 you will achieve higher ranks, and with each rank you may get challenges , perks, or better weapons, 
 And as you continue to play and watch the others around you, you may discover new and faster ways 
 to kill your enemies.
  
  The game is overall pretty good its hard to find any flaws with this game. Except up course for 
 three. 1. It can be pretty hard in the beggining seeing as how everyone else has the really good 
 weapons and perks that you dont.2. When you fight someone one on one on you're screen you may have 
 shot him a few times but when he kills you and you watch the kill cam you may have just stood their 
 and did nothing, which is of course pretty ridiculas.3. And finaly la cream de la cream in campaign 
 the characters shadows wather soap or captain price are extremly pixalated, especially in the no 
 fighting in the war room lv, its really disappointing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HardcoregamerXX
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 21, 2008 8:59 pm PT
Review:  Infinity Ward's idea of switching the franchise from World War II to modern warfare was incredible. 
 Call of Duty 4 has some pretty sick single player based in the middle east where you will fight 
 with a U. S. marine and a member of the S. A. S. Along with a terrific campaign which includes the 
 coolest, most surprising, and most fun to play mission ever, this game comes packed with outstanding 
 multiplayer. It has improved from the World War II versions in that you don't have to choose set 
 classes anymore but can customize your own personal class. This involves customizing your weapon 
 of choice with different accessories including scopes, silencers, and grenade launchers. It is 
 loads of fun destroying people online with things like remote detonating C4 and claymores. Also, 
 by getting head shots with a weapon you can unlock different gun camoflauge including woodland, 
 desert, digital, blue tiger, and red tiger. It is very entertaining gaining experience and growing 
 levels working to unlock new weapons and perks. The only downside I could find was that your knife, 
 which is the melee weapon in this game doesn't always work. This is the best game on the market. 
 Thanks to Earl Hammon and all of Infinity Ward for making this game.... IT'S F***ING OUTSTANDING!!!!
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MAJORLAGGY
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 21, 2008 1:33 pm PT
Review:  When I first bought this game i was so happy that It was on sale. $40 what a steal. I would have 
 payed $100 for this game. The single player is so much fun i've played and beaten it 4 times. It 
 is very VERY VERY hard on veteran trust me. So I gave up tyring to beat the mile high club level 
 on veteran. But the real fun is in the multilayer. I've played 12:4:23 (D/H/M)
  there's so much to do and KILL!!!!!! Like Ground war, (One of my favorites)
  and search and destroy, 
 team death match, free for all, cage match (1 vs 1)
  But no capture the flag  : ( . There are lots of customizations, hat you can make on your character 
 like what kind of weapon they can use and there special ability's, like extra ammo or your person 
 can carry a RPG and stuff like that. So BUY THIS GAME  
 9.5 (Because of no capture the 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BalefulSpartan
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 21, 2008 7:59 am PT
Review:  This game runs at a steady 100 mph the entire time, although the multiplayer lacks a little to 
 be desired the single player more than makes up for it. This is by far the best single player campaign 
 to date, from rappeling out of choppers to sneaking in ghillie suites this action packed shooter 
 will have you begging for more. Just as WWII was getting old, infinity ward hits a home run, if 
 your a fan of the call of duty series expect more than you've ever been given before. If there's 
 one thing other studios can take notes on it would be HOW TO MAKE YOUR GAMES PROGRESSIVELY BETTER!!!! 
 It seems every time infinity ward put out a call of duty game the new installment was BETTER than 
 the previous. It takes a lot to keep a franchise going after a trilogy of installments, but rest 
 assured I will by no means be disapointed if Call of duty 5 rolls around set in modern warfare... 
 
  
  A MUST BUY... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smash_Pro
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 21, 2008 7:24 am PT
Review:  Call Of Duty 4 was the begging of a new Call Of Duty. In the past Call Of Duty series took place 
 in WW II, which was awesome, but the Call Of Duty 4 introduced the new erea of Modern Warfare. 
 This is great that they did this, because how may World War 2 games can you make. This game has 
 all modern weapons and ther very satisfying. The story mode is very fun, the missions are awesome. 
 You get pulled right in to the game in the prologue. The Cargo ship mission, I love all the features 
 they put into this game. The multiplayer is great, and so is online play. You could get ranks and 
 earn a golden Desert Eagle and a golden AK-47. This is definetley worth buying. I don't know one 
 person that wouldn't want to buy it. You will love this game. It's such a realistic game, that 
 makes youy feel like your in thos battles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XxorigxX
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 21, 2008 4:08 am PT
Review:  The first thing I want to say is this game is the best shooter ever.
  well..... the graphics are awesome and the multiplayer is amazing.
  the battles are so realistic, and 
 the game run pretty smooth.
  
  the system is amazing, but the game is a bit short but still the game is awesome.
  the live system: the 
 live of this game is the best live ever I'm playing it for weeks and it worth every second of it.
 
  the maps are awesome and colorful but their pretty small.........................
  
  the last thing I want to say: is there gonna be another call of duty game.
  call of duty is awesome 
 by this game it worth it.
  
  I love this game so much and I hope you like it  
 
  
 
  buy this game please...................: P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Garygok
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 21, 2008 2:28 am PT
Review:  Being a previous player of Call of Duty games I did go in with a notion of what to expect. Though 
 this was my first CoD experience on the 360, past experiences on PC versions of the game gave me 
 awesome visuals with great moments of intensity.
  
  I must say that in this respect that Modern Warfare came through with its intense firefights and 
 sustained action. The visuals weren't quite as good as I was used to coming from a descent PC, 
 but in no way did it take away from the game. 
  
  The main problem is that it was over way too fast. The games redeems itself somewhat though since 
 there are of course other difficulties to try and get through as well as an apparently flourishing 
 online gaming community. I myself tend to get interested in playing through the next game as opposed 
 to sticking around for a long time with the online battle modes. I can't say the same thing for 
 online coop gameplay but I digress... 
  
  In the end I for me it would have been better to not go out and buy it days after release but rather 
 wait to find once second hand for a little bit cheaper. I'm sure if I was more into it's online 
 multiplayer my tune would be slightly different in this area.
  
  POSITIVES
  Gameplay is as intense as ever, lots of fun while it lasted. Fantastic sound. Solid multiplayer.
 
  
  NEGATIVES
  Way too short, probably the shortest game I've played thus far. Other than a new era, there's not 
 much setting it apart from previous installments.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  Great AI that tend to see what you doing and react appropriately. Alot of intense moments will 
 keep you on the edge of your seat.
  
  GRAPHICS
  Very crisp graphics with detailed environments. Great character animations.
  
  SOUND
  Awesome, 
 intense sound really immerse you in the game. It's games like these where you want a nice 5.1 sound 
 system with reasonable bass... in a place where you can turn it up a little
  
  VALUE
  Since I haven't been bitten by the CoD4 online multiplayer bug and the game was so short there 
 is not a tonne of value in it for me. I would be happier If I had settled for a used version at 
 a low price. However if the online battles are what drove you to the game in the first place, you 
 won't be disappointed if you had to pay full price.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: danzo337
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 20, 2008 10:55 pm PT
Review:  My review deck pretty much explains it all. Campaign mode is definately something else, you can't 
 put it down once you start it due to it's intensity although it does lack length (I found it to 
 be a bit short.) but it does offer an "Arcade Mode" to make up for it. The online play is fun as 
 the ranking system keeps you interested to keep playing. Population of players is usually pretty 
 high so you won't have trouble finding people to shoot up. The many different types of online games 
 you can play also keep it interesting. Worth the money and time due to it's replay value. Definately 
 a good game to add to your collection for the new year. 
  
  I don't know why gamespot makes it an 800 character minimum for reviews so I have to keep typing 
 gibberish. Just ignore the next few sentences of this paragraph as it's just going to be gibber 
 jabber to fill in the blanks. Right to the point, if you like realistic games along with the FPS 
 gameplay genre, this is the game for you! You won't be dissapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theeman2000
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 27, 2008 9:17 am PT
Review:  The campaign is short, but very intense and exciting. Multiplayer is very good compared to other 
 games. Some of the few games that stack up to it's multiplayer would be titles like Halo 3 and 
 Gears of War. The perks system, as well as the "create a class" feature is awesome. and the special 
 gifts you get after kill streaks makes the game all that sweeter. I also like the fact that your 
 enemies show up on radar in a small game, so that you don't spend hours looking for each other, 
 only for one person to find the other one, and knife them, and begin the process again. Overall, 
 I'd give it a 9/10. Oh yeah, and the game's visuals are downright stunning! These graphics are 
 by far the best Call of Duty has delivered. However, unlike many next-gen games, COD4 takes those 
 great visuals and backs it up with superior gameplay and top of the line multiplayer.
  
  Highly recommended.
  
  9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WWE_kane4eva
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 20, 2008 8:11 pm PT
Review:  Ok........ we start of with saying one thing i see no flaw in call of duty 4. we all now call of 
 duty games made by infinity ward in the past have bin classics well, call of duty 4 isnt just classic 
 its flawless. not one problem i seen.
  
  
  
  well the multi player is short its sweetness makes up for it. games single player is intense its 
 like armagedon on a game, once u beat the game u unlock a sweet arcade mode where u go through 
 the game with points,
  
  
  now for my personal favirote the online play, the online play is impossble to be board with, if 
 u dont belive me rent it. the online has a ranking system that has lots of guns and classes. there 
 are these thing called perks that improve ur skill they mix the game up alot.
  
  
  if u havnt figured it out yet but u gota buy this game like who ever doesnt like this games gota 
 get there gameing straight. please buy it and do me a favoure and buy some live. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamerreviewer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 20, 2008 4:13 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the best in its series! With its realistic warfare, You can see whats its like 
 in the military right at your home! Its game play revolutionizes the way we look a war games and 
 how they are played. Call of Duty 4 leaves the WWII scenerio and is focused on Modern warfare. 
 The story mode is not described much in the beginning but as you progress you become more familiar 
 with its surroundings and of course, the Story. This game really fun to play on multi-player with 
 xbox live but the gameplay of the story mode does not reach up to a ten with some little vulnerabilities.
 
  
  Once you venture into the game you will have a hard time progressing because the battle might be 
 a little too tense. If you have experience playing War games such as this then it might be no problem 
 for you trying to dodge a 100 grenades with soldeirs being in the way as obstacles and debree. 
 Another thing that is hard to over come is the guard dogs but if you have that kind of skill then 
 you can just shoot them down before they pounce on you. Its possible to break their necks but you 
 have to do it very fast before they bite. Last , the game play makes you feel like you are in a 
 real modern war, even though the war is not like the war in real life, with its explosions, Missions, 
 Survival, battling, and stratifying
  
  With this games popularity, its alot of fun to play multi-player with other players around the 
 globe. With over, maybe 10 different types of multiplayer games there is no end to playing. Did 
 I even tell you can customize your own weapons? Its another option that can boost your skills to 
 eliminate the opposing players and there is missions that is playable to unlock more weapon upgrades 
 or just more weapons depending on your level/Rank. 
  
  Last thing to discuss about is the story. During game play you may come across certian parts of 
 the story that makes people feel like they are sitting in a cinematic. Your goal is to take out 
 the leader who plans to send nukes to America. So dont just walk around the house saying that your 
 bored. Go and serve the military for our country!
  
  This game receives a 9.5. Story-3 Game play-3 Multi-player-3.5
  
  Thanks for reading,
  Gamerreveiwer. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reavesb
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 20, 2008 2:52 pm PT
Review:  After being disturbingly disappointed with COD3 I placed COD4 into my console with reluctant anticipations. 
 Those feelings, however, disappeared the moment the teasers came to life on my screen. I hadn't 
 even started the game and I was immersed. 
  
  COD4 is BY FAR THE BEST FPS on the market. I love the WWII platforms and worried about a "Modern 
 Warfare" platform, but once I started the game, my worries were gone. The handling of the game 
 is stunning... the graphics of the game were phenominal... the sounds (especially in surround sound) 
 were captivating... the weapons (selection, diversity, and handling) were great.
  
  The best part about the game (in addition to all the above) was the ability for the game to adapt 
 and play differently. You're not confined to playing the game in a specific path or pattern. Fight 
 from the street one time, go around the block the next time or fight from inside the buildng. You 
 can shoot from the hip or fight from behind cover through your sights. The choice is yours and 
 the means to get to the end is diverse. 
  
  Additionally, Activision did a good job thinking through the story with COD4. It's complex but 
 not impossible to follow. There's depth to what is going on as you fight as a US Marine Recon or 
 a British SAS.
  
  Battles are also believable. As someone who has been involve in live firefights, this is as real 
 as FPS have come to putting you in the battle. Yes, you can shoot from the hip, but you also have 
 to use tactics. However, rushing a machine gunner nested in a building is sometimes quite satisfying. 
 
  
  The weakness would be the length of the game. It's obvious that the game was trimmed back. I would've 
 liked to have seen more involvment in the post-crash sequence of Sgt. Jackson rather than path 
 they chose for him. 
  
  You'll spend times as a sniper, a gunner on an AC-130, a Marine in urban combat or in a SF unit 
 fighting in a covert operation. The diversity, quality, and depth of this game is simply the best 
 and one that will be hard to top. Which I leave to the gaming companies: I DARE YOU & CHALLANGE 
 YOU to do just that! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vivi_ff1
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 20, 2008 12:06 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is an amazing experience with out of this world graphics. I'm not sure who does 
 the reviewing at Gamespot, it just seems to me that some of their reviewers are biased towards 
 some games as opposed to others. The moments in COD4 are amazing. It's like being in a blockbuster 
 movie. The multiplayer exerience is exciting. With challenges and aquiring new guns, perks, and 
 abilities as you move up in rank, no other FPS holds a candle to the multiplayer of COD4. Halo 
 3's graphics are basically Xbox original graphics. The campaign is not a lot of fun and the multiplayer, 
 although fun, is nothing compared to COD4. Can you say best overall FPS ever. YES!!!!!!! Bioshock's 
 story, graphics, and gameplay keep it a close second for the single player, but lack of multiplayer 
 in Bioshock is a huge difference between COD4 and Bioshock. Buy or steal a smaller child's COD4, 
 because it rocks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hellmonkey012
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 20, 2008 11:30 am PT
Review:  Infinity Ward is a group of developers who used to work for the Metal of Honor series but quit 
 to start making the games the way they thought they should be done. Ironicly, they are now creating 
 games that are better than Metal of Honor. After making COD1, COD2, and COD3, Infinity Ward has 
 finally found the formula to a kick-ass First Person Shooter. The game takes place in the slight 
 future where two resistance groups ( S. A. S. and the U. S. M. C. ) that are fighting against a terrorist 
 group. This game is the best one of the series. It has better graphics, better gameplay, and better 
 weapons. The only bad thing is that the story line is short. As for Online and Multi-player, it 
 is some of the best there is. I would recomend this game to anyone with a 360 or PS3.
  
  THE GOOD; New weapons, great audio/ visuals , fun gameplay, an exciting story-line, perfect controls, 
 nice multi-player/ online play.
  
  THE BAD; Short story-line.
  
  OVERALL; You must buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shishio817
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 2, 2008 6:08 pm PT
Review:  I'll start by saying that I've never had much of an interest in the Call of Duty series; I was 
 always more of a Medal of Honor guy (Frontline was the greatest WWII game I've ever played) . So 
 when I saw this and read about the modern setting, I knew instantly that this game would be awesome, 
 because the CoD series is starting to make me more interested in them over MoH. Anyway, on to the 
 review. 
  
  
  The graphics in CoD 4 are absolutely fantastic. Everything, whether it be the character models, 
 backgrounds, or guns, look extremely photo-realistic. The lighting in particular is great. The 
 graphics are just as impressive in multiplayer as well. Every area looks appropriately war-torn, 
 with smoke billowing everywhere, etc. The game is definitely a feast for the eyes.
  
  
  The campaign mode is admittedly short, but in the good 5-7 hours it should take you on the Regular 
 difficulty setting, you'll be extremely satisfied. I found the story to be very engaging, I cared 
 about what I was doing. There were many moments of intensity that I don't feel in many games, and 
 they really helped to make this game shine. The game is never too difficult on the Regular setting; 
 however, Veteran difficulty is near impossible to beat every mission on, and even Hardened is extremely 
 difficult on certain missions. The difficulty of the game is near perfect though, and the higher 
 settings make the game very realistic, in that in the real world, one or two or three shots really 
 will kill or severely wound you. 
  
  
  The game play is much improved over the previous CoD games (thank God they finally mapped the melee 
 to the B button) , and is near flawless, with a wide range of weapons and options available to you, 
 and all easy to use. I should also mention that I never encountered any frame rate issues, so that's 
 a plus. Now, on to the multiplayer, the thing that makes you come back for more (even though I'd 
 argue that the single player does as well) . This is the most fun multiplayer game on the 360, period. 
 Seriously, Halo doesn't hold a candle to this (I know they are different genres, but they're competitors) . 
 There are many different game types to play, such as Ground War, which is an 18-player battle, 
 and traditional Team Deathmatch. As you level up, you unlock more game types. On that note, the 
 leveling system is incredibly satisfying and realistic (in terms of military ranks) ; you unlock 
 many new things as you level up such as weapons, camo weapon finish, and perks. You can create 
 your own custom player class, instead of using the generic "Sniper" or whatever, and this really 
 helps to make the game more enjoyable and accessible to a wide range of playing styles. Each class 
 can be assigned perks, which are different qualities your class can have. For example, "Last Stand" 
 allows you to pull out a pistol right before dying and take some enemy players down with you. Also, 
 there is an element of strategy and teamwork within CoD 4 that is completely absent from other 
 multiplayer games. Of equal importance is the fact that the players in CoD 4 aren't nearly as annoying/stupid 
 as some of them tend to be in Halo (I'm looking at you, twelve-year-olds) . 
  
  
  Last but not least, the sound is very impressive; not only does the music fit the tone of each 
 situation perfectly, but the effects of bullets flying past you, explosions, and jets flying overhead 
 are outstanding. 
  
  
  In closing, CoD 4 is a phenomenal shooter that in my opinion tops all others in multiplayer game 
 play while providing an intense and satisfying single player experience as well. Anyone who passes 
 on this game is making a mistake, and I encourage everyone to at least give it a thorough playing. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dashizy666
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 20, 2008 10:52 am PT
Review:  Change in any game franchise is good. Especially when a franchise has beaten the WW2 era to a pulp. 
 COD4 modern combat is a breath of fresh air. It is so good that I virtually stopped playing Halo 
 3 altogether. And I love Halo 3. What I Iike most about COD4 is the RPG aspects of the multi player. 
 You gain different weapons, different add-ons to weapons, even special abilities called "perks" 
 like dropping a live grenade when you die, or shooting bullets through walls, ect. If a player 
 kills 3 people without dying you have the option to call in a UAV which shows your team where your 
 enemies are. If you get 5 kills you can call in an air strike which at times can be very deadly 
 to your opposition. If a player kills 7 people without dying you have the option to call in a helicopter 
 which damn near demolishes anyone in its path. However you can still shoot it down . in addition, 
 you can complete challenges which are like in game achievements which can help improve your rank. 
 Examples could be getting a certain amount of kills with a certain weapon or head shots to gain 
 points towards your rank and more. In my opinion this makes COD4 deepest online shooter in the 
 history of gaming. With the amount of options in this game, no two players will play Modern Combat 
 the same way. Best of all, unlike halo 3 you don't get ranked down if you lose. I can't tell you 
 how many time I've scored 21+kills won the game in halo 3 and was never ranked up. It's to the point 
 where I feel that the game hates me. However everything you do in call of duty whether you register 
 kill, assists, call in a UAVs air strikes and helicopters you receive points towards ranking up. Overall 
 the multi player alone justifies the $59.95 price tag. 
  
  Now comes the campaign. This campaign is a 5-10 hour affair on normal difficulty. However when 
 you want those achievement points on veteran difficulty, prepare for the ride of you life because 
 the AI is relentless. I can't tell you how many times I've been stuck at one checkpoint for hours 
 on end trying to figure out the best course of action to take. I almost beat the game on veteran, 
 and I can tell you that this is the best campaign I've ever played in a shooter. The best part 
 is the A 130 gunship stage which pwns. 
  
  Enclosing COD of duty 4 in my opinion is the 360 2007's game of the year. I bought Bioshock, Halo3, 
 Forza 2, Mass Effect, The orange box, NHL 08 and COD4 and I can honestly tell you that COD 4 is 
 the best of the bunch. All I want is Infinity ward to make COD5 because I'll know that they will 
 raise the bar once again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Robert-Sapolski
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 20, 2008 8:48 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is the second Xbox 360 title to bear the COD name and be made by the award winning 
 developers Infinity Ward. COD 4 is the first game in the series to make the step to modern times 
 hence the name Modern Warfare. Everything in the game is tuned to absolute perfection and polish 
 and is a must buy for anyone with a thirst for action.
  
  Call of Duty 4 takes place during a fictional war between parts of Europe, the Middle East against 
 the Americans and the UK. During the game you will thrown into the shoes of a British SAS soldier 
 and an American Marine. The main Campaign has one of the best singe player campaigns in the history 
 of shooters. The firefights are intense, the story twists dramatically and best of all you find 
 yourself immersed in this war torn worlds Infinity Ward has created for us. The downside is that 
 the story is over slightly quickly, but thats not a bad thing. A comparison can be made to Portal 
 where the game is short but the content is insane. Thankfully COD 4 is longer than Portal and will 
 probably take the average gamer 6-8 hours on the difficulty the game recommends you after the test 
 in the game. There are however a few reasons to go back once you have finished, the first of these 
 is Arcade Mode in which you gain points for every type of kill you get in the story and at the 
 end of the game these are totaled up and you can compare with your friends just how good you are 
 at the single player part of the game. The second reason to go back are achievements and unlockable 
 cheats, I won't ruin them but they are strangely hilarious.
  
  Aside from the main campaign the other reason you will want to pick up Call of Duty 4 is for the 
 Multiplayer. The Multiplayer aspect of the game has you playing standard types of deathmatch or 
 objective modes against up to 32 players online. The twist here is that everything is experience 
 based. You start as a level one player with only a few classes to chose from. You have your standard 
 machine gunner, sniper etc and each of the classes comes with 3 perks. Perks are selectable options 
 to change how your character is played in the game for example you can have a increased bullet 
 damage perk and a deeper bullet penetration perk to shoot through walls and cause more damage. 
 On the other hand you could have a sniper with increased accuracy and more health. Whats clever 
 is they don't make a player better or worse they just change the way you play and your tactics. 
 So back to the main crust of the Multiplayer, you pick your class and you join a game. As soon 
 as you get your first kill bam! you get 10xp. This then builds up as you play and soon your leveling 
 up in no time. At level 4 your able to create a custom class with any set of weapons or perks you've 
 unlocked. As you gain higher levels you unlock more weapons and you are able to do challenges. 
 Challenges are essentially xp bonuses for getting 150 kills with one gun and you unlock upgrades 
 for these weapons. All of the leveling and upgrades makes for an amazing multiplayer experience 
 which is hugely addicting. A lot of people complain that the multiplayer is unfair on new players 
 because of the upgrade system but because you all have a level the game places you in a room with 
 people of the same level or as close as it can get so its never unfair.
  
  With COD4 you get an insane package all on one disc. The graphics are amazing and continue to amaze 
 me everytime I play. It sounds wicked and overall COD4 is my game of 2007. You won't find a better 
 campaign or multiplayer experience like this anywhere else on your 360 and I urge anyone to run 
 out and buy it now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DispersedLeon45
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 20, 2008 4:02 am PT
Review:  the call of duty (cod) series has always been set in world war 2 but now infinity ward has made 
 a huge step to the franchise they moved on to world war 3 in the modern time. graphics: it looks 
 good with great effects and lighting detail but it isnt much ragdoll here in the singleplayer but 
 it looks realistic. while in the multiplayer the ragdoll kinda sucks.
  
  sound: every weapon sounds like it should be and the music is kinda rock/el guitar
  
  story: 
 hard to say sry...
  
  multiplayer: thats the best in the game. you can level up from 1-55 and unlock "perks" and weapons 
 the perks makes each class diffrent example stopping power makes youre weapon take more damage. 
 martydom dropes a grenade when you die and RPG is an RPG
  
  single player: thats the weak spot. its short no co-op what-so-ever and the missions is repetive. 
 but it has some breathtaking moments. and you will take control of 2 soldiers.
  
  this game is a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: just_blaze_216
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 20, 2008 4:54 pm PT
Review:  Introduction
  
  You all probably know Call of Duty as being one of the historic war games out there. Fortunately, 
 this time they ditched fighting Nazis and jumped to modern times. Throughout this game you'll be 
 playing as a US Marine and as a British SAS soldier. You'll use modern weapons such as the Javelin, 
 M4 Carbine, and more. The only problem I have with this game is the length.
  
  
  Graphics: 10/10
  
  Wow... the graphics for this game are amazing; they are truly next-gen. 
 Each character and enemy you come across is unique and realistic. The different environments are 
 also greatly detailed and make you feel like your actually in the war. You'll find no two places 
 that look alike. The effects in the game also add even more realism to the game. When a bomb or 
 grenade explodes the area in the blast radius will be charred and damaged. You'll even see brain 
 splatters from headshots!
  
  
  Sound: 10/10
  
  The sound in this game is also amazing. The voice acting is convincing and each character sounds 
 unique. Each gun, grenade, and explosive has it's own distinct sound. The background music is good 
 and fit's the situation during combat and cut-scenes. The sound also helps during the sniping and 
 sneaking parts of missions.
  
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  
  This is where the game shines its brightest. Yeah, the sound and graphics are amazing, but the 
 gameplay takes the cake. The controls aren't all that different from the previous games, but in 
 this situation it works. Throughout the story mode you'll be completing different objectives along 
 with your squad. The objectives themselves aren't too difficult, it's getting through the levels 
 that are the challenge.
  
  
  Difficulty
  
  The difficulty in the game is well done. First, you'll go through a small training course which 
 will determine how good you are and what difficulty level you should do. While you can choose a 
 different difficulty, you really shouldn't as they base it on your accuracy and quickness. Either 
 way, the different difficulty levels are accurately varied.
  
  
  Your Squad
  
  Okay, like I said above, you will never be alone during the game. You'll always have at least one 
 other squad member assisting you. The AI for them is really good also. They'll take cover when 
 being shot at, throw grenades away from you and themselves if needed. They also display how tactical 
 the Military is during search and rescue missions. The only problem I had was during some parts 
 they wouldn't advance forward unless you went first. While this didn't happen during combat situations, 
 it can be annoying when you're not thinking.
  
  
  Your Enemies
  
  The enemies AI is also really good... sometimes it's too good. Anyway, you'll see the enemies acting 
 much in the way your squad members do. They'll duck behind cover when shot at, and throw your grenades 
 back at you. They'll also clock you in the face if you get too close for comfort.
  
  
  The Missions
  
  While each missions is essentially the same, get from point A to point B, they 
 added different ways you have t do it. For example, in one mission you have to search for a missing 
 squad member, but it's dark and you have to sneak through the houses without alerting any enemies. 
 There's also an intense sniper mission, but I won't spoil things for you. The only thing you'll 
 complain about is that you revisit some places as a different soldier. But don't worry, the situations 
 are different.
  
  
  Online Play
  
  The online play is as great as the single player campaign. The gameplay is the same and you battle 
 on levels from the campaign. You can also create your own class. The create-a-class lets you pick 
 your main gun, side-arm, and perks (power-ups) along with some other things. The only problem is 
 that new players get thrown in with people who've been playing since the game came out.
  Story: 9/10
  
  As a US Marine/British SAS soldier, you have to stop terrorists from launching 
 stolen nukes. While this may seem boring, there are twists and turns in the plot and what-not. 
 Also, the two different soldiers you play as have their own story, even if they are similar. I'd 
 tell you more, but I kind of skipped a few cut-scenes to get right into the action. Overall though, 
 it's really good and you can get attached to the characters.
  
  
  Playtime & Replayability: 8/10
  
  The only reason I gave this a low score is because I beat 
 the game in three days. Now, before you go, "Oh whatever, you just played non-stop," read. I did 
 play a lot, but I only played one or two hours at a time. Total, this game will take you about 
 six hours or more. I'm not really sure as I don't pay too much attention because I'm having too 
 much fun! You will, however, spend time replaying the game on different difficulties and getting 
 various achievements you may have missed.
  
  
  Achievements: 9/10
  
  The achievements in this game are good and not too hard, but give you a challenge. You'll earn 
 about 10 or so with just one play through campaign mode. Even more if you do it on the hardest 
 difficulty. You'll get achievements for completing missions, saving people, etc..
  
  
  Rent or Buy?
  
  You should definitely buy this game. Sure the story mode is a bit short, but 
 there is also online and offline multiplayer. The achievements should also keep you busy. Trust 
 me, even if you only want to rent it, you will be blown away with the gameplay and graphics and 
 end up buying it anyway. So, save yourself the eight extra bucks and buy it, even if you get it 
 used. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iamcool2121
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 19, 2008 11:59 am PT
Review:  Remember the good old call of duty series? remember how the games were always set in World War 
 II? Well if you were expecting another world war II shooter sorry to disappoint you. Call of Duty 
 4 Modern Warfare is the first game in the series that leaves the world war II setting and enters 
 the modern war. Created by the award winning game developer Infinity Ward Call of duty Modern Warfare 
 is the story about middle eastern and Russian rebel forces have caused chaos and destruction and 
 has become an world epidemic Your job is to stop main terrorists, Khalid Al- Asad ,Imran Zakhaev 
 and Victor Zakhaev from causing more destruction and corruption. You will be controlling 
  soldiers John "Soap MacTavish from the British Sas Commandos and Sergeant Paul Jackson of the USMC. 
 The cut scenes are presented is a movie like experience. The gameplay is very smooth and runs at 
 a full 60 Frames per Second. Many will say the campaign is too short, However, maybe you should 
 increase the difficulty and then lets see what you think. Cod 4 does not just does not put you 
 into missions where you just shoot with a gun, you can operate a Gunship or do a well thought out 
 sniper mission. The game puts you right in the action from beginning to the end. The A. I is smart 
 as well and will do everything in their power to put an end to you. Make sure you look at the grenade 
 indicator because a lot of the time you will die in many cases due to grenades. The Graphics are 
 awesome and the player models, weapons and environments make you think you were there or at the 
 movies. You will be put into a lot of fire fights so make your shots count. The sound in Cod 4 
 is crisp and clear. I will say the campaign is epic because of the variety in the missions and 
 it has a good ending trust me one of the best endings in a shooter i have seen in a long while. 
 Cod 4 however does not support a co-op feature it does however, have an amazing online component 
 that supports up to 18 players over Xbox Live and has many game modes to choose from starting with 
 team death Match all the way to Team Team Tactical trust me the list goes on and on. The online 
 experience is deep because you have over 70 authentic weapons to choose from and has many customizable 
 options and Perks to choose from to enhance online play. You can get up to the highest Level which 
 is 55 and do prestige mode. 
  You can also unlock challenges and weapon Challenges and weapons along the way. The Mutiplayer 
 levels are awesome and well done. The action is endless in Call of Duty 4 so for anyone who is 
 looking for the next great first person shooter and likes modern war Call of Duty 4 is a game that 
 is a must buy for anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StarOceaner
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 19, 2008 11:15 am PT
Review:  Thankfully somebody got to Infinity Ward and said, look, World War II is over. Yes, it is an important 
 part of American history, but how many more times must we relive it in a video game? That's where 
 Call of Duty 4 comes in with the title Modern Warfare. 
  Call of Duty 4 has you playing as either a USNC soldier or a British SAS soldier. You and your 
 team will travel all around the Middle East looking for terrorists and that's it. It may not sound 
 as interesting, but it actually is. And while the game can be finished in less than 5-6 hours, 
 there is a lot going on. Playing Call of Duty 4 is like watching a movie. It's quite short, but 
 if it's really good, a lot will go on.
  
  But where Call of Duty 4 really shines is in its multiplayer. The game allows you to play with 
 up to 18 players in several different game modes. But there is an interesting twist. Not all of 
 the game modes are available to you. You have to earn it. At the start, you'll have your basic 
 Team Deathmatch and Free for All and so on. But everybody you kill online gets you 10 experience 
 points. And every time you level up, you'll gain brand new modes to play, along with weapons and 
 upgrades.
  
  Another great feature is the Create a Class feature that the game offers. Once you reach a certain 
 level, the Create a Class feature will be unlocked. What you basically do with that is you get 
 to pick your own weapons and features, such as scopes, to apply to your weapons. You'll also get 
 various perks which will help you in battle. Last Stand has you pull out your pistol while you 
 are shot down, and others will help with bullet damage, increase in health, and so on. But again, 
 not everything will be available to you, you have to earn it.
  
  If you are able to kill a bunch of enemies consecutively without dying, you'll be able to get some 
 pretty useful air support. Killing 3 enemies consecutively allows you to use radar. The radar will 
 show any enemy on the map making it easier to find them. If you get 5 kills, you can get air support, 
 in which airplanes will fly down and bomb and area you have selected. If you can manage to get 
 7 kills in a row, you'll get helicopter support. The helicopters will fly around shooting any enemies 
 that they find. However, your enemies can also shoot the helicopters down.
  
  
  The game also has challenges that you can do during online play. Completing these challenges will 
 get you bonus EXP. The challenges range from kill a predetermined number of enemies with a specific 
 weapon or kill a number of enemies while crouched and so on. When you complete these challenges, 
 you'll also get some items for the weapon you used.
  
  Call of Duty 4 looks, sounds, and feels great. The controls are the basic controls you have with 
 any other shooters. But Call of Duty 4 just looks great. Everything is so well designed and so 
 lifelike that it adds an intense atmosphere in every level you play. And don't forget the great 
 battle music that you get while gunning down enemies all over the world.
  
  Overall, Call of Duty 4 is a fantastic game. It does have a short single player campaign, but everything 
 else is just great. And the best part would be the fact that it no longer deals with World War 
 II.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SiKyung
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 25, 2008 3:22 pm PT
Review:  At Christmas i got money from aunt.. i ran to shop... get Call of Duty 4... pay the money... started 
 play... guess what? this game is awesome.
  
  The Call of Duty was FPS in war. Call of Duty 1,2, and 3 was old time wars the "World War" and 
 you use old gun. This time it's not "World War", its the war with Iraq and you fight with modern 
 guns.
  
  Gameplay is as FPS it's fire and survive in mordern style. The bad thing is game is not longer 
 as normal games are. But still there are many varible missions as assaination.
  
  The multiplayer is of course, great enough to be on list of top online game. There are many modes 
 you can play and also you can customise your own class with weapons, attaches, and perks. But only 
 problem is when host leaves the room it's match over. There are many people who leaves game when 
 host's teams are winning.
  
  Graphic - Even Call of Duty 4 can't be compared with other games as Gears of War graphic is still 
 amazing and no frame rate problem even you are in the very huge place with helicopters are flying 
 right in sight of your eyes.. Also this shows that war is hell. 
  
  Call of Duty 4 is the must buy FPS game. Although this game is a bit short but multiplayer is insane 
 and fun enough to be played for long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maniacc1
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 19, 2008 9:56 am PT
Review:  I received this game for Christmas, and after reading all the postive reviews, I was excited to 
 play. 
  
  I began with the first mission and immediately I saw how amazing the visuals were. Light gleamed 
 exactly like it's real life counterpart, and the human faces were near perfect. The more and more 
 I played, the more immersed I got. Some people say the campaign is too short, but I tend to disagree. 
 It seems to be a sufficient length for the casual gamer, and it certainly provides an in depth 
 story line.
  
  Gameplay, obviously, is similar to other games in the CoD series, but because it's set in a modern 
 world, the guns have more power and it feels like you have more options. The levels are all fun 
 and intriguing, and I've felt my heart rate jump into the 100's several times during some free 
 for all shootouts.
  
  All in all, if you are an Xbox 360 owner, you must buy Call of Duty 4. It's that simple. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zypher315
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 19, 2008 7:01 am PT
Review:  If you haven't picked this game up yet, either by renting or purchasing, then you are abusing your 
 right to own a 360. Please yourself, and your inner FPSer by playing this game.
  
  The Campaign, although only single player, keeps you hooked from the moment you start your training 
 until the end that leaves you begging for more. The storyline is definitely big-screen worthy, 
 and I'm not exaggerating in the least bit. Not only are you trying to fend off multiple nuclear 
 warheads headed to assault the East Coast of the US of A, but you're mounting AC-130 Gunships, 
 gunning down choppers with rocket launchers, and carrying injured commanding officers to safety 
 while covering your arses with your sniper rifle. The Campaign is guaranteed to get you hooked 
 at the multiplayer is what's gonna keep you playing.
  
  Imagine... you and your friends in a trench, gowned in a gilly suit, whispering back a forth as 
 to where the enemy is and how many of them there are. Then you get hit in the shoulder by a rifle 
 bullet but you can't see who shot you because your vision is tilted for a second and your screen 
 gets slightly red. You start to fire back and as you do the recoil of the gun makes your gun angle 
 upward. This game is VERY realistic. The damage, flawless. Grant it, most bullets coming from any 
 gun are gonna hurt the same, but the fact that you can choose from multiple guns, they had to give 
 a reason to pick other weapons. Okay, so you've experienced the gameplay. Now it's time to repeat. 
 In doing so, every match you play, you get experience. You level up with said experience and earn 
 new weapons and perks (the most marvelous ability that grants you either more health, more grenades, 
 better hip-fire accuracy, and many many more) to add to your arsenal. And as your skills increase 
 with your plethora of weaponry, you gain different camouflage as you get more headshots or kills 
 with each one. What's that, you've got a 5 kill streak? Just summon your nearby flying friendlies 
 and call in an airstrike on whatever damned location that you choose on the map. Okay, so you got 
 a 7 kill streak now? Hear comes your friendly neighborhood chopper to aid in your struggle, thus 
 improving your Kill/Death ratio. Grant it, there are those 12 and 13 year olds playing constantly 
 that everyone hates. But the fact is, you can mute them and just continue with your rampage.
  
  I'm just gonna put it plain and simple. Buy this game. You won't regret it. I've spend enough 
 time typing this out now. Time to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamerDMB94
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 18, 2008 8:55 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty 4 is an amazing in every aspect of the word. The game is on my top games of all time 
 and many other peoples too. COD 4 is a nearly perfect FPS. Let me start off with the good stuff.. wow 
 this is a lot. its graphics are wonderful, the sound design is Great, the Gameplay is phenomenally, the 
 story is great The online play (Rankings, challenges, and the online gameplay it's self) is So freaking 
 awesome, the levels are designed very well (stop hating Wet work and vacant, their a good maps!) , The 
 gametypes are very well created. now for the very very very short bad stuff, the campaign is short............ That's 
 it. unless you see the "no online achievements" as a bad thing (I was bummed at first because i 
 am an achievement whore but I realized it made the game more fun because i wasn't striving to get 
 points but it made me a challenge whore which goes along with the game, who isn't.) SO stop reading 
 this review and go play some COD 4:
  
  Gameplay:10/10
  Graphics:9/10
  Story:8/10
  Sound:9/10
  Multiplayer:10/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: go0db0y
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 18, 2008 8:30 pm PT
Review:  This game is very impressive from the start. Story is short, but live makes the bad stuff all disappear. 
 Call of Duty series has been based on WW2, but now they're making it more advanced. Sound system 
 is good. When you're playing live, you can hear close enemy running by and gun effects are cool. 
 Graphics are stunning. There are many different varieties of guns. Controls are very easy to remember. 
 I just got addicted to this game. I love to go online and play with strangers. It just makes my 
 day. And you can make you're own custom soldier. You can add special abilities too, like sprinting 
 more or more damage. Everything about this game is just amazing.
  
  Graphic= 10/10
  
  Sound= 10/10
  
  Game Play= 10/10
  
  Controls= 10/10
  
  Don't rent it, buy it.
  
 
  And if you don't have live, get it. It's 90% more fun, if you play live 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoshuaH82
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 18, 2008 3:40 pm PT
Review:  I've always been a big fan of the Call of Duty and Metal of Honor series. Well, WWII FPS games 
 in general. But after playing most of the way through Call of Duty 3 and finding it relatively 
 entertaining, but beginning to get tired of the WWII genre in general, I was excited to see the 
 Call of Duty franchise was going to try something different.
  
  While I was excited about seeing a change in direction, the stuff I was seeing wasn't putting me 
 in any real hurry to buy the game. The GameSpot review went a long way to convincing me, but when 
 I actually did make the final purchase, it was a toss up between CoD4 and something else (can't 
 remember what now) . I couldn't be happier that I decided to pick up CoD4.
  
  Single Player Campaign:
  
  It's hard to go into much detail without giving away some exciting 
 story elements. Suffice it to say, you play as the US and Brits going back and forth and eventually 
 teaming up to stop a terrorist organization.
  
  The story is very well written and acted. The graphics and sound are equally amazing. The action 
 is appropriately fast and furious. I found myself being a lot more careful than I had been in other 
 games. Even on the normal difficulty level you're probably going to die a lot on the first play 
 through. But that's OK! CoD4 has extremely well placed check points that make sure you spawn in 
 just the right spot to continue the action.
  
  The single campaign is really short. We're talking 5 hours or so. Half as long as most modern FPS 
 games. But it's easily one of the most memorable of any single player FPS game I've ever played. 
 I immediately started playing through a second time on the Insane difficulty. The short campaign 
 is the only reason I can think of to dock this game some rating points. But not to worry... on to 
 multiplayer...
  
  Multiplayer:
  
  With the exception of the Battlefield games on PC, I don't think I've played a more entertaining 
 or addictive multiplayer game. Sure it has a lot of game modes, though most of them aren't accessible 
 in the beginning. But where this game really shines, at least in my opinion, is in it's leveling 
 and class customization features.
  
  As you play through the game, you'll begin earning experience points. Obviously the more kills/wins 
 you get, the more XP you get. As you gain experience, you level up. But leveling up doesn't just 
 buy you bragging rights.
  
  As you level up you'll start unlocking new game modes, weapons and perks. This is where class customization 
 comes in. You can create several custom classes using your unlocked weapons and perks.
  
  Perks are an awesome addition. They really allow you to have a customized class. Perks come in 
 three different flavors that you can combine based on your play style. Some of the ones I use (so 
 you can get an idea of what they buy you) :
  
  3x Special Grenades: Self explanatory.
  
  Martyrdom: Drop a grenade when you're killed and potentially take out the jerk that did you in 
 (and if you're lucky, some of his friends) .
  
  Juggernaut: Take more damage before dying.
  
  It doesn't end there though! As you use each 
 weapon you will complete different challenges such as killing a specific number of enemies or getting 
 a specific number of headshots with that weapon. Completing any challenges (which can range from 
 weapons goals and shooting down helicopters to surviving a fall from a high place... or even dying 
 from one) give you large XP bonuses. Completing weapon challenges specifically will also give you 
 weapon upgrades.
  
  The multiplayer mode seems to have been the primary focus (even though the single player mode was 
 amazing) and provides hours upon hours of quality replay value. I can't stop playing it. Even when 
 you reach the level cap you have the option of accepting presteige mode (for the hardcore guys) 
 and playing through the level grind a second time.
  
  Final Verdict:
  
  Call of Duty 4 is an amazing game all around and should NOT be missed. If you're an FPS fan at 
 all, do not wait any longer to get this game. It trumps all of the other FPS games out there. Yes, 
 even Halo 3 (blows it out of the water in my opinion) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chadcicle
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 18, 2008 9:21 am PT
Review:  Upon completion of this games campaign mode on the Hard difficulty I was blown away. It has all 
 the elements of your classic FPS - you know, big explosions, varied weapons, that satisfying spray 
 after you nail someone in the head. 
  
  We all know about the graphics and how many different guns and gun variations there are but this 
 is what really hooked me.
  
  But the campaign was more than that. Just the level at which you interact makes you feel like you 
 are that soldier to a degree. Whether it be carrying a wounded comrade through a battle zone or 
 saving a downed pilot while there are 50+ terrorists trying to take your head off. This campaign 
 has the aim and shoot but it also has the small things that make it amazing.
  
  Then the multiplayer. I love the rank system but what I love more than that are the challenges. 
 The challenges that make you use every gun. This is the first multiplayer that I have seen do challenges 
 quite like this. The maps were very easy to learn and the combat was almost flawless. 
  
  This is one of the best games in a long time and I recommend it to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: icyplanetnhc
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 27, 2008 4:01 pm PT
Review:  This is by far the best modern FPS that I've ever played. It has a deep and emotional story, intense 
 and gripping multiplayer, and it just plain fun. I've just completed the game on veteran, and I 
 consider it my greatest achievement in my relatively light gaming career.
  
  This game is about how a Soviet megalomaniac tries to revert Russia into USSR and how he funds 
 a coup in the Middle East to draw attention away. You play as Soap MacTavish (yes, his name is 
 Soap) of the British SAS, and Paul Jackson of the USMC Force Reconnaissance.
  
  The good new first. The game has outstanding gameplay. It is deep and intense, and packed with 
 non-stop action and gun. The guns are well designed and the online multiplayer is ridiculously 
 addictive.
  
  The campaign has great variety, and provides to right amount of challenge to the average play on 
 normal difficulty. Speaking of difficulty, Veteran can be extremely frustrating at times. There 
 are countless times when I'm about to reach a checkpoint to an extremely hard portion of the mission, 
 only to be killed by the last guy standing there waiting for me. Though it adds challenge, there's 
 a fine line between that and pure frustration, which distracts from the fun. In addition, the campaign, 
 even though it does cover a lot of ground, is surprisingly short. The replay value quickly diminishes 
 without XBL, so to those without it, a rental is recommended. Another issue is the lack of co-op; 
 something found on almost all present day shooters. Its absence raise eyebrows. (9/10)
  
  The graphics are absolutely awesome. Highly detailed environment and character modeling. The game 
 looks great. My parents sometimes mistook the game for a movie. The explosions looks blazing powerful, 
 and the flames look intense. The only complaint is the oddly pixelated shadows in some of the environments. 
 The RPG smoke trails also look slightly chunky. However, it's still so good and you won't notice 
 that anyways. It's one of the best looking games out there. (9.75/10)
  
  If war sounds like this, I'll avoid a draft at all cost. It is intense. Your teammates often yell 
 out the need for help or cover, or the dreaded "Man down!" It will give you a sense of loss and 
 responsibility for your teammates to survive. The music is also surprisingly well orchestrated. 
 (10/10)
  
  Multiplayer is absolutely amazing. Extremely fun. The perks allow you to create a class that suits 
 the type of player that you are, not just restricting you to default classes. Weapon variety is 
 great, with classics like the M1911A1 and AK-47, to high-tech like the M16A4, P90 and USP. The 
 balancing of the weapons can be somewhat annoying, but overall, no gun is a panacea. The killcam 
 can be helpful or painful, depending on how you like to play. But it also emphasize on the need 
 to move around and not just camp in one spot constantly.
  
  Overall, the game shines among modern FPS. It combines intense gameplay with beautifully rendered 
 graphics and gripping sound. Though there are some cons, those are easy to ignore. This is one 
 of the best shooters out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedEcksThree
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 17, 2008 8:01 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is a great game that I have not been able to put down. The game play is astounding 
 and there is a fine sense of balance. There isn't really anything innovative in the game play or 
 mechanics, but it's a really great game. The graphics are pretty amazing along with the sound. 
 I can't really speak for single player as I've never played it, but I can assure you that the multi 
 player is more worth than the price tag for this game. The single player is just an added bonus 
 in my opinion. Online there are quite a few game modes and unlocking that next weapon is always 
 something to look forward to. The maps are pretty diverse which will allow a wide variety of play 
 styles. The ranking system doesn't really work all that well from what I've seen. You won't be playing 
 first time players, but you won't be playing people that are really close to your rank all that 
 much either, but this doesn't hinder the online component of this game what so ever. The only thing 
 that I'd have liked, is for more weapons and maybe multi player achievements. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LabGemini23
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 17, 2008 6:44 pm PT
Review:  I can honestly say that Call of Duty 4 is better in all respects than Halo 3. There is so much 
 to like in Call of Duty 4 that it perplexes me as to why there aren't more people subscribing to 
 Live for this game alone, compared to the numbers Halo is cranking out. Call of Duty 4 really sets 
 off this "new" feeling, pushing us away from WW2 and into modern times, a feeling similar to what 
 Battlefield: Vietnam and Battlefield 2 bestowed upon PC gamers (only with much better, and friendlier 
 user connectivity.
  
  Presentation:
  The story is short and sweet. There are tons of pulse-pounding moments and intriguing plot lines. 
 The HUD is nice and simple; and the menus are easy-to-navigate and stream-lined.
  
  Graphics:
  Some of the best around. So far on an HDTV, it bests Half-Life 2, Halo 3, Medal of 
 Honor: Airborne, Rainbow Six: Vegas and The Darkness. I wouldn't say it would best BioShock or 
 Mass Effect, by any means, but still. The facial expressions and animations are defined, the lighting 
 is amazing and all the guns appear how they would in real-life. Even the landscaping and environments 
 are finely detailed; bullet holes in the walls, dents in canisters.
  
  Sound:
  Decent score. All the weapons sound really great, as well. My only problem is that I highly doubt 
 either the Middle Eastern Coalition or the Spetznaz prefer to speak English than their native tongue. 
 The little breath hold and ringing of the ears from flashbangs are all nice touches.
  
  Gameplay:
  The controls for the game are just sharp, they feel dead on. The button layout also 
 fits the the 360 controller well. The plentiful amount of weapons at your disposal appear balanced 
 for the most part, however, (though this might sound like a "n00b" complaint) the snipers seem 
 a tad weak and not as accurate as they should be. I have had it many times where I had all the 
 time in the world to pick off some guy in multiplayer, only to have him slip away. I can't explain 
 why it is possible that I pull the trigger 3 times to his head (while holding my breath) , and not 
 1 of them hit the target. Ah well, besides that, I'm peachy.
  
  Lasting Appeal:
  Thanks to the short story, you'll be sent right into the frontlines of Xbox Live. Multiplayer alone 
 is worth the sticker price you get Call of Duty for. Thank Infinity Ward for implementing Perks, 
 a loadout screen, and a persistent ranking system; all backed by an awesome matchmaking service.
 
  
  Basically, if you love shooters and online play, you should definitely give Call of Duty 4 a try. 
 The modern era fits so nicely into Call of Duty's old theme of WW2, and it is just such a fresh 
 experience (a feeling similar to that of Battlefield 2) .
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CoreoVII
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 17, 2008 2:39 pm PT
Review:  Wow.... where to begin....
  
  Again, like all of my reviews, it will be short and sweet and full of honesty.
  
  Unlike any 
 360 game i have seen so far, all the achievement points can be obtained in the one-player campaign 
 mode, for all of the achievement lovers, which is cool because you earn an over-load of other stuff 
 on Muiltiplayer. 
  
  I also want to admit that the single player campaign was a blast the whole way through.... which 
 is a huge thing for me to say... since i normally refuse to play FPS's.
  
  I personally dislike halo, not because it isnt awesome, just that im more a gears of war player. 
 But damn, i have to say COD 4 beats them both into the ground from all angles. 
  
  Pls pls pls, try and play this game, if your one of the few that havent. You owe it to your self 
 to play an FPS with the best multiplayer set up i have seen so far on any console. 
  
  It's one of those rare game's that come out and makes you think, "I never saw this coming". My 
 Gamer Tag is CoreoVII, lets Go! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: twopic58
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 17, 2008 2:21 pm PT
Review:  This was the exact game I was waiting for. Almost everything in this game is to my liking. The 
 campaign was one of the most exciting. Plus the multiplayer can compete with every other game. 
 Shock and Awe was one of the best experiences in a game because it was something different and 
 showed some emotion. The story could have been longer but it still is amazing. The multiplayer 
 is also awesome. You play in the same levels as in the campaign. Most of the weapons are as effective. 
 Plus getting kill streaks is really rewarding because you get the radar, airstrike, and helicopter 
 bonuses which can really help you and your team out. The graphics, sound, and gameplay are all 
 amazing in this game. The matchmaking is smooth and fun. The ranking system allows you to unlock 
 different guns when you get higher ranks. You can also customize some of your weapons and add attachments 
 and other type of perks. I think this game is a must have for all shooter fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liam437
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 17, 2008 7:57 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare takes you to the very depths of Hades. The long-awaited COD4, IW's 
 follow-up to the excellent Call of Duty 2, is a jarring, intense, and gripping take on war in the 
 new millennia. The enemies are smarter, the weapons are deadlier, and the grenades all too plentiful. 
 COD4 will shake loose your fillings and have you begging for more.
  
  Infinity Ward was born out of the success of retelling some of the greatest battles in World War 
 II. The company has become synonymous with the virtual beach at Normandy. So it was quite a gamble 
 to break from the comfort zone of Nazi-occupied Europe and leap into present day. The gamble paid 
 off. Ghost Recon, Rainbow Six, and every other military-based shooter has been put on notice. There 
 is a new standard to judge this sub-genre and it is Call of Duty 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sector9c
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 16, 2008 2:40 pm PT
Review:  good graphics, gameplay, story, challenge.
  online play in my opinion is way better than halo 3.
  
  first of all the campain mode is very 
 good. though in my experience the first level was not that great , it was good and definitly fun 
 but i wanted more out of a first level. fortunetly the following levels get better and better. 
 This was a major positive in the game. 
  
  the game has a good plot that engages you on a anti terrorist objective. perhaps the best part 
 of the plot is in the begining where your in the first person view of an assaination victim. grusome 
 but more so intese and captivating.
  
  why is the online experience better than halo 3? Simply, realism, health, camo, weapons, sounds, 
 and recoil, all give more real feel but not too real it's still a game right. 
  Online challenges are fun to acheive, more weapons, plus you can customise your weapons and yourself. 
 in my opinion the best shooter i've palyed and the best online exp besides adolecent talk.
  
  disadvantages ? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: martialbullet
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 16, 2008 2:34 pm PT
Review:  After making two great WW2 games, Infinity Ward decides to go modern with Call of Duty 4. What 
 does that mean for us? Being able to handle today's guns without the legal issues. 
  
  COD4 is one of those games that you just have to get. The single player campaign is full of surprises 
 and is just satisfying. With so many guns and a variety of missions, you'll never get bored. The 
 story lets you play different people but mainly as Soap from S. A. S. and Paul Jackson from the USMC 
 who are on a mission to stop Russian and Arabian rebels from causing destruction. The story is 
 full of twist and turns so you can't be sure what will happen next.
  
  On the Multiplayer side, COD4 is just as good. The ranking system is brilliant and the modes are 
 varied which will give people an incentive to keep on playing. With tons of challenges and unlockables, 
 this is by far one of the best multiplayer experiences of all time.
  
  So whether you're looking for a fun immersive single player or a deep and competitive multiplayer, 
 Call of Duty 4 is hands down the best choice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_mask_91
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 16, 2008 11:50 am PT
Review:  The game that is a gift from the gods and the heir to the throne of FPS kings
  
  The game goes in perspectives of two different people
  
  Soap Mctavish a member of the S. A. S 
 
  And Seargent Paul Jackson a USMC
  
  Story-You start the game in a prologue. The game begins with Sgt. McTavish freshly selected for 
 a covert action under the command of Captain Price. Intelligence provided by the informant "Nikolai" 
 leads the SAS to the shipment of a Russian nuclear device destined for the Middle East. The weapons 
 and mission training (functioning as the player's introductory stage) is preparation for 22nd's 
 next mission: infiltrating a Russian cargo ship in the Pacific Ocean to secure the shipment. After 
 killing off the crew and guards onboard, 22nd SAS secures the device. Hostile forces bomb the ship, 
 forcing the team to escape only with evidence of their find.
  A Russian Ultranationalist by the name of Imran Zakhaev is set on returning his homeland to the 
 times of the Soviet Union by revolting against the current government and seizing a nuclear weapons 
 stockpile. Zakhaev has the support of several rogue divisions of the Russian army. He funds a coup 
 d'etat in the Middle East organized by his ally Khaled Al-Asad, beginning with the televised execution 
 of the President Yasir Al-Fulani, to draw attention away from Russia. The British and U. S. governments 
 discover the plot while monitoring Zakhaev's recent activities, and quickly initiate a police-action 
 to stop the uprisings in both regions.
  Soon after President Al-Fulani is executed, 22nd SAS is deployed to rescue their compromised informant, 
 held in an Ultranationlist camp in Russia, with help from Russian Loyalist forces led by Sergeant 
 Kamarov. Before they can reach base, the squad is shot down over Central Russia, and must get to 
 a nearby landing zone for evacuation. An AC-130 gunship is dispatched to provide fire support for 
 the team until they are evacuated.
  
  Meanwhile, Sgt. Paul Jackson and USMC 1st Force Recon attempts to capture Al-Asad in a raid, but 
 are unsuccessful. 1st Force Recon is then tasked with rescuing a stranded M1 Abrams tank. The USMC 
 pushes Al-Asad's forces back to the capital city, where Al-Asad is broadcasting from a television 
 station. During what appears to be the final stages of the conflict, a Russian nuclear weapon is 
 unexpectedly detonated by Al-Asad, leveling the capital and annihilating most of the invading U. S. 
 Marine forces. Jackson, delayed from escaping the blast radius due to the last minute rescue of 
 a downed AH-1 Super Cobra pilot, is aboard one of the helicopters caught in the blast radius. Although 
 Jackson initially survives the crash of his CH-46 Sea Knight helicopter, he soon succumbs to his 
 wounds and radiation poisoning and is counted among the dead.
  
  Al-Asad had escaped prior to the US invasion. "Nikolai" directs 22nd SAS to one of Al-Asad's safehouses 
 in Azerbaijan, where they recover and interrogate him. After learning Zakhaev gave him the bomb, 
 Al-Asad is executed by Captain Price. It is at this point that Price recalls his mission to eliminate 
 Zakhaev in Pripiyat. Price, then a lieutenant with the SAS, was paired up with Captain MacMillan 
 to carry out the assignment. Together, they sneaked past several guard stations as well as tank 
 and infantry patrols in order to reach their post. Once in position at the top of a hotel, they 
 witnessed Zakhaev engage in an arms deal, using the opportunity to assassinate him. Zakhaev survived, 
 however, losing only his left arm. The Ultranationalist forces tracked the shot and pursued the 
 snipers across the Zone of Alienation. During the chase, a pursuit helicopter was shot down and 
 crashed, injuring MacMillan and forcing Price to carry him the rest of the way. The pair engaged 
 the Ultranationalists in a stand-off at a nearby amusement park until their eventual extraction.
 
  
  Back in the present, the Ultranationalists launch a counter-attack to claim Al-Asad. 22nd SAS organizes 
 a defense, using antipersonnel mines to slow the assault, before they can be extracted. After escaping 
 from Azerbaijan, a joint operation-comprised of 22nd SAS, a Force Recon unit led by Staff Sergeant 
 Griggs and Russian Loyalists led by Kamarov-is formed to stop Zakhaev. They attempt to capture 
 his son to learn of his whereabouts but this mission ends in failure; Zakhaev's son commits suicide 
 when finally cornered
  
  The loss of his son incurs Imran Zakhaev's wrath, and he launches two SS-27 Topol M ballistic missiles 
 with MIRV warheads in desperation at the East Coast of the United States. The joint force breaches 
 the missile launch center, and is able to deactivate the missiles over the Atlantic Ocean. During 
 their escape, an enemy Mi-24 helicopter destroys the bridge they are attempting to cross. Zakhaev's 
 troops arrive soon after, and begin engaging the remaining members of the strike force. A wrecked 
 gas tanker explodes, incapacitating everyone except Griggs. Zakhaev himself arrives, accompanied 
 by two soldiers. Griggs is shot down trying to pull Soap to safety; Gaz is executed personally 
 by Zakhaev. He is on the verge of killing Soap, but is distracted by the arrival of a Russian Loyalist 
 Mi-28 bearing Sgt. Kamarov and reinforcements. At this moment, a heavily wounded Captain Price 
 slides his pistol to Soap; he uses the pistol to kill Zakhaev and his guards. As McTavish is airlifted 
 from the battleground, Price is last seen attempting to be resuscitated.
  
  After watching the credits you are able to play a epilogue mission. You save a VIP member on an 
 airplane thats about to blow up
  
  Mulitplayer-The multiplayer mode in Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare includes a character class system 
 that allows players to create custom infantry classes with numerous weapons and perks (special 
 equipment or abilities) to assign to their soldier.
  
  The player can call in UAV reconnaisance scans, air strikes, and attack helicopters by achieving 
 a three-, five-, or seven-enemy kill streaks, respectively.
  
  The five default classes include Assault, Special Ops, Heavy Gunner, Demolitions, and Sniper. Only 
 three of the default classes are available to a first time player; the rest are unlocked as the 
 player gains more experience online and gains higher rank. Create-a-class can be unlocked at level 
 4; players can name and save up to five custom classes for quick access in multiplayer matches.
 
  
  Experience Points (XP) are earned by either killing opponents or completing certain objectives, 
 such as defusing the bomb in "Sabotage" or "Search and Destroy" game modes. The amount of XP gained 
 varies depending on the type of match the user is playing. When the user gains enough Experience 
 Points their rank/level increases. The highest attainable level is 55, or the rank of Commander. 
 Upon reaching level 55 the player is rewarded with the Gold Desert Eagle pistol, indicating his 
 Commander status.
  
  Most of the new weapons and perks that players can use to outfit their custom class are unlocked 
 as they gain higher ranks. There are also a number of challenges associated with each weapon that 
 subsequently open up new weapon attachments as players complete them; these include improved weapon 
 sights, camouflage patterns, and magnification scopes. These benefits are unlocked after attaining 
 a certain number of kills or headshots. Completing these challenges also gives the player XP.
 
  
  Gameplay-The gameplay in this game breaths new life to the FPS category. The gameplay is always 
 fast paced and never boring.
  
  Weapons-You can obtain many weapons in COD4 multiplayer.
  Players in Call of Duty have access to a variety of weapons in several different categories such 
 as assault rifles, submachine guns, light machine guns, shotguns, and sniper rifles. As the player 
 progresses through experience levels, they unlock more weapons. In addition, when a user gets a 
 certain number of kills for individual weapons they unlock certain upgrades to those weapons. Such 
 upgrades include red dot sights, silencers, under barrel grenade launchers, and ACOG scopes. Surface 
 refinishes or "skins" can also be earned through headshot kills.
  
  Sound-Graphics- The sound in this game is just amazing. It sounds like your actually using a M41 
 Carbine or throwing a grenade.
  As for the graphics the graphics for this game certainly doesnt dissapoint. The graphics are crisp 
 and clean and have great shadowing and lighting effects.
  
  Overall-This game is probably one of the greatest FPS so far. This game excels in almost every 
 category. IF your looking for a game thats not dissapointing and can leave you clinged to your 
 couch for hours on end, then Call of Duty 4 Modern Warfare is the game for you
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cerbrack_crew
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 16, 2008 8:52 am PT
Review:  Call of duty 4 is an awesome game even if you do not have Xbox live. The call of duty story or 
 campaign mode is the best I have seen in a game for a while to be honest, they have really put 
 some effete to make this a good game. You go through a series of different soldier's e. g. general 
 soldier/trainee or Newb however you put it. To being, a SAS trooper and you get to be a sharpshooter/Marksman. 
 Call Of Duty 4 is a must buy if you like the pervious games and if you just want a good game to 
 play and get into, weather you have online or not it really doesn't matter it just gets more intense 
 playing with friends. The multiplayer mode is nothing like it... challenges to complete, ranks, 
 custom classes e. g. rifle man, sniper, demolition etc. etc. With Maps with ruins and hiding spots... With 
 more coming soom downloadable over Xbox Live Market Place. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scanzo
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 16, 2008 2:57 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is an amazing game, its deffinityly the Best COD yet. I am addicted 
 to this game. I love how we can choose from a bunch of differant weapons unlike the previous Call 
 of Dutys were we used the same 5 weapons over and over. I just bought it the other day and Its 
 a game I can tell Im not going to get bored of anytime soon, I sort of had the same vibe that I 
 got from playing Gear of War, and I have not gotten bored with Gear. COD4's graphics are good, 
 the multiplayer is the most addiciting part of the game because its non stop action and people 
 get along with eachother and just have a great time, not like Halo 3 were everyone is rank obsessed 
 children who think there cool acting tough over a game, they say noob and I luaght at them and 
 say get a life. But anyways, COD4: MW is a game you should pick up if your a fan of shooters, if 
 you liked the older CODs you will fall in love with this game. 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ezzat30
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 15, 2008 10:05 pm PT
Review:  In addition to just firing your weapon or tossing grenades, you earn some more interesting tactical 
 moves for skilled play. If you can shoot three opponents without dying, you're able to call in 
 a UAV drone, which basically is an upgraded radar that makes enemy positions show up on your onscreen 
 map for 30 seconds at any time. Normally, enemies blip up onto the map only if they fire their 
 weapon to make their location known. If you can go on a five-kill streak, you can call in an air 
 strike, which brings up a shot of the entire level map and lets you place the air strike wherever 
 you like. When combined with a UAV sweep, this can be really devastating. If you can make it all 
 the way to seven kills -- which is actually easier than it sounds -- you can call in a helicopter for 
 support. It'll buzz around the map and automatically open fire on enemies, though enemies can shoot 
 it down, too. These additions to the normal first-person shooter gameplay really open up the game 
 a lot and make it superexciting to play. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Condog1702
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 15, 2008 7:09 pm PT
Review:  This is easily the BEST game (other than Halo 3, of course) It is HIGHLY addictive, espically online 
 matches.
  
  Gameplay- Phenominal, keeps you entertained for hours on end ( espically online) and its just very 
 fun and highly realistic -- sometimes I feel like I am fighting with the SAS!
  
  Graphics- Absolutley breathtaking! It looks as if you were fighting with the SAS in the Middle 
 East. It is highly realistic, its perfect!
  
  Sound- Great sound- highly realistic, sounds like real gunfire, and explosions, you have to experience 
 it for yourself! Absolutley perfect!
  
  Value- This game is worth every single penny you spend on it, its so worth it!
  
  Tilt- 10, 
 a perfect 10!
  
  I highly reccommend this to anyone who likes first person shooters, you won't regret buying it!
 
  
  If anyone wants to play me, I am up for the challenge, pm me! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fjmb
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 15, 2008 6:28 pm PT
Review:  Did you ever watch the news?
  Ever saw a black and white video of a smart bomb falling from an aircraft?
  
  No?
  
  PLAY 
 THIS GAME NOW THEN!
  
  I had never played such great war game.
  Even Black, witch was the best war game in my opinion, belongs to the second place now.
  
  
 It's like the first time you played Soldiers of Fortune... remember?
  All that crap shooters like duke nuken etc... then, Activison comes with SOF.
  
  It's the same.
 
  
  I'd never understood why the game industries didn't follow Black.
  The first shooter that let you destroy everthing, with almost reality.
  The first to let you 
 shoot somebody through walls...
  
  The shooters that where released after Black didn't came with this concept... WHY??
  
  But, 
 hey, HERE IT'S NOW!
  CALL OF DUTY 4!
  
  Blast everything!
  
  It's on my top list. The best shooter so far.
  
  Here's the list...
  
  1- C. O. D. 4
  2- 
 Black
  3- The Darkness
  4- Halo 3
  5- FarCry Predator
  etc
  
  Try these and you'll have the best Shooter so far on the Xbox 360.
  
  (sorry for my bad english... 
 it's 00:29 here in Brazil, and I'm a bit sleepy... hehehe)
  
  Bye everybody. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: huntedwumpus
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 15, 2008 5:16 pm PT
Review:  From the moment you press start into single player mode, the controller is officially attached 
 to your hand. The politically-charged storyline of a strange special ops recruit named "Soap" brings 
 you into the Middle East with sweaty palms and a throbbing sensation in your chest. The game is 
 simply gruesome; from unethical executions (seen via very original perspectives) to snapping wild 
 dog's necks before they rip your voice box out - COD4 leaves not a single violent detail to the 
 imagination. The only bit of the story that tops the beginning is the ending (with or without including 
 the Epilogue... which is a great touch) . 
  
  Unlike most, I was far from disappointed by the short single player mode, since it got me right 
 into the fray of online action. For fans of terrifyingly-realistic FPSs, this game is for you. 
 Play one round of Team Hardcore Mode (with no HUD, no auto-aiming and friendly fire on) and you 
 will give Halo 3 to your 13 year old cousin. The overall quality of the graphics, gameplay and 
 ability to progress (via earning great new abilities and weapons) online will have you playing 
 COD4 even longer than the sleep-deprived friend of yours still waiting on an elevator in Mass Effect. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tc_dude
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 15, 2008 5:09 pm PT
Review:  Alright, lets start with the single player campaign: 
  It's complete and utter !@#$, despite how cool it m. ay seem, you'll notice after a few hours that 
 you spend the majority of your time standing still, aiming down the sights, and gunning down distant 
 enemies that are standing still. 
  
  The graphics: They're good in most places, but some areas are downright bland and ugly, and wait... 
 isn't everything gray? 
  
  The multiplayer: don't expect any fun if you don't have xbox live. you can play with 4 friends, 
 but most maps are far too big for that. Online on the other hand, the assault rifles in the game 
 are way too overpowered, sort of ruining it, and many game modes like headquarters YOU HAVE TO 
 UNLOCK BY PLAYING ONLINE FOR HOURS!!!! WTF!!??? The online multiplayer features a leveling system, 
 and as you level up you unlock new weapons and perks to customize your online character with, but 
 the game doesn't attempt to put you with players of the same level, meaning you'll find yourself 
 up against level 55's with overkill perks and Uber-1337 weaponz, which just isn't fair. 
  
  The gunplay: Here's the best part, despite all the balance issues, the gunplay is downright brilliant, 
 you aim down the sights to accurately shoot your gun, and as you level up in multiplayer, you can 
 customize your character exactly to your liking. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Habast
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 12, 2009 2:40 pm PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying this game wasn't that bad, but it wasn't that good either! On single 
 player it's exactly like almost every other shooter created, and not at all an improvement from 
 Call of Duty 3, and on multiplayer (splitscreen) its still just a one-on-one with no bots, take 
 a lesson from Ghost Recon, guys. It's like they expect you to have X-Box live, but we're not all 
 that rich! oh and no co-op, so it still is many steps behind the Medal of Honor series.
  
  The Good
  Pretty decent system and gameplay
  Nice graphics
  
  The Bad
  No co-op
  only 
 one-on-one multiplayer, no 'bots'
  Slightly anoying combat system
  
  The Just Plain Ugly
  How overrated it is
  
  Graphics: If graphics counted for everything, 
 this game would have a 9
  Gameplay: Not bad, but I've played at least 30 better shooters, like Jedi Knight, Timesplitters, 
 Medal of Honor, Ghost Recon, and MANY others... 6
  Sound: Fine, just fine. 7
  Story: It's pretty good, I guess... 7.5
  Replayability: Not very high, 3
  Overall: In the end 
 its just another run of the mill shooter, 6.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnfrat
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 15, 2008 12:03 pm PT
Review:  First of all, when you first turn on the game, you are blown away by the realistic graphics. I 
 was absolutely astonished by what I was seeing. Every map, character, building, gun, etc were so 
 very well done, that it kind of leaves you in awe.
  
  Second, the single player mode has a wonderful story line. The game play is smooth, and the controls 
 are easy to master.
  
  Third, the multiplayer is probably the best part of this game. There are very few complaints that 
 I have dealing with the multiplayer. It is fun, exciting, and fast paced. The only thing that I 
 would ask to better the multiplayer, is more interaction with the surroundings. Ability to get 
 into all buildings, vehicles, etc.
  
  Overall, this game is probably the best game on the Xbox right now. I look forward to future installments. 
 Great job! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DragonKiller26
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 15, 2008 10:00 am PT
Review:  If you want intense fighting and extreme modern situations this is as close as you can get unless 
 you sign up for uncle sam's army. Everyone keeps saying to me COD 4 single player campaign is far 
 too short but if you choose the right difficulty for you from the start even to play through it 
 on normal and then progress to veteran you will have many hours of fun.
  
  Along with the arcade mode once you complete the game the replay value is great. The only thing 
 is missing is online co op in my opinion but all in all graphically brilliant along with true sound 
 from each gun and explosions going off left right and centre it is worth investing in a good 5.1 
 sound system. Even if you cant afford it get a set of headphones plugged into the tv the sound 
 is just amazing. (Turn it up!)
  
  The multiplayer is truly great, a must have experience for every gamer. The maps are great and 
 the game modes are brilliant from free for all to capturing objectives there is around 15 in all. 
 Although starting off with no perks and very little fire power, seems a tad unfair its not long 
 before you have the chance to unlock most of them. The ranking system is great it gives you that 
 carrot and stick effect were one more level and i will unlock this gun or that perk its simply 
 brilliant.
  
  As far as achievements go i agree maybe they could have had a few online but there is some challenging 
 one's even in single player and to get them all you will need to have some true skills.
  
  10
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cdo1536
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 15, 2008 2:45 pm PT
Review:  This game is way overrated and hyped up way too much. I have tried to write a fair review and keeping 
 it simple by listing the good and the bad aspects. 
  
  The Good:
  -Constant action, keeps you busy! With a good team you can manage to get some quick down time for 
 a heal or just to take a breather.
  -Rewards for being a survivor. I am one of the few players who like to be tactical about my tactical 
 shooters. I don't prefer to suicide charge the enemy in hopes of getting 1-2 kills before dieing, 
 and this game rewards your survival skills with radar, airstrike, and helicopter support.
  -Deep level design. This game's maps are full of buildings you can get inside, get on top of, or 
 get under. Takes a step beyond the typical shooter, and each level offers it's own play styles.
 
  -Customizability! ! My favorite aspect of shooting games. You get to choose your camo, your attachments, 
 your perks, and your explosive arsenal.
  -Kniving! Melee hits are always handy for a quick kill when attacked by suprise, and this delivers. 
 Although sometimes its a bit buggy like whne you stick it in their chest and you die, or just acting 
 like it never happened at all.
  -Effective camo! The ghillie suits actually make it possible to lay in grass and actually be covered! 
 Although if the grass is tall enough you can do this without the suit, but its nice to see camo 
 actually working in a game for once. Although the camo you can apply to your gun hardly matters, 
 its a nice custom addition.
  -Quick grenades. One thing I like in this game is how fast you can toss a grenade. Grenades are 
 often a way of making them get out of their cover, and you need to be quick on getting your gun 
 back up after tossing a grenade. So many people are rushers on this game, its not a good thing 
 to be idle in a fight for even a few seconds.
  
  The Bad:
  -"Let me catch my breathe!" I don't like games when the healing is staying out of action. This 
 is one of the reasons I am not a halo fan. Med kits would have been a much better way to go about 
 it, and would have offered a new perk to the game (additional med kits, or require this perk to 
 have any at all) .
  -Buggy shooting. You know that feeling you get when you catch an enemy by suprise and get that 
 perfect head shot? Yeah, this game takes they feeling away. Guns often don't hit where they are 
 aiming, and this can result in some BS kill cameras.
  -Kill cameras. Like being a stealth sniper, a well hidden gunner, or just a ninja in general? Well 
 get one kill and their whole team will know where you are thanks to this feature.
  -Player based spawning. If your team is bogged down by enemy fire, and they are counting on you 
 to flank the enemy, you can't move anywhere without being spotted. You constantly have allies spawning 
 near you blowing your cover or drawing unwanted attention, and often times spawning right in front 
 of you getting them or you killed.
  -Gun specific camo. When I heard you can get a ghillie suit, I was giddy with anticipation of being 
 a perfectly cloaked stealth sniper. You can still do that (to an extent) , but you can ONLY get 
 the ghillie suit if you choose a sniper rifle as your primary weapon, bummer.
  -Weak attachments. You can get a silencer, red dot sight, acog scope, or grenade launcher attachment 
 for the gist of your arsenal. I would prefer the silence by default, but you can't really see where 
 you are aiming without any form of sight enhancement. Couple this with the player based spawning, 
 you have no real need for a silencer anyways. The acog scope has a better zoom (yay) , but you lose 
 the classic "+" in your scope and instead is replaced with an unreliable "^" that glows red in 
 the middle, not to mention this sight enhancing scope actually REDUCES your weapon's range. Do 
 I really have to say anything about the grenade launcher attachment? Anyone who uses mass explosives 
 is a complete noob. This is a SHOOTing game, play with skill k? So you are basically left with 
 the red dot sight or the acog scope as only real choices for attachments. Oh by the way, sniper 
 rifles can't get silencers, wtf?
  -Realistic sniping. Sure I am all for realistic stuff in games, but when it comes to sniping I 
 wanna be steady! Bobbing the crosshairs all over might not be so bad if the gun actually fired 
 where it was aimed. If you are good enough to time the trigger with the crosshair passing over 
 the target you should be able to score a kill. Instead you have to hold your breathe to steady 
 your aim. This doesn't seem too bad but the breathe holding only lasts about 5 seconds (plenty 
 of time for me to line up on a target IN THE OPEN) . You can increase the duration of this to a 
 pretty decent time with the addition of a perk, which sadly will take place of the deep penetration 
 perk which is handy for snipers to take out those pesky window shooters. Even though they tried 
 for realistic sniping, I can recall several (hundreds) of times I put 3-6 PERFECT shots in a stationary 
 or moving target's torso or head, only to apparently miss.
  -Weak sniping. I remember back in the day of GRAW when sniping was a 1 hit quitter. Not only is 
 sniping seemingly buggy with its shooting, you gotta shoot some fools up to 4-5 times to finally 
 score a kill.
  -Gun kickback. Yes guns kick back, but to an amount some are unusable on this game. 
  -Muzzle 
 flash. To shoot a fully automatic in this game, you HAVE to have the silencer, red dot sight, or 
 acog scope or else the flash from the gun will make it impossible to see your target after the 
 first shot. Indirectly making nearly every gun a 3 round burster at even medium ranges, that is 
 if you favor accuracy and quick kills without exposing yourself for too long.
  -Horrible maps. There are 3-6 ways to reach nearly anywhere on this map, making sniping near impossible 
 to do in safety. Most of the maps on this game I just plain hate playing because they are so small 
 or boring. This game is really lacking large maps.
  -Perks required. It seems like they purposely made some features of this game horrible so that 
 you are forced to use specific perks. To me, a perk should be an addition to an aspect, not a requirement 
 to be at average.
  -Servers! This is hopefully a temporary issue, but for a month+ now the servers have been having 
 major issues. Game drops, inability to join games, mass disconnects, false player readings, etc. 
 For hours at a time the game becomes unplayable and is very very frustrating.
  -Overpowered choppers. The only counter to a chopper is an RPG. Sure you can gun down the chopper 
 but you start with such low ammo as is, thats hardly an option unless you have the bandoleir perk 
 (see, gotta have perks to even be average!) . I have tried many a time to RPG a chopper down, but 
 my RPGs keep taking 90 degree turns midair, resulting in very unreliable aim. Apparently you can 
 snipe the pilot, but as mentioned above, sniping is hit and miss. Although I do like them rewarding 
 survivability, this was the wrong way to go about it.
  -Predictable spawns. I noticed on free for alls the enemy always spawns near you, and in some levels 
 you can get a good spot, kill the enemy, and know right where they will spawn every time, resulting 
 in some very annoying camped kills.
  -Lacking in game setup. You can't turn off the killcamera or turn on base spawning, which is just 
 an obvious duh for any skilled player.
  -Confusing destinations. Often the campaign can be annoying because you find yourself asking "ok, 
 where am I supposed to go?" a lot. They often decide to tell you your orders in the middle of combat, 
 resulting in "wait, what?".
  -Name clutter. Sure people love them, but they get in my way! I could be waiting for someone to 
 exit their cover to blow their face off, and some fool ally runs up ahead, making their name blind 
 me. Come on people, get shorter names, less stupid names, names without numbers, and for gods sake 
 take off the caps lock! The addition of clan tags just adds an additional 6 characters in my way.
 
  -Sprinting. You might think "dude, thats a good thing" well it normally would, but with the multiple 
 blows to snipers in this game, this is just an additional frustration. The sprint ability in this 
 game should have been a perk unlock, instead they made the sprint related perk an extended sprint. 
 For me, the default sprint is long enough, especially since I don't suicide charge the enemy.
 
  -Full auto all the way. If you hope to get many kills, you have to go full auto, single shot guns 
 just can't compete. Its gun ho or your their ho.
  
  Basically, this game has its good sides and its flood of bad sides. This is still a decent game, 
 its just way over rated and hyped for so many down sides.
  
  If you want a good shooter, play Tom Clancey's Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter 2. I played CoD4 
 for about 3-4 weeks and went back to GRAW2. The first thing I noticed was that I actually hit where 
 I was aiming, especially with sniping. Good to be able to blow someone's head off from half the 
 map away, something you often can't do on CoD4, even though half the map could just be a 5 second 
 run.
  
  I could go on and on (mainly on the bad stuff) but its late and I gotta go. I hope someone actually 
 reads this, its from someone who actually played the game and rated it based on what it is, and 
 not what its hyped to be.
  
  (Lots of the good and bad stuff it just how I prefer a game, your views may differ, but the gist 
 of players would agree with me I think.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ContrastXF
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 14, 2008 12:23 pm PT
Review:  Your walking through a field towards a house, waiting to kill what ever is inside when.. BAM... and 
 you die. The most frustrating thing in COD4 is being killed by an 'invisible' player lying on the 
 ground in the brush. Then again, it is a great tribute to the amazing detail and graphics that 
 were put into this game. All though the single player is short, the story line is gripping; however, 
 you will be done in roughly 5 hours. However, online is where this game truly shines. Sure, Halo 
 3's online is well done, easy to navigate, and great for quick action. COD4 takes everything that 
 was good with Halo 3 online and took it a few steps farther. The leveling system mirrors that of 
 Halo 3, but with a few advantages. In Halo, your are awaiting that one moment when you jump up 
 an other level. COD4 gives you a detailed EXP bar, much like what you would find in a RPG game. 
 Also, as you level up online, more weapons, more perks, and more attachments for your weapons will 
 become available to you, giving you something to work towards. Like Halo 3, you will also be able 
 to 'veto' a map, and if enough other players also veto, you could be playing a more desirable map. 
 Overall, words do not do justice to what COD4 bring to the XBOX 360 (and I'm sure also to the PC 
 and PS3) . Just go out and buy this one. It deserves the awards it has received! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Neublaze
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 14, 2008 6:45 am PT
Review:  What can I say that hasn't already been said about this game? I could take the risk of upsetting 
 alot of Halo fanatics by saying this is a much better game than Halo 3. But I won't. Instead I 
 will say it excels in different areas than Halo 3. Halo 3 has the benefit of having a fantastic 
 story history to back it up. However I think Call of Duty 4 has much better mechanics as a FPS.
 
  
  We'll leave the comparison part alone now though. Let's get into what made this game as awsome 
 as it is. I gave this game a 9.0 and honestly stand by it. The games visuals are simply amazing 
 and the sound effects couldn't be better. That anooying ringing in your ears when a flash bang 
 goes off is captured amazingly well here/ Characters are well designed and the voice acting does 
 not sound forced at all like some games seem like they hire a speak and spell to do all the voice 
 acting. They did a great thing with this game as there seems to be almost non-stop action through 
 out the entire game. There were few and far between points to rest and catch your breath with the 
 exception of a sniping level that gives a couple seconds here and there. Instead of dropping the 
 ball on single player and focusing on the multiplayer i think they did a fantstic job on both.
 
  
  There are few and far between negative things to pint out in this game. Only three come to mind 
 when I think of the game. One is that the game is horribly short. I think it took me about 6-8 
 hours to beat. Also there seems to be a constant issue with the server where I keep getting interupted 
 connections and or booted from games and game lobbies. The last one that really dissapoints me 
 is the lack of achievments on multiplayer which really surprised me! People love playing multiplayer 
 to unlock those and it would encourage people to play a myriad of different game types to get them. 
 other than that no problems at all great game and definate must have game to add to your collection!
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warheart1188
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 12, 2008 9:18 pm PT
Review:  The Call of Duty series has been known for delivering amazing and realistic gameplay with intense 
 multiplayer. Until now, the CoD games have been set during World War II. Now, the series brings 
 the toils of war into the near future with Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare. Unlike modern combat 
 games like Battlefield 2, CoD 4 brings ultra-realistic graphics with the most intense gameplay 
 ever achieved in a videogame. The story deals with war in the Middle East (not the war occurring 
 right now) and conflicts in Russia. Throughout the game, you switch between a British soldier and 
 a U. S. Marine. The gameplay, as stated before, is INTENSE. There are so many moments that make 
 you say "WTF!!! DID YOU SEE THAT??!!" Such moments include: a sinking tanker where you have to 
 escape or die, defend a tank while hundreds of Middle Eastern soldiers surround you with RPGs, 
 sneak past enemies in ghillie suits ( the enemies are walking right next to you and around you, 
 armed, and with tanks) , run away from a helicopter that's crashing towards you, etc. The moments 
 are endless. The last mission of the game will have you talking about it for days on end. The weapons 
 in the game all like nothing you've ever used in other modern combat games. They feel real, and 
 the combat is just so realistic. Aside from the amazing campaign, the multiplayer is the best part 
 of the game. Let's just put it into a few words: F**KING AMAZING!!!! The online gameplay is just 
 as intense as the campaign. The multiplayer definitely puts up some serious competition to Halo 
 3. I don't know which game has better online. Aside from the insane fragging, there are many new 
 features added to the multiplayer. For every kill or assist, you get points added towards you rank. 
 You achieve ranks such as Coporal, General, etc. You also have a level that increases everytime 
 you get a certain amount of points, the highest level being 52. It's similar to Halo 3, in that 
 respect. As you rank up, you unlock many things. New weapons to use online is one thing. Another 
 is add ons for weapons like laser scopes. Added to the multiplayer are challenges. For certain 
 weapons, after you use them to a certain extent, you pass challenges which unlock things. New to 
 the online is Perks. Perks are among the many things to unlock. Perks are abilities that you can 
 use for you soldier. Perks include things like, bullets have deeper penetration, you soldier can 
 take more hits, Last Stand ( which is as you lay on the ground, dying, you whip out your pistol to 
 take some last shots) , etc. Th Perks are awesome. Lastly, (I think!) there the custom classes. 
 Here you can create a class and choose you specific weapons and gear and also, Perks. Overall, 
 there's so much in the multiplayer. I think I've summed up Call of Duty 4. Overall, it's an amazing 
 game and it's a must buy for FPS fans or anyone looking for a great game that's more than worth 
 the $$. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pattywagon313
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 13, 2008 3:21 pm PT
Review:  Overall I was very impressed with Call of Duty 4. For a series glued into World War II games, it's 
 transition to modern times was smooth. First, I would like to say that it was a major improvement 
 over the disapointing Call of Duty 3. Many people complained about the short campaign, but I thought 
 it was of adequate length and offered variety with scenes like the car chase and gunship mission. 
 My only complaint with the single player was that it felt like i was playing an interactive movie, 
 more specifically "The Kingdom" video game. Where the game excels is in its multiplayer. It is 
 fun to play and well done in that it offers a variety of gametypes and is quick to find matches. 
 I really enjoyed certain aspects of it such as create your own class. This involves choosing from 
 a variety of weapons, upgrades, and perks to make a class that fits your playing style. The only 
 aspect I did not like was that many times people camp obscene amounts which can get frusturating. 
 If you are looking for a great multiplayer experience that is more realistic than Halo look no 
 further. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mike-revo
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 13, 2008 12:46 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty 4 modern warfare is somewhat unique compared to most shooters and at the same time 
 great. The single player campaign isn't long but fun and an excellent warm up to the multiplayer 
 mode. The multiplayer mode is full of content such as the perk system which allows you to personalise 
 your character the way you want as well as choose your gun class. Graphically this game is one 
 of the best, boasting of highly detailed environments ands levels at an excellent framerate. The 
 game isn't very hard to play either and learning the controls won't take a long time. Most people 
 would wanna get this game on the xbox 360 although I recommend buying the game on pc (if it meets 
 the requirements) as the mouse and keyboard controls work best with a game of its genre but no 
 matter what console Call of Duty 4 modern warfare is a great game and I highly recommend it to 
 anyone, fans of WWII shooters will absolutely love it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomoward41
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 13, 2008 10:41 am PT
Review:  Modern Warfare's multiplayer mode stands toe to toe with anything else on the 360, including Halo 
 3. The core gameplay is, as fans of Call of Duty 2 would expect, top-notch. Weapons are balanced, 
 grenades are useful but not overpowered, and most importantly, lag is nonexistent. 
  
  It's on this see-sawing, seafaring vessel that Call of Duty 4 first serves notice of its graphical 
 wow-factor. To say Modern Warfare's visual fidelity is immediately apparent would be a criminal 
 understatement. Torrid rainfall, rolling thunder, crackling lightning, and marvelously detailed 
 textures and character models all combine to make you say "Whoa," a word you'll constantly repeat 
 over the campaign's 10 hour-or so duration. But the impact of the amazing visuals is made all the 
 more shocking by the constant 60-frames-per-second smoothness of the action, an irresistible combination 
 previously claimed only by Team Ninja's Ninja Gaiden.
  
  Simply put, Call of Duty 4 does everything right and nearly nothing wrong. But where it elevates 
 itself above even the best 360 shooters is how all of the good stuff is ludicrously good. The campaign 
 never lets up, while multiplayer is a triple-A affair in itself. Infinity Ward's enthusiasm for 
 being freed of World War II shines through in every moment of gameplay, and this swing for the 
 fences has belted Call of Duty 4 way out of the park.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kujosp
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 13, 2008 6:14 am PT
Review:  GRAW 2 is the love of my life, I thought nothing could replace it. That was untill I played COD4. 
 Though not perfect it's pretty darn close. I played the campaign mode on a 62" HD TV which added 
 to its brilliance.
  
  Why I love this game.
  Pro's
  +The campaign is overwhelmingly fun, though somewhat short, but who buys COD4 just for the campaign 
 anways?
  +The graphics and sound are amazing
  +The xbox live gameplay is wonderful, the best of the best
  +The ranking system and upgrade achievements 
 add to the fun
  
  And why I hate this game.
  Con's
  -This game would have been down right perfect if it wasn't for the lack of ability to play xbox 
 live with two people on the same xbox. What happened here? It's baffling to think why they would 
 not provide this option.
  
  Best online action game to date, yes better then Halo and GRAW 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deathbal888
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 12, 2008 7:07 pm PT
Review:  So I had been hearing alot of good things about this game when it came out but I wasnt too sure 
 if I would want to buy or play it since I had never player any of the other Call Of Duty games......
 
  
  Anyway I bought it back when it was on sale at Target for $37 and all I can say is WOW.
  
  POSITIVES
  This game is amazing. Both the campaign and Online are really highly entertaining. 
 Campaign might be a bit short.... your going to beat the game in a day or two but on veteran its 
 quite challenging.
  Online is also very addictive and the ranking system is cool. You get new things each time you 
 rank up like weapons and challenges.
  Visuals and Audio will not dissapoint one bit either.
  
  NEGATIVES
  The only negative thing 
 I can think about the game is the fact that there is no co-op for campaign or guests for online 
 which sucks because when you have friends over you can only play split screen against eachother 
 which is not that fun.
  
  
  Overall its a must own game. Easily recommended to anybody that likes FPS games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sYorch
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 12, 2008 6:37 pm PT
Review:  This title is impressive, is a fast style game play with high detailed graphics , awesome audio 
 and cinematics that immerse you in the situation, you have the never-ending need of strike some 
 tangos just at first sight, take cover for saving your life and bring cover to support your fellas.
 
  
  Every single moment in the game is amazing and addictive.
  
  The story
  The change of the story from COD 3 to COD 4 may sound good because the WWII had been used well 
 and making a new game could be boring. 
  
  The details
  We like details in games, sound, graphics, textures, shadows.
  
  Acts
  Every act is full 
 of addictive action no matter which location you are
  
  Weapons and Support
  Opening fire, recon, cover, sniper support and giving directions to the vehicles give you the power 
 to take over the situation.
  
  The enemies
  Good aim, ... moves, strategies, weapons, locations, etc. ... Proceed with caution.
  
  Achievements
 
  When you are in combat and fully concentrated you will be able to achieve Xbox 360 points that 
 make feel a real soldier and let others know by themselves.
  
  The rest
  See it for yourself. 
  
  Just buy it, insert it into your console and have real fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: triebbs1322
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 12, 2008 4:08 pm PT
Review:  Let me start with this Call of Duty 4 is just about the greatest game i have ever played. Also 
 the story is short but if it was any longer your heart would explode. Even though you play a army 
 grunt through the campaign it is the most intense story ever developed. once you beat it there 
 are cheats where you can do things such as change the camera filter and unlimited ammo. and there 
 is the fun arcade mode where they score the campaign levels you play in. that is just the story 
 mode. This games graphics can make games like Gears of War, Bioshock and Mass Effect wet themselves. 
 whenever you or the enemys are laying down in brush with cammo on then i dare you to find them. 
 the games sound is top notch as well. and then there is the nearly flawless multiplayer the only 
 problem is that if just 1 person has a bad conection then it will boot everybody out of the game 
 but i can live with that because it dosent happen that often. all in all this is a perfect game 
 nothing else needs to be said.
  
  gameplay = 10
  
  graphics = 10
  
  story = 10
  
  sound = 10
  
  multiplayer = 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dolinovodno2500
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 12, 2008 3:54 am PT
Review:  storyline 7/10
  if youve played any call of duty you gotta know that the franchise isnt that much on story or maybe 
 theyre just bad at it i dont know but cod4 is different from its predecessor coz its a holl lot 
 diffrnt, okay storyline
  
  gameplay 8/10
  the gameplay is what ive been trying to say its normal weve been there again and again and again 
 but maybe youll like it... but yeah gameplay is good
  
  graphics 8/10
  the graphics in this game is also somewhat good you can see the textures and stuff and its on the 
 x360 ofcorse its good nice picture just like any other good xbox360 game
  
  sound 9/10
  the sound is the overall best, the sound of gunfire and bombs and people talking and stuff tsall 
 good so turn it up loud... yes the sound is good and detailed even vehicles.. everything
  
  overall 811/1000 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arthie
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 12, 2008 2:56 am PT
Review:  Before the review I'd like to say I'd give it a 9.8/10 as its not completely perfect :p
  
  I was skeptical at first that I was going to enjoy it but I just went ahead and bought it, and 
 what a awesome game it's turned out to be. Single player is fun, I don't know the exact time I 
 spent completing it, but the single player lasted me a few days, the only let-down is that there 
 isn't any co-op.
  Now, onto the multiplayer, straight away you can see all the customisation tools with loads of 
 guns, add-ons, grenades and perks. You can chose what ever you want your character to be like, 
 you could just chose a normal assault gun, or be a heavy gunner or a sniper. You feel so rewarded 
 every time you level up and you see the things you have unlocked, it gives you something to look 
 foward to. Unlike Halo 3, a few shots or bursts will kill someone so you learn from the begining 
 that you can't stay out in the open all the time and you learn new strategies. There are plenty 
 of maps to chose from and you can chose what game type you want to play. The only let down with 
 multiplayer is that you can't have a guest play with you so if you have a friend round, you won't 
 be able to play online with them.
  
  So overall it's a great game and my favorite out of my games and you could definitely pick it up!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattlom03
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 11, 2008 8:12 pm PT
Review:  My first reaction upon playing this game was ****, this is cool! First, the single player. The 
 single player portion of this game is short, but it doesnt really matter because the amount of 
 solid content more than makes up for it. When you finish the campaing you will be surprised, and 
 pleasantly. I dont want to spoil the story for people who havent yet played it, so I wont go into 
 any details about the story, but I will tell you about other things. The graphics in this game 
 are beautifull. I thought gears looked good, but this game looks alive. The controls are standard 
 to the FPS genre, and are very comfortable. There is also an arcade mode that can be alot of fun, 
 especially when you and a friend try to beat each others high scores. Overall I would give the 
 single player a 9 out of 10.
  
  The multiplayer component of COD4 is a more than full experience in itself. After playing around 
 with the multiplayer, you will start to think of the single player as the bonus, instead of the 
 other way around, which is all to common, unfortunately. The ranking system is fun, challenging, 
 and rewarding. There is a prestige mode you unlock when you reach a certain rank, and you will 
 lose everything you gained, but get a cool little symbol next to your rank. Then thiers the perks 
 and the weapons. There is enough weapons in the game that you dont feel restricted, and thier fun 
 to shoot as well. The perks are numerous and fun, as with any kind of perk system, some are more 
 usefull than others, you discover which ones are good and which ones are not as you unlock them. 
 I give the multiplayer component a 10 out of 10, I give the whole game a 9.5, because lets face 
 it, nothings perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xPascal
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 11, 2008 4:55 pm PT
Review:  Whether you are a Call of Duty first timer or you have played the whole series, this game will 
 blow you away! The multiplayer is probably one of the best things I myself have ever played. Once 
 you play this you might find your self saying, "Halo who?" Believe me you will get lost in the 
 astounding game play and stunning features. Now I never really played 3 but i heard it is not quite 
 this good, but CoD4 will not disappoint you. This is a great game and I highly encourage you to 
 pick it up. I haven't really played much of the campaign but from even what I have played so far 
 it's sweet. The game is highly addictive and you will find your self playing the multiplayer for 
 hours on end. It has the game play, and the features to be one of the greatest games of this year 
 and it defiantly goes down as one of my favorite of 2007. I'm glad I picked it up but now it's 
 your job as a gamer to treat your self to this amazing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kornyfool
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 11, 2008 9:13 am PT
Review:  The singleplayer campaign was cleverly made, immersing you into covert operations, sniper missions, 
 and even firing cannons from a AC 130 gunship! The game is packed with nonstop action, with different 
 modes of play from stealth to total mayhem. I personally am a person who likes to cut to the chase: 
 bring the bad guys, take an arsenal of guns, and blow them away. That's what this game delivers. 
 No puzzles, no mazes, no nonsense. For those who come home from work like me, we want a game that 
 entertains you from the second you pick the controller - exactly what this game does!
  
  Now on to the bad stuff: The main letdown is that the single player is rather short lived. But... the 
 gameplay is solid, the cutscenes are fantastic, and the graphics are jawdropping. I will definitely 
 play it again and again. Halo 3 does not make the cut after I played this game. Another improvement 
 that can be worked on will be the enemy AI. Smart, but rather predictable. 
  
  I strongly recommend this game, as it never fails to deliver like the other Call of Duty series. 
 Don't wait - Get this game and start firing away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Snake6phw
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 10, 2008 7:57 pm PT
Review:  Infinity ward finally got the memo; World War II is over. Welcome to Call of duty 4: Modern Warfare, 
 the latest in a long line of historic first person shooters known for their frantic action, great 
 story lines, and excellent graphics. 
  
  The latest Call of Duty features and extremely exciting, albeit short, single-player campaign. 
 The single-player follows a British SAS operative and a United States marine as they look to prevent 
 nuclear war. Almost every second of the campaign features balls-to-the-wall action that never lets 
 up and has more plot twists than a M. Night Shyamalan movie. The characters are all interesting 
 and well developed, and Cpt. Price is a leader you actually want to follow.
  
  The multiplayer is one of the more developed online experiences to come out in 2007. It features 
 an interesting level up system that is used to unlock new weapons and classes. The maps are fun 
 and the gameplay is sort of like Battlefield 2 with each side trying to build up a bigger score 
 and the other, and gaining new ranks as you play.
  
  Overall Call of Duty 4 is an excellent game and my only gripe with it is that it is entirely too 
 short. If you are a fan of first person shooters there is no reason you should over look Call of 
 Duty 4: Modern Warfare.
  
  Pros:
  -Excellent graphics
  -Excellent gameplay
  -Great multiplayer that will keep you hooked for a long time
  -Powerful story that will emotionally 
 touch you
  -No more World War II
  
  Cons:
  -Story is WAY too short 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheezisgoooood
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 10, 2008 5:52 pm PT
Review:  I'll admit that when Call of Duty 4 was announced I wasn't as excited as everyone else. Sure, I 
 was looking forward to it since any potentially great game has me interested from the start, especially 
 one from a studio with as high a pedigree as Infinity Ward. Still, yet another modern shooter with 
 tactical mechanics set in the middle east seemed like one modern shooter with tactical mechanics 
 set in the middle east too many after playing the likes of both Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter 
 2 and Rainbow Six Vegas earlier this year. I still have to wonder whether I would ever have actually 
 bought the game myself if it weren't for the fact it was paid for by my parents as a birthday present. 
 Either way, after playing many many hours of Call of Duty 4 online I have to say I'm very glad 
 I was arsed.
  
  Despite the fac t that the right analog is used for aiming, left for walking, and right trigger 
 for shooting Call of Duty 4 is nothing like any of the other half a billion shooters this year, 
 honest. One thing that I think sets it apart is that where other games feel clunky and tank-like 
 in control, Call of Duty 4 feels smooth and nimble, and has an intense cinematic feel to it that 
 no other game has accomplished as expertly, and with modern realistic settings no less. Well, maybe 
 "realistic" isn't the right word, this shooter never really feels like it's trying to emulate realism, 
 but feels more like it's trying to be a blockbuster action movie. And it works. Call of Duty 4 
 follows the trademark trend of the series by once again bringing us the biggest, most chaotic set 
 piece battles ever seen in video games. Then there's the Chernobyl level which simply has to be 
 played to be fully appreciated. The point is, Call of Duty 4 does something right that makes it 
 tough to go back to other shooters after being exposed to its magnificence. Call of Duty 4 controls 
 you. Kneel before it!
  
  For as short as it is, the single player has more than any normal game's share of pants-creaming 
 moments of excitement in it, but that still doesn't take away the fact that it anyone without an 
 xbox live connection screws themselves over when they pay 60 bucks plus tax for this game. I've 
 seen people beat it in about 5 hours on normal whereas it took me about 8 hours each on hardened 
 and veteran. Still, somehow I've managed to log somewhere around 50 hours (thanks www. theliveeye. com) 
 into the game and I have the multiplayer component to thank for it, which is, quite frankly, the 
 **** Both local and online the multiplayer provides a rushing experience like no other. Getting 
 a 7 kill streak has never felt so good as it takes excellent survival skills and luck to be able 
 to avoid getting killed for that long. It's also very manageable and happens more than you would 
 think because of the quick and frantic pace of the matches. Unless you suck. Another great thing 
 about accomplishing a five or seven kill streak is it also provides very satisfying rewards to 
 anyone who manages to do it, namely helicopters and airstrikes. You also get an enemy scanning 
 radar when you get a three kill streak that helps you see where the other team is for a limited 
 amount of time. When you get a helicopter streak, it's basically rape for the other team until 
 somebody kills it, but when somebody on the other team gets one, it's vice versa, and obviously 
 it feels better to give than to receive and your team has to either hide quickly or destroy it 
 quickly. At any rate, be quick or be violated.
  
  In addition to the fantastic online and offline core gameplay, there is also a superb in-depth 
 online class-creating system. Custom classes matter more to me in this game than it ever has in 
 any other online shooter I've played. There are the obvious preset choices in the game such as 
 sniper, sharpshooter, mercenary etc. but you don't really have to conform to the restrictions of 
 any of those classes unless you really want to, all you have to do is go into choose a class and 
 pick whatever gun you want, any gear that you'd like with it, and most importantly your perks. 
 Perks are special abilities that you choose for your own character any time you want that are designed 
 to help you in designing your own play style. There are after-death perks such as dropping a grenade 
 after you've died for a small chance of it exploding in your enemy's face after he kills you, then 
 there's last stand which places you on the floor looking up with your pistol for a small chance 
 at headshotting your opponent before he finishes you off. Other perks include making your character 
 sprint longer distances, reloading faster and being able to steady your sniper scope for a longer 
 time among others. It's almost like the upgrade system for an RPG, only instead of giving yourself 
 huge poofy hair-do's you get new camouflage and instead of big-ass swords and bigger-ass swords, 
 you get bad-ass guns and badder-ass guns.
  
  The perks aren't just given to you at the start though. You have to earn them by completing challenges 
 which are exactly what their name suggests, challenges that the game makes you complete over online 
 matches. When you complete them they give you new equipment, new weapons and new perks. This adds 
 amazing depth and a sense of progress to every online match that you play in the game, and gives 
 Call of Duty 4 far more longevity in its online component than you would expect. Once you've gotten 
 into the whole mechanic of completing challenges to unlock new ways of customizing your online 
 character, the brevity of the single player no longer matters because the online lasts you for 
 ages.
  
  Call of Duty 4 has gotten a lot of hype over its graphics and with good reason. When it's at its 
 best, the war-like settings really shine through with smoke, fire, gunshots and superior lighting. 
 High-detailed environments and great-looking character models help a lot too. The big battle sequences 
 are the places where the game really impresses. Unfortunately it doesn't hold up as well in the 
 slower sections, which are thankfully few and far in-between. When there isn't as much chaos going 
 on the game looks a bit more like an above-average-looking shooter, not particularly fantastic. 
 Call of Duty 4 is just a game that looks stellar sometimes and less so at other times.
  
  The sound, however, is not inconsistant at all. The audio presentation is excellent at all times, 
 especially in the big battles where there is gunfire everywhere, bullets hitting flesh, helicopters 
 flying above and grenades exploding all around you. The audio might as well be the very thing that 
 makes the game so much of an experience. It's almost as if Infinity Ward is playing mind games 
 with you when you hear your bullets hit the flesh of your target, it makes you want to keep playing 
 forever. It makes you whole. The audio is one of the game's features that really sell the whole 
 experience.
  
  As far as value is concerned, if you don't have online or anybody to play local multiplayer with, 
 you're screwed. You might as well throw sixty bucks into a toaster to see if a picture of Jesus 
 shows up when it's finished because you're wasting your time and money. There's practically nothing 
 to do once you've beaten the single player. However if you do have Xbox Live, it's a completely 
 different story. The challenges, customization, and excitement of the online experience really 
 take the game's value to a whole new level and will keep you playing for ages.
  
  Infinity Ward's latest first person shooter may not seem like anything special at the first glance, 
 but the epic battles, deep class system and exciting multiplayer elevate the game far above other 
 games of its type that have come out this year. Sometimes there's no explaining it, the game doesn't 
 seem all that different from the other shooters you played last month or the month before that, 
 but it still seems so much more fun than any of them it's hard to pin-point how Infinity Ward does 
 it. In any case, Call of Duty 4 could possibly be the final draft of the modern shooter, the perfection 
 of its genre and the last real improvement to the linear war game template. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cloud878
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 10, 2008 5:25 pm PT
Review:  Well forever Call of Duty in my opinion is the best shooter franchise, ever. This shows why. Call 
 of Duty 4 breaks out of its WW2 shell and enters the modern ages. You're job is to kill Zakhaev, 
 a super terrorist. Done, you have a war. Who cares about the story! The games the thing that matters 
 most. The gameplay hasn't changed much from the previous game, but thats far from a bad thing. 
 Now with the new weapons and great new features, well COD 4 is better then the previous games. 
 The new features more then make up for the not that different single player. "Death From Above" 
 you drive a heli. "All Gillied Up" is more stealth based, plus killer dogs FTW. Nuf said. Normally 
 my reviews are longer, but here I have nothing to complaing about,. Overall theres really nothing 
 I can say here beyond OH EM JEE BUY THIS GAME NAO! So umm OH EM JEE BUY THIS GAME NAO. 
  
  Graphics- 10/10
  Sound- 10/10
  Gameplay- 10/10
  Multiplayer- 11/10
  
  Real Score- 11/10 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spartan037
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 10, 2008 4:43 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty4 Modern Warfare, one of the greatest games of 2007. And the greatest installment of 
 Call of Duty yet. Infinity Ward takes use out of World War II and into todays warfare. Leaving 
 their fact-base WWII shooters Infinity Ward proves they can write their own story, and tell it 
 like a great Hollywood movie too.
  
  Graphics-10
  With great textures and attention to detail, the graphics in this game have to be one of the best 
 I've ever seen.
  
  Gameplay/Campain and Multiplayer-10
  With a great single-player campain, Call of Duty4 is worth the buy even if you don't have Xbox 
 LIVE. With great characters that pull you into the story, and different levels of difficulty those 
 die-hard FPS players, and new players alike will get a challenge out of CoD4. Also for the online 
 gamers CoD4 has a great Xbox LIVE interface that allows you to play with friends and easily find 
 a game, or enjoy the occasional match.
  
  Those are just some of the reasons why CoD4 is so great.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MtDewMan24
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 10, 2008 10:17 am PT
Review:  The Single player mode is great, with 4 levels of difficulty and Veteran Mode is not impossible. 
 There are a couple hard spots, but it's great. The party members actually do stuff, which few other 
 games have. The creators did an amazing job with the multiplayer feature too. A lot of guns, challenges, 
 and attachments keeps it interesting and the fact that level 55 isn't the cap was a good idea. 
 The many different levels and game modes keep you from getting bored with it. All in all, this 
 is one amazing game and worth playing. I would play it over Halo any day of the week. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evil-bucket
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 9, 2008 9:45 pm PT
Review:  (to emphisize i will spell out everything in caps) GREATEST **** GAME I HAVE EVER EVER EVER EVER 
 EVER EVER EVER EVER EVER EVER EVER **** PLAYED! THE CAMPAIGN IS MOTHER **** ASS-BLASTINGLY AWESOME! 
 HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS OF MILLIONS OF BILLIONS OF TRILLIONS OF ACTION-PACKED ACTION ASS RAPING ACTION 
 EXPLOSION AMAZINGNESS! GOD I **** HAVE ORGASMS WHEN I PLAY THIS **** GAME! IF YOU DON'T BUY THIS 
 GAME YOU ARE EITHER A COMPLETE SEBERAL PAULSY, AUTISTIC, BRAIN DEAD **** RETARD (and if so i'm really 
 sorry) OR YOU ARE DIRT **** POOR AS IN $.02 IN YOUR **** SAVING ACCOUNT AND LIVE IN A GOD DAMNED 
 BOX AND I DON'T MEAN A FRIDGE BOX THAT IS AT LEAST REMOTELY LIVABLE I MEAN A **** THROWN OUT CELL 
 PHONE BOX OUT OF THE DUMPSTER OF SOME JOE SHMOE DEUCHE. IF YOU ARE NEITHER ONE OF THESE THEN I 
 SWEAR TO GOD I WILL COME TO YOUR **** HOUSE AND SLAP YOU ACROSS THE FACE FOR NOT PURCHASING THIS 
 GAME! ( not really but you get the point... the game rocks) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Memoryitis
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 9, 2008 9:17 pm PT
Review:  I was never really a COD fan simply because I hated all the repitive WWII games. I have played 
 lots of MOH games and i thought COD would be the same thing so thats why i never bothered to try 
 any COD games.
  
  I heard a lot of good things about COD 4's Mulitplayer and so I bought it, the game is simply awesome, 
 the single player is so good immerse, and the graphics are amazing.
  
  The bulk of the game is the multiplayer and WOW was I amazed it is so fun.
  Its kind of like 
 an rpg, when you kill or basically do anything in the game, you get exp points that level you up. 
 Leveling up unlocks guns/challenges/perks. Too lazy to type anyhting else about it but its simply 
 amazing.
  
  Little Con: Something that bothers me is that the ranking only goes up and not down like Halo, 
 so for example if you are level one and you are playing against a level 30, that level 30 still 
 might suck really bad. I would have went with the Halo rank where if you lose games, your rank 
 goes down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: conquerer34
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 9, 2008 9:03 pm PT
Review:  this is by far the best FPS shooter on the market right now. fast paced fun multiplayer and story. 
 adding sights and such to your weapons is a great addition to the call of duty franchise. the story 
 line is awsome and is paced perfectly with its shock and all mission of the united states marine 
 corp down the the infiltrate or search and destory missons as the S. A. S. the onlinie ranking system 
 is good, using either real or extremly close to real marine corp ranks (lance corpral II doenst 
 exist) . there is a good variety of maps for both story and multiplayer, so you never have that 
 walking arou nd in the same hallway over and over that you get with halo. in all aspects of game 
 play i can see why it won 40 awards at E3 and blew halo out of the water with its relaxed gunplay 
 with no glitch bullet penetration to the realistic war torn scenes that almost look like a picture 
 turned game. i love this game, its fun, addictive, and a purly awsome title by any other name. 
 i recomend this game to anyone whos tired of the frustrating annoying halo and the like, and is 
 looking for something to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BattleSword1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 10, 2009 12:03 pm PT
Review:  If you haven't already, be a good boy and buy CoD4 now. Here's the deal: the Call of Duty franchise 
 has finally left the WWII premise behind (thank god) for a more exciting modern FPS experience 
 with incredible visuals and intense gameplay. How intense, you say?
  
  In one situation (COLOSSAL SPOILER ALERT) , your helicopter is grounded by a nuclear explosion, 
 nearly destroying the entire city; you awake within its flaming hull to find all its crew members 
 dead, and you struggle your way out of the helicopter and rise to your feet to see the city in 
 ruin. Shortly afterwards, you collapse like a sack of potatoes. (END SPOILER) It's moments like 
 these that truly define the game, along with something else: the game's multiplayer is good. Really 
 good. And I mean that in a way that it's a hell of a lot better than any other military multiplayer 
 game out there, crammed with extras like customizable weapon kits and more. Plus, there's an ass-load 
 of gametypes.
  
  One of the first things you'll notice is that, unlike the prior Call of Duty games, CoD4 is very 
 decidedly M-rated. Headshot someone with a sniper rifle and a nice splotch of arterial red will 
 decorate the wall. Slice into an unsuspecting enemy with your knife and enjoy the lively spray 
 of crimson onto the camera. The most violent scene in the game is during the level "One Shot, One 
 Kill" - I won't go into detail, but it involves arm dismemberment. Also, getting your throat torn 
 out by a pissed off guard dog delivers an unprecedented thrill.
  
  On a different subject, the game's graphics are sublime. As you glide through the air in your evac 
 chopper, you'll drool at the gorgeous cityscape; the game's first real level, the cargo ship operation, 
 is just plain beautiful regarding the iris-shredding splashes of water onto the ship's deck. Also, 
 you'll find intricately detailed character models and much, much more.
  
  My only complaint is the same as everyone else's - besides the weapons and setting, the game hasn't 
 changed much since CoD2. The action is still intense, the controls are the same, and Captain Price 
 from CoD2 even plays a cameo role in the game's story!
  
  Overall, Call of Duty 4 is downright awesome. And I use that term very loosely. It's well worth 
 your $60, so be a good boy and pick this one up.
  
  Truescore: 9.4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DAENF0RCER13
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 9, 2008 5:57 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 takes FPS games to a whole new level. The Call of Duty series has had the story 
 take place in WWII. Now in COD4, the story is now more modern, hence "Modern Warfare"? Anyways, 
 COD4 has done very good with the story. Lots of action, awesome moments, and an ending that will 
 leave you shocked. Although the campaign is short compared to most FPS games, ranging from 5-8 
 hours on Regular Difficulty. However, if you want a true challenge, try Veteran Difficulty. This 
 difficulty is a beast compared to most FPS games set on the hardest difficulty. It took me about 
 a good 12-14 hours to beat the game but it was worth it. And don't get me started about the bonus 
 mission. Overall, the campaign is one that any FPS gamer will enjoy.
  
  The multiplayer is just wow... When i first heard this game was going to have a beta, I immediately 
 signed up. At first, I thought, "eh, nothing special." But after playing this, I was like wow. 
 The multiplayer is very realistic. Just a few shots to the body and you're dead. The guns look 
 great and are very useful. Although the hit detection can sometimes be horrible in the game. For 
 example, if you're sniping and you're aiming right at your opponent's head, sometimes you may get 
 the headshot, sometimes you won't. And there's even a weird situation where you get a headshot 
 but you shot the guy in the shoulder! Weird huh? 
  
  The challenges are a great addition to the game. Complete challenges and you gain experiecne! Complete 
 specific gun challenges and you can add sights, silencers, camouflage, etc. The perks are great 
 too. All the perks are useful in different ways. The experience and leveling system is great too. 
 Whether you win or lose, you still gain experience. You even gain experience when playing the game! 
 The levels go all the way up to 55 and once you reach 55, you have the option to go to Prestige 
 Mode. But be careful though, and think before you act.
  
  Buy or Rent?
  
  Definitely a buy. Although the story is short, the Multiplayer is great. Lots of replay. Although 
 if you don't have access to online play, then I would rather rent
  
  Graphics 9/10
  Story 9/10
  Controls 9/10
  Gameplay 10/10
  Replay 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: T-bone214
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 9, 2008 5:06 pm PT
Review:  If there is one game in 2007 that you need to get; Call of Duty 4 is that game! Just the graphics 
 alone are a amazing! Very sharp and easy to learn controls make it a great game to play when friends 
 are over. The Multiplayer is great! With un lockable weapons, achievements, and camo, it makes 
 it a great on line expiriance that anyone can enjoy. There are a few draw backs to the game, the 
 campaign was frustratingly short leaving you still thirsty for more action. There are also a few 
 online exploits that can make the game frustrating at times, but this game is 100% worth its value. 
 Way to go Infinity Ward! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrPepper124
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 9, 2008 4:51 pm PT
Review:  i am very glad to see the call of duty series step away from the world war 2 theme it was getting 
 very boring and old. even though the caimpaign is short it is very very fun. But the mutiplayer 
 is the greatest multipayer game i have ever played The ranking system is good. you can complete 
 challenges to get your level up and an unlock guns and customize your class the way you like it 
 and the maps and gameplay are amazing. there are hardly any maps that i do not like. the graphics 
 are very good too. the only flaw i found in the game was the laggy server i gets very annoying. 
 overall this is an excellent game and i highly recomend it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xbox1397
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 9, 2008 4:45 pm PT
Review:  Thankfully Activision moved from WWII. This game is so much better than all the other ones combined. 
 The whole thing. I mean the missions, the guns, and the locations. The storyline is great and the 
 gameplay is awesome. I had my doubts when I got this game. I thought it would not match up to all 
 the other ones. Now I see that I was totally wrong. I think that you should definately buy this 
 game it is worth the 60 dollars. Some people say that the campaign is too short. I would have to 
 agree with them. It leaves you wanting more. I know I still do. All that aside if you bead it fast 
 just try it on a harder difficulty. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KHS_Kid
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 9, 2008 4:04 pm PT
Review:  I loved this game and everything it had to offer. the campaign was so amazing but i wish it was 
 longer. though the multiplayer makes up for it. so much content i could play it for 3 days and 
 still not have done every thing. themulti player has so many classes and option that it will take 
 you forever to go through and play with all of them. that also means that there is a class for 
 everyone and perks that everyone will like (unless it gets used agaist you) . as i said before with 
 the multiplayer there is also levels for every kind of player. My personal favorite level would 
 have to be "All Ghilled Up" becauseit is so intense and you can play it a few different ways (sneaking 
 if you're smart) . so in conclusion Call of Duty 4 is an absolute masterpiece that everyone should 
 play and own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darthzew
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 9, 2008 11:51 am PT
Review:  The very first thing you see when you put this game in the drive is a legal disclaimer. You see 
 that in every game, get over it. Then, you see some logos. After that... you're immediately wowed. 
 You see destroyed buildings and the remnants of destruction. Then a voice, "50,000 people used 
 to live here. Now it's a ghost town. I've never seen anything like it."
  
  It's on this note that the rest of game is played. The world is not a happy place. Call of Duty 
 has left that heroic, "they answered the call" theme they've had for years. It's not heroic and 
 it's not pretty anymore. You actually feel like you're in a war for the wrong reasons. You don't 
 get to know why you're fighting a war, just that you are. And you know that the war is going to 
 keep going even after the game is over, it feels like it was just a small part of a big war. 
 
  
  When I say small part, I mean it. The game is deep and great, but it's over before you know it. 
 It's less than half the length of what a normal shooter should be, but that doesn't mean you'll 
 ever regret paying full price for it. So much ground is covered in those few hours. Examples include: 
 operating the guns of a C130 Gunship, being killed in a nuclear explosion, being on the wrong end 
 of a political execution, realistic sniping that includes factors such as the weather, and much 
 more. 
  
  Other Call of Duty titles have relied on you to just know you're a WW2 hero and then you take it 
 from there with no real story at all. Now, Call of Duty has narrative and real story that moves 
 you.
  
  The graphics in the game are some of those that look great in some parts, but in other places not 
 so much. Some places just seem more jagged than they should, but others are almost photo-realistic. 
 There is one particular part in the beginning of the game where your leader, Captain Price is smoking 
 a cigar in the rain on a helicopter at night. You get every subtlety of that, and I mean every 
 subtlety. You can see the dim glow of the cigar and its faint shine of Price's beard. It's a beautiful 
 thing.
  
  Final graphics score: 9.
  
  The first thing that you need in a shooter is gunfire. Call of Duty 4 has that. The guns sound 
 great. But more than that is needed. Call of Duty 4 has a fairly unique score as well. It's got 
 rock and electric guitars where it should be, but also the score goes orchestral where needed. 
 One of the best levels in the game, Shock and Awe, features upbeat rock music because you really 
 feel like you're in US Marines and you can kick anyone's butt. Especially with the AH-64 Apache 
 helicopters overhead. At the very last point in the game, it's got a sad feel to it thanks to the 
 orchestra.
  
  The voice acting is superb, as is the writing. Allies will call out enemy locations for you and 
 make the action seem more frantic than it may actually be. It's a great intensifier. Especially 
 worth noting is the aforementioned Captain Price. In games, you usually have a leader who you're 
 obligated to follow, but in this case... you're inspired to follow Captain Price. He's incredibly 
 hardcore and feels like the right guy to be leading a squad of the SAS.
  
  Final sound score: 10.
  
  The gameplay is Call of Duty except with more automatic weapons. 
 It's been fine-tuned to be even better actually. There aren't many tweaks, but they're there and 
 they're great. 
  
  Final gameplay score: 10.
  
  The value in the game is low simply because of its short campaign. This value score is uplifted 
 thanks to its deep multiplayer. You'll drop your Battle Rifle and Energy Sword for this. 
  
  Final value score: 8.
  
  Now for the fun part: the tilt. I'm giving a 10 for the tilt. 
 Why? It's got its faults here and there, but it's still amazing. Plus, the multiplayer is insanely 
 good. 
  
  Final tilt score: 10.
  
  All in all, this game's average is: 9.4. But it has been Gamespot-ified to a 9.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jtphillips
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 9, 2008 9:48 am PT
Review:  COD4 was one of those games where the campaign mode is as fun if not more enjoyable to play that 
 the multiplayer mode. The story line was great and the AI was decent for the most part. The added 
 elements of playing the story through as SAS and USMC blended together perfectly. Instead of the 
 old COD1 where you are just replaying separate elements of Hollywood movies like "Enemy at the 
 Gates" "Saving Private Ryan", and "Band of Brothers" and such, COD4 mixes them up into an excellent 
 plot line. The ending leaves you wanting to finish the fight and play the next installment. For 
 now the multiplayer is hampered by XBL issues that I can't knock COD4 for, but it makes matchmaking 
 on XBL miserable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Asskick_QTip
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 9, 2008 6:41 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4
  
  Singleplayer:
  
  I'm playing th esingleplayer on Veteran right now and it is really hard I can tell you but really 
 cool. I can't stop playing and when they said it only takes 9 hours they must have been playing 
 on Easy because it takes me much longer on Veteran. The enemy AI is very good only sometimes it 
 seems like they're only shooting at you and not your teammates. The squad AI kind of upset me sometimes. 
 There were enemys right in front of them and they could kill them and I got killed by those enemys. 
 Kindoff frustrating was that sometimes I was sitting behind a wall and a grenade fell on the other 
 side of the wall and I got killed. Really annoying but overal it was AMAZING.
  
  Multiplayer:
  
  By far on of the best MP's i've ever played. I played a lot of GoW and had 
 to get used to COD4 but it takes barely any taking used to in like 2 hours i was playing pretty 
 good and ended up in the top 4 almost all the time so that was very cool. And I don't have any 
 lag, ever. If you want a good MP buy this becauze it's AMAZING.
  
  I'm happy it isn't WOII any more I have had it with those games. WOII is the past and there have 
 been enough of those games the weapons these days are way cooler and better i love the modern setting 
 again AMAZING 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aafreund91
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 8, 2008 7:46 pm PT
Review:  Many people think that the campaign is to short, but what people don't realize is how much people 
 are starting to separate them self from the campaign and online multiplayer capabilities. Gaming 
 production company's are now starting to understand the full potential of online play. Now I am 
 not an expert on this matter, but I believe that there was not enough space on the call of duty 
 4 disc to be able to fit an "entire campaign mode" on the disc because the online play took up 
 to much space to be able to do both. Activision has brought the online gaming community one step 
 closer to be able to fit an entire online game play on to one disc and to separate the campaign 
 mode on to another disc. At the end of 2007 and the beginning of 2008 gamers across the world have 
 proven that when they buy an XBOX 360 they want to use it to its full potential (online gaming) . 
 With in the next few years online gaming will have evolved so much that campaign mode's /story 
 mode's will be a thing of the past. Current online gaming will be viewed as a tip of the ice burg 
 compared to how its going to be in the future. An original XBOX will be viewed as "Terminal Processor" 
 compared to a dell laptop (Future of gaming) . The future of online gaming is occurring now as we 
 know it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gunshot134
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 8, 2008 7:23 pm PT
Review:  COD4 revolutionized the COD series and shooter genre. Forget WWII or futuristic space marines. 
 Modern warfare is the most exciting genre. With a story that seems very possible in today's world, 
 call of duty has a setting and story that seems so real it's like you're actually fighting the 
 war. On every difficulty, the A. I is what you'd expect it to be on the enemies side and on your 
 allies side. Activision did an excellent job with everything. The multiplayer is excellent. The 
 single player campaign is kind of short but very re-playable. I'll be going over each mission possible 
 just to get that one achievement. The shoot-outs are intense, fast paced and fun. The system to 
 throw grenades back has been simplified to just pressing one of the right triggers and letting 
 go. They kept the health system from the third game the same. There is more cover and believe me, 
 in some of the shoot outs, you'll need every square-inch. But be careful! Some of the cover like 
 walls on houses for example, can be shot through and you can still receive or deal out the damage. 
 Overall, this is an excellent game and has revived the call of duty series. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zoob_man
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 8, 2008 7:25 pm PT
Review:  This is just my opinion but everyone kept saying how overhyped Halo was and I should buy Call Of 
 Duty 4 so well I did. This game is fun but the replay just isn't there for me the multiplayer is 
 alright but it cant compete to some of the other games out there the campaign is short the multiplayer 
 kind of bland Id wait for this game to get to get put in the bargain bin especially if you already 
 have a good multiplayer game I. E Halo 3, Gears Of War, Shadowrun. This game is just CoD2 that has 
 modern guns but not as fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sick203
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 8, 2008 3:36 pm PT
Review:  very good game.. the story is the best ive seen in a war game yet.. the online multiplayer is great, 
 lots of fun! anyone wanna play against me just add me on xbox live my gamertag is infernalterror
 
  
  the best part is the ability to have a rank online, and the ability to unlock gunz like the m4 
 and a 50 cal. pistol... the perks are cool 2 , u can have deep penetration wich causes your bullets 
 to got through walls. i would definately reccomend this game.. i already made most of my friends 
 buy it, they didnt want it at first but then they were more addicted than me.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OnlyCommonSense
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 8, 2008 10:14 am PT
Review:  Infinity Ward have gone on record to say that the 360 version of Call of Duty 4 had a smaller team 
 of less experienced programmers than the PS3 version.
  So, on that basis this 360 version should be a pale shadow of the PS3 version.
  Nope, guess again.
 
  There is little to tell the two versions apart, what one gains in textures the other gains in 
 lighting, the PS3 version may claim to be able to handle more players in an online game but if 
 you're counting the number of other players mid game then you're letting your team down.
  If you ignore the fact that you can clear the single player mode in a days play, and that enemies 
 respawn until your team moves forward and onto the next checkpoint/objective you'll find a quality 
 game with enough replay value to keep you busy until you're confident enough to attack the online 
 modes.
  Moving to a modern day setting hasn't had any detrimental effect on the gameplay either, the weapons 
 feel right, they sound right when you fire them and the night vision is superb.
  In fact the one thing that lets the game down is the AI of your team, in games like this you always 
 feel as if you've been given Forrest Gump's battalion to fight with, pinned down from both sides 
 they refused to let fly with a few shots at one side which would have enabled me to take a few 
 shots and a run at the other side they just sat there waiting for a miracle to happen.
  In another occasion I was told to move to get a better shot at an enemy position, but following 
 the directions to the letter meant I was moving closer and closer to another enemy position and 
 opening myself up for an easy kill.
  Whilst the two versions may look identical, and for the most part play identically as well, the 
 360 controller is a real boon to the gamer, if you ignore the occasionally dodgy D-Pad the 360 
 controller is by far the best around and made for games like this, and that alone is enough to 
 make it the version of choice.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nemerson00
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 8, 2008 9:28 am PT
Review:  i have played all the call of duty games for many different consoles and this one is the best so 
 far. i cant tell you how many hours that i put on xbox live playing or lan game with my friends. 
 lets face the story mode is short but good and it sucks you cant bring a guest when playing on 
 the online but still this game is countless hours of fun. i love calling in air strike and helicopters 
 its the best part of multi player action and the variety of game types are great from headquarters 
 to deathmatch overall great game that will keep you busy for weeks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: payne6705
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 7, 2008 8:59 pm PT
Review:  call of duty4 is arguably one of the best modern day shooters but the campaign is too short and 
 it feels exactly like COD3 just different weapons the enemies are very predictable and if you played 
 any COD game you will automatically feel at home, the story is enjoyable and some missions are 
 really fun while others feel dragged out and the constant respawing enemies until you move up gets 
 annoying yet overall it is still fun the only cool part i found in COD4 is if you shoot a enemy 
 and not kill them they will limp around or fall on the floor and drag out their pistol and shoot 
 you but that is the only new element to the COD franchise 
  
  
  now to mention the multiplayer it is awesome it is fast paced and a easy level up system the games 
 are a decent length and there are many different modes the only gripe i had with it is when you 
 first start up the multiplayer game you have to unlock everything and i mean everything like basic 
 weapons, custom class (where you customize your character) , camo for your weapons, different multiplayer 
 modes (i still haven't unlocked all multiplayer modes and it annoys me that i cant play certain 
 modes until i level up some more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cloudstrife234
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 7, 2008 6:43 pm PT
Review:  i think by now we all know that call of duty 3 was not that, if not, not an all good game. i ignored 
 the call of duty series, and i always would rent them, never bought one in my life. Never satisfied 
 by campaign or online. 2weeks after its launch i went over my cousins house. he bought the the 
 game. i played it. i was left in amazement. the campaign wasnt mindblowing, but it satisfied me, 
 by using very realistic elemnts, such as taking wind humidity and the corilolius effect in play 
 when sniping a guy 800meters away from you, by looking at a flag to help you find the winds best 
 direction to take the shot. The single player campaign, which is sadly short, has remembrable moments 
 and is very solid. Its also very worth it to check the game out again on the veteran difficulty, 
 which is insanely challenging. characters are also very believable, and the ai is great. voice acting 
 is a superb, and running at 60fps, infinityward has made something very beautiful. The gameplay 
 is very strong, and plays better on a control than any other fps ive played in my life. After checking 
 the solid single player take a look at the highlight of the game. Yes, it is the multiplayer. Infinityward 
 has worked on there online since day 1, and through that, they have made the best online fps role 
 playing persistent elite creation online ever. Leveling up has never been so much satisfying when 
 going for challenges. You will gain experience for challenges that you do such as, kill 150 people 
 with an m16, or as you progress you gain harder ones such as, kill a enemy, steal his weapon, find 
 him, then kill him with his own weapon. This will keep you busy well into 2008 and 2009. There 
 are hundreds of challenges, and and interesting new mechanic called perks. Perks are basically 
 upgrades you put on your characters, that you will also unlock new ones as you progress on the 
 online. Say if you like sniping, use the perk that takes you off radar when you use your sniper, 
 or a lmg fan, use slight of hand, makes you reload much faster. What about last stand. Players will 
 be able to get one last chance when they die, if the enable the perk, to take out there pistol 
 when they die and attempt to kill you while dead on the floor. There are many many great maps, 
 a lot of game types, and a highely addictive online multiplayer, and solid campaign, call duty 
 sets the benchmark for next generation videogames. This game truly is arguably the greatest online 
 game of all time, and a game of the year contender with out a doubt. I give it a 9.5 out of 10, 
 but with an online like this, you could honestly call it a 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheSacredRing
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 7, 2008 4:36 pm PT
Review:  Similarly to the fashion in which Capcom developed Resident Evil 4, Infinity Ward dramatically 
 changed the Call of Duty series in creating the fourth installment. But also like Resident Evil 
 4, Call of Duty 4 has turned out to be such a resounding success that you wonder what Infinity 
 Ward was waiting for.
  
  If you've played previous installments in the series, you will already be familiar with the controls 
 and how you usually play as a single soldier from different factions during the war. But it's not 
 World War II this time around, a fictional conflict has been envisioned, and you will play both 
 as a British S. A. S. officer and a U. S. Marine. The story feels much more dramatic than it has in 
 previous games, and that's no mean feat considering how serious World War II was. And there is 
 no "happily ever after" ending here; a grittier, gut-wrenching tale awaits, adding more shock than 
 comfort by the end. All in all, I was immensely impressed by the end of the game.
  
  The gameplay is ridiculously sharp, but perhaps even moreso are the visuals. This is hands down 
 the best looking game in the series, and one of the most attractively photo-realistic games ever 
 made. Now with this extremely realistic look, a bit was sacrificed in the artistic design, as with 
 other Call of Duty games, but the technical side is absolutely jaw-dropping. Environments are varied, 
 and characters look almost frighteningly real. You'd also be hard pressed to find a game with better-looking 
 explosions and fire. Now if that weren't enough, the weapons in the game look nearly identical 
 to their real-life counterparts. Overall, a real piece of eye candy.
  
  Call of Duty games have always been known for their awesome sound, and Call of Duty 4 has unequivically 
 one of the best sound designs of all time. The sound effects, from gunshots, footsteps, explosions, 
 and vehicle noises, the game is phenomenal. Even the voice acting is well done, and the soundtrack 
 will infuse you with a rush of adrenaline like you've never had before, and at all the right times. 
 One of the best sounding games ever created.
  
  On to the multiplayer. With the exception of Halo 3, Call of Duty 4 is simply the deepest, most 
 incredible multiplayer experience available. With a daunting array of game modes, customizable 
 options, fantastic maps, and a RPG-like character-development system, the multiplayer will keep 
 on giving and giving until you are completely absorbed in it. Infinity Ward did an outstanding 
 job with this.
  
  I have very few gripes with Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare. The only major issue to me was that 
 the campaign is abnormally short, even for a shooter. Assuming that you are an experienced gamer, 
 with shooters in particular, it shouldn't take longer than five or six hours for you to complete 
 the single-player campaign for the first time. Playing it on the harder difficulties will certainly 
 take you longer, but expect to be wanting more after it finishes. But it does such a fantastic 
 job of satisfying you with what it does provide, and that quality will probably just make you want 
 to play through it several times more. One way to add replay value to the campaign is to go into 
 Arcade Mode, in which you receive points for kills, stylish kills such as  
 cars/stabbing, and completion time. Definitely a fun experience.
  
  With an incredibly good campaign with decent replay value, outstanding production values, and some 
 of the best multiplayer around, you have a complete package with Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare 
 that is almost unmatched. Consider it a done deal for satisfying you. I recommend it extremely 
 highly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Da1ShrpSh0trGrl
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 7, 2008 4:30 pm PT
Review:  
  More than impressed. I played the beta for this game and it got old very quickly, however, after 
 finally buying the game my opinion completely changed about it. The campaign gameplay it's not 
 only addicting, it also follows a very realistic and entertaining story line about a British 22nd 
 Special Air Service Regiment operating in Russia and a USMC 1st Force Recon operative in the Middle 
 East.. And the gameplay difficulty it's just right and accurate no matter the settings you choose 
 and very entertaining. 
  
  Multiplayer give you the ability to unlock perks, weapons, weapon add-ons and rank so you always 
 feel like you are achieving or working towards something. Online multiplayer allows your friends 
 to play online with you, but unfortunately does not allow you to bring guest into the game. 
  
  The most of the achievements are pretty easy to get and they are all achieved by playing the 
 campaign mode. 
  
  Infinity Wards really did their research on this one and definitely made up for COD3's impressions 
 I had. If you have played the game you will know what I am talking about, if you haven't played 
 this game then you are missing out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamedude404
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 7, 2008 8:51 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty 4 is a 1st person shooter. It is easily the greatest one in the series and probably 
 the most intense war game today. After training, the first level is already more intense than some 
 of the last levels in other war games. Not only is call of duty 4 intense but it will shock you 
 all the way until the end. Some parts of the game will just make you say OH MY GOD or HOLLY CRAP!! 
 Lots of shocking moments. Online gaming is pretty fun also. Call of duty 4's story is very good 
 also. You get to know the characters in the game more than the previous games. They are very well 
 developed. There are lots of likable characters like captain Price. And lots of dicspicable characters 
 too. The ending is the greatest ending ever in a video game. Without spoilers, it's a happy but 
 sad ending at the same time. It sends a message too. The graphics are great. Very realistic and 
 artistic. The sound is so awesome that you will just have fun shooting your weapon. However the 
 ending is very short and the graphics in multi player are tuned down a bit. Here are the pros and 
 cons. 
  
  PROS: Excellent graphics. Great sound. Intense and gritty. Shocking moments that will get you amazed. 
 Characters are well developed. Online gaming is pretty cool and very fun. Not to easy and not to 
 hard. 
  
  CONS: Story is way too short. Multi player graphics are just about the same as call of duty 2's 
 graphics. May get repititive for some and i mean SOME. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mwcharger
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 7, 2008 1:03 pm PT
Review:  i love how this game is able to marry enjoyable gameplay and realism in one package. the best part 
 about this game is the online gameplay where hardcore game sets and search and destroy both offer 
 the most intense and enjoyable gaming experiences ever. this far surpasses contemporary titles 
 such as halo! the multiplayer is not only deep and immersive but it engages the player and often 
 creates situations for the player to creativly dispatch of enemies. this game is incredibly fast 
 paced and camping often does not work in the players favor because in cod4 they have now added 
 the ability to shoot through certain objects and "soft targets". the cod series has definatly struck 
 gold with this latest incarnation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LilGurgi
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 7, 2008 12:10 pm PT
Review:  This was the first game I purchased after siging up for Xbox Live. The game came heavily recommended 
 from several of my friends. I must say that the game does not disappoint. My only complaint about 
 the game is that the knife attacks are highly overrated. Apparently a run-by flash of the knife 
 means instantaneous death... really? Other then that little annoyance, the rest of the game is pretty 
 spot on. I also like that you get awarded with upgrades for improved play. Even though it makes 
 it harder to play when you first start (no laser sight, no silencer, etc.) , you feel like you're 
 accomplishing something as you move up the ranks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hicksrn
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 7, 2008 5:55 am PT
Review:  I have played and enjoyed many of the CoD games in the past (primarily on XBox) , but Infinity Ward 
 has pulled out all the stops for this latest installment of the series. I was impressed by the 
 initial offering for CoD on the 360, but bringing the time period into present day truly added 
 a new level to what was already one of the best graphically depicted war games available.
  I was immediately immersed into the story line with the opening prologue. From that point I could 
 tell this would be a game I could not put down until the story was done. The graphics are just 
 phenomenal and the story of dictators, coups, and arms dealers (although a bit short) keeps you 
 coming back for more. I really enjoyed the diversity of locations and the amount of usable area 
 in each scenario... it really makes for a better experience when you can feel that you're not playing 
 in a very confined box. 
  CoD4 also brings a whole lot to the table online.... move over Halo, this CoD multiplayer is as 
 spectacular with multiple game modes and an excellent example of how to have good online play. 
 I have been impressed so far with the low lag and ease of setting up online matches which seems 
 to plague some other 360 titles. There is also something to be said for the realism you get in 
 this type of 1st person shooter no matter if you're online or in campaign mode. I like the addition 
 of the kill cam which gives you a close and personal look at your death while you wait to respawn. 
 
  I am also happy to see that CoD4 has an arcade mode with yet more challenges. These can get a bit 
 repetitive, but maybe this would be the venue for additional content for the title in the future. 
 
  Overall CoD4 delivers on all categories well and has a significant replay potential and an expansive 
 online mode. Its definitely worth checking out!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rockmanneo12
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 7, 2008 5:31 am PT
Review:  Ok so some people are really dissing Halo 3 by the end of the year because Super uber awesome Call 
 of Duty 4 came out finally. Now if you are one of those people who are bashing halo 3 over Cod4 
 then there's something wrong with you. I don't discriminate over games. For one thing CoD4 is the 
 best first person shooter I've seen this year.
  
  Am I confusing you? Yes Halo 3 was a good FPS game too but what I mean is CoD 4 is just under managed. 
 Example: Halo 3 is updated/monitored hourly by Bungie staff. Whenever bad things happen it is fixed, 
 whenever we start to get bored there's new content etc.
  
  Infinity ward however has done nothing to help it's wonderful game CoD4. The online is so broken 
 it often takes 10 trys to find a match which usually follows with disconnection, not to mention 
 if you lobby with friends one of them is always kicked at the start of the match even if the party 
 has 3 people in it. So you could say after only getting to play 2 out of 40 matches all the way 
 through without the host ending the game or disconnecting that this game can get very disappointing, 
 but don't think I'm bashing it and giving you reasons not to get it. There's always those few games 
 you should definitely get out there and get and CoD4 is one of them. 
  
  Infinity ward may eventually see these problems and fix them and then CoD4 will be absolutely awesome 
 but come on, give Halo 3 a chance too you jerks that bash games before you even play them!
  
  Other note: Out of the CoD franchise I'd say this is the best it's ever gotten. Definitely 
 better promise that what CoD 3 gave us. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warstomp
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 6, 2008 9:15 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty 4 is the next in line in the call of duty series. It starts off zipping you up to 
 present day in the middle of a crisis. A Terrorist leader is trying to attack the united states. 
 Throughout the single player you play as both USMC and S. A. S forces or british special forces. 
 The single player is a let down on the length because its really short. But its pretty enjoyable 
 and pretty neat story that has some nice real depth to it.
  
  The multi player game is probably the best multiplayer game of the year in my opinion. I know the 
 halo fan boys will flame me for this but I just love it. The multiplayer gives you so much variety 
 with the create a class where as you level you get access to new guns. Then as you use them you 
 gain access to like red dots, grenade launchers, ACOG scopes and other stuff like that. and of 
 course new guns. It is a very intense and crazy hell raising fun with grenades and explosives and 
 gun fire all over the place.
  
  Though the create of class way brings some pain to new players. Sort of like rainbow six if you 
 join in a game with some higher leveled people they are ganna have much better weapons then you. 
 And you will be unable to scope the range and stuff. But it still does offer a lot of variety in 
 what you can pick.
  
  There are quite a few different modes to play online also. Standard deathmatch, headquarters where 
 you secure a object for a certain amount of time to get stuff, team tactical and others.
  
  The maps are all really well done to as they look gorgeous and they are just a hell of a lot of 
 fun to move around. Theres only 1 or 2 maps I dislike unlike halo's crap tacular mapfest.
  
  The ability to shoot through some walls is pretty cool to.
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Though there are some faults. The singleplayer is short. Some weapons seem to unrealistic. And 
 as much as I love the guillies suit one thing that sucks is grass is only rendered at close range 
 and not far distance. Which I have seen on the kill came some people on the machine gun have seen 
 me across the map because it removes all the grass so all you see is me and some green. Now thats 
 not very hiding pretty easy to see and then kill.
  
  The framerate has bogged down to sometimes in gunfires online which can get annoying. And the inability 
 to take a breath on ACOG scopes sucks.
  
  Sometimes it feels like the hole game is just a bunch of chickens running around. With there head 
 cuts off which is kinda weird because theres not a hole lot of team work ive seen.
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Though this is definantly a good game I would recommend to multiplayer frag fest fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlashCharge
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 6, 2008 8:46 pm PT
Review:  So much has been said of Call of Duty 4 and all is true. This game is a stand out in every department. 
 Story is excellent, the graphics make you feel that you are there, the game play is one intense 
 encounter after another and the online value make it a must game to buy. It is the best in the 
 series and I have play them all. The game mechanics are smooth and the variety of weapons add to 
 its realism. The game makes you believe that you are a real soldier in a real battle for life and 
 death. It takes make believe and turns it into some kind of reality. If you are looking for an 
 outstanding first person shooter you can not miss COD 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geist9049
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 6, 2008 5:41 pm PT
Review:  i have to say the multi player in call of duty 4 is a lot of fun. but the rest of the game was 
 so short i was done before lunchtime on the medium skill level. the plot is well done tho and theres 
 always lots of fun weapons to try scattered around through the missions. the enemies at least tried 
 to dodge and they threw a lot of grenades but trying to toss them back at them seemed harder than 
 just running away. the attack dogs seemed frustrating too. i never was able to fight them off and 
 live. if your not into multi player then just rent the game and move on. but if thats what your 
 into then CD4 is the way to go right now. i had no problem getting into fights online and everyone 
 seems addicted to the action enough to keep it fast paced and fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Madbhal402
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 6, 2008 5:04 pm PT
Review:  there are not enough words that could explain how good call of duty 4 is. Its very balanced and 
 cool multiyplayer and god but short single player highlight this game. single play is cool but 
 it is just way too short you should be able to finish it in uder 7 hours. but it is very intense 
 hough. xbox live for it is awesome too over 20 modes and abou 9 maps to play will occupy you for 
 a long time. and lots of cusimization with your perks and weapons. this gives multiplayer new legs 
 to last you all the way to call of duty 5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cto09
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 6, 2008 12:40 pm PT
Review:  When I played Halo 3 online, I thought it was the best game. When I played Call of Duty 4 online, 
 I KNEW it was the best game. 
  COD 4 takes more skill and survival instincts than any other FPS.
  COD 4 has many gun types and 
 attachments that let you customize your weapons to fit your style. 
  COD 4 has balanced, yet varied weapons.
  COD 4 has a unique challenge system that makes the game 
 somewhat of an FPS RPG.
  COD 4 has many different maps where camouflage and color actually matters.
  COD 4 has easy controls 
 to learn and master.
  COD 4 gives you something for killing people with out dying, air strikes and helicopters.
  COD 
 4 has a fun single player campaign with an amazing storyline.
  COD 4 has an addictive multi player with GODLY game play.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Garrison_Ford
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 18, 2008 11:17 am PT
Review:  *** CALL OF DUTY 4: MODERN WARFARE ***
  
  THE GOOD
  -Amazing online play
  -Excellent graphics
  -Excellent sound effects
  -Incredible realistic feel
  -Great team building 
 game
  -Great single player story
  -Large selection of weapons, equipment, and abilities (perks)
  -Multiplayer works on a reward 
 system which spices up online play
  -Nice selection of game types
  -Solid controls
  -Excellent level design
  
  THE BAD
  -Single player is a tad bit short
  
  OVERVIEW
  
 Call Of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is an amazing first person shooter and probably one of the best 
 FPS to date. Right from the beginning of the game you control a person, not yet known, that gets 
 beat up and thrown into a car with two terrorists in the front seats. Here you are able to look 
 around and you notice that you are somewhere in a middle eastern city. As you drive through this 
 city you see fighting and killing all around you. Finally the car stops and you are carried to 
 the middle of a courtyard area. The terrorists stand you up and then, as the controller vibrates 
 in your hand, an unknown man pulls out a pistol and kills you. This is a pretty intense opening 
 to the game. After you witness the assassination you start the game as a new recruit named Soap 
 (British) . Here you do some basic training to let the game know what difficulty setting suits you. 
 After basic you are thrown into the campaign where you have various objectives and missions to 
 complete. Each mission is of full of great story (but a little short) and gameplay. You also play 
 as a guy named Jackson in the American campaign. As you play through the American and British campaigns 
 you'll encounter lots of enemies from different terrorist countries in your quest to stopping the 
 ring leader.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  For this review I'll break it up into the single player and multiplayer modes. First, the single 
 player mode. The single player mode is a lot of fun. Right from the beginning you are thrown into 
 a very realistic war game. As you go through the campaign your comrades will talk to you and give 
 you orders while they aid in fighting. The level design is top notch in this game that will put 
 you in outdoor and indoor situations. The controls work really well for this game. Just like most 
 of the FPS for the Xbox 360 you use the dual analog sticks to move around. You also have buttons 
 for shooting, throwing frag and special grenades, reloading, jumping, sprinting and melee attack. 
 Another thing about the controls is that you use the LT button to look down the scope or iron-sights 
 of the gun. This increases your accuracy than just firing at the hip. Along with great controls 
 CoD4 has a huge weapon selection. There are assault rifles, sub machine guns, large machine guns, 
 shotguns, pistols and sniper rifles. All the weapons are based on the realistic model along with 
 their attributes like recoil and fire rate. Along with your primary and secondary weapons, this 
 game has other equipment you can use like claymores, flash grenades, and smoke bombs. 
  
  The multiplayer mode is the "bread and butter" of this game. You have the option to play a local 
 or Xbox live game. In the local game you and three other people can "duke it out" on the same Xbox. 
 When you log into Xbox live only one person can play per Xbox. The online features for this game 
 are amazing. Like most Xbox live games you can join or setup a party with friends to play together. 
 CoD4 online works on the reward system. As you complete objectives, kill opponents, and win matches 
 you'll earn experience points. Once you earn enough experience points your rank will increase which 
 is the same as the real rank in the army (i. e. Private, Captain, General, etc...) . Then as your 
 rank increases you'll unlock more weapons, different challenges to complete, unlock different game 
 types and perks, etc... Another way to earn experience points is to complete challenges in the 
 game. Some examples of challenges are to kill two people with one bullet, survive an entire game 
 without dieing, or kill someone with C4. 
  
  Along with equipping your character with weapons this game has come up with the "Perk" system which 
 enables you to use special abilities in combat. You get three total perks and some examples are 
 "Extreme Conditioning" which enables you to sprint for longer distances, "Slight of Hand" which 
 enables you to reload quicker, and "Steady Aim" which increases your hip fire accuracy. Perks are 
 also unlockable as your rank increases. This is a really cool option because you can customize 
 physical attributes for your soldier. Another great feature about Call of Duty 4 are the game types 
 that you can play. There are team deathmatches, free for alls and objective type games. So, there 
 is something here for everyone. Another great combat add-in is that you get rewarded, in-game, 
 for consecutive kills without dieing. Three kills in a row gives you the ability to use the UAV 
 which allows your team to see where the enemy is on the map. Five kills in a row lets you launch 
 an air strike on your opponent. And Seven kills in a row lets you call in for helicopter assistance. 
 Be mindful of this because it can change the momentum of a game.
  
  GRAPHICS
  The visuals are amazing for this game. From the terrain to the weapons used by your character, 
 a lot of detail was put in to make it look realistic.
  
  SOUND
  The sound effects are another area that this game excels at. You'll get a very real sense when 
 an RPG flies by or when your grenade blows up a car. Again, the experience is greatly enhanced 
 by the exceptional sound.
  
  CONCLUSION
  If you are looking for perfection in a first person shooter then you will definitely find it in 
 Call of Duty 4. There is some replay value to the single player but more, by far, in multiplayer. 
 This game is so realistic its incredible and I would recommend it to anyone. Hoo Rah! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadowstep99999
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 5, 2008 10:40 pm PT
Review:  Call Of Duty 4 is a great modern day shooter and is probably one of the best war sims you're going 
 to see on the market today but somehow seems a little sloppy. The textures are horrible and are 
 just not up to standard with next-gen games and it just somehow feels like you're playing a nintendo 
 64 game. The campaigns really short and will probably only take take you about 6 hours (playing 
 on standard) but that 6 hours is probably the best 6 hours you'll ever have playing a shooter and 
 its story is exceptionally good for a war sim. The multiplayers is argueably the best feature that 
 Call Of Duty 4 has, to start of with the perks and all that sound like they're going to make the 
 game unfair but as you play you start to realize that the perks don't really make a difference 
 at all. Also theres plenty of people playing so you'll have no trouble finding a match.
  
  All in all Call Of Duty 4's a pretty damn good game thats let down by its visuals 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xboxrulze
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 5, 2008 10:26 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 9
  Story: 7
  Graphics: 9
  Sound: 10
  Tilt: 10
  Value: 8
  
  It's without question that 2007 was the year of the FPS. The market was bombarded with more triple 
 A shooters than any other year in memory. This meant that the bar was going to not just be raised, 
 but rocket into the vastness of space, and gamers were going to be picking which would be the winner 
  cafeteria $tyle.
  
  The Call of Duty series has been unfortunately stuck in neutral, force-feeding us WWII games for 
 what seems an eternity. Somewhere along the line though, Infinity Ward opened their mailbox, and 
 found that we were kind of getting physically sick of massacring Nazis  deciding that they should 
 probably step away from the clich and move on.
  
  Call of Duty 4 takes us out of the past and sits us down in the present, having us fight for the 
 safety of the world via the eyes of multiple men of war. You'll be doing some serious traveling 
 as you switch between the forces of the British SAS, and of course a US Marine core soldier. It's 
 a decent story for a shooter, and spans much of the eastern part of the world, taking you from 
 war torn streets to helicopter patrolled fields. It's a bit sporadic, and can be a bit confusing 
 in spots as to what's been going on in between levels. It's also a short campaign, and depending 
 on how good you are and what difficulty you have it on, could take you anywhere from 8-10 hours. 
 That's all right though because what short, convoluted story there is to plow through, is full 
 of totally crazy, nonstop, action packed, insane, crazy, radicalyou get the point  action.
  
  That's what sets Call of Duty 4 apart from the other shooters of the year. It focuses very 
 closely on nailing the FPS formula, and in general, nails it completely. There are some minor flaws 
 in the gameplay though  most of it found in the campaign. The AI enemy forces are pretty smart, 
 and if you aren't careful, they will definitely hand your pretty little !@$ to you at the hardened 
 (insert hilarious sex joke here) , and Veteran difficulties. Unfortunately, you aren't so lucky 
 when it comes to your teammates. In spots, your partners will do an effective job at taking out 
 the baddies, but the majority of the time they will more or less replicate an A-Team action sequence, 
 effectively shooting and hitting everything but the actual enemies. You can't play co-operatively 
 through the campaign either, not even locally, which is a bit of a drag. Luckily, the rest of the 
 game plays fantastically. All the guns sound like they should, and do a superb job of dropping 
 whomever they are aimed and fired at. The buttons for your movements are perfectly mapped the controller, 
 and you never feel like you're having to make a pretzel of your digits whilst running and gunning 
 etc. The only thing that would have really added to the gameplay is a cover system. Even a simple 
 one would have been a welcome addition here since there is so much of the environments that would 
 provide great cover. It would also make the higher difficulties of the campaign more accessible 
 since many of the enemies will shoot you before you can even scope them out, and kill you before 
 you can get behind something fast enough.
  
  The world you do get to run around in is a great looking one. Technically speaking, Call of Duty 
 4 doesn't destroy the competition by any means, but it does make great use of the little details 
 to make it look pretty awesome. Artistically it looks like a futuristic $tyling of the other games 
 of the series which is by no means bad, and in fact works really well. The reason this game looks 
 so good is because the technical and artistic sides of the package work together very well. The 
 best part of it all is that it all tears along at a rock solid frame rate that you will rarely, 
 if ever, notice a dip in.
  
  The first thing you are going to notice about the game is its sound. There is no music per se, 
 but even if it did have music you wouldn't hear a word of it. The game holds nothing back when 
 it comes to the sound effects department, and it is the chief reason why you become so immersed 
 in the experience. Rarely does a moment go by where something isn't being blown up in epic fashion, 
 unless you are on a stealth mission where you will instead hear the small things from all around 
 you  giving you the feeling that you are in fact about to do some serious assassinating.
  
  Where Call of Duty 4 really shines though, is in it's multiplayer. Many people find it hard 
 to believe that some gamers who were once hardcore Halo players have been religiously playing Call 
 of Duty, but it's all for good reasons. The main reason is that when you shoot people, they diefast. 
 The other reasons will be something to do with it's incredible action sequences that never end, 
 or the fact that you can totally blow dudes up with an air strike, or mow them down lawn mower 
 $tyle with a friendly Helicopter. The latter of the reasons are two of three things that you can 
 access after going on killing sprees. After three kills in a row, you can set up radar that will 
 reveal the enemy position for 30 seconds. After 5 and 7 kills you can call for an air strike on 
 the position you specify, and a helicopter, respectively. When you have a full match of up to 16 
 players at once, all of which are sending out their death machines at any given time, the battlefield 
 quickly becomes a very hectic place indeed. This is where the aforementioned sound really comes 
 through. Nothing gets you more pumped when you're running through a decrepit town, dodging free-falling 
 bombs, and hiding from the ever persistent helicopter fire whilst getting that no-scoped head shot 
 kill via a .50 cal sniper rifle of doom. The only hitches in the multiplayer is the aforementioned 
 lack of co-operative play either locally or over Xbox Live, coupled with the inability to inject 
 bots into the local multiplayer battles.
  
  When it comes to getting your kill on, some of us may be picky as to how their weapons look, feel, 
 and wellkill. Thankfully, Infinity Ward has graced us with the option of tuning our weapons. You 
 can hook yourself up with a silencer if you want to stay off the enemy radar, or maybe you like 
 to go in loud and fasten on a grenade launcher instead. There is a nice selection of add-ons, and 
 allows for a decent variation of weapons on the field at any given time. The customizations of 
 secondary weapons are limited to a silencer, but never the less, the choices are a great option 
 to have for your primary. These are not all readily available to you though, and you're going to 
 have to earn your stuff through the completion of challenges. For the physical additions, you will 
 have to get a certain number of kills with a weapon, and/or headshots with said weapon. There is 
 a plethora of challenges to complete for just experience though, ranging from sprinting for a certain 
 number of miles, to falling to your death from a 30-foot cliff (not kidding when I say that the 
 latter is worth more XP than the prior) . Of course, as you gain experience, you rank up levels. 
 With the rising of your level, though, you will unlock the ability to use more weapons, but more 
 importantly  more perks. When you hit level 55, you have the choice of going in to Prestige mode. 
 This strips you of everything you've earned and you start over at level 1. The trade off is that 
 you get a special insignia next to your name. You can do this up to 10 times, allowing for people 
 to become more decorated than a tinsel happy Christmas tree.
  
  Perks are abilities that you can choose to use, up to three at a time, to augment your player to 
 the way in which you play. For instance, you can choose to have more health to allow for some more 
 daring run and gun tactics, or maybe you'd like to leave a present for those who kill you in the 
 form of a live grenade. There are lots of perks to choose from, but like the weapons and their 
 additions, they are not all readily available to use in the beginning. There are some pretty unique 
 abilities to be had and used such as the last stand where upon being gunned down, you have a certain 
 amount of time to kill someone with a pistol  unless of course they make sure you're really dead 
 and shoot you a few more times. This and many other perks that can be used really switch the action 
 up when playing online and make for a different battle situation almost every time.
  
  Call of Duty 4 is a truly specialized first person shooter. It doesn't go out on a limb trying 
 anything radically new, but what it provides is refined game that lives up to the genre's name. 
 If you are a shooter buff, and love a more tactical shooter than games like Halo and Unreal, Call 
 of Duty 4 is the game for you. Its short but epic campaign will keep you on your toes but won't 
 have you back for seconds unless you are an achievement hoarder. Truthfully, the multiplayer is 
 what will make this game worth the purchase, and with downloadable maps, weapons, and perks that 
 will surely arrive, it will keep you busy for quite some time.
  
  
  Overall: 8.8
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Goku189
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 5, 2008 7:46 pm PT
Review:  Single Player:
  A tad bit short but like all of the Call of Duty's it is an extremely good storyline. Awesome facial 
 expressions and the storyline is quite believable. 
  
  Multiplayer:
  This is where CoD4 really excels. The multiplayer is the most addicting multiplayer I have ever 
 played. I waited years for Halo 3 but when I played the CoD4 multiplayer I stopped playing Halo 
 because that's how addicting this multiplayer is. Awesome maps and the perk system makes the customization 
 of your character even better because you also customize the weapons that you have.
  
  Because of this I have to say that Call of Duty 4 is my FPS of the year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DanzigThrall
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 5, 2008 5:35 pm PT
Review:  This is a really great game its definately the best in the series so far not that
  the others werent good its just that the whole repetativeness of World War 2 got kinda old seeing 
 how alot of games were doing that so this being the first time in the series that it steps away 
 from that is good not only that but the single player has a really good story line even though 
 its short but it covers alot in that small amount of time. The gameplay itself is great with no 
 problems in it the difficulty can vary for all if you want it easy it can be if you want a challenge 
 it will give you that as well especially on the sky dive level on veteran thats a challenge for 
 those who want one. The AI in the single player is great and very few times does it have a flaw 
 in it but thats a rare instance or at least my experience with it. Now to the multiplayer ....... well 
 what can I say its great the modes are good the maps are good and all the stuff you can do and 
 unlock on it is a great addition makes you look forword to leveling up unlike in other games that 
 just have you leveling up but here lately the servers have been not so great making it hard to 
 get into matches and kicking you out of lobbys that you are waiting in to play or breaking up your 
 party when you are searching for matches but thats not against the game its the servers not the 
 game itself so you cant count it against the game itself. But that being the only flaw but cant 
 say its a flaw of the game itself but anyways its great game the best in the series so far and 
 its definate must play and prolly a must buy for most of you FPS players out there but this game 
 is fun and additive so give it a try 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pi_24112
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 5, 2008 5:10 pm PT
Review:  The Good: The most photo-realistic graphics I've ever seen in a game, extreme intensity and conflict 
 immerses you during the campaign. Very dramatic real world storyline, extreme attention to detail 
 adds a ton to the gameplay, fantastic multi-player modes.
  
  The Bad: The single player is kinda short (DO NOT COUNT!!!!, the game is really meant to be played 
 on veteran mode) , no online co-op.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  The Call of Duty series may be fairly young, but it has already become the best of it's class. 
 Beginning in 2003 exclusively on the PC, developer Infinity Ward did their best to make a WWII 
 first person shooter that was more intense and dramatic than anything before it, and that's just 
 what they did. 2002's Call of Duty 2 for the Xbox 360 was by far the best launch title for the 
 system and is still the best WWII shooter to date. After 2006's Call of Duty 3, developed by Spider-Man 
 3 developer Treyarch, disappointed longtime fans, Infinity Ward promised that all would be better 
 in the next installment. They were 100% correct. During the Super Bowl in early 2007, Infinity 
 Ward dropped a major bomb that would change the face of the series forever: Call of Duty was going 
 modern. Goodbye World War 2, we won't miss you too much. The teaser trailer for the game was one 
 of the most impressive things you could have seen. Luckily, it was no fluke. After what seemed 
 like an eternity of waiting, Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is finally here and it's everything 
 we've wanted it to be.
  
  Call of Duty 4 takes place in Europe in modern times. You play as both a US marine and a British 
 Sniper and must stop a terrorist plot to destroy America and it's allies. Sound familiar? Well, 
 it's no secret that this fake war is inspired by the real life war on terror that's going on right 
 now. Infinity Ward used many of the issues involving the real war on terror for the game, having 
 terrorists hiding in destroyed buildings and committing suicide instead of going quietly. The game 
 may not be as graphic as many other shooters, but because of the realism and intensity of the subject 
 matter as well as the gameplay, it handily deserves it's Mature rating.
  
  You begin the game by going through a basic tutorial, followed by a test situation. Your performance 
 on this test situation actually let's you know what difficulty level you should be playing on. 
 If you can rush through with high accuracy, you should be playing on Veteran, but if you struggle 
 getting from one point to another, you might want to play on easy.
  
  The opening level of the game involves you and your team attacking terrorists on a tanker ship 
 in the middle of a raging storm. Right from the get go, the game shows off it's amazing graphics 
 and intensity. The water looks ultra realistic, although not quite as impressive by itself as Bioshock's 
 water is. The weather effects really add a lot to ratchet up the intensity and in several points 
 during that level, I was afraid for my life. After that stunning opening level, it just keeps getting 
 better and more intense with each passing section. There are several segments, including during 
 the opening credits, that are so realistic in their approach, that it's eery how what happens in 
 the game could actually happen or is happening in real life. Granted, the ability to heal just 
 by ducking around cover is a bit of a stretch, but it is a game after all.
  
  The backlash of Call of Duty 3 caused Infinity Ward to basically treat that game like it didn't 
 exist. Gone are the stupid driving sequences and button mashing tustles with charging enemies. 
 Back is the killcam for multiplayer and the much more polished feel of firing weapons in game. 
 The sound effects and music are simply outstanding and some of the best, if not the best, of the 
 year. It's the best of Call of Duty 2's gameplay, but taken to another level. New to the gameplay 
 is the inclusion of dogs. Now, you have angry pooches charging at you and the only way to get rid 
 of them is to either shoot them, or snap their necks after they jump on you by clicking the thumb 
 stick at a certain point. You are also able to call in air strikes and use modern weaponry, all 
 of which handles extremely well. There is also a stealth level that feels perfect for the gameplay 
 and is amazingly intense.
  
  The multi-player aspect of Call of Duty 2 was extremely appealing and turned to to be the best 
 online game of 2005. Call of Duty 4 has Halo 3 to deal with this year, but it is extremely close, 
 if not slightly better, in it's approach to multi-player. Borrowing from Rainbow Six: Vegas, the 
 game now feature military style rankings. The more you play the game, the more guns and outfitting 
 types you can unlock. You also get to select perks that are used to give your character special 
 abilities such as a RPG or improved accuracy. This added customization as well as the amazing graphics 
 and sheer intensity of the gameplay make the multi-player of Call of Duty 4 a force to be reckened 
 with.
  
  The fact is, if you are a fan of the series, you need to play this game. If you are a shooter fan, 
 you need to play this game. If you have Xbox Live, you need to play this game. This is simply one 
 of the best, if not the best games of the year and deserves at least a nomination for Game of the 
 Year 2007, if not winning the award outright. Infinity Ward definitely delivered on it's promise, 
 and it looks like the Call of Duty franchise has an extremely promising future after this amazing 
 game.
  
  Gameplay: The sheer intensity of the game is outstanding, but the real world situations and the 
 war on terror are delivered in a stunning way in Call of Duty 4.
  
  Graphics: This may be the best looking game ever on the 360. No, I'm not kidding.
  
  Sound: 
 Flowing musical score and superb voice acting add even more realism to this fantastic game.
  
  Value: It's worth every penny you'll spend on it. Fanatical fans should look for the Collector's 
 Edition, which comes with an artbook and bonus DVD.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chilihead7
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 8, 2008 6:45 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is, by far, the best shooter available on XBOX 360. Stunning graphics, unbelievably 
 realistic feel, and a gripping campaign and online feature that will keep you playing for a long 
 time to come.
  
  GRAPHICS: 9/10-The graphics in this game are standard for call of duty games, but with the new 
 realistic feel of cod4, it puts you into the action with the feeling that you are actually a real 
 soldier fighting in a real battle. You see blood splatters when you shoot an enemy in the head; 
 you can see the gun blur out when you gaze down the scope of your gun; you can watch the grass 
 sway back and forth as you crawl across the ground; smoke screens and disguises the path, just 
 as real smoke does. Of course, if you want the most out of your game, you will need to turn your 
 360's display setting up to 1080i or 1080p, mines on 1080i and it looks amazing.
  
  SOUND: 9/10-The sound is just what you would expect from any high-budget video game. You can hear 
 distant machine guns during a battle, you can hear the men yelling and screaming during a firefight, 
 you can even hear the clanking of a grenade across a metal floor. Oh, and if you want to hear the 
 most awesome thing in the world, turn your surround sound up all the way and go ahead and fire 
 that m16... you're in for a surprise!
  
  ONLINE: 10/10-By far, this is the best online gaming i have ever played in my entire life. You 
 get into a match in around an average of 10 seconds every time, and i use wi-fi, so right off the 
 bat its much faster than halo 3. You compete against other players in a variety of games; deathmatch, 
 capture the falg, territory-style, hardcore mode, tactical, etc. And, as a bonus, you can unlock 
 special challenges that give you more experience. The more you kill, capture, assist, and, even 
 in some cases, die, the more experience you recieve which helps you level up faster. there are 
 a total of 55 levels, and it is not as easy as you think to reach them all. The higher you get, 
 the more guns you unlock for different classes, such as machine guns, sniper rifles and assault 
 rifles. You can also unlock attachments and new sidearms, and even camo that suits your style best. 
 A new plus that i have not yet seen in any game is how you can unlock "perks", which give you special 
 abilities in battle, such as being undetectable on enemy radar, giving yourself more health, or 
 being able to run faster.
  
  I haven't started the campaign yet, but from what i've played, this is my favorite game ever. I 
 strongly encourage anybody who is a fan of FPS, cal of duty, or video games period to purchase 
 this game immediately.
  
  you.
  
  wont.
  
  be.
  
  sorry. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reign_six6six
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 5, 2008 11:49 am PT
Review:  OMG!!! This is the best F. P. S. I have ever played I played from beginning to end and it felt like 
 I only played it for a few minutes but it was sooooo good that it just went fast! So many exciting 
 things happen in this game. The graphics are so good that you forget that you're playing a game. 
 The A. I. is pretty smart and they will give you a decent fight. You most likely wont mind working 
 with your commanding officer guy he's really easy to get attached to its almost like fighting along 
 side solid snake or something. The weapons work great and there are some pretty neat weapons you 
 get to use. You don't always have to be on the ground walking either there will be times where 
 you get to be on vehicles ripping through everything you see wish some insanely sweet guns. I could 
 go on forever about this game but you need to play this so you know what I'm talking about. It's 
 CRAZY. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eXists
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 5, 2008 8:50 am PT
Review:  Note: Finished it on Veteran as with COD2 and COD3.
  
                                                
  [The Good]
                                 
                
  - Veteran   As painful as it is, this is the best way to enjoy this game to the fullest. Pain, 
 frustration, throw-your-controller attitude is the way to go! ;-)
  
  - Presentation   Better than Gears, that's saying a lot!
  
  - No WWII   Finally! Pheww......
 
  
  - Achievements   Best on the 360! Thank god no multiplayer achievements, finally someone who got 
 it!
  
  - Multiplayer   Not far from Halo 3.
  
                                                
  [The Bad]
                                  
               
  - Co-Op   Only thing missing, that would have been the perfect 10.
  
  - Mile high club   Only one I skipped, too much luck-based vs. other levels.
  
  - Short single 
 player   An extra couple of levels would have made it perfect.
  
  - Replayability   Not much but who cares :-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SmashBros-Champ
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 5, 2008 8:23 am PT
Review:  This game has a great opening theme. The story line is great and the guns are great. There's alot 
 of cool features in this game, and the graphics are really good. I like the multiplayer alot too, 
 but single player is very fun to do. This game is very realistic and the gameplay is awesome. You 
 couldn't ask for a better Call Of Duty. My friends have it and they love it too. It's a game that's 
 definetly worth buying. It's a very fun game to play. I think it's better than the other Call of 
 duty games. Even though the other ones are good this is more fun and more realistic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dan1043
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 5, 2008 8:06 am PT
Review:  COD4 is a very action packed game from start to finish during the campaign. However, the campaign 
 is a little short for my taste. The arcade mode which is unlocked after you beat the game, and 
 the cool cheats make the campaign more enjoyable and worthwhile. On to multiplayer: One downfall 
 is that this is not halo system link where you have 8 people playing together on just 2 xbox's. 
 Instead it is one person per 360, which can be a turnoff. If you have xbox live, the multiple playlist 
 they have are very enjoyable and can please whatever type of multiplayer you want to play. The 
 online action is even more explosive and fun than the campaign. Adding to the fun of online, you 
 can unlock different weapons as you level up in real military ranks. Then if you unlock a weapon 
 you can unlock different accesories like a silencer or camo. Overall it is a very fun game which 
 rivals Halo's multiplayer. But the repetitive disconections and server problems for xbox live, 
 and the grinding to go up levels does not give this game a perfect score. If you loved playing 
 Halo on xbox live like me, most likely you will love playing this game on xbox live. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ravenwolf64
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 5, 2008 5:26 am PT
Review:  Be prepared for disconnects, game lobbies closing, long waits for game matches, etc. Nothing more 
 annoying than paying for game and also paying for Xbox Live service and not being able to play 
 the game. They were completely unprepared for holiday numbers as the game was all but unplayable 
 from Dec 25th on. Expected it to pick up again after Holidays but we are all still experiencing 
 horrible connection issues. You get into a match just long enough to hear everyone complaining 
 about bad connections and then the server goes down. Again great game when working so hey how about 
 a patch or some better servers!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luteh
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 4, 2008 9:56 pm PT
Review:  Some would argue that the WW2 setting would have been better for this next installment in the Call 
 of Duty franchise. I can assure you that it goes above and beyond what could have been done with 
 another WW2 game.
  Although the campaign is quite a bit shorter than one would hope, it is nonetheless an exhilarating 
 adventure through drawn-out environments and a very interesting storyline. You start off as "Soap" 
 MacTavish, a member of the 22 SAS Regiment. His time is spent battling the Russian Ultranationalist 
 Party. Another character you take on is that of Sergeant Paul Jackson of the USMC 1st Force Recon. 
 As him, you take on Khaled Al-Asad and his rebels in an unnamed Middle Eastern country.
  The story keeps you interested throughout, and you'll feel some really human feelings at certain 
 segments in the game. And the ending really could not have been any better. It too was intense.
 
  The multiplayer is a strong point for CoD4. Customizable classes keeps for many different changes, 
 and the perk system is great fun to mess with. The gameplay is very solid and you'll find yourselves 
 playing online for hours on end.
  As can be expected, the graphics and controls are near-flawless. The controls work well and feel 
 'right'.
  Overall, this game is one of the best FPS's out there, and it is definately a game worth getting. 
 Even though the campaign is short, it is one hell of a roller coaster ride. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lathan94
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 4, 2008 8:32 pm PT
Review:  My first combat mission on this game the ship level put my hopes high for the entire game. And 
 it was awesome throughout. With a 5 hour single player game. Its not worth buying if you dont have 
 xbox live. BUT if you have xbox live you are in for one hell of a treat. I love the high quality 
 infantry combat it provides. I love how you can customize you weapons and complete challenges. 
 Its so awesome to have a gun in you hands that you are excellent with because you tested combinations 
 until you found the gun made in heaven. For most its the ACOG scoped m16 or machine gun. For me 
 i prefere the laser sighted G3. It is only single shot fire but kills in 2-3 good hits and is extreamly 
 accurate and is possible of a good steady rate of fire. The multiplayer is full of explosions and 
 gunfire as well as death. If your looking for a substantial multiplayer game than look no further 
 than Call of Duty 4 Modern Warfare! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WAG23
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 4, 2008 5:04 pm PT
Review:  This game is as good as it gets. It was better than any Halo game. Better than Half life 2 and 
 i think you gamers out there should buy it and play it. The first two Call of Duties kind of sucked. 
 The third was better but still not there. Now, here comes the fourth one and not only the best 
 Call of Duty but the best game. What i loved about it was the shocking and intense story, the addictive 
 gameplay, the graphic violence, and the extreme fun multi-player. The story was finally very well 
 written, unlike the first 3. World War 2, Nazis, big deal. This one takes place in Europe with 
 the russians and the middle-easterns at war with us, the Americans. There were thousands of guns 
 to choose from, including the silenced assualt rifle, the desert eagle, the shotgun, the sniper 
 rifle, the rocket launcher, and much much much more. The levels were well built and people say 
 that the campaign mode was short. I think the length was about right. Enought levels to keep you 
 thinking about the brutality and misery of war and the loved ones that died for their country. 
 This game was just like the real war [even though i never been in a war] except much more gritier, 
 brutal, gory and bloody. The violence was extreme especially the sniping scene which i don't want 
 to tell you because it will spoil it. The multi-player was awesome as well and i like the Last 
 Stand feature. You're lying on the ground, almost dead, and just put in a few more bullets into 
 your bitch enemy. Loved the guns, loved the blood and gore, loved the story, loved the multi-player. 
 Loved the extroadinary graphics. All that you ever wanted from a shooter game is all here. Play 
 it and believe it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coolzane
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 4, 2008 4:18 pm PT
Review:  In Call of duty 4 you play the role of a British SAS and a American dude, the point of the game 
 is to capture these two guys that have high powered nuclear stuff. Many people say Call of duty 
 4 is short but it has great replay value and the multiplayer is the best out there. When you beat 
 the game theres also a fun arcade mode and you can alsop do it on the two harder difficulties (hard 
 and veteran) which take much, much longer. Even if you dont have xbox live this game still has deep 
 multiplayer and its graphics are the best out there. Bottom line is that COD 4 is one of the best 
 . I reccomend buying it at best buy for just 38 bucks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jblaze56
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 4, 2008 3:44 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome and is borth every penny and breath you put into it. The single player is 
 a good challenge to start with. Also it is reccomended that you play the single player first to 
 get use to the controlls and get at least some exprience. The bad part is that the rockets dont 
 really go on target very mcuh at all so you have to go up close sometimes if u want to shoot it. 
 Well thats very much the only bad thing. This game is worth it and is the best next gen first person 
 shooter you a can buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RolandReeve
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 4, 2008 1:52 pm PT
Review:  Short is great for a game like this, because the reply value is insane to get all of the achievements 
 and playing on higher difficulties. If the game was short then people would get frustrated with 
 playing on higher difficulty levels. Instead of saying, "This again..." you say, "Sw33t" or however 
 you want to say it. Now the single player mode is one thing but the prize of this game is on line 
 mode. On on-line you can play large games on a various times of levels. These matches can be ranked 
 or unranked. You can choose your class and start right in. After a while of playing your character 
 actually gets more abilities like being able to create own class, new guns for class, new 'powers' 
 like last man standing to finish your opponent off before you die and others. This game is also 
 a great game for a friends to come over and play w/ you. Have fun playing a great game with great 
 graphics, great multi player, short but very replay able, and very fun game. Have fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pungaboy
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 4, 2008 8:47 am PT
Review:  The first level in COD4, set inside a boat amid rocky seas is FUGLY. I thought it looked like a 
 PS2 game. For a game that everybody raved so much about the graphics, I am seriously underwhelmed. 
 Assassin's Creed looks about a million times better than this, as do Crysis, Mass Effect, Bioshock, 
 Halo 3 and Team Fortress. I don't know... I thought I was sick of WWII and that's why I didn't 
 like COD 2 or 3, but now I'm starting to think that it's just the way these games are structured. 
 It's too rigid for my taste. It's almost like a shooting gallery. The AI is about as complex as 
 a shooting gallery. And I think it's too fast; you never get a sense of your location before guys 
 are jumping out at you. I know this is supposed to keep the tension constantly high. But I don't 
 think that works. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chad_revolution
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 4, 2008 3:02 am PT
Review:  Good - Amazing atmosphere, solid visceral gunplay, addictive multiplayer
  Bad - Nothing
  
  Call of duty 4 is one of the best shooters of 2007 and for me its much more better than halo 3... really 
 the gunplay is solid multiplayer is addictive it has refreshing elements like perks and ranks. I 
 was surprised about everyone saying the campaign is short. But its not. The campaign has a compelling 
 story and has 3 acts. On the other side multiplayer will tie you into xbox live because ypu will 
 be obsessed with leveling up. with over 15 game modes to choose from in multiplayer .Youre gonna 
 have a blast with call of duty 4 and you wont be dissapointed in both single player and multiplayer 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Goody900
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 3, 2008 4:39 pm PT
Review:  The fourth chapter in the call of duty series, and the third instalment developed by Infinity Ward 
 follows on with their stellar reputation for creating high quality titles. This iteration moves 
 away from the World War II setting of the previous award winning releases and places you in a modern 
 era with an all new enemy to overcome. In this first-person shooter sequel you will alternate between 
 two interlaced story lines of both the American Marines and British S. A. S. This differs to the 
 previous games in which the campaign was played out from a few different countries' individual 
 perspective, making the story play out more fluently and cinematically. 
  
  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare plays out very similar to its predecessors in that the basic core 
 of the gameplay is the same, run around a battlefield killing enemies. The only real difference 
 is the setting, enemy and weaponry at your disposal. As previously stated the same old formula 
 is used, but the modern setting and ferocious tempo makes it feel new and exciting. The same standard 
 health system is used in which staying away from damage for a period of time will replenish your 
 health and it works effectively for the most part. One thing that stands out as soon as you begin 
 your first mission is the speed of the action, from the very beginning to the end it is very fast 
 paced and never really lets up.
  However, the game does a good job of varying the missions so that you are not constantly running 
 and gunning for the entire campaign. This is done with stealthier missions, shooting from helicopters 
 and other such tasks.
  Difficulty is also measured well by taking your completion time of an obstacle course done in the 
 training mission and using it as an example of your skill to suggest an appropriate playing level. 
 All difficulty levels, ranging from Easy to Veteran, play as expected and allow for a challenge 
 without being overly demanding. The controls remain the same as the earlier games in the series 
 and will be quite familiar to anyone who has played any first-person shooters lately, they are 
 also quite responsive to the action. Simply by tapping a button your crosshairs will swoop onto 
 the nearest enemy, by doing this it allows for pin-point accuracy without the feeling of it being 
 too easy. The D-Pad is also used to quickly swap between your modern equipment such night-vision, 
 grenade launcher attachments and claymores. 
  
  This is also the first Call of Duty to actually have a proper story behind the action. While it's 
 not too original it is still quite interesting and is a bit different to the same old World War 
 2 action. The story itself revolves around Imran Zakhaev, a Russian ultranationalist set to return 
 Russia back to its Soviet Union days by seizing a nuclear missile stockpile and overthrowing the 
 current government. However, to draw military attention away from his actions he organises a coup 
 in the Middle East to distract the US. The story itself is not greatly important in enjoying the 
 game experience, however it does add a feeling of urgency and can cause you to speculate, what 
 if this did occur. It is intriguing how the story is told, this is because the story is not really 
 told through cut scenes but through mission briefings and first person views. All throughout the 
 campaign you will encounter moments that will surprise and even shock you, it is these instances 
 which will invoke your emotions and get you absorbed in the atmosphere.
  
  Graphics can often attract your attention if they are good enough, Call of Duty 4 has some of the 
 most realistic and detailed graphics ever seen. The shadows and lighting are very nicely done and 
 the environments look fantastic. Player models are also very lifelike and have a great array of 
 animations. However, there are only a few different models of enemies that you will encounter and 
 eventually you will see what looks like the same person over and over again. This is hardly a problem 
 though and will barely even be noticeable as everything looks so great. Environments are also semi-destructible 
 and will show bullet holes and other marks where hit, this is very well done and makes the settings 
 seem all the more ravaged by war. Still with these great graphics and high amounts of action surrounding 
 you, the frame-rate will remain constantly smooth. Sound is another great aspect of the game and 
 makes great use of a surround sound setup. There is almost continual gunfire flying around which 
 sounds as if it is whizzing past your head. The sound of planes overhead, explosions ringing and 
 grenades landing is simply amazing and again sounds is if you are truly involved in the combat. 
 Even more impressive is the constant chatter of both the enemies and allies. When caught up in 
 the gunfire your team mates will shout enemy locations and RPG positions. However, not only will 
 they say things like "Enemies to the North", but they will state landmarks, such as "RPG behind 
 the blue car", it's astonishing the first time you hear it. The music is suitable for the occasion 
 and doesn't really provide any memorable tunes but still works well (Except that horrid rap during 
 the credits that just feels out of place) . The combination of both realistic graphics and sound 
 is highly impressive and definitely adds to the experience and helps immerse you in the occasion.
 
  
  One of the few aspects of this game that does fall short is the single players short play time. 
 For the average gamer it could be run through in about five or six hours, this is staggeringly 
 short, even for this type of game. However, the campaign is so good that you will most likely want 
 to play through multiple times on a harder difficulty. The veteran difficulty also prolongs your 
 game time and is quite challenging. A few unlockables also add to the replay value such as cheats 
 which become useable after collecting intel hidden throughout each level and an arcade mode which 
 scores your run through each level. Both features are extremely valuable inclusions and enhance 
 the gaming experience as a whole.
  The game also features an extensive online multiplayer mode which uses a class or "perk" system 
 giving each player an array of abilities to help destroy your opponents. This is done with a level 
 system which increases by killing other enemy players. Eventually, you will be able to create your 
 own class whereby allowing you to choose your own perks and weapons. Online has a wide selection 
 of maps and modes including free for all, team death match, sabotage, search and destroy and more.
 
  
  While Call of Duty 4 is a great game is does have some flaws such its extremely short campaign 
 mode and disappointing offline multiplayer. Splitscreen doesn't allow for guests online and the 
 range of maps offline is limited. Also, the class system is restricted to premade classes instead 
 of being able to choose your own abilities and weapons. The lack of any co-op mode is expected 
 but nevertheless unfortunate and really makes offline games limited to play with any friends. Another 
 flaw, this time dealing with single player is the fact that friendly fire will be a common occurrence, 
 especially early. It can often be hard to distinguish between enemy and ally soldiers in the heat 
 of the battle. However, this is remedied with the fact that you can't shoot team mates from close 
 range. I'm also quite positive that this experience would be true of any real life gunfight. Also 
 on the harder difficulties enemies will keep respawning unless you continue to move forward and 
 takeover particular chokepoints. While not really a flaw, it can get annoying watching an endless 
 supply of enemies generate in the one building.
  
  The achievements for the Xbox 360 version are well mixed and focus solely on the single player 
 aspect of the game. The majority are quite easy and will be attained through a normal play through. 
 Achievements are given for completing the game on Veteran difficulty which can be a challenge, 
 especially the Mile High achievement which is highly satisfying once completed.
  
  Call of Duty is on a new track by turning to modern times and it looks like a positive step for 
 the series. Making small additions to an already great game series without changing the basics 
 make for an enhanced sequel. 
  
  Modern Warfare is an amazing game that is highly intense while it lasts and completely immerses 
 you in the thick of the action. The addition of a story makes for a more emotional and involving 
 experience. 
  With both fantastic graphics and great sound the game plays and feels astonishingly realistic and 
 continues on with one of the greatest First-Person shooter series to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flavort
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 3, 2008 2:36 pm PT
Review:  Ok the break down on this is insane grafix, sound, gameplay, replay, online play. So my review 
 is this. This is the best military game I have played, it is totally mind blowing and dont play 
 it on the easy setting. If you do the game is super short. It is the same length as the harder 
 levels but when you play it on the harder levels it takes longer. Most people out there were all 
 worked up about Halo 3 but it does not touch this game for online play at all. I am a huge fan 
 of Gears of War and I have to say that the online of this is just as fun, I think? Anyway this 
 game is a must have. If the third COD upset you this one will make up for it totally. Get it now. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fricking
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 3, 2008 9:30 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty was first introduced to the World as a WW2 shooter which featured ground breaking 
 combat systems and a very addictive on line mode. Now it's the 21 st century and so is war, baby!
 
  
  Instantly in Call of Duty 4 the player is pushed right into the deep end as Sgt. 'Soap' MacTavish 
 who has recently been successful in joining the hardened S. A. S. You, with a very familiar looking 
 Captain Price must seize evidence of a possible nuclear device on a cargo ship before being whisked 
 away by chopper. Now, not to give too much away, I'll just say that be prepared for one of the 
 most intense and adrenaline filled openings to a shooter - ever!
  
  It's the perfect start point that gives the player a taste of what is expected through-out the 
 rest of the game which always manages to grip you in it's fairly realistic storyline. The combat 
 system is pretty much the same as previous titles, with the grenade indicator still popping up 
 when you're centimetres from blowing up! The A. I. isn't much to praise about nor to bitch about 
 either just as like the general game play which hasn't evolved enough to get any special credit.
 
  
  However, overall Call of Duty 4 does a superb job in re creating 'Modern Warfare' and will certainly 
 grab the attention of any fan or gamer. The campaign mode won't last you more than a few hours 
 but the multi player mode has been beefed up a lot to give you a whole new level of gaming in my 
 opinion. Is it more interesting than the single player? I for one think it could stand on it's 
 own and it does certainly only help the campaign single player mode in creating this blockbuster 
 of a title! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1shotkill
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 3, 2008 8:15 am PT
Review:  Pros:
  1. Many different things to do in the game such as bomb a city from a helicopter, give cover fire 
 from a bomber plane, raid a Russian town, and defend you and your friend of from hordes of Russian 
 troops.
  2. There is a variety of guns to use and each has their own individual strengths.
  3. The difficulty settings allow for new players to play and also give one of the hardest levels 
 I have played in my life on veteran (specifically the one shot, one kill level) .
  4. The minigames can be fun to play with 2 or 3 friends for a while.
  5. Great voice acting.
 
  6. Amazing graphics showing probably the best graphics for a first person shooter to date.
  7. Just plain out fun and is definetly a game worth replaying over and over again!
  
  Cons:
 
  1. Although the campaign is the best campaign of a first person shooter ever, it is extremely 
 short and ends before you know it.
  2. The online play is not as fun or addicting as Halo 3 or Gears of War.
  3. No co-op campaign.
 
  
  Conclusion:
  Despite these cons, Call of Duty 4 does turn out to be an amazing that can provide fun and enertainment 
 for a long time to come. Even with games like Halo 3, Gears of War, and other great shooters out, 
 Call of Duty 4 still manages to be probably the greatest first person shooter on the market. This 
 is definetly a must buy for a first person shooter lover! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tbrogs001
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 3, 2008 6:20 am PT
Review:  So long World War II. Hello modern warfare! Call of Duty has made the leap from the heroics of 
 the greatest generation to a horrifying vision of the future in CoD4, and the results are pretty 
 darn spectacular. The single-player campaign is filled with tight gameplay and great moments you'll 
 want to play again and again, and the multiplayer is some of the deepest and most satisfying around. 
 Call of Duty 4 is a great game that is highly recommended. As good as the campaign is, the Xbox 
 Live multiplayer is where you will probably spend most of your time if you are a hardcore FPS fan. 
 It comes with plenty of maps and game types for up to 18 players, and you can choose from a ton 
 of options to make the game play pretty much how you like. CoD4 is more of a slow paced, Rainbow 
 Six or Ghost Recon style of game rather than the run and gun style of Halo and isn't going o be 
 as immediately accessible for players. It is far more satisfying in the long run for dedicated 
 players than Halo, however, thanks to the experience and perk system that rewards you with new 
 skills and abilities the more you play. All in all, CoD4 is a blast to play online that offers 
 some of the deepest and most rewarding multiplayer you'll find. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: major_cain
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 2, 2008 11:30 pm PT
Review:  I'll be honest. This was the first game that I played on my Xbox 360, it was actually the reason 
 that I bought the 360. The moment that I put the game in and started playing, I was just blown 
 away. I couldn't believe the graphics, the gameplay, everything about it. It just simple has everything 
 that makes it a great game. I must say though the story line is a little short, but if your looking 
 for a challenge, Veteran mode is pretty difficult. And plus what it lacks in story mode, it more 
 then makes up for in online play.
  The online mode is just fantastic, its not just playing against one another, there actually are 
 goals that you need to reach to unlock things for your weapons, plus they help with promotions. 
 There really isnt enough words to discribe how great Call of Duty 4 really is, its just one of 
 those games that you have go out and pick up and play to really find out how good it really is. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dielon_
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 2, 2008 8:25 pm PT
Review:  BEST SHOOTER OF 2007
  BEST GAME FOR 360 2007
  is all i really need to say but it is a game that speaks for its self. just go rent or buy the 
 game today. must have for any shooter or multi player gamer. this game on xbox live is nothing 
 but amaxing filled with action and statagy. best war game ever. best shooter ever. best multiplayer 
 ever. up to date in my opinion. bang bang. shoot shoot. buy buy this game now now. borrow 60 bucks 
 from a friend a parent or sibling and get this game and get on xbox live and dont stop playing! 
 but stay in school. school is cool and it sure does rule. amazinggggggg game pure goldddddddddd. 
 gold gold gold gold gold. silver and gold gold gold gold gold this game is gold gold gold gold 
 gold. nothing but the best A plus plus plus plus plus plus plus best game for the 360 every. this 
 is just cool cool cooll gold gold gold hot hot hot hot hot hot stuff. doesnt get any better for 
 a shooter 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gunnygopher123
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 2, 2008 8:23 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty four blew me away. I admitt I wasn't in shock the day I got it more like "OOOH COOL... 
 It's rated M!" But 10/10 easy. The graphics are nice'n shiny with, oh say... a 42" LCD HD Samsung 
 1080 P. With Hd switched on you actually start to do a little roleplaying. 
  
  The diffuculty levels of COD4 are just perfect for someone who just got this game. I also fell 
 in love with the great control setup. On the down-side it's not the same set up as Halo. There 
 also is another tiny mishap. NO CO-OP MULTIPLAYER. I was devestated to find that just the four 
 player settings were there. It breaks my heart to find a game so well polished that it doesn't 
 include 2-4 player co-op. Major downfall. 
  
  On the bright side, the multiplayer will give you somthing to shoot for. Reaching level 55. Then 
 doing it again in prestige mode. Overall, solid 10 for it's genius graphics, killer story, and 
 amazing addictive multiplayer, 10/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: navevan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 2, 2008 3:02 pm PT
Review:  I have been having this problem for about a month i cant join any games and i try every 6 hours 
 or when i want to play it. for the first month i had it it was my favorite game AMAZING i wish 
 it was lag free join whenever you want fun AGAIN. I hate it please come out with a patch please.... 
 Please... ... .. . ... . .. ... .. .... ... . ... ... . ... .. .... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . . . . . .. . .. . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . .. . . . . . 
 . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . .. . 
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . .. .. . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: burjeffton
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 2, 2008 1:52 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is a game that deserves lots of praise for creating THE deepest online experience 
 as well as a fun solo campaign. I've officially shelved Halo 3 as my "shooter of choice", and haven't 
 been able to put down COD4 since I picked it up.
  
  The biggest accomplishment the game makes is in its online experience. Since the online game play 
 makes it possible to unlock weapons, rankings, abilities, etc, the user can pop in COD4 and never 
 have to play the offline campaign if he or she chooses. The online offering is so deep, it's almost 
 as good as a separate game.
  
  Graphics are a 10, in my opinion. Also, the campaign offers several levels as a gunner in a chopper 
 and a bomber, and these really help give the game a lot of variety.
  
  If you like shooters, you'll love COD4. Halo 3 is great - but I was pleasantly surprised to find 
 Call of Duty on a whole new level.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Cakeness
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 2, 2008 10:47 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty combines everything a modern first person shooter should.
  
  - it has the great graphics which will keep you to be distracted from all the shooting you'll be 
 doing.
  
  - to combine with it beauty, the game also has killer effects which will have you blinded by flash 
 bangs and dust cracking off the walls you use as cover
  
  - the guns really feel right when you shoot them. When you kill someone you really feel like you've 
 achieved something quite special. On top of that the gun design really went along way, they are 
 the real thing detail for detail.
  
  - one thing that can really make or break a game are the ideas that make the game really unique. 
 You'll find yourself throwing back enemy grenades or even shooting through walls.
  
  - the campaign is short, but you know a lot of love went into it. With a setting for the casual 
 gamer or the hardcore gamer, the campaign will appeal to everyone.
  
  - but probably the most amazing thing about this game is it's multi-player. You'll be gaining experience 
 for every kill you've scored and every challenge you're completed. These will then move you up 
 levels (or ranks) where you will unlock guns and other options which you can use to customize your 
 character with, making sure you play how you want to play.
  
  All in all Call of Duty 4 will keep you playing with a smile on your face for a long long time, 
 until someone ends your kill streak of 16  :d
  
  - the Cake.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rawlu
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 2, 2008 8:33 am PT
Review:  I would love to play the game but theirs no way im going to pay for/support that short of a game, totally 
 unacceptable,& the GS score should reflect this much more, but ofcorse they throw in a bunch of 
 multiplayer BS (as if theirs not enough already out their?!) that im sure is to blame for the way 
 to short campaign. = sucks  on no no no no no no no no no no no on on on on on on on on on on on 
 on on on on on no no no no no no no no no no no no no  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shawnm00
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 2, 2008 7:56 am PT
Review:  I've enjoyed all of the COD games to date. They've always been compelling gameplay with great visuals 
 and sound. COD4 tops them all and every other game I've played. The graphics are simply astounding. 
 There are times you can't believe it's a game and not real footage. The details from grass to clouds 
 to shadows and debris are all fantastic. It feels so real it's scary.
  
  As for the sound, well, I just can't even describe how wonderful it is. With the surround sound 
 system I have, the game's audio completely envelopes me. The sound effects are so perfectly done: 
 from the M16 to the car explosions, it's just phenominal.
  
  The single player mission is a lot of fun and very engaging. You quickly get into it and feel the 
 urgency of the missions. I'll admit, as a WWII fan, I was concerned about COD going to modern warfare. 
 But, my fears were quickly put at rest when I jumped in. For one, the weapons are a whole lot cooler 
 and exciting than the 60 year old versions available in previous installments. Besides that, there 
 is a feel of a global threat that hits you right off the bat so you want to jump in and make a 
 difference. The single player is short, but worth the ride.
  
  The game really goes over the top with the online play. Honestly, I've always feared online play. 
 I tried Halo 2 a few times online and just felt completely overmatched everytime. I'm not a sore 
 loser, but, I hated getting slaughtered in that game. With COD4, I'm not sure if its the weapons 
 and enviroments or if I'm just getting a little better at the FPS thing, but I can hold my own 
 and that makes it very fun. The multiplayer maps are all great and different game modes are fantastic. 
 You can be a loner and go for a simple free for all deathmatch or play some real team games like 
 Domination or Search and Destroy.
  
  I honestly can't get enough of this game. If you like FPS games and/or COD, you have to get this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 360-0wnage
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 2, 2008 7:27 am PT
Review:  i started this game on christmas day and ever since then i have loved this game it has something 
 in it that make u wanting to go back.
  The campaign has an alrite lengh so that can keep you entertained but the online play is awesome 
 that just keeps entertaining you over and over andover again thxs to the grade system where there 
 is 55 levels you cna gain and there not just kill peopel to level up. You can also do challenges 
 to gain an alful alot of xp like every weopon 25 kills 100xp and then 50 more kills 500xp then 
 75 more kills 1000 ! ! ! xp
  so they will keep you playing cod4 online for a long time to come.
  
  Campaign comes in 4 difficulty 
 setting what are good on all of them but the veteren... takes patientes and lots of skill 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MuscleCarMan
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 2, 2008 1:16 am PT
Review:  I dont know what the big deal is with this game. Its just like every other call of duty before 
 it, except this time its modern. So all the same trappings and boring gun play that Call of Duty 
 has somehow made a successful series staple.
  First and foremost this game is short like 6 hours short, even on Veteran. During this games weak 
 campaign its a story of all flash and no substance. Fire fights are needlessly over dramatized 
 with no cover system at all. You'll see soldiers firing at walls and moving frantically only to 
 do nothing, which again try to create the illusion of an intense fire fight. Grenades come at a 
 steady and constant supply from your enemies and they always seem to know just to throw them at 
 your exact location. 
  Now if youve played a CoD game before youve played this one. All the guns serve the same functions. 
 while firing and handling the same. The only difference is everything has been given a shiny new 
 coat of modern technology. Case in point artillery strikes are replaced by helicopter assaults. 
 The weapon variety is questionable, because last i checked British SAS agents dont use the M4A1 
 assault rifle. The terrorists seem to all have access to the same gear you do too, but i guess 
 since theyre a military power in this conflict that can be forgiven.
  Another problem in this game is the brain dead AI. As i said earlier allied troops are often terrible 
 shots. Unloading entire magazines into concrete walls while your enemies shoot with pin point accuracy. 
 I even watched one of my squad mates stand face to face with an enemy soldier and completely miss 
 while the tango picked off my team. Makes complete sense right? I mean after all they were only 
 United States Marines, the toughest bastards on gods green earth.
  The actual story you follow isnt much better. Basically you split your play time between a US Marine 
 and a British SAS operative. If youve ever payed to go see some summer blockbuster movie then you 
 know the drill. Bad guy makes beef with the world and only one man can stop him, chaos ensues. 
 Since you split your time between these two men the story gets broken up and just as you get engaged 
 in one aspect of the game it rips you out of it and puts you somewhere else.
  Im sure if youre a COD4 fan youre probably slamming the keyboard and preparing to send me a hate 
 message about how much of an idiot i am. I havent given the multiplayer a shot yet but based on 
 how the campaign shaped up i can guess how it plays out. Except with a lot more whiny kids telling 
 me how they shot me in the head.
  Luckily i only paid $6 to rent this and am glad i didnt make the mistake of buying this. Another 
 shooter cut from the same mold, only this one looks a bit better than the rest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FireAndIce53
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 1, 2008 8:34 pm PT
Review:  For some awkward reason, I actually thought COD3 was better, but i guess i think like that because 
 world war games where fresh to me those days but whatever, here is the review
  
  Graphics (8/10) 
  The graphics are ok, sometimes shadows have awkward jagged edges but overall 
 the game looks good.
  
  Sound (10/10)
  I have nothing to complain about this, the sound is amazing you hear gunshots everywhere and everything 
 sounds realistic.
  
  Gameplay (7/10)
  Its like every other shooter, you can't cover but thats a good thing since some guns can go through 
 bricks and cars explode and such. Otherwise you just go out there and throw grenades and shoot 
 stuff. Multiplayer can get really frustrating because you might get paired with people 10 times 
 better than you, they seriously need to fix that.
  
  Replay Value (7/10)
  You have single player and Multiplayer, single player is only 6 hours or more depending on the 
 difficulty level, multiplayer has alot of variety and weapons but its just plain frustrating when 
 you fight people ALOT better than you.
  
  Story (9/10)
  The characters have amazing voice acting and each has their own personalty, the game is set in 
 modern places and you basically are going after this one guy I don't wanna go into much depth with 
 that.
  
  Overall (7.5/10)
  Overall its a ok shooter just not as good as the hype.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mario-Luige
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 1, 2008 5:09 pm PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY: The gameplay is great and exciting and simple to control all at once. I disagree however 
 with single player being too short because depending on difficulty and skill it can take a good 
 bit (and don't get me started on the ending of the "One Shot, One Kill" mission... ugh!) The controls 
 are similar to most shooters on the 360. The joysticks moves your aim and character. RT shoots, 
 LB and RB use different grenades (normal, flash, smoke, ect.) . Y changes weapon. X picks up, reloads, 
 get in, other commands. A jumps and B is crouch. The gameplay is almost flawless with only those 
 minor mishaps like not being able to stand somewhere that's open or get stuck while crawling but 
 usually nothing serious. And of course as always the multiplayer and online are perfected.
  
  STORY: The story is the best story in any Call of Duty game. You start off hunting down Al-Shad 
 (or something like that) when about 1/4 into the story a nuclear explosion goes off sending you 
 on a hunt for four suspects including Al-Shad. Now through out the game there are many plot changes 
 and unexpected moments that either make you yell "Aw... freakin' sweet!" or "Son of a..." need I 
 go on. Overall it is an A+ story that will keep you playing until the end.
  
  GRAPHICS: The graphics are perfect and amazing. Texture is seen on almost any object if you approach 
 it and clothes seem like real fabrics and all that other stuff. One thing I noticed is that they 
 still haven't perfect the whole hand on object thing. Every now and then you will notice objects 
 mystically floating a millimeter off someones hands or a doorknob that is not turning or the hand 
 not even actually grabbing the door knob. However these are very rare and very minor mistakes and 
 are acceptable. Gun fire is as realistic as it'll ever get. The opening cutscene to the game is 
 phenomenal and it is moments like that, which make me agree with the quote on the back of the game 
 "The most photo-realistic game I've ever seen!"
  
  OVERALL: The game is amazing with only one or two very minor flaws every now and then that probably 
 won't disrupt gameplay at all. The graphics push it to the limit and the story is immediately pulling. 
 I give Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare a final score of 9.5 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sportzfan8993
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 1, 2008 3:08 pm PT
Review:  When I heard about Call of Duty 4, a couple of months before its release, I didn't know what to 
 expect. I didn't know how the game would play out in the present time. When I got the game I was 
 extremely impressed. The graphics are amazing in the game. The game play was really good. It was 
 pretty much the same as Call of Duty 3, but its still good. The guns are pretty much the same too. 
 The campaign is short if you play on the normal setting but on hardened and veteran it is actually 
 quite long. 
  The controls in the game are very easy to learn because they are so similar to the games before. 
 
  The online multi player is very fun. I've only played a little, but that will change soon. In the 
 multi player, you can join a game in progress. A cool thing in multi player is that when you die, 
 you can see the replay through the guy who killed you.
  If you're looking for a very fun and challenging game, get Call of Duty 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fallconet
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 1, 2008 12:24 pm PT
Review:  this review is just about single mode of the game. cause unfortunately my 360 is a copyreader one 
 i'll be banned if play live, anyway, it's not good as they say! many graphical problems, like bad 
 resolution grasses and a f*ck ugly sky ,disapointing mirror, but they did great about characters 
 looking, but they good job in this part doesn't work for the game, overally it seems like there 
 were a professional team that did the characters and an amateur one did the environments, these 
 two parts are far far from eachother, but the gameplaying itself is fun but it's too not that good, 
 imean for expamle there is a mission in a flashback for 20 years in ukrain, you and your teammate 
 must hunt someone, ok, it's a stealth mission that you must find your way through the guards ,but 
 you must try be quiet ,ok it's a good thing, but the bad is that you don't have an ability to make 
 it your self ,game doesn't let you to think and find a way ,you must follow your teammate ,it's 
 very repetitive.. looks good for someone that sit beside you watching you play it, but it's badly 
 borring for player, game overally doen't let you too create somthing ,if you play rainbowsixes, you 
 should know what i mean.. it was good for my copy for just 6 box that you must pay here, personally 
 i think cod was far better, but is't just my idea. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rj3560
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 1, 2008 12:18 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is the first game in the Call of Duty series that is not based during World War 
 II. The result is the inclusion of many modern-day firearms and situations. The single-player campaign 
 is very exciting, but is also very short. Even though it is short, you will find that the experience 
 in this campaign is much better than many other, lengthier campaigns. You really develop relationships 
 to your squadmates and you feel sad when tragedy strikes. This game is truly a remarkable experience 
 while being short, still delivers in innovation and overall fun-factor. The story has many surprises, 
 while not quite being a twist in the plot, you still would not expect them to happen. This game 
 is one of the best first-person shooters for the Xbox 360, and offers a short yet satisfying campaign. 
 The game is graphically astounding, and there are virtually no glitches or framerate drops. Also, 
 while you are playing, the game keeps your interest constantly; you don't want to put the controller 
 down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vista8
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 1, 2008 10:46 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is one of the best games that was released this year. One thing that really made 
 me happy was the fact that its NOT a World War II game (thank God!) . Call me crazy, but I enjoyed 
 Call of Duty 4 way more than I enjoyed Halo 3. The multiplayer in CoD4 is insainly (and superiseingly) 
 fun. Well, its only fun if your not playing with a master sniper and you can't find were he's hiding, 
 when that happens, it's not fun. Anyway, the story mode was pretty (and not superisingly) fun. 
 I only wish it was longer. The graphics are very good. The weapons in Call of Duty 4 were very 
 enjoyable. Finaly! I'm not stuck with a Thomson! So, I give Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare a 10/10. 
 This game rocks!!!!!!!!!!!!! Oh, one more thing, when your enemey sends in a chopper, run like a 
 sissy girl. Now, I give Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare a 10/10. This game rocks!!!!!!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dosu178
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 1, 2008 1:11 am PT
Review:  The Call of Duty franchise has typically been a World War 2 first person shooter but Ifinity Ward 
 has stepped up to a Modern first person shooter and they have done a great job. The campaign is 
 truly fun and not only feels real but looks real. The inner gameplay is great and the guns are 
 amazing. In the campaign you play as many different soldiers and the game has really fun objectives. 
 The campaign is short, if you are really committed to the game and play it nonstop you can beat 
 it in one sitting but a lot of stuff happens in that short campaign, including stuff like very 
 numurous plot twists. The action in the game is outstandind and most of the time in the campaign 
 you will be playing and at the end of each mission you will be stunned especially when you are 
 in the plane and you get to rain down death from above. There is also a moment in the game that 
 is easily hands down one of the most tense gaming moment in game history. When you are done with 
 the campaign you can play it again at a higher difficulty or go back through to get achievements 
 there is an amazing multiplayer with 16 maps and a variety of game modes and there are some things 
 the gamespot review left out. First off you start at level one, you only have about four default 
 classes and three game modes and that is where the multiplayer can kind of suck. Untill you really 
 start to level up you won't have many modes for players who might not like to play the starting 
 game types. Also you don't get all of the perks and weapons when you get to the required level 
 to create a class, but that is understandable. The maps are all very interesting and the multiplayer 
 is very addicting. When you get a certain ammount of kills you get a UAV Scan which shows you where 
 your enemies and allies are. Then you can rack up some more kills where if you get enough can call 
 in an airstrike and if you get enough kills that way you can call in a helicopter that will start 
 killing all of the enemies in sight which racks up your kills and exp. All in all the game is good 
 but with a very short campaign and the leveling becomes a hassle its not perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d51man
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 31, 2007 11:57 pm PT
Review:  First off, let me tell you. The campaign mode is terrific! Each mission is unique in it's own way. 
 You'll find yourself doing new things and gaining new skills throughout each one. The campaign 
 is pretty short though. I beat it in about 5 or 6 hours. But in those few hours you'll find yourself 
 in awe wanting more and more after each twist and turn in the plot! There's so much jam packed 
 into those few hours that you'll be amazed, and you'll find yourself getting emotionally attached 
 to each character throughout. And although it is one of the shorter campaigns of any game recently 
 released, it's definitely one of the best.
  
  Now, let me tell you. If you don't have Xbox Live and will not be playing this game online, it's 
 only worth a rent. You can easily beat it in the few days that you'll have it. But the online is 
 great, so if you will be playing on Xbox Live, read on.
  
  Let me start off by talking about the community. I've heard people say that it's really immature, 
 and there's lots of bratty kids, but I haven't come across anyone bad at all. In all of the games 
 I've played (a lot) , I've played with mature people who are actually there to play the game right. 
 Of course, people go "oh crap" or something when they die, but who doesn't? :P And I haven't found 
 myself listening to people arguing with each other either, which is a good thing, so you can use 
 the chat to talk about the game.
  
  Now let's move on to the types of matches. There's the usual Team deathmatch and free - for - all. 
 In team deathmatch, you can have 6-18 players, and your split up into teams. In Free - For - All, 
 it's every man for himself :P
  
  Playing online definitely has things to keep you wanting to play too. You level up by gaining experience 
 from killing people in games. By leveling up, you can unlock new challenges, weapons, and perks 
 (perks are like little bonuses you have like increased health, more bullet damage, etc.) . So you'll 
 definitely want to keep playing to get all the nice guns :D
  
  All in all, I'd say Call of Duty 4 is one of the most fun, best looking games of the year. The 
 story is incredible and the multiplayer will keep you up for hours at a time. It's a must buy for 
 anyone who loves shooters and great online games :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nyyankeesjg25
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 31, 2007 9:39 pm PT
Review:  Call Of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is hands-down one of the best FPS ever made while also being the 
 best game of 2007 IMO. The Single Player, while kinda short, was great fun including a great story. 
 The Single Player is short if you play it on the easiest level. If you play it on the harder difficulties 
 it is very hard. The Online in this game is the best online, if not the one of the best gaming 
 experience, I have had in my video game career. This game is excellent and should deffinitely be 
 picked up by all gamers! The only thing I think this game could be improved on is more custimization 
 of the character online, more variety of gun choices and a longer single player. Besides this, 
 COD 4 is a most excellent game! There have been many rumors about the Next Call of duty going back 
 to the WW 2 theme and if this is so I will be greatly dissapointed. This game was so awesome that 
 switching back to WWII would just be such a dissapointment! GET CALL OF DUTY 4: MODERN WARFARE! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xdude85
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 31, 2007 7:28 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 was a game I looked forward to because it was leaving its normal World War II grounds 
 into conflicts that are similar that are going around the world today. This new experience is definitely 
 worth it.
  
  Plot: Call of Duty 4 doesn't take place in actual conflicts going on today, it instead has fictional 
 wars that take place in Saudi Arabia and Russia. You play as two different soldiers throughout 
 the game. The British soldier you play is named "Soap" MacTavish, you'll play as him in Russia. 
 The American soldier you play is Paul Jackson, you'll play as him in Saudi Arabia.
  
  Game Play: Call of Duty 4's controls can be somewhat hard to learn at first, but after awhile you 
 get the hang of it. Move by using the left control stick, if you click and hold down on the left 
 control stick you'll start running faster. Use the right control stick to aim your weapon, click 
 the right control stick to preform a melee attack with your weapon. To fire your weapon press the 
 RT button, to hold and aim your weapon press and hold the LT button. To throw grenades press the 
 RB button, to throw stun grenades press the LB button. To jump, press the A button, to reload your 
 weapon press the X button. To crouch press the B button, press and hold B down to prone, press 
 the Y button to swap between your first and secondary weapons.
  
  Graphics: Call of Duty 4 has outstanding visuals in every mission you go into, every little detail 
 is put into each level.
  
  Sound: Music, sound effects, and even voice acting are all very well done.
  
  Overall, Call 
 of Duty 4 is great addition to the Call of Duty franchise. With new kinds of weapons, vehicles, 
 and environments to explore, Call of Duty 4 will go down as one of your favorite shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shelledfade
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 31, 2007 4:13 pm PT
Review:  This game was what i expected it to be, pure FPS down to its core with sweet graphics. Lots of 
 gun customization. Lots of multiplayer game type choices, all classics included like team deathmatch 
 and last man standing, but much much more. Great sound in the game. Realistic body movements, awesome 
 gun customization, more ammo//silencer//scopes.. the works. Reasons why i didnt give this game 
 a 10 rating score are as follows: Some guns arnt as realistic as they could be. You cannot change 
 fire rateings (single shot//full auto) all guns are automatically set, (example- m16 is only burst 
 fire) . There are two scopes you can use for customization, basically a medium range and a long 
 range. The long range scope actually doesnt offer anything and is much harder to use as it constantly 
 shakes when your looking through it. Also it decreases bullet range for some reason. Medium scope 
 is overall better and your still able to get kills at long range distances, (or longer because 
 it doesnt shake) than the long range scope, why they put that in the game i have no idea, but since 
 i dont use it i dont care. Few of the maps are a bit too small, which can get very anoying when 
 everyone camps (example - cargo ship map) . One of the biggest reasons why i didnt give this game 
 a 9.0 or 10 was because all of the maps dont really give much to offer for a sniper user. You can 
 shoot through walls with all high powered assault rifles-light machine guns.. ect.. ect but when 
 your a sniper in a window trying to take someone out you dont really stand a chance since you cant 
 make snipers silenced in this game, also when rounds are coming through walls constantly when you 
 get spoted. The maps arnt really that large, its very easy to get snuck up on from behind, or simply 
 drive-byed while using a sniper rifle. Since I dont use sniper rifles I dont really care about 
 that though. If you are a pure sniper-rifle guy/girl for FPS games i suggest you rent this game 
 otherwise you might get very angry and frustrated very quickly when you play this game online. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GMFC07
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 31, 2007 2:19 pm PT
Review:  This new verision of call of duty is with out a doubt the best first person shooter i have ever 
 played. To start off with the graphics are amazing the guns look so realistic and the soliders look 
 so life like.
  
  One off the best things about this game is just the overall gameplay when you fire the gun you 
 can atcually see the bullets falling out which is exactly what happens in real life. One of the 
 best missions in the game is where you play a sniper and you have to go to this abonded city and 
 snipe one of the leaders .
  
  All and all this game is simply breathtaking everything about it the graphics the missions the 
 locations everything about this game is top class. At first i was a bit unsure on how good this 
 new call of duty would be but this game is the best fps ever if you have any Xbox 360 you must 
 get this game It is the best game on the xbox 360 for now until GTA comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MickaelJulliard
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 31, 2007 1:05 pm PT
Review:  WHY?
  
  CoD 4 is probably the only thing i do, except play Halo aswell, but otherwise, a day at school, 
 yay go home an play CoD 4, family day, yay i get to sit on the couch and play CoD, i can look forward 
 to hanging out with some of my best friends, playing a strategic shooter, or just muck about!
 
  
  Why would GameSpot only give it a 9, whether or not you find the story short, there are 4 difficulties 
 to complete, and kool Arcade mode to participate in, and its the kind of game you could play again 
 and again anyway, plus the spectacular onlineplay, meening amazing people to play, and lots to 
 do with the Unique 'Prestige Mode' being a useful gadget for the Rank 55's, and over 50 Challenges 
 to complete, what could go wrong.
  
  Now i know 9 meens good, or great, or whatever the word they use is, it still meens that its not 
 as good, apparently, as lots of other games, and personally i think its one of the best games out 
 there! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VictimGame
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 31, 2007 12:54 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is a game that introduces a new field of gameplay to the world of 2007, just like 
 Rainbow Six did. CoD4 (as it is often tagged) is a great world of modern warfare that allows the 
 player to customize a vast arsenal of weapons and grenades ranging from smoke grenades to C4 Bombs 
 and Airstrikes. Playing Call of Duty 4 on the campaign mode sets you into the POV of Sergeant 'Soap' 
 Mactavish, a soldier in the Anti-Terrorism war... So anyways, this game is getting high ratings, 
 and so check it out for less than $60.00 for X360, PC, PS3, or even DS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cult_of_Cthulhu
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 30, 2007 3:53 pm PT
Review:  It's just easier to compare it to the highest ranked FPS on 360.
  
  1. Graphics way better.
  
  2. Play Speed: going back top play Halo I felt like I was walking 
 in treacle, what a difference sprint makes!
  
  3. Arsenal: great selection of authentic weapons, that all have a great balance. I have yet to 
 find the one stop gun. unlike in Halo where some guns are just broken, I'm looking at you Battle 
 rifle!. (in the hands of a good player unstoppable)
  
  4. Players: up to 18 ( not sure where) but 12 is the norm in most games, makes halos 8 in ranked feel 
 like a tiny group.
  
  5. Lethality: all guns are lethal don't go running out in the open EVER because just like in real 
 life one good hit from even a pistol will send you to the respawn pool
  
  6. Ranks: getting my ranks in Halo felt like a grind and largely in the hands of some odd system 
 out of my control. some of my mates soared to level 45 whilst I was stuck at 30 this meant I lost 
 contact with a lot of my friends. In CoD4 I have absolute control of my level. I earned it by killing, 
 winning and doing some random classic stuff! you'll know what I mean when you start getting rewards 
 for jumping off roofs to your death or killing people with a grenade dropped as you die.
  
  7. Rewarding, kind of goes with above. you don't have to have a great kill death ratio ( although 
 your team will appreciate it if you don't loss them the game by getting killed 75 times) but as 
 long as you can complete certain "challenges" you will advance, such as killing 5 people with claymores 
 ( god that was fun) or making 25 headshots ( not my strong suit) or even blowing up cars, or grenading 
 people or getting a 7 man kill streak so you can get a chopper in ( my best streak is 15 to date) 
 and to keep it fun, most "challenges" have to be unlocked, so that even after a few solid days 
 of non stop sleep deprived mayhem you are still getting new things to try, like killing someone 
 with their own claymore, or with a a live grenade in their hand. 
  
  8. No silly circle strafe and no idiots hopping like bunnies to get a cheap headshot with the BR.
 
  
  9. Perks and classes: If you haven't played COD4 just quickly this is the thing that makes the 
 most difference. rather than everyone starting out the same and then it being a silly leg race 
 tot he best weapons. you select a class before each match and even between each respawn if you 
 like. Are you the sort of player who likes close up killing? great take ( or better yet make) a 
 shotgun class with perks that enhance your game playing style, prefer sniping? well just take a 
 sniper don't worry about respawns or other rubbish.
  
  am example that I use in my heavy weapons layout
  * Deep penetration (no it's nothing suss) Sick 
 of people using cover? I for one am. now they will really need to consider just how much cover 
 they are getting from whatever they hide behind because your bullets pass through most things, 
 walls, floors, roofs. great when an enemy takes a crack at you then ducks behind a wall. plug the 
 wall and watch them die hehe
  
  *Claymore: want to lay down some suppressing fire and don't have anyone to watch your back? no 
 problems take these puppies to blow the pants off intruders. careful placement a must as whilst 
 they won't hurt allies if they are too obvious the enemy will just shoot them, great at top of 
 ladders or on the bend in stairs
  
  *More damage: can't remember the name of this perk but anyway I am LOUSY with my aim. Too much 
 coffee, getting too old so the fingers aren't as reliable as they once were, so I need those few 
 bullets that do connect to do their job. with this perk I can normally match a good players without 
 the perk. giving me a fighting chance.
  
  Again for those who don't play I'll try to illustrate the difference in my stealthy shotgun 
 
  
  * UAV jammer: I don't show up on radar, very useful if you plan to go head to head and have an 
 iffy connection. the last thing you need is for the enemy to have a forewarning that you're bolting 
 around the corner
  
  * Steady aim: again useful when you come round the corner at a run this will make you more accurate 
 when you fir from the hip. after all who has time to aim at close range and don't forget as previously 
 mentioned my aim is awful.
  
  so you see that depending on how I feel I can customise my game experience as much as I like, and 
 whats more the more you play the more perks and weapons you unlock. Whilst the weapons definitely 
 get better as you unlock them, the perks are all about equal, and more about play style.
  
  
  Do yourself a favour if you like FPS in an online environment this is for me handsdown the 
 winner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: somadude
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 30, 2007 3:46 pm PT
Review:  When i think call of duty i think intence WW2 first person shooter when i heard that infinity ward 
 was making the series latest game a modern warfare game i let out a big "yes" and it's finally 
 here and theres no dought that call of duty 4 modern warfare packs a punch. To start things off 
 the graphics are outstanding truly a feat beyond all games before the same goes for it's gamplay 
 its inence and bloody thanks to the M rating. the one thing that holds it back from tatal perfection 
 is the length of the single player playing on the moderate difficulty i cloced in at about 5 hours 
 but it's the most action packed 5 hours ive ever had with a shooter. the multiplayer is also very 
 good though i haven't had a chance to go online i have played a fair amount of split screen and 
 its great fun. the graphics story and gamplay come together to make call of duty 4 one of the best 
 games of the year 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FelisLeo1980
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 30, 2007 2:15 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare takes the thrilling action from its previous WWII games and brings 
 it to modern times. The result is just amazing.
  
  Story is not so special, but the way that its told is. You play as two different characters: one 
 serves in the British S. A. S. and the other in the American U. S. M. C. The main goal is to stop a 
 terrorist organization known as Al-Asad, which may have nuclear weapons at their disposal. You 
 get a lot of help from your team mates and this has always been an important aspect in Call of 
 Duty games: you are not supposed to win this war alone. There are no cutscenes to speak of and 
 the story is told through your characters eyes just like in Half-Life.
  
  Graphics are nearly as good as in Gears of War and you may want to play the campaign through multiple 
 times just to see those great visuals again once more. Sound is also good creating that chaotic 
 feel of a real battlefield and since it is based on a real world everything sounds as it should 
 be. I really wish the audio visual presentation in all games would be like it is in Call of Duty 
 4.
  
  Gameplay is a typical shooter with different guns and grenades, but again its the way the story 
 is told that makes it so great. There is no health bar and instead of collecting first aid kits 
 you take cover and after a while your health will regenerate. Maybe its not so realistic, but 
 it makes your life a little easier. The game uses checkpoints to save your progress and they come 
 frequently so you dont get frustrated.
  
  The bad thing is that theres an infinite amount of enemies until you reach a certain spot. This 
 creates an atmosphere of action, but especially on higher difficulties it can make things a lot 
 harder than they should be. But you dont really notice this if (or when) you are constantly pushing 
 forward. Also Single Player campaign is really for just one player: there is no co-op what so ever.
 
  
  Multiplayer is like a whole another game. Theres a lot of different weapons and all of them can 
 have multiple upgrades as you progress. On top of that there are many different other challenges 
 to do aside the actual gameplay. Also your level and rank is constantly rising and never lowering 
 so all of this makes Call of Duty 4s multiplayer an enjoyable experience that takes you a long 
 time. As you would expect the game modes are plenty ranging from regular Team Deathmatch to Sabotage 
 all the way to different Hardcore modes, which is an obvious choice for advanced players. Call 
 of Duty 4 is the first game in my gaming history that Ive played on Xbox Live for 10 hours before 
 even touching the Single Player mode.
  
  Unfortunately not all is great in multiplayer. The ability to mute annoying players is much more 
 clunky than it should be and sometimes an assigned party can be separated in the process of finding 
 a new match.
  
  Call of Duty series was getting a little stale in its part 3, but Modern Warfare updates the franchise 
 to a whole new level. With longer campaign and no problems in multiplayer I would have given this 
 game a full 10, but as it is its still one of the best games Ive played in a while. Go out there 
 and buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Tish-
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 3, 2008 7:39 pm PT
Review:  As the World War II theme loosened its grip on the public, Infinity Ward began to construct a project 
 capable of tearing down the boundaries and forwarding itself into the threshold of a new era. A 
 modern era. As some would call it, a better era. As the name suggests, Modern Warfare prides itself 
 in the contemporary arts, with more explosive battles, bigger ammunition, and the most crisp photo 
 realism on the market. While the fast-paced single player campaign can be compromised with time 
 to spare, the additional difficulty settings, solid replay value, and outstanding multiplayer features 
 come together to create the best Call of Duty game yet. 
  
  Setting off in various locations across the Middle East, playing as either "Soap" McTavish of the 
 S. A. S. or Paul Jackson of the U. S. Marines, you'll be pitted into grueling real time situations, 
 from infiltrating a cargo ship, rescuing survivors from a helicopter incident, and smoking infantry 
 with firearms from the skies. Similar to past installments, the philosophy of the game branches 
 out in many directions. Covering the back story of specific operatives, you'll blast through quintessential 
 missions that unravel the pace of the storyline continuously, as would a wartime novel or movie. 
 The characters and scenarios collaborate especially well to create an epic story, and above all 
 else, some explosively good gameplay.
  
  You'll investigate huge, seamless levels with the motive to permeate the surrounding area while 
 warding off copious enemies. Everything from oil barrels, crates, cars, fences, buildings, and 
 windows can be utilized under cover, demonstrating the fact that anything and everything is passable 
 as substantial material. Likewise, you can play the game to your liking, whether you choose to 
 let your comrades pillage buildings as you snipe from a safe point, or choose to move ahead from 
 various cover points and unleash lead upon your adversaries, the game doesn't specifically direct 
 you in any way, creating dozens of possibilities.
  
  While the gameplay is as straightforward as any modern-day shooter, the plights you'll be crossed 
 with are simply breathtaking. You'll blast your way through air strike fields, large cargo ships, 
 small, middle-eastern towns, farmhouse after farmhouse in Russia, and even Muslim TV stations. 
 Even though you can complete the campaign in less than five hours, the sequences you'll experience 
 convey loads of replay value, and you'll want to go through the game on a harder difficulty level. 
 And that's definitely something you'll want to do if you don't have a connection to Xbox Live, 
 because completing the game on Veteran level may take up to fifteen to eighteen hours.
  
  However, if you had enough with the single player campaign, thought it was too easy, or just wanted 
 a change, you can hop online and play opponents from across the globe. The Xbox Live multiplayer 
 operates to near perfection, as you begin your own personal campaign at rank one (each rank, of 
 course, has a military pseudo-name to go with it) , working your way up by gaining experience points 
 in battle. The online menu is loaded with options, and you achieve even more after being promoted 
 so many times. You can create your own custom classes for battles, allowing you to choose your 
 primary weapon, side arm, attachments, grenade format, and other facets. Of course, in case you 
 don't want to use your customized bundle for every match, you can create other classes in the remaining 
 slots, five in total.
  
  The online play itself stands out as the best feature for Modern Warfare. You'll tackle real players 
 in familiar locations from the game's single player campaign in various match types. While the 
 most popular range from team deathmatch, which evens out the players in the lobby on to two teams, 
 to free-for-all, which, as the name implies, has you battling against everything that moves on 
 the map. Killing a single opponent is worth ten points, and the team that comes out with the most 
 points (in other words, the most kills) wins. During the intermission, players can either leave 
 the lobby or join the current session, and afterwards, you'll begin another match on a different 
 map.
  
  As mentioned earlier, you can create classes to suit your items of choice more conveniently. You 
 can also choose among different perks for each custom class. These perks involve such abilities 
 as "last stand", which allows you to pull out your pistol before you die, and "juggernaut", which 
 enhances your health so bullets don't penetrate your body as easily. Some of the more effective 
 perks can't be unlocked until you reach a certain rank, so you can count on some heated battles 
 as you move up in the standings.
  
  Another interesting characteristic that ties in with the perks is the 3-kill and beyond mechanic 
 that gives you in-game perks as you go along in the match. Once you kill three opponents without 
 dying, you can use radar, which points out the location of all your enemies temporarily, even for 
 your teammates. You can still see your opponents on the radar regularly signaled by a red dot, 
 but they'll blip off and on over time. The trend continues up the line; five kills gives you an 
 air strike, and seven kills calls in a helicopter that automatically fires down on the bad guys.
 
  
  The graphics are among the best there's been in recent years. The explosions, the bullet impacts, 
 the enemy soldiers  everything looks amazing in its own way. Even dying, or near death encounters, 
 are handled well, as you go limp and temporarily blind from stun grenades and death itself shows 
 your killer, so there's no ordeals or unfairness about the situation. The sound, too, is unbelievable. 
 Infinity Ward actually used real explosions and impacts and reprocessed them into the game. The 
 voice acting is phenomenal, from the jaw-flapping derogatory of Captain Price, to other humanly 
 signals that indicate grenades, snipers, and all sorts of other stuff.
  
  The franchise hit a speed bump with Call of Duty 3, but Infinity Ward, who had been working on 
 this project since the second installment, really brought out the best in technological perks and 
 made a very impressive game  easily the best in series. While the single player campaign is short, 
 it contains gut-wrenching and jaw-dropping moments that are worth seeing again, and above that, 
 the multiplayer modes are immersive and hard to walk away from. Simply put, if Modern Warfare isn't 
 on your wish list, you're potentially missing out on one of 2007's greatest games, and easily the 
 best shooter all year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mayham88
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 30, 2007 11:58 am PT
Review:  I have always enjoyed playing the call of Duty series. If you like real action and a game that 
 makes you feel like your right there with them, then call of Duty 4 is the game for you.
  
  I have noticed that this call of suty 4 game does take a little differant approach between misions. 
 Instead of those long videos that really didnt seem to matter much have now seemed to be replaced 
 by a screen that descibes what you'll be doing on your nect mission. Atleast mow youll have a better 
 inderstanding.
  
  The graphics, gameplay and controls are amazing in this game. The best part of it is, that now, 
 its in modern times so you dont have to fire those crappy WW2 guns ever again. The weapons are 
 great and all the campaign maps are great. I have not noticed any glitches in this game yet, they 
 gameplay is smooth and filled with plenty of action, you'll be playing this one for hours!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vengefulwill
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 30, 2007 11:37 am PT
Review:  The best war shooter ever! The best war shThe best war shooter ever! ooter ever! The best war shooter 
 ever! The best war shooter ever! The best war shThe best war shooter ever! ooter ever! The best The 
 best war sThe best war shooter ever! The best war shThe best war shooter ever! ooter ever! The best 
 war shooter ever! hooter ever! The best war shThe best war shooter ever! ooter ever! The best war shooter 
 ever! waThe best war shooter ever! The best war shThe best war shooter ever! ooter ever! The best war 
 shooter ever! r shooter ever! The best war shooter ever! The best war shThe best war shooter ever! ooter 
 ever! The best war shooter ever! The best war shooter ever! The best war shThe best war shooter ever! ooter 
 ever! The best war shooter ever! The best war shooter ever! The best war shThe best war shooter ever! ooter 
 ever! The best war shooter ever! The best war shooter ever! The best war shThe best war shooter ever! ooter 
 ever! The best war shooter ever! The best war shooter ever! The best war shThe best war shooter ever! ooter 
 ever! The best war shooter ever! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tacosrule193
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 30, 2007 11:12 am PT
Review:  this game is as good, awesome cutscenes and it has awesome multiplayer...... this game is a must 
 buy for any fps fans. the campaign is short but the multiplayer is not. This is worth ur money. 
 if it was me, i would give this game the game of the year
  
  good
  awesome shooter game
  multiplayer is cool
  bunch of weapons
  realistic
  shooting helicopter 
 is fun
  u almost control the cutscenes
  so many more...
  
  bad
  campaign could have been longer (its short)
  
  this is a must buy and sould be the GOTY... 
 its not like other fps.. its diffrent and its great. so far the best game i have played. it deserves 
 a 9.5 out of 10. 9.5 because i beat this game in a week... but this game is still goood 
::::::

::::::
UserName: freeze893
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 30, 2007 8:42 am PT
Review:  Graphics: Very good graphics. Nothing particularly ground breaking or revolutionary, but they definitely 
 add to the game.
  
  Gameplay: The single player and the multiplayer components of this game are extremely different. 
 This being the case I will review them separately. My "Difficulty" scoring is based off of a play 
 through on "Regular" difficulty.
  
  -Single player:
  The campaign is very short if played through on the regular or easy difficulty. I recommend playing 
 through on the hardened difficulty first, as it makes it difficult enough to lengthen the campaign, 
 but not so frustratingly challenging as to... make you want to throw your controller. The friendly 
 AI is fine enough on the easier difficulties, but are next to useless on Veteran.
  
  There are definitely some moments in the campaign that are truly epic and exhilarating. Nothing 
 in the campaign is bad. However I felt that a lot of the campaign was kind of mediocre.
  
  -Multi player: I great experience. It feels much more fast paced then the single player. A lot 
 of planning can be put into the class creation system. As you level you earn "perks" or traits 
 that effect your class, and weapons. The multi player's weapons and perk system is actually the 
 most balanced one that I've ever played. There is no uber gun or perk that everyone uses.
  
  Also the multi player can be very frustrating for new players. Stick with it though, alot of 
 the multiplayer is knowing the maps. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: airsoftmanic
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 30, 2007 4:37 am PT
Review:  right i will review this with single player first (played on recruit and veteren)
  then multiplayer.
  
  SinglePlayer
  
  finally pulling itself away from the WW2 genre, COD4 
 is set in the now with now weapons and a now style of playing.
  
  this maybe the first COD with an actual story and it follows around two people, an SAS solder named 
 Soap (as Cpt. Price says "what kinda name is Soap anyway eh?) and a 1st Recon force guy named Jackson. 
 you also get to play as Cpt. Price in a flashback mission. as you would expect, the SAS missions 
 are all sneaky sneaky, silenced pistoling and the USMC missions are the equivilent of black hawk 
 down in game for example they have no silenced weapons in the story. the story ranges from chernobyl 
 to what seems to be iraq and hereford (SAS HQ) to a container ship off canada. 
  weapon wise, all upto date and very accurate. take for exapmle the javlin missle launcher, the 
 missle is propelled out the tube and into the sky and comes crashing staight back down, just like 
 the real one. silenced weapons dont alert the guards and the different versions of weapons finally 
 give you ammo when you walk over them (in COD2 a scoped K98 would take ammo from a normal K98 wtf?) 
 so you can run over an M4 and it will give you ammo for your M16. same with the AK and dragonov. 
 
  and the weapons dont sound plasticy anymore, due to the fact that IW went out and recorded real 
 guns and worked with american, british and russian army blokes (maybe an SAS bloke as well?) to 
 make the guns as realistic as possible. ive heard people over the COD4 online chat complaining 
 that the M16 was burst fire and not automatic, thats what the real M16 is like im afraid. which 
 brings me to the good part, online.
  
  firstly, the customising of guns was a big plus, as was the ranking to get the parts and the challenges 
 but my only problem with it are the maps. theres alot of them, but only 4-5 of the 15 or so maps 
 are actually any good. 
  thats the reason for the 9.5 rather than the 10. other than that, top notch and worthy of a place 
 on your recently played list. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tbemrose
Rating: 3
Date: Dec 30, 2007 3:31 am PT
Review:  The story line sucks. The same crappy NPC comm chatter over and over is boring. Game play is annoying. 
 Especially on Veteran when you can place 3 shots though a guys head and as he falls, he puts one 
 in your shoulder and kills you. Bullets go through walls which means you're taking cover behind 
 a building and bullets are whizzing through both walls and taking you out.
  
  There are points in the game where you must dash through a rain of bullets to reach an objective, 
 and the rain can't be terminated until you reach the objective, which means on Veteran it's up 
 to chance and not skill, and you'll be playing the same 10 seconds over and over again praying 
 you won't die this time and wishing you had something more fun to do, like homework. (2 examples 
 are in the level "The Bog" at the end when the fortified turrets can't be taken out except for 
 by air strike, which won't come until you plant the beacon on the very spot the turrets are peppering, 
 and in the following level "The Hunted" when you have to wait for Gaz to open the cellar door before 
 you can dash in it to safety when the whole time the cellar door is being sprayed by a helicopter.)
 
  
  COD 2 had a great storyline, and awesome game play, but 4 falls short on both counts. It's only 
 positive are the graphics, which in this day and age are nothing special. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 7121984
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 30, 2007 2:06 am PT
Review:  The first game i've played in the call of duty franchise was call of duty 3 and god was it addictive. 
 At that time, i was not really into shooter games and guess what... call of duty changed that perception 
 of mine.
  
  So when I saw call of duty 4 hit the shelves, it was immediately added on my wishlist. And after 
 i got my hands on it, boy i can say that it was really worth it.
  
  Graphics: The environment is really beautiful. Characters in the game look and act realistically, 
 there's never a dull moment!
  
  Sounds: The voice work done in this game is simply superb! I didn't really feel that I was playing 
 a video game... I felt that I was in it! Aside from that, sounds of gun, chopper, bullet that hits 
 the wall etc. were also great.
  
  Gameplay: Nice controls, nothing more to be said.
  
  Story: At the first glance, you won't notice that it's short because it's action packed. The story 
 is nice and believable because it's all about war against terrorism.
  
  Overall: After you finnish the single player campaign, the endless fun continues with the multiplayer 
 mode. So, when you're looking for something that's worth your hard-earned dollars, then this game's 
 for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: volcomstoned013
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 30, 2007 1:32 am PT
Review:  Well, i was hesitant about buying this, after how much of a disapointment COD 3 was, but when i 
 found out it was the original creators, i gave it a shot. To put it short, this is the best shooter 
 since Golden Eye on the N64. Although short, the single player is absolutely superb. It is action 
 packed, and interesting. They managed to do modern warfare, without having to do some stupid, advanced, 
 or special forces theme (GRAW and Rainbow six, im talking to you..... mainly GRAW, you suck) , and 
 do it very well. You feel like your in a war, they pulled it off the way they Pulled off WW2 in 
 COD 2. 
  
  I could go on for hours about the online. Not only is the gameplay itself absolutely awesome, but 
 the extras are enough to keep me playing in and of themselves. Getting all the uprades for your 
 weapons, completing all the challenges, leveling up. Their are very few things in gaming as satisfying 
 as getting the 150 headshots and your red tiger camo for your favorite assault rifle, or getting 
 the golden AK (or other golden weapons) . Plus, the maps are great, finding a game is easy, there 
 are plenty of great gametypes (all you can imagine) . And dont forget the satisfaction of calling 
 in helicopters and air strikes, and seeing your kill streak get bigger and bigger. My personal 
 best is 17, but ive seen up to 33. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Robbie8912
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 29, 2007 11:04 pm PT
Review:  The single player mode is stunning, graphic wise, and story wise. The levels are huge, and so full 
 of enemies, that you die if you aren't careful. Loads of weapons combined with incredible visuals 
 make for a thrilling experience. Now onto multiplayer. Great maps, and a superb ranking system 
 make for a replayability, however. Once you pass level 55, you have all the weapons. What is the 
 point in playing through the 7 sets of prestiege? So th egame fails at this point, however, all 
 the other aspects are great, and I recommend this game to anyone who likes to play games. Old characters 
 return, and you will actually feel quite involved in the single player mode. Lots of Enemies to 
 kill will ensure that you want to keep playing SP until you beat it. Days of school while waiting 
 to come home and play it will just kill you. I think that gamespot has the review perfect. Lots 
 of people are calling the game perfect, but it isn't. Really good though 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sugamama9944
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 29, 2007 10:33 pm PT
Review:  First of all, the campaign is short. It is set in modern day, hence the title Call of Duty 4: Modern 
 Warfare. LOL. Dont buy this game just for the campaign even though it was a decent one. The audio 
 in this game is perfected, making you believe that you are actually in the game. The visuals are 
 mind blowing and everything looks realistic. The best thing is that now you can customize your 
 weapons and add things to improve them. You get these improvements by killing people in multiplayer 
 matches. This game is better than Halo 3 and I would recommend that you get this game before Halo 
 3. This game is a game where you need talent and skills and you need to be a true marksman to topple 
 your enemies. Halo 3 is a game where you pick it up and play a few games then you are done. ( Don't 
 worry i love Halo 3 also LOL ) The maps are good and you need to realize that some weapons are 
 better on different maps like you would prefer a shotgun in small maps and you would pick the assault 
 rifle or sniper rifle or any close ranged weapons on a open ranged area. This game is a must buy 
 and remember it is a game that requires skills, but you will pick up the pace once you play a few 
 matches....... Well, a last comment... The game is around $60 but it is a great game.... I just 
 hoped it could have had a longer campaign or at least offer more replayibility on it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpeedMan72
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 29, 2007 8:58 pm PT
Review:  when i hurd that call of duty 4 was going to be in modern times i was pumped and that is was back 
 with infinity ward, and its everything a wanted and more!
  so the singleplayer is short, well really short, but thats ok cuz its short, sweet and to the point, 
 its insane how awesome the gfx i mean probly the best on the 360 (at this time at least) and the 
 sound is awesome and fits great in there has all the others in the series have also.
  the multiplayer is just the best part of it all its awesome and works great and so far ive had 
 no lag at all witch makes even better.
  the only problems that i have is that theres no split-screen online has in cod3 but i can live 
 with that cuz its just a small part of such a big game.
  its rivals halo3 and others has one of if not the best xbox360 out there.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rainbowsix11
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 29, 2007 7:55 pm PT
Review:  This is probably the only game I will ever be able to rate perfect because there has never been 
 and never will be another perfect game. You know how on the first level of the game there is usually 
 a video that provides some background knowledge. And usually they video looks alot better than 
 the actual game Well after that movie was over I thought it was still going and all of a sudden 
 there was a guy telling me over and over again to go get the pistol off the table. I was like holy 
 crap I'm in the actual game! I mean It looked that good. This game was in another league from all 
 other games I MEAN ALL. Another big part in the game is your teammates in campaign mode. In some 
 games your teammates are often stupid or sometimes useless. Not COD 4! While other games have your 
 dudes walking into walls because they are to stupid to do anything else: COD 4 has your guys talking 
 to giving you useful info and also killing the bad guys.
  The multiplayer in this game is also awesome. It's addictive once you start playing. This the best 
 multiplayer ever. I have just stated playing multiplayer cause' I just beat the game but I'm sure 
 there are many other surprises to come too. This is the only perfect game and will be the only 
 perfect game.
  
  
  -Joe
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chicken_Helper
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 29, 2007 7:44 pm PT
Review:  Finally they realized that WWII had gotten stale. So they based this game on modern day warfare. 
 This has done wonders for the Call of Duty series. After the disappointments of Call of Duty 2 
 and 3, finally the series is back. The graphics are exquisite. The sound is immersing. It sounds 
 as if there was an actual war happening inside your house. The game play is fast and furious, very 
 intense. The only negative thing I can say about the game is the length of the single player. It's 
 only about 5 hours long. But they are 5 great hours. Besides that doesn't matter. The single player 
 is just basic training for the real reason you bought this game, the multiplayer. The multiplayer 
 is everything the single player is, but only against human AI. 
  The multiplayer offers a large variety of maps and gameplays. I honestly think this is the best 
 online shooter out there. Better than gears or halo.
  
  Still because of the brevity of the single player campaign I can't give it a perfect score. 9.5 
 is what it gets. If it had been say 10 hours, I would have my first perfect score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Akabeth
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 29, 2007 7:11 pm PT
Review:  When I went to gamestop and grabbed a copy of CoD4 my head was filled with an unfamiliar feeling. 
 Last time I felt it was when Halo2 came out.
  
  I had very high expectations for this game. I watched trailers, hype from friends, and an ongoing 
 wait for the past year along the likes of other games like Assassin's Creed and Far Cry 2... the 
 game delivered!
  
  In a nutshell I can't say enough just how much fun this game really is. The controls are great, 
 learning curve relatively short, AI concievably intelligent in most areas and the singleplayer 
 game does have some replayability through arcade mode.
  
  The multiplayer is just addicting. Those of you who have played FPS on other XBL titles like Halo 
 series and GoW would be quick to adjust. In my opinion, the maps featured have distinct designs 
 that will promote those with fast-thinking abilities and a little bit of skill. Fast paced open 
 maps like Bog, plus close-encounter such as Vacant will promote weapon-choice and reflexes. While 
 larger maps like Strike and Bloc will allow map-positioning and strategy to take over, allowing 
 more time for players to contemplate. Not to mention the prestige modes, perks and challenges will 
 keep a lot of players coming back for more.
  
  Overall, although not revolutionary, CoD4 does refine the meaning of "fun" FPS game. The multiplayer 
 aspect is the flagship of this title. Despite all its positives, for some, the shorter-than-normal 
 single player campaign and its frustratingly difficult areas does blemish the game a little. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bob6918
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 29, 2007 5:41 pm PT
Review:  First off the bad of the game:
  
  Flaws
  -Short Campaign
  -Current Update has sort of killed multiplayer
  -Even Thought Gamespot says the graphics are 
 goods they are lacking in some areas (Spotty texturing mostly)
  
  Whats good about the game:
  -The Campaign though short is incredibly intense and will make you 
 stay up until the wee hours of the morning just to get that last mission in.
  
  -The voice acting/sound of this game is incredible yet again immersing you into the battlefield.
 
  
  - Fully customizable multiplayer character 
  -Guns, Perks, you name it you can probably customize it
  -Ranking/Unlock system
  
  Basically 
 this game is badass an is probably one of the best games on the 360. This game also credibly hands 
 Halo 3 its ass in ever possible way.
  
  BUY IT YOU WON'T REGRET IT!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drzb3zt
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 29, 2007 4:23 pm PT
Review:  This is the game of the year it even tops halo 3 both online and mission mode not even bioshock 
 could be compare to it. I have played almost every hot game this year from halo 3 to bioshock to 
 need for speed underground pro streets and i yet havent played one like call of duty 4. the missions 
 are short but the online makes up for it playin with millions of people 14 different maps and more 
 coming soon a large range of weapons and a big variety of games from free for all to team deathmatch 
 this is the best game of the year. 
 
  
 
   
 9.4 out of 10.00 ... Xbox360 gamer tag DRZB3ZT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: edpeterson
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 29, 2007 4:02 pm PT
Review:  As I said about, this game is good but not great. This game is the best in the Call of Duty franchise 
 but it isn't the best shooter on the 360. First off, the graphics could use some improvement. The 
 ground looks like crap, I don't really know why everyone likes the graphics though they suck. As 
 for the acheivements beating the training exercise time is hard but not impossible (It took me 
 20 tries but I beat it by 1 second by getting a good accuracy rating and going fast though the 
 course. The game play is decent, but they just made it too short. I have also found the biggest 
 glitch in the game! When your chasing the main evil guy's (you try to assassinate him in the game, 
 very good graphics in the bullet curving) son. When I was chasing the son I beat him to where it 
 says he escaped, and instead of compleating the mission the words (I don't know the son's name) 
 has escaped as he ran right past me. What the heck? MAKE IT IMPOSSIBLE TO CATCH UP WITH HIM IN 
 THE STREET IF YOU'RE NOT SUPPOSED TO. 
  OK, it's time to rap up my review so here's the bad suff and the good suff in the game.
  
  
 Good
  + Assassination (bullet curves due to what way the wind blows)
  + Also in the Assassination the wind changes and also stopps
  + Also in th Assassination the 
 flag changes with the wind :)
  +some missions you can be stealthy :)
  +You can actually kill 1 (sometimes more) person in your team (so if you're in the heat of battle 
 and you accidentally (or not accidentally it doesn't matter) kill a team mate you don't get a message 
 popping up saying "friendly fire will not be tolerated" 
  
  Bad
  - Cars can explode even after they already exploded
  - sometimes the grenade indicator appears 
 too late
  - When you actually catch up to the son of the evil guy
  - Graphics can be improved
  -Short
  - some questionable missions (like the one where all you 
 do is get out of the helicopter and move ~10 feet from the helicopterwhat the hell?)
  
  ? Multiplayer (I can't do it since I only have 1 controller, and no Xbox live) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr-Elijo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 29, 2007 3:09 pm PT
Review:  I have been a Call of Duty fan since the day the first one came out and I have finished all of 
 them and the expansion packs at least twice each. I just got this game 3 days ago and I finished 
 the campaign on regular. I thought it was a very good game, great story, great missions, great 
 multiplayer. Everything was great except the length of the campaign. As I said I have finished 
 all of the Call of Duty's in the series and it seems to me that they keep on getting shorter. I 
 realised this after I completed Call Of Duty 3. When I went to buy Call of Duty 4, I knew i was 
 going to be short but after I finished I was shocked. It only took me 2 days to finish. So that 
 is the reason that Call Of Duty 4 misses out on a perfect 10. Aside from the shortness of the campaign, 
 the multiplayer is highly addictive, the missions in the campaign provide lifelike experience, 
 the gunfights are alot more realistic than that of the previous Call Of Duty's because you have 
 the ability to shoot through wood at your enemies and unlike the previous Call Of Duty's, Call 
 Of Duty 4 has a very large arsenal of weapons. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monster1388
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 29, 2007 11:08 am PT
Review:  im a traditional halo player. i don't play games like this much so when i bought this i was kinda 
 worried that i would suck because of a different control scheme or whatever. well... i did, at 
 first. then, after i got used to the controls in the story mode i decided to go online and that 
 is where you earn your stripes. play that for about an hour and this game will be one of the most 
 addicting games you'll play all year. another thing that's really awesome about it is the fact 
 that you can create your own class to play with. the only thing you can really customize is the 
 guns and perks you get with the class but thats really all you need. if you want to choose a primary 
 gun, go with the skorpion. its light but it packs a serious punch, especially when you aquire the 
 laser scope. then your gonna be kicking some names and taking some ass haha. this game is so much 
 fun and i recommend this game for everyone who is serious about fps' and want to have a challenge 
 but have fun at the same time hands-down. this was an awesome gift for christmas or any occasion 
 and your gonna be playing this game for quite a while once you get it. hope this was helpful and 
 God Bless!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: littlebeezer
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 29, 2007 8:32 am PT
Review:  Great campain but it just tops it off with the amazing online multiplayer... :)
  although the campain isn't really long enought its is extremely thought through and even when you've 
 finished the campain you can play online because every match is different. also the fact that you 
 can add attachment to your guns and different abilities eg. last stand ect. but it is great that 
 the more people you kill the more weapons you unlock and the more attachments and abilities. there 
 is also a big variety of multiplayer games you can player eg. team deathmatch, free for all, domination, 
 ground war ect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CarlosValmer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 29, 2007 1:13 am PT
Review:  Well here it is folks. Call of Duty 4, only this time it's NOT WWII. I bet if it was everybody 
 would be going crazy. Even me, although I must say I have never owned a Call of Duty game before 
 this one. Here's the deal:
  
  Campaign:
  
  GREAT!!! Very fun, keeps you thinking what's next. A little short but if you play it on "Veteran" 
 difficulty you'll be playing it for a while. I give the campaign a: 9/10
  
  Multiplayer:
  
  AMAZING!!! It'll keep you coming back for more. If you've been playing nothing but HALO 3 and 
 want to lay off for a while this is the game to get. Very fun and it has NO BULLSH**. I give the 
 multiplayer a: 9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Commando_Niner
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 28, 2007 9:36 pm PT
Review:  Originally when i heard COD 4 was going to be modern warfare i was angry b/c the reason i fell 
 in love with the COD series was because it was a GREAT WWII shooter. When i started hearing about 
 COD 4 it started to peek my interest, but i was still wary but then i looked into it more and it 
 looked like the perfect game i had been looking for. The story is immersive and the most intense 
 game i have ever played, although very short ( i finished in about 5 hrs) The game really doesnt 
 have a slow moment. The graphics are probably the best out there the lighting is absolutly supurb, 
 and the sound just increase the immerssiveness of the game. THe multiplayer is probably the best 
 feature of the game. The tons of maps that are all very distinct and the best part of it is the 
 create a class, the concept has been perfected here espescially with the perks availible that can 
 make the mutiplayer even better. Over all this is the best game i have ever played in a long time 
 even better than Halo 3 (which is still a great game) it just has all the parts that make it an 
 amazing immersive intense game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WolfCmnder
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 28, 2007 3:50 pm PT
Review:  Good - Great Story, seems ripped from the headlines and in some cases that it is a movie you are 
 watching. Great Multiplayer will keep you entertained for hours.
  
  
  
  Bad - A little short, when the campaign ends you want more
  
  
  
  
  The game play is 
 amazing, if you are familiar with shooters on the console you should have no problem jumping into 
 this game. Controls are easy, with a little difference in some button layouts and you can change 
 it to be more to your liking. The visuals will blow you away and the intensity of the battles there 
 will be times you will say "I can't believe I made it through that"
  
  The biggest sale point for this game is the multiplayer part of the game. Overall this game is 
 worth getting. If you are not a multiplayer fan, which I wasn't till I played this game, then you 
 may want to wait till a price drop or get it used at a store. But if you love shooters you will 
 love this game, for the visuals, the intensity for both the story and game play.
  
  See you on Xbox Live 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DRZ-numba-1
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 28, 2007 9:58 am PT
Review:  This game lived up to all the hype, the ranking system is great and even though the Campaign is 
 short, it has an outstanding plot to it. There have been countless games that give you a really 
 long almost never ending campaign and the quality of game is terrible. Besides, why would you want 
 to give up all that time to Campaign when the multiplayer is really fun. The ranking system is 
 fun and the Challanges and the Bootcamp objectives gives you more motivation to switch up your 
 weapons and switch up the gameplay. There is a great variaty of maps, and you can also customize 
 your class to better suit ur style of play. Also you can get a radar, call in airstrikes, and bring 
 in choppers. Also there are many multiplayer modes to keep you interested. If you feel like playing 
 on deams you can play teamdeath matches. Or if your in a "SCREW EVERYONE ELSE" state of mind you 
 can go in a free for all. Or you do a headquaters match which is protecting areas in a map. Also 
 when you rank up you can unlock new weapons and camoflouge for that weapon, and you can unlock 
 scopes and silencer bullets for your weapon.
  
  Basically its just a great overall experience and if your into First Person Shooters you should 
 buy this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamer-clemm
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 28, 2007 9:03 am PT
Review:  Infinity Ward and Activision sure know how to make an excellent game! Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare 
 takes place down in the Middle East. You play as two people, one guy from the British Spec Ops 
 and the other is in the US Marines.
  
  As it says on the cover of the COD4 case, Call of Duty 4 has won over 40 E3 awards which include: 
 Best of Show (G4) , Best Action Game (Game Critics Awards) , Best Shooter and Best Graphics (GameSpot 
 & IGN. com) .
  
  I swear to you that you will stop shooting just to look at the gorgous landscape of Call of Duty 
 4. This game has the best graphics I have ever seen. Lighting in this game is state-of-the-art, 
 and the characters look realistic. Just an awesomely cool game!
  
  Playing the game on single-player, you will probably finish it with no problem at all. It has a 
 short single-player, but you will be wanting more and will start over again and beat and repeat.
 
  
  I recommend this game to all whom enjoy playing shooter games! Do it and do it NOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: penguindapimp
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 28, 2007 8:36 am PT
Review:  one of the best first-person shooters that i've played this year, maybe one of the best that i've 
 played in my life, it was completely worth the wait, it didn't let me down when i first played 
 the game, immersive, a masterpiece, highly addictive, and worth the wait are all what describes 
 this game, it's just perfet not any flaws it just flows all together, campain is long enough to 
 keep you interested while you mess around, online is what makes this game what it is, you get addicted 
 to it the first time, you'll never want to get off and do something else, leveling up is a great 
 feature and weapons you earn when you level up is a nice touch, also after you level up to high 
 then you get to go into another but different system so that you can keep playing and keep leveling 
 up, wrapping it up this game is one of the best games of the year and you will never want to give 
 it up 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zekere
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 28, 2007 3:56 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty is one of those games that I play on the hardest difficulty level . Although the last 
 Call of Duty experience I had (COD3) was a bitter one (at least on veteran difficulty) and felt 
 a little unrewarded (150 meager achievement points) I was confident that the new game, being developped 
 by the talented Infinity Ward studios, would be a great experience . 
  There's one thing that sets Call of Duty 4 apart from its forerunners, and that's its subtitle 
 : Modern Warfare . Gone are the shouting German Soldiers and WW2 settings . This game plays in 
 the world of today, with terrorism being the new threat . You play the role of a Brittish S. A. S. 
 soldier and a US soldier and visit locations in the Middle East and in Central Asia . Following 
 the tradition, I started the game on Veteran setting and commenced playing . I was a little disappointed 
 at the start, because I felt more like a news reporter than a soldier, with my A. I. team buddies 
 killing all enemy troops before I even fired a shot . The game's graphics are really good, as my 
 girlfriend walked into the room and asked which movie I was watching . However, by the time I reached 
 the third level, the news reporter feeling was gone and I once again fell the "Call of Duty on 
 Veteran" experience . Even in the modern setting, the game still plays like it's WW2 counterparts, 
 and has fantastic controls . Weapons are a bit more sophisticated this time, with laser-guidance 
 machine guns and flash bang grenades taking the main role . Now I mention them, the flash bang 
 grenades are incredibly well done and are as realistic as they can be . You just have to see the 
 graphical effect when one blows up in your face !! Other explosions are cool too (with some being 
 the coolest ever seen-No spoilers here) . 
  The game is filled with "did you just see that !!!" moments and with such a cinematic experience 
 it's a pitty the game hasn't got a Co-op mode . 
  Although the entire camaign is still entirely scripted, there's so much going on at the same time 
 that you simply don't have the time to notice it most of the time . The game succeeds in bringing 
 you a real war experience when played on veteran difficulty . Although I haven't fought in a real 
 war situation, COD4 makes me understand how a soldier must feel when bullets zap around his ears 
 and friends blow up around him . It really is total chaos and all about surviving when things get 
 hot in COD4 . 
  And that's easier said than done, because the A. I. is really good . Hide in a corner and grenades 
 will fly around your ears drawing you out and dying right after you show up . 
  I finished the campaign in about 15 hours, the replays when I died included . Some parts in the 
 game are really difficult on Veteran, but in all, the game feels a little easier than COD2 (I won't 
 mention COD3 because that game had other issues on Veteran setting- read my review to understand 
 what I mean) . However, you get an incredible experience that is actually worth replaying again 
 to get some missed achievements . 
  I didn't find it fair to get 880 achievement points for just completing the game on veteran . I 
 understand and share the feeling with Infinity Ward that a COD game has to be played on veteran 
 to get the best experience, but 880 points is too much, especially because there are no achievements 
 left to receive in the excellent multiplayer part of the game . 
  Multiplayer is just like the previous games, a blast . That's were the comparison ends . Infinity 
 Wars has put subtle changes that completely change the multiplayer experience . For example, you 
 receive experience while playing a game, and can upgrade your character with new weapons or even 
 call in an airstrike when a certain amount is reached . Exp points are received in a number of 
 ways, depending on which game type you play .
  Personally, I found the team-based modes the best, but that's just my opinion .
  Time to draw 
 a final conclusion . Call of Duty 4 : Modern Combat will be the game of the year 2007 . Period 
 !!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chewy_Crunchy1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 27, 2007 10:08 pm PT
Review:  The newest installment of the Call of Duty series returns set not in WWII, but the modern day. 
 You play as the typical rugged American or British soldier who for some reason every NPC in the 
 game seems willing to follow till death even though the sixty other privates who ran down the hall 
 swarming with terrorists were brutally shot to bits. Meanwhile, on the harder modes, such as Veteran, 
 every enemy will shoot through the walls or a cloud of smoke as if they were equipped with some 
 sort of super Nazi vision that enables them to magically destroy you on a whim. I am not saying 
 that Veteran mode is impossible, just that it will be a very long road riddled with cursing and 
 controller throwing. That's how it was for me. The campaign, overall, was enjoyable and introduced 
 some memorable characters that one learns to love, something uncommon in most shooters today. On 
 another note, the multiplayer action is some of the best on Xbox Live today. Many different levels 
 and game types provide days of continuous enjoyment. The RPG-esque leveling system works well and 
 does a good job of encouraging players to work together in order to achieve maximum xp instead 
 of running around aimlessly. Note that word before- "encourage". Most of the people actually do 
 run around like idiots trying to scrounge up a few measly points while getting decimated. The only 
 thing I can find to complain about in the Multiplayer is the spawing. I found myself being placed 
 in the most delightful situations be it right next to the enemy, on top of a grenade, or in the 
 midst of friend being fired upon. Altogether CoD4 provides a pleasant experience that can be enjoyed 
 by anyone as long as the idiots who drink brake fluid stay off of my ****ing team. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Solid_Snake_91
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 27, 2007 8:40 pm PT
Review:  I was looking forward to this game since Big Red One! Finally, when I had it in my hands, I nearly 
 fainted. Somehow, the people behind Call of Duty 4 manage to create a stunning, action-packed game 
 with a decent storyline! Hell, they even throw in a twist! My only criticism of the game is that 
 its over too quickly. A game like this needs to be expanded, so thank God for Xbox-Live! The aftermath 
 of the nuke on the USMC level was heart-stopping! Throughout the game, you really connect with 
 the characters, which makes it all the more depressing when they are killed off on the last, mesmorising 
 level! But, alas, you avenge them, by shooting the motherf*cker and his two goons in the f*cking 
 face! WOOHOO! Sorry. Also, the Chernobyl level is fantasticly atmospheric, tense and dramatic all 
 at the same time! A true masterpiece and one that will not be forgotten as one of the greatest 
 shooters ever! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cabose12
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 27, 2007 8:29 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty 4 is a great change of pace and is truely the best of the series. With lots of twists 
 and turns as well as a handfull of explosions the game keeps you playing till the very end, which 
 happens in about 3 hours....
  Whether its the in the beginning to the when your assasinating some bad guys, its pretty exicting 
 (no spoilers) . Possibly the best part of the game has to be when your sneaking around, first time 
 around it will really have your blood pumping so DONT SCREW UP, that way you won't have to worry 
 about going thru the same things again. Which is the bad part, despite being and action game, the 
 best moments of the campaign are when your sneaking around or watching a cutscene. What happened 
 to action during the game? Also what i've noticed is that all of the call of duty games happen 
 the same, if you'v played thru it, and big red one, and also CoD 3 then you'll kinda be sick of 
 what happens to your squadmates. i haven't actually tried the multiplayer much yet so i dont really 
 know about that, but the singleplayer is great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: homey4life
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 27, 2007 8:03 pm PT
Review:  So far there has been three other call of duty games before modern warfare. They all were great, 
 but Modern Warfare really switches it up by changing themselves form the world war 1-2 themes, 
 and that's why the subtitle is "modern warfare."
  
  Good: This game has amazing graphics with realistic sounds too. Character models move in the game 
 move very smoothly and they die realisticly (no rag-doll animations) . Their mouths are in sync 
 with the voices which give them a really realistic feel. The best part about COD4 is it's great 
 story. I felt really hooked into everything in the game. The weapons are so realistic that sometimes 
 one will feel wrong to inflict so much damage on a person. Also the AI in COD4 are very intelligent, 
 THEY ACTUALLY HELP YOU IN COMBAT INSTEAD OF GETTING IN THE FREAKING WAY LIKE IN OTHER GAMES.
  
  Bad: Some minor graphical glitches in the game. The main flaw about COD4 is that the story 
 is really short, about half the average of modern day shooters. It will probably take you 4-6 hours 
 to beat, but the guys at Infinity Ward (creators of COD4) really made it up by making the story 
 very realistic and great. When it ends, one will get a sense of accomplishment but also sadness 
 because there unlike other shooters where after beating the game, that the world becomes a better 
 place, COD4 makes it so that after the war has ended, the world feels like a hell-hole. Another 
 perk of COD4 is that it has an awesome multi-player and plenty to unlock in it, about 10+ more 
 extra hours of game play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: giyanks22
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 27, 2007 7:49 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3 was a decent game, with nothing special. Call of Duty 4 is a whole other ball game. 
 Infinity Ward is back as the developer, and they have never been better. Call of Duty 4 Modern 
 Warfare leaves its WWII battlegrounds, (Hence the subtitle Modern Warfare) and heads for the Modern 
 Era. By far the best game of the year.
  
  Everyone says the Campaign is short, and they mean it. There aren't a lack of missions, but the 
 missions themselves aren't very long. The first mission can be completed in under 10 minutes. Call 
 of Duty 4's campaign lets you play as Sgt. Paul Jackson of the USMC, and Soap MacTavish of the 
 British SAS. The campaign will take you throughout Russia, and The Middle East. Though the campaign 
 is short, its amazing quality makes up for its length.
  
  The Weapons in Call of Duty 4 are amazing. The weapons are powerful, yet easy to use, and fun to 
 shoot with. They have red dots in the sights, so you can pinpoint your target. 
  
  Multi player is the best part of Call of Duty 4. It is the most addictive multi player ever. You 
 can create your own class with different weapons and grenades. They also have perks. Perks are 
 extras like RPG's, Claymores, or C4 Charges. You get to level up in multiplayer. Each level unlocks 
 new weapons for your class. Levels don't give you an edge, but it allows for more customizations 
 for each class. As you level up you also get different game types which is a lot of fun because 
 it allows you to gain expierience in each mode. 
  
  Call of Duty 4 is an amazing game that deserves the Game of the year award, for its awesome multi 
 player. I give it a 9.5. I would give a ten only if the campaign was longer. Go and get Call of 
 Duty 4! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mike0193
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 27, 2007 6:06 pm PT
Review:  The Mission layout isn't the usual go through a house, kill the baddies, go to the next house, 
 the layout is very different then the usual call of duty structure. In one mission you are infiltrating 
 a cargo ship, in another you sneaking through tall grass in order to assassinate a man. All the 
 levels are different, and there is never a dull moment. One of the best moments of the campaign 
 is when you man an AC 130 gunship and bomb the living crap out of everything in your way. A downside 
 to the campaign is how short it is.
  
  An interesting feature pops up during campaign once in a while, Interactive cut scenes, although 
 not exactly new these are interesting insights into the world of Call of Duty. In one scene you 
 are a president about to get assassinated by radicals. in another, you are marching through a wasteland 
 about to die.
  
  Multi player, what can I say, it is perfect. The amount of levels you can achieve, along with the 
 perks and different weapon customizations and camos make multiplayer have some amazing longevity.
 
  
  After completing the campaign, you are allowed to play arcade mode, a halo 3 meta-game lookalike, 
 and rag time mode, basically you play with sepia tone gfx and rag time music.
  
  The only con here is the super short campaign... i beat it in 2 days on regular... then in one 
 day i beat it on hardened. But their are many achievements to get... some are very challenging. 
 Plus when u complete the game you get arcade mode. Also, collecting the intel gets you a lot of 
 cool cheats. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: G-Ivanski
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 27, 2007 5:27 pm PT
Review:  Idk what to really say... Ill start off by saying how the game is... basically its a FPS game that 
 is based on modern warfare like the title says... before Call of Duty 4... the Call of Duty series 
 was all based on WWII. However, I think the WWII style has been completely overused and most of 
 it is getting boring already, so Im glad they changed everything for the better, especially the 
 weapons... it has a pretty good storyline, although its really short... if you wanna take a shot 
 for veteran mode, go for it!!
  
  The graphics are really great... everything looks nice and clean
  
  Sound is on point and I 
 like the sound notification when a weapon pops up on old school free for all.
  
  Online mode is perhaps the MOST fun you can have on this game... there are plenty of different game 
 modes to satisfy your needs.. especially with a powerful online system like xbox live, you will 
 have the best multiplayer experience.
  
  Bottom line, great game... possibly game of the year and you just need to have it!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: harleyindanet
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 27, 2007 4:52 pm PT
Review:  
  What can you say about call of duty 4: modern warfare
  
  It is definintely one of the finest games of all time and i own halo 3 and for all those ppl who 
 dont know which one to choose, choose cod4 simply on its amazing and revolutionary gameplay.
  
  The graphics are superb with great attention to detail and character models looking fresh and 
 determined for battle. The environments are designed very carefully and the weapon models look 
 extremely sexy indeed.
  
  The gameplay is all strategized gunplay with excellent dialogue and choices ppl choices. Their 
 are the occasional steath missions most of its is tactical gunplay.
  
  Multiplayer is amazing with splitscreen playing out addictively and xbox live works as a treat 
 for this game, and the graphics stay the exact same.
  
  As for the story i will not explain as it will spoil the whole experience.
  
  Overall, an exhilirating 
 experience for all shooters and a must-own for 360 owners! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sunsetcrakcer
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 27, 2007 4:32 pm PT
Review:  Before I bought the game I heard some of the dotcom people saying this was game could over take 
 halo a top the MP play lists. After playing the game for a few days both on and off XBL, I now 
 see why they have been saying that. This is by far on of the deepest multiplayer expericences that 
 i have ever played. I like in this game you get the experience points for everything that you do 
 and it's not like bunige's a$$ backwards leveling up system. The single player campaign is indeed 
 pretty short. but it what it likes in length it deffinatley packs a punch with whats it's got in 
 there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: a55a55inx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 16, 2008 5:55 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay - 10/10 
  Just like all of the previous Call of Duty iterations, this one continues in the addictive formula 
 by making sure that this game maintains a solid 60FPS and also ensures that each weapon is a blast 
 to use. (no pun intended) The single player is very interactive, putting the player in the view 
 of the characters and never taking you away from the action. Firefights are similar to previous 
 games, but Infinity Ward also changes it up a bit by including helicopter and various stealth missions 
 to the table. Simply put, this game will last most people a long time and may find it difficult 
 to put down the controller.
  
  Graphics- 8.5/10
  The graphics are gorgeous in some areas and not so impressive in others. The character models, 
 character shadows, lighting, bump mapping, reflection mapping on wet surfaces, and a few interior 
 environments are downright beautiful. However, there are a few things in this game that kept me 
 from feeling as if I was a part of a believable environment instead of a video game. The biggest 
 complaint I have is Infinity ward's choice of resolutions in the sky textures. (more notably in 
 the night levels) It's so obviously poor and pixelated that it is difficult not to realize that 
 it is just a digital image. It appears to have been taken using a cheap digital camera and was 
 compressed even further when they applied the texture. Speaking of textures, some places offer 
 great textures and include a good amount of bump mapping, however, other areas of the game exclude 
 the bump mapping all together and the bland textures remain, especially in many houses. It makes 
 the game feel dull especially when the environments lack key lighting and shadows. This is all 
 forgivable considering that it still runs at a smooth 60fps and loading times aren't long at all. 
 
  
  Story- 8.5/10
  A very modern-style story that many gamers today can relate to. Stories are told similarly to previous 
 games in the series, (except through the view of just two main characters this time around) offering 
 a simple cut-scene (or briefing) in between levels and the rest of the story is told in-game through 
 the character's eyes. 
  
  Animations- 8/10
  There are very few new actions to the character animations which is a bit of a complaint since 
 the characters never looked to move like real soldiers when running around. Except for the NPC's 
 hiding behind walls and entering rooms like actual soldiers. (which is done incredibly well) NPCs 
 running from area to area seem to move a bit too fast considering what they are wearing, objects 
 also tend to fall incredibly fast compared to their real life counterparts, making everyday objects 
 appear to weigh hundreds of pounds.
  
  Replayability- 9.5/10
  While the single player is lacking in length, the multiplayer more than makes up for it. The intensity 
 of shooting at actual players is just thrilling and highly addictive that it's nearly impossible 
 to come back for more. A simple multiplayer would have been enough for most people, however Infinity 
 Ward includes large incentives to keep playing by adding RPG-like elements to their game. As you 
 gain experience, you will gain access to more perks, weapons and challenges to be used in multiplayer. 
 
  
  Buy or Rent? If you plan on playing the multiplayer online or even just at parties, then this is 
 a definite Buy! If you just want to play the single player then it is only worth a rental, because 
 this game is all about multiplayer.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jakjbt
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 27, 2007 1:58 pm PT
Review:  Its rare for me to give out a 10 but this game really deserves it....
  although the campaighn is about 6-7 hours the multiplayer is a whole different story...
  this 
 time the game takes place in a modern setting rather than world war II at first I that tha was 
 a bit stuipid because it was a world war II based series but taking it into modern war made it 
 a whole lot better!
  
  The gamplay is practically the same as call of duty 3 (easy to die ,use cover type of FPS) which 
 is still excellent... In the campaign their is four difficulty levels recuit being easiest is very 
 easy to pass the game on and vetern is the hardest difficulty level which will take a bit more 
 work...
  The online gamplay is excellent with tons of types of modes and a capture the flag type of mode 
 that is thrilling...
  The online is like call of duty 3 but you find their is no veicles to drive and the maps are way 
 more tightly packed with houses, cars etc which is much funner...
  
  The graphics are top-notch with great weather effects and enemy anamations. The frame rate is great 
 to nothing to complain about...
  
  the sound is liek all call of duty games excellent it sounds like your either in a war or watching 
 saving private ryan on surround sound.
  
  the game is great for people with xbox live not so great or people with out it.......
  
  thanks 
 for reading.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: samherrett
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 27, 2007 1:28 pm PT
Review:  Call Of Duty 4: Modern warfare,
  
  
  
  The switch to modern warfare made it even more sweeter, the graphics are amazing even on as standard 
 television, the controls are perfect for this kind of game and the storyline is great.
  For the 360 game if you want all the achievements I would say play this on veteran first even though 
 that is insanely challenging.
  But new to shooter would find the game great on easy difficulty.
  The online will keep you hooked 
 for hours and this is certainly better than call of duty 3 by a long shot.
  
  Hopefully call of duty 5 will be modern instead of going back to world war 2 series.
  
  needs 
 characters
  needs character
  needs character
  needs character
  needs character
  needs character
  needs character
  needs character
  needs character
  needs character
  
 needs character
  needs character
  needs character
  needs character
  needs character
  needs character
  needs character
  needs character
  needs character
  needs character
  
 needs character
  needs character
  needs character
  needs character
  needs charactervv
  needs character 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ado202
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 27, 2007 12:30 pm PT
Review:  COD 4 is a large stride from its predecessor COD 2 and a giant leap as a series sequel in COD 3. 
 The gameplay is similar to COD 2, which is a relief. I can speak for many when I say we are glad 
 Infinity Ward took back the reigns in this game and brought back what made the series such a hit 
 at the beginning of the 360 era.
  
  The single player is short, but entertaining nonetheless. With no two level alike, it can be a 
 fun get away from the games multiplayer, which will be where most people spend the majority of 
 their time.
  
  I can't say much bad about the games multiplayer. Like any other online first person shooter, it 
 takes a while to get good and master the controls to compete with the very best, and trust me there 
 are plenty of them out there. All I've found today that seems flawed in the multiplayer is the 
 melee knife kills. Many will argue I am out of my mind to say so, but in comparison to COD 2, it 
 is way to easy and it seems to be more luck than anything. Two players in a close encounter will 
 usually end with one being knifed down in what looks to be a 6 foot lunge at the other and auto 
 locked on with the cross-hairs being anywhere near the opponent.
  
  Beyond this, the multiplayer is incredible. I recommend it to all on any platform. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mathew952
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 27, 2007 8:36 am PT
Review:  This game has been long awaited by many. It is the first "real" Modern Combat games. Sure, they've 
 had Tom Clancy games. But this is an actual war, not just a squad.
  The graphics are amazing. They are like a tech demo for the 360. The Textures look crisp and clear, 
 even up close, and on a standard defiinition TV. The AA is perfect, just enough so that the edges 
 are smooth, but not the extreme glowing stuff in most games. The game hasn't had a single frame 
 hiccup yet. The Models are also very nice, and extremely well animated. The physics are also very 
 good, adding to the lifelike appearance.
  The game play is Great. The AI is scary good. Enemies hide behind cover, run away, charge ahead, 
 flank, and ambush you as you trawl through the levels. Each level is designed well, I never got 
 lost or didn't know what to do, and the action will have you on the edge of your seat.
  The missions are very non-linear. as opposed to games like medal of honor, where only one street 
 in a city can be accessed, you have freedom. Their are hundreds of buildings to explore, balconies 
 to snipe from, rooftops to scan the streets, and alleys to glank your enemies. You could play on 
 level 4 times and fight it differently everytime.
  The sound is good. The music isn't very prominent. It's similar to black hawk down, where you feel 
 like a part of the action, listening to gunshots and explosions in the background, your commander 
 barking orders over the radio.
  Above all, This game has an undefinable trait of immersion. You feel like your there. You feel 
 the tension. It's simply amazing. This makes gears and crysis seem like ET on Atari.
  11 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sword-man
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 27, 2007 2:05 am PT
Review:  Its amazing i replayed the campaign mode over four times because its short and i like to replay 
 the campaign even more . it also have an amazing online .I cant stop playin this game its FANTASTIC 
 and the graphic is FANTASTIC and the gameplay is FANTASTIC. its better then COD/COD2 and COD3. so 
 you must buy COD4 you must play COD4 and you must enjoy COD4 because the game is FANTASTIC. then 
 vote for it to be the THE GAME OF THE YEAR. THE GAME OF  
 i hope they make in the future or in 2008 COD5 and COD6 because every one is waiting for more. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheDarKlown
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 27, 2007 12:18 am PT
Review:  This is going to be really hard to say but Call Of Duty 4 may well be the best game I have ever 
 played.
  It has the most intense game play I have ever seen in my life!
  I know how this game has been well reviewed and all but I don't think that's enough Call Of Duty 
 4 is phenomenal.
  I background sounds in Bioshock amazed me until I heard this masterpeice.
  The areas you play 
 in are fantastic packed with terrific design and detail as well as Insane destruction. 
  The Online play is strong and competitive and anyone knows that when bullet shells have filled 
 the room up so much that their 2 feet off the ground its going to be a good game.
  The Call of Duty series was always great but this fourth chapter to the saga is leagues ahead of 
 the others.
  And remains as one of 2007 best First Person Shooters.
  I believe this is easily the best military game ever and should definitely not be missed. There 
 are moments in FPS games which just blow you away such as the beginning of The Darkness, The plane 
 crash in Bioshock, The final chase in Halo 3 If these are the things you love in your first person 
 shooter's then I've got news for you... This entire game is like that!
  The campaign is rather short but you will be playing it over and over yet i suggest to get the 
 most out of this game I highly recommend that you have Xbox Live. The graphics are stunning and 
 the game thrilled me from beginning to end.
  There is so much fantastic stuff that happens I can't tell you in this review so you will just 
 have to find out for yourself.
  Well what are you waiting for GO BUY IT ALREADY!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Delro333
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 26, 2007 8:14 pm PT
Review:  Cod4 Modern Warfare is the newest in the cod series. In my opinion it is the best. What the game 
 strives to do it does exceedingly well, putting you in real time senarios with alot of action. 
 Cod broke there WW2 streak and went modern so you'll be fighting terrorist, extremists etc. The 
 gameplay hasnt changed at all you still dont need any real tactics to win just a steady aim. The 
 AI is getting a little better and there not so clueless ans dumb as in the games before. The biggest 
 improvement are your objectives and missions there so fun, and the acheivments are fun to get. 
 You'll find yourself calling in airstrikes, assassination missions, and fighting in frontline urban 
 warfare. The graphics are especially nice and the sound makes the guns feel as they should. My 
 only complaint is the game is short. It took me 2 days to beat it on "hardened", but I wasnt playing 
 it none stop, so it would boil down to 6-7 hours of true gameplay depending on your skill. The 
 replay value is fantastic- you will most likely want to play through it again to get more acheivments. 
 I havent tried online yet but you can expect that to be pretty amazing from what i hear with the 
 new perks etc.
  
  Please Rate This Review-thanks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: batosaims
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 26, 2007 6:47 pm PT
Review:  This is hands down the most intense game ive ever played.
  The graphics are so photo realistic its scary. The game is short but oh so very sweet. I don't 
 think any game comes close to this when it comes to making you feel like your in the game. Bullets 
 whiz by your head. Grenade blow up right next to you. This is hands down one of the best games 
 ive played in many years. The multi player is also terrific. Air strikes never get old and the 
 game is perfectly balance. You actually have to kill other players in order to gain access to things 
 like air strikes, radar sweeps and helicopter raids.
  If you love multiplayer games or shooters in general COD4 is a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: byof_america
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 26, 2007 6:45 pm PT
Review:  COD3 wuz a huge disappointment , but COD4 more than makes up for that. Although the campaign is 
 short it's refreshing. For me personaly it seems like ghost recon but way easier to control and 
 WW2 shooters are a cliche now. THe multiplayer is awesome, not only on xbox live but it's also 
 capable of being a 4 player game. In COD3 the maps were WAY to big to get constent action and that 
 really sucks for people who don't have xbox live. THe weapon upg thing is cool too kinda like the 
 one in real soldier only better. The graphics are as good if not better than GOW not that i'm rippin 
 on that cuz they were great. THe gameplay is fun even missions go by fast like halo 3 (i wish) . 
 THe only thing is that now i have to fill this review to = 800 words and i'm not very good at righting 
 them so these next few lines will be me waisting space so here we go *deep breath*  
 blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jurosin
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 26, 2007 4:36 pm PT
Review:  An overall amazing game that'll keep you playing.
  
  Honestly, it's a really great game overall though. It has ups in all aspects and few actually downsides.
 
  
  First off, the single player. Now, this part of the game isn't amazing but it'll entertain you. 
 It's definetly playable, not something that's so bad you can't make yourself finish it. It has 
 a variety of features and settings from sea to land and even in the air to some extent. 
  
  Now for the real part of the game though. The multiplayer. It's a completely awesome online game. 
 There's a number of modes and it actually takes tactics a lot of the time. The only real problems 
 online is the sometimes, lack of spawn points. (I personally hate helicopters too though. Heh) 
 Anyways though, it has a large variety of weapons, perks (powerup things) , maps, and modes. All 
 weapons have customization available. There's also challenges to complete for added challenge. 
 Only real downside to the multiplayer is the lack of guest gameplay on a single console. Other 
 than that though, it's a very solid and fun expierience.
  
  The games kept me playing longer then any other 360 game and is quite the game. It's not perfect, 
 but dang close when it's online.
  
  Hooah! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theflash118
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 25, 2007 3:23 pm PT
Review:  While the single player was fun it had lots of issues, the enemies seemed to take the same cover 
 over and over again. Getting shot down 2 times and surviving in the story I mean come on. There 
 is a character that wears a full track suit that is very out of place. This game features almost 
 an endless supply of enemies at some parts of the game. Also enemies pop out of closet sized rooms 
 I really wonder who on earth thought that was good idea. There is no health in this game btw means 
 it feels like an arcade shooter trying to be realistic (they have icons on the grenades) . The flashback 
 mission was for me the most fun in the game. If your bad at FPS online you might as well not try 
 on COD 4. The good get even better with air support and other bonuses. The perks could have been 
 more balanced (some were just garbage) . With all the hype I really expected a much better game 
 but if you like franchises that pump sh*t out every year you will like it. I wonder what COD 5 
 has in store for us 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JNU13
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 25, 2007 3:12 pm PT
Review:  The concept of the game is a very good one if I may say so myself but the question is how many 
 times can Infinity Ward pull of this type of shooter? Many!! This game lives up to the second because 
 the 3rd was the worst in the series because of all the stupid vehicles. The graphics are some of 
 the best on the 360. Call of Duty 4 is the closest you will ever get to a real war like this. The 
 story is well written and if you are a fan of the series you will see some old characters return 
 from some of the better COD games. ( cough Call of Duty 2) This game is one of the best shooters 
 of 07 and could start a new boom in 360 games. I think the game is great but not perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fueledonmusic1x
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 24, 2007 8:07 pm PT
Review:  This game is hand down the best game of the year for me.
  Gameplay: Flawless, it was perfect in the previous call of duty, it takes it up another step. Aiming 
 is a lot easier, and the AI is punishing. 10/10
  
  Graphics: Fantastic. Level of detail is amazing, character models are eye-popping, and the enviornments 
 just bring the world to life.
  
  Sound: Perfect, all the characters sound real and are filled with life. All ur allies that you'll 
 fight with side by side, you'll grow attached to them. Sound effects are top notch, and the guns 
 sound... like guns. 10/10
  
  Entertainment: A short, but exciting thriller. There are very intense and sad scenes in the game, 
 and through a 4-6 hour campaign span.. you'll keep coming back for more, or you can just head to 
 the multiplayer that matches the brilliance of Halo 3.
  
  Believe me, at first it felt awkward changing from WWII, which was a fantastic setting, but now 
 that i've finished this game, the modern era really makes you know that our weapons kick ass today
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcain3
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 24, 2007 6:59 pm PT
Review:  Let me say this, the campian is short, very short. Don't even need to marahotn the game to beat 
 it. Most likely you can beat it in about...15 hours. That is the down side, now the awsome. The 
 graphics for this game are almost Cryisis real, which is a very good thing. The realism of the 
 game is also good. This game will not call any punchs or censor it self. Now the muliplayer. It 
 is far better than any other I have played. Every map seems just right no matter how many players 
 you have. The weapon customization is good, and custom class will help you get what you want. Also, 
 this game will leave you playing it for hours on end trying to unlock the online stuff for your 
 weapons .So what are you waiting for? Go buy the game and play thing now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamerX500
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 3, 2009 2:52 pm PT
Review:  This game is very short, Highly recommended for those who wants atleast two weaks value to play 
 at Hard. In two days i was finished on my Call Of Duty: MW career, But it is still a wonderful 
 game! You can choose over 30 - 40 weapons which good and fun. And got Graphics that is amazing 
 !, but some textures is a bit blurred, but nothing you will note. You playing with two soldiers 
 in this game. One who is an USMC soldier, He's name is Jackson. And one in SAS who is called for 
 Soap Mactavish. One of my favorites mission is or was, When you playing as an Sniper and you will 
 have to crawl, hide and shoot enemies with your surpressed Sniper Rifle and hide in a gillie suit 
 ( Gilliesuit = A suit with grass and leafs) . It is really cool stuff you have to tussle with when 
 you play this. Later in this game Jackson dies, He crashed. And then you will play him for just 
 one minute and see the atombombed city. He is the only man who is alive, but soon he dies, and 
 after this happens you have to play Soap Mactavish ( the S. A. S guy) all the way through they next 
 chapters. And the best with the Singleplayer campain is that you are playing the "Real" world. 
 In the singleplayer campain a dramatic map includes: Chernobyl (A Reactor in Ukraine that exploded 
 and sended out tons of Radiation) . I dont know the other maps well, but i think its based on real 
 places too .
  
  Now to the multiplayer. First off: This is the best multiplayer yet!, Ive spend hours and hours 
 in this addictive multiplayer. You are playing as three different teams: S. A. S, Spetnaz, USMC, 
 Opfor, And you can customize every weapon (Exept the handguns) and earn camouflages. First camouflages 
 is "Wood" and "Desert", if you want to earn the others, You have to do challenges, for exemple: 
Make 25 headshots with AK-47 and get Digital-camo". The expert camouflages is called "BlueTiger" 
 and "RedTiger". To earn BlueTiger you have to make 75 headshots with a optional weapon, and 150 
 Headshots to earn RedTiger on a optional weapon.
  
  
  Graphics: Graphics is Very good, but it will look best at maximum HD ( I have a 1080p HDTV ) , so 
 its looking very nice! I giving it a clear 9!
  
  Sound: The sound is very good, very good sound effects, a clear 10!
  
  Gameplay: Gameplay is 
 very addictive, and so many weapons to custimize (Multiplyer) .: Singleplayer: 9, Multiplayer: 10!
 
  
  Other: Very nice and smooth movements, and moments you will not forget, .
  
  Value: 10 for multiplayer, 7.5 for Singleplayer campain.
  
  Overall: 9.5
  
  
  //GamerX500 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metkil
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 24, 2007 1:16 pm PT
Review:  If there was a game that I would prefer over Halo, this is it. The game is amazing. From it's short, 
 but joyful, campaign to the multiplayer.
  
  Graphics: This are awesome. All the textures like amazing. Particle effects, bullet casings, everything. 
 There's no more grass trampling, but the graphics are amazing.
  
  Sound: Though I'm only on two speakers, it is still awesome. From a silenced pistol being shot, 
 to a helicopter blasting your brains out (not literally) , it sounds so real.
  
  Gameplay: The single player on here is short, but every minute of it is awesome. Sniping, charging 
 a base, sneaking about. All of it is amazing. The multiplayer is awesome. With all the unlocks 
 and ranks (55!) you have a lot of replayablity. The amount of maps is amazing too. Even with the 
 amount of time I have played, I am still seeing new maps pop up.
  
  Ok, short version. If you own a Xbox 360, go buy this game if you have not yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Keith4Chelski
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 24, 2007 11:30 am PT
Review:  I really have a mixed opinion about COD4 i have alot of good points about the game but then i do 
 unfortunatley have my negative points to it.
  
  I shall start explaining what i like about COD4.
  1. I really liked the sharp graphics very nice 
 felt like i was their well almost but not quite but you get what i mean.
  2 .I like how every match is ranked i can recall trying to get into ranked games in COD3 and it 
 took a long time to get started so thats good.
  3. The new ranking system to COD is great i like to think im playing a game for a reason and with 
 COD4 every match you participate you should be giving it your best go because your always trying 
 to reach that next level and unlock that better gun.
  4. The voice acting in single player was good.
  
  Right well thats my opinion of whats good 
 about COD4 now for my negative pointers on the game.
  1. You call it modern warfare but their is a unacceptable amount of weapons you have at your disposal 
 i can go on and on about which weapons i wanted to see in the game or that simply should of just 
 been in the game i. e. FN-Scar, XM8, Barret M468, PSG and many others.
  2. Single player storyline was drab and usual old scenario (another nuke big suprise) in all honesty 
 the story was all over the place and hard to understand a couple more missions with the singleplayer 
 and i might of said otherwise and yes i am saying the singleplayer mode was short.
  3. I was dissapointed with the size of maps they are just too small.
  4. No controlable vehicles 
 yes i know Activision created this game but that is no reason to not follow up on what Treyarch 
 did.
  5. I looked for CTF online but it wasnt their very dissapointed to not see CTF its a classic and 
 should not be took off hopefully the creator of COD5 will see this too.
  6. Game grows tiresome after awhile unfortunatley i dont think ( THIS IS MY OPINION REMEMBER THAT) 
 that this game is as good as COD2/3.
  
  Right thats that you can either hate me love me whatever i dont mind ive said what my opinion is 
 and i look forward to COD5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agustbestur
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 24, 2007 6:31 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare wakes us up faster than a cup of coffee and plunges us into over 
 the top combat scenarios in which terrorists launch rockets, unload countless rounds of ammunition 
 and chuck grenades faster than Kobe Bryant fires jump shots. Just peeking around a corner results 
 in five, sometimes ten evildoers assaulting our location with more lead than Chinese toys, and 
 although we died numerous times, we never aborted the mission, because no matter how frustrated 
 we became, COD4 is too damn good to ignore.
  
  Unlike previous Call of Duty games, which take place during World War II, this fourth installment 
 occurs in modern times, where a psycho named Zakhaev intends to revive the collapsed Soviet Union 
 by nuking the U. S. Your tour of duty features two intertwining campaigns that have you controlling 
 a U. S. soldier in the Middle East and a British grunt deep inside Russia, the former drawing parallels 
 between itself and the war in Iraq, with you laying waste to an insurgency and hunting down Zakhaev's 
 crony, a terrorist named Al-Asad. Battles take place across a host of beautiful locations, including 
 a large ocean tanker, dilapidated Middle Eastern cities, inside a TV station and a Russian village. 
 Sometimes, you'll go in guns blazing with stereotypical American bravado, or you'll patiently sneak 
 through an abandoned Russian city, not only avoiding enemies, but also the packs of wild dogs that'll 
 rip out your throat within seconds of tackling you. The entire campaign, all six to seven hours 
 of it, rests within a slick presentation, a story told through satellite images, holographic pictures 
 of military equipment and dramatic music. It looks amazing. 
  
  
  Instead of fighting alone, you'll have fellow soldiers at your side that actually prove useful. 
 Yes, your actions push the story forward, but your buddies are smart enough to take cover, flush 
 out the enemy and, for the most part, avoid getting killed, though you'll soon learn that casualties 
 are inevitable, thanks to ruthless artificial intelligence with almost perfect aim and a hatred 
 for westerners. Stick behind cover and they'll follow or toss grenades, sometimes three at a time 
 right into your lap. Or perhaps they'll snipe you through cover, because as you'll discover, there's 
 a huge difference between hard cover (walls of stone, tanks) and soft (sheet metal) . Oftentimes, 
 we found ourselves waiting for an enemy to show us his head for a clear shot, and then remembered 
 we could simply blast through the wall.
  
  10/10 stars 
::::::

::::::
UserName: finalcross
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 23, 2007 6:28 pm PT
Review:  World War II games have been over-played for a very long time and the guys at Infinity Ward noticed 
 this. Instead of making yet another WWII game in the series, they decided to flex some muscle and 
 show what they could do with a modern combat game and as you can clearly see, they did the right 
 thing. 
  
  With Call of Duty 4, they continue the same multiple characters and multiple nations storyline 
 in a modern setting. You have the SAS dealing with a problem in the former Soviet Union while the 
 USAC dealing with an issue in the Middle East. While the stories start off separate they eventually 
 connect into an extremely thrilling finale. From the first mission until the last one, you are 
 constantly in a shoot-out and every moment is remarkable. Like other Call of Duty games, it's not 
 all on foot, as you'll encounter a thrilling level in an AC-130 Gunship (my favorite) and sections 
 where you are manning a Helicopter Gun. 
  
  The game is also filled with a lot of weapons, from small firearms to the massive Javelin; there 
 is something for everyone, but you'll want to mix it up to really experience the game. 
  
  The graphics and sound are extremely top notch and if you're not playing this game on an HD TV, 
 then you shouldn't be playing this. The sound works well and really helps create atmosphere. From 
 the bullet sounds, to the talking of the soldiers and civilians you really do feel a part of the 
 action.
  
  The single player campaign is short to some degree. If you play the game on a more difficult setting, 
 you're going to feel it and you will die. In all, the game should take about 5-7 hours, a bit more 
 if you try to find all the extra intel (or if you're an achievement whore) . 
  The multiplayer is also incredible both online and off and there is a lot to do. 
  
  In all, 
 this is definitely a must buy for anyone who enjoys a good title. You might complain that the single-player 
 is too short, but when you look at it, the only way they could have made it longer was to add another 
 faction to the mix. But if you do that, then might add unnecessary storyline and then you'd complain 
 about the game being too drawn out. But thanks to the shorter single-player, you'll have more time 
 to enjoy the online, and there is nothing wrong with that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DonPerian
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 23, 2007 4:26 pm PT
Review:  As the gamers themselves being an indicator, WWII games are getting a bit redundant. Thankfully 
 the folks over at Infinity Ward realized this and decided to boost the Call of Duty series to the 
 present. Many other developers have failed in this transition, but thankfully, Infinity Ward manages 
 to keep what made the Call of Duty franchise so fun in the modern world.
  
  My only gripes with this game are ones that are overlooked by the majority of the players. For 
 one, this game is incredibly cheap. I've never been so frustrated playing a single player campaign 
 ever in my gaming career. The end of "One Shot, One Kill" is definitely something that's more irritating 
 than enjoyable. I understand that with the Veteran difficutly, they wanted to bump things up a 
 bit, but having your enemies multiply in numbers, have the precision of a missile, and a throwing 
 arm as a quarterback isn't necessarily fair or balanced. The same carries on to multiplayer. While 
 the perks do add a bit of flavor and variety to the game, you can't help but feel that some are 
 incredibly cheap. For instance the Last Stand or Martyrdom perk. That being said, this game is 
 pretty balanced in the opportunities one get to kill.
  
  The other complaint I have for this game are the graphics, which, in my opinion, are a bunch of 
 smoke and mirrors. From a glimpse or without attention to detail, this game looks absolutely gorgeous, 
 but once you start looking at the textures, the lighting, the movement, etc. You start to see all 
 the flaws. There are numerous areas where there are so many jaggies I just run through the section 
 as fast as I could. Don't get me wrong, this doesn't necessarily mean the graphics are bad, as 
 if you play it, the majority of the time you're going to be too caught up in an intense firefight 
 to notice allt he details, and since that's the majority of the case, the game looks and plays 
 beautifully.
  
  Going into Call of Duty 4, I was really concerned they would detract too much from the core CoD 
 experiance. Being Modern Warfare, I was worried that tactics and what not would hamper the gameplay. 
 This turned out to be the EXACT opposite of how it was, as as I started playing, all I felt was 
 like I was playing WWII with a new gun to look at on the bottom half of my screen. Being that it 
 was mostly in a third world country, this wasn't necessarily the best pick on Infinity Ward's part 
 in my opinion, seeing how they haven't developed much since the 40's. Yes, there were helicopters 
 and jets and javelin missiles and what not, but again, those were all weaponry. The overall scenery 
 and environment didn't scream out MODERN to me, which I was really hoping for and expecting.
  
  All these criticisms taken in and aside, is Call of Duty 4 a great game? Absolutely. Do I recommend 
 it to anyone? Of course. It is one of my most played games this holiday season and I expect to 
 play it even more so in 2008, I absolutely recommend this game to anyone who is a fan of shooters 
 or a fan of some good storytelling, superb graphics, intense cinematic moments, and some good old 
 fashioned fun shooting.
  
  I am giving this game an 8.5 and an Overrated tag because I believe people are getting too excited 
 with this game, claiming it is the end all of FPS games. I am also giving this game a Very Hard 
 difficulty tag for on Veteran, some levels like "One Shot, One Kill." and "Mile High Club" are 
 ridiculously hard to the point where I think it takes away from the game. While I do believe this 
 game is really fun and refreshing, all I really feel is that it's same old Call of Duty with a 
 nice new shiny coat of modern paint. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: conman12345
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 23, 2007 3:14 pm PT
Review:  A great FPS. Probably one of the greatest I have ever played. The singleplayer is very entertaining 
 but is a little short. Not too short though. The ending (unlike other FPS's) is great and will 
 leave you with a sense of accomplishment. The multiplayer is the biggest factor in this game for 
 me. It is just so much fun. After playing this game all other games seem dull. I tried going back 
 to halo 3 online and it just wasnt the same. I just kept thinking about COD 4 while I was playing. 
 This game is just much more fast paced. It is a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TigerFangRed
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 23, 2007 10:13 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is, quite possibly, the best online shooter of all time. The singleplayer is set 
 in a not-so-distant future where terrorists threaten the world with nuclear armegeddon. 
  
  The story isn't all too interesting, but it does the job of setting a believable scene of why and 
 how you are doing things. It gives you context and reason (even though when something bad happens 
 afterwards, your whole mission seems a bit futile) .
  
  However, the graphics and sound are what truly give this game its realistic feel. The graphics 
 are indeed what the critics on the game box say, "photorealistic". Everything has a distinct pop 
 to them, with excellent lighting. Characters animate extremely fluidly and die in a realistic way. 
 The sound is truly stunning, which is expected from a COD game. Every explosion and chaotic firefight 
 is brought to life with amazing detail to sound. Perhaps the greatest aspect is how the sound seems 
 to surround you, engulfing you and engaging you in the experience.
  
  But aside from all that, the game is best online. Possibly one of the deepest online shooters, 
 and most satisfying to date, COD4 delivers. With a levelling system that is virtually endless (when 
 you get to LV 55, you can enter prestige mode and start all over, but with a cooler rank symbol 
 next to your name) , and excellent unlockables, COD4 online hardly ever ends. The online crowd for 
 COD4 are a bit experienced usually, so the game is no pushover online. You can also form clans 
 with friends to guarantee being on the same team with them. The unlockables include different weapons, 
 classes, perks, camoflouge and more. But the greatest part is deciding what weapon to use for the 
 job. You will eventually have different weapons for different scenarios, and the game makes it 
 extremely easy to pick which weapon you want on the fly.
  
  All in all, COD4 may just be the best way to spend your money this year if you are looking for 
 a lasting online shooting experience. Challenging, deep online modes, coupled with a satisfying 
 singleplayer mode make this game extremely easy to recommend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: memphisking9
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 23, 2007 8:11 am PT
Review:  single player- some would say it was a little short. i'd say it was just right, you alternate between 
 a u. s. marine and a british special forces fellar. anyone remember the video they showed earlier 
 in the year where you have the sniper and are following that scottish guy? my favorite level!!
 
  
  multiplayer- o man what can i say about its multiplayer that is bad? you can ALWAYS find a game. 
 NO LAG wat so ever. multiple game types that are very fun. alot of guns to choose from. though 
 EVERYONE uses the m16 and it is avaible from the start. you CAN have clans yet the way it is organized 
 is very stupid.
  
  
  amazing graphics. releastic. GAME OF THE YEAR.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: proplaya07
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 23, 2007 5:55 am PT
Review:  it's really cool when you start of and pound through the first few levels, then it gradually gets 
 harder without you even noticing. If i had to choose the multi-player is the best. first of all 
 , it's so easy to just jump straight in and kill a handfull of guys without even starting the single 
 player campaign. An instant classic, best in series, awsome fps and a top candidate for game of 
 the year. The way the series has lept from WW2 straight to Iraq is amazing because you would think 
 that the fans would loose interest and move to something like medel of honor, but they ( and me 
 ) stuck down and enjoyed it as much as the originals. I hope that the call of duty series keeps 
 giong strong and keep producing marvels like this. But i don't want it to get out of hand and go 
 space age , cause thats kinda played out like WW2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Panther023
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 23, 2007 1:35 am PT
Review:  Get this game if you don't already have it. I won't go into great detail (read other reviews for 
 that) . This is the most fun multi-player out there. My favorite aspect is how rewarding the game 
 makes itself. You constantly have stuff to work toward, but it's no burdensome at all. And, if 
 you have a couple bad games, you're not penalized like other games. You simply don't rank up. Speaking 
 of the weapons, they are a lot of fun to learn. You easily get to the point where you have your 
 favorite weapon and don't necessarily want upgrades. Good interaction with other online gamers. 
 The story mode is great, although it could be longer. Honestly, though, you won't be playing it 
 for the story mode. The game is worth the cost simply for the online play. Having said that, I 
 probably would not buy the game just for the story mode. I would for the online play.
  
  Get the game!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tnerter
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 22, 2007 7:47 pm PT
Review:  This game better go down in the history books. It is awesome. The bad things first right. There 
 are no major problems in this so i cant say anything (except for a lot of guys have rpgs may get 
 a little annoying) . Now on to the good things.... everything! It is friggin awesome. The graphics
 
  are probably the best on the 360 this year. The gameplay is flat out awesome. It is very intense 
 and fun. The storyline is good saying its a cod game . The sound is good too. bullets whizzing 
 everywhere people yelling and all the other sounds. The multiplayer is awesome also. Second best 
 to Halo 3. This is a MUST buy. If you see this game anywhere BUY THE GOD DANG GAME. I really hope 
 a cod 5 comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amixedgamer
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 22, 2007 3:48 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare has to be the best first-person shooter to grace the Xbox 360 console 
 this year (at least thats my opinion) . the weapon selection is very good. its has it all, everything 
 from a knife melee to a javelin rocket launcher. this game keeps you on edge at all times, and 
 you may NEVER get to one of those points where you say, "man, this game is waaaaaayyyyy too hard". 
 the graphics are insanly good too. the character's faces look real, they actually have facial expressions, 
 they actually have seperate fingers (that may not be a big thing to you, but to me, it just makes 
 everything much more realistic) , their uniforms are very very nicely put together, their movement 
 is just amazingly realistic, and there is so much more i just cant put all of it in this review 
 because there is a letter limit. the sound is very nicly done too. the cracking sound of bullets 
 flying past your head, the ambient noise, guards talking to one another, the way each weapon sounds, 
 and the musical score is extreemly fitting throughout the game. the gameplay (the best part of 
 this game) is insanly well put together, just remember to not soil yourself while playing. the 
 only down side to this game is that its kinda short, there are a few glitches (what game doesnt 
 have glitches anyway?) , and if you get all the intel laptops while using cheats, you wont earn 
 those two achievments for getting all 30 of them. the controlls work very nicely, the story is 
 amazingly gripping, and i could go on and on, but you will just have to play this game yourself. 
 Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare; a MUST BUY for all fps fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vahid_xbox_360
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 22, 2007 6:13 am PT
Review:  Call of duty 4 is another fantastic first person shooter By Infinity ward. A great work which is 
 really remarkable . first of all I should mention that this game is the third work of infinity 
 ward and the Call of Duty 3 was not a pure experience . when I finished the first level of call 
 of duty 4 I convinced that "Yeh this is a real call of duty. the game is really thrilling and 
 full of action . there is not even one second in this game without an explosion or shooting or 
 blowing up or chasing by enemy ,s dog or being attacked by choppers and so on.
  As you know the game is about modern war since the game title is modern warfare which is an appropriate 
 name. you feel you are a real soldier in a real war due to game ,s huge environment . forget call 
 of duty 2 ; this game will takes you away .also this game is much better in story line than call 
 of duty 2 but It ,s still an action game not an action/adventure and the story is not complex . 
 a normal soldier who will turn into a famous soldier at the end of the game. but the story is more 
 Epic than before you can figure this out by reading War Quotes screens (game ,s over page) for 
 instance :
  "Mankind must put an end to war, or war will put an end to mankind."
  -John F. Kennedy
  "Diplomats are just as essential in starting a war as soldiers are for finishing 
 it."
  -Will Rogers
  "Whoever stands by a just cause cannot possibly be called a terrorist." 
  -Yassar Arafat
  In 
 other word COD4 is not only a game and it ,s also talks about recent politics issues such as Iraq 
  US war indirectly by creating an unreal story.
  And also be ready for some bad ending about US military because this game is about nuclear missiles 
 threat and you can guess the rest of narrative . the game also has a flash back mission (One Shot, 
 One Kill) in which you are a sniper . folks this mission is the best mission of this game and the 
 most realistic experience in a video game and if you have seen "the shooter Movie (2006) " then 
 you will cry out loud . the game ,s graphic is really good as the creator said: COD 4 is even greater 
 than Gears of warwhich is true . the game looks excellent no matter you have HD-TV or Standard 
 TV. There is no repetitive scene in the game . each mission has an unique style and you will enjoy 
 the game . the game is also really good at sounds and music . the both American  British voice 
 acting is really cool and you feel changing in your personality as the game changes between US 
 and UK troops. The game ,s credit has a Rap music which is an obvious imitation!!! (GEARS Of War 
 credit ) . The game has no technical trouble and runs at static 60 FPS most of the time . the battlefields 
 in COD4 are really crowded with infinity foes . so you need to be aggressive and keep this in mind 
 that it is no tactical shooter . you just need to kick kill all the time which is not really hard 
 thanks to Auto aiming mechanism ( hold LT for aiming then press it again ) .
  Honestly the game can be finished in less than 6 hours on Regular difficulty but you will find 
 your self replaying the game immediately after finishing it because the game has replay value and 
 also all the achievements can be unlocked in single player game.
  The game has a veteran difficulty which is really hard ;even harder than Gears of war Insane difficulty 
 and finishing each level on veteran difficulty will award you 40 Game Score which is a big deal 
 . so finishing the whole game on this difficulty means 440 Game score ( tell you what : it ,s nearly 
 impossible .lol.) 
  COD4 is a true next generation Game that you wont forget it. 
  While I ,m writing this review Call Of Duty 4 is one of the serious 2007 Best awarded candidate 
 . so don ,t waste the time . go and play.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: joeminus
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 21, 2007 10:43 pm PT
Review:  The critical reaction to this game has been so overwhelmingly gushing that you almost expect the 
 sky to open up and your life to be changed when you put the disc in. Of course, that won't happen. 
 After all, it's only a video game.
  
  And it's not a revolutionary one, either. "Call of Duty 4" feels like "Call of Duty 3" (or even 
 "Call of Duty 2") , only with modern weapons and a lot more intense combat.
  
  Yeah, it's really good. Maybe even great. But after completing the excellent (albeit brief) single-player 
 campaign and spending a number of hours online sampling the multiplayer action, I've yet to understand 
 why anyone thinks it's head-and-shoulders above the other top-shelf shooters out there.
  
  It falls somewhere between the frenzied run 'n' gun mayhem of "Halo 3" and the tactical sophistication 
 of "Rainbow Six: Vegas," but it doesn't top either one at their own game. And, personally, it seems 
 that the unlockables only serve to widen the gulf between hardcore and casual players, which the 
 matchmaking system does little to correct. Of course, if you're a hardcore player, that's a good 
 thing. Otherwise, you see it as the latest example of one of the worst trends in online gaming: 
 Inaccessibility to the average player.
  
  It's also worth mentioning that any shooter in 2007 that doesn't feature a cover system feels woefully 
 outdated. That's not to say it isn't fun, it's just bordering on "retro."
  
  Make no mistake, "Call of Duty 4" is a fantastic shooter, and highly recommended, but why it's 
 considered by many to be the end-all, be-all of FPS action is completely beyond me. It does what 
 it does extremely well, but there isn't much new, fresh or unusual here. And, frankly, I've played 
 better (specifically, see "Vegas") .
  
  Ultimately, I guess I shouldn't hold "COD4" responsible for the outrageous fanboy hype it gets. 
 Honestly, it's probably impossible for any game to live up to that. Can we at least TRY to be objective 
 once in a while? "COD4" isn't a transcendent experience -- it's merely a fun video game. There's 
 nothing wrong with that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheBurgerKing2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 21, 2007 10:41 pm PT
Review:  Pros:
  1) Amazing graphics with highly detailed environments, characters, and weapons.
  
  2) Sound is simply outstanding and makes you feel like you are really in the game with bullets 
 grinding through steel and flesh.
  
  3) Multiplayer is simply the best and will have you playing for hours online and with friends.
 
  
  4) The controls are sharp and work very well.
  
  5) The game runs smoothly and doesnt freeze up like some games do.
  
  6) A huge variety of 
 weapons that can be used like machine guns, shotguns, sniper rifles, pistols, grenade launchers, 
 satchel charges and many more.
  
  7) An amazing sequel.
  
  8) Its not world war 2 anymore.
  
  9) Great lighting effects and the physics are good too.
 
  
  10) It will have you playing well into 2008 or until call of duty 5 comes out.
  
  Cons:
  1) Short campaign mode.
  
  2) Some weapons are taken out in the multiplayer modes. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kingmoonraiser
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 21, 2007 10:36 pm PT
Review:  Fun to watch at first, but the action gets repetitive, even gross. This game is beautiful on many 
 levels. The graphics are great and everyone loves new weapons and tactics. The AI works pretty 
 well, although the perpetual respawn in some levels was tedious. I really did not like the storyline, 
 it added nothing to the game. Here is the biggest problem: repetitive as hell. The mini games offer 
 a little break from the monotony. If I have to kill another Jihadist, I will kill myself.
  
  Bottom line: This whole franchise is boring. Why do I keep spending 60$ on the crud they pump 
 out. Do yourself a favor, go out and buy Battlefield....
  
  Multiplayer: The multiplayer is the best part of this game. Still it is weak on substance. Campers 
 kind of ruin the experience and the weapons are too lopsided. The weapon variety is pretty good 
 however.
  
  Only buy this game if it is in the bargain bin. Then you will get your monies worth. I will sell 
 you my copy for a bannana.
  
  Also, If you played this on PS3, then you may have a different opinion, as they made the game easier 
 on the PS3 because mostly kids play PS3.
  
  Summary:
  fps
  somewhat realistic
  Steady mission campaign
  Multi-player 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiredcrescent
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 21, 2007 8:44 pm PT
Review:  I started playing the call of duty series with finest hour. This game had a great single player, 
 but the multi player was somewhat lacking as constant camping toned down the action. Slowly the 
 call of duty series has kept delivering what it started by only tweaking small things in its game. 
 This time around call of duty is perhaps one of the best shooters out. This game can stand its 
 own against the likes of Bioshock and Halo 3. The campaign is jam packed with moments where your 
 jaw will drop and youll just sit in awe of what just happened. The downside to this is that it 
 leaves you wanting more, even though the ending is a great close to a fast paced game. Its almost 
 like a film with its length and action moments. Music totally matches the mood of the actions going 
 on at the time. Graphics are some of the best on the 360 as of right now. The storyline is very 
 intriguing by giving characters their own personality which shows in battle conversations. After 
 you get down with the short multi player, you will be able to look forward to some of the best 
 online multi player any game can offer. You begin with 3 battle types and a rank. The more you 
 level up in rank you will unlock more weapons and be able to make your own classes to fit your 
 playing style. The ranking system is great and the multiplayer is fast paces and the best in the 
 series. If you are a shooter fan and you don't have this game, then i don't see how you would call 
 yourself a shooter fan because this is a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadow_op
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 20, 2007 2:11 pm PT
Review:  Now many of you who are reading this review right now (because I AM that popular :P) will be wondering 
 something. If I put an incredible, but flawed game, then how does it still get a 10? Well there 
 is a simple way to answer that. The flaw that I found, the biggest one in fact (which yes, I did 
 blog about) was the weapon balancing. For example, in multiplayer, you will unlock a gun called 
 the G36C. Damn. This thing is cheap. I mean a guy will randomly spray in a direction, and you will 
 get killed pretty quickly. A Desert Eagle, point blank, shot to the head does not kill instantly, 
 as it should. But the reason this flaw is overlooked is because of one word. Patches, a. k. a. updates. 
 The game could easily get an update form Live which would balance it out a bit, so since it can 
 be fixed relatively easily, it is overlooked. What make Call of Duty 4 great though, is the addictive 
 multiplayer and it's atmosphere. Every time you run into a chopper, blast one out of the sky, etc., 
 you feel like you're watching CNN. But it's also theatric, as well as realistic. In the sniper 
 mission, one of the most intense in games, you have to blow a guy away with an Anti-tank sniper 
 rifle. You miss, but rip off his arm, which is way more satisfying. Moments like these are what 
 make the campaign great, even though it is about 5 hours. The multiplayer, with it's challenges, 
 gear, perks, and Prestige mode, is great. With all these features, you get the most addictive online 
 game since WoW. Hit me up on Live if you guys ever want to have a match ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WTA2k5
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 20, 2007 11:32 am PT
Review:  The Call of Duty series has long been one of my favorite gaming series ever. But recently I was 
 disappointed with Call of Duty 3, as it was just the same old same old with some melodrama put 
 in for good measure. But here, with the fourth entry Infinity Ward takes the series to a whole 
 new level. Honestly, there's nothing wrong with Call of Duty 4. I'm also not one who quickly gives 
 out a 10, as this is only the second game I've ever given this score, but believe me, Call of Duty 
 4 deserves it.
  
  STORY - The story in Call of Duty 4 is something you'd find straight out of a headline, with a 
 bit of drama, character development, and plot twists thrown in for good measure. In the game you 
 will either play as an SAS agent who spends the majority of his time trying to track a Russian 
 terrorist by the name of Zakhaev, or as a US marine spending the majority of his time tracking 
 a Middle Eastern terrorist by the name of Al-Assad. See, Zakhaev and Al-Assad along with two of 
 their buddies form the Four Horseman, who unite Middle Eastern and Russian ultra-nationalists to 
 try to blow up the US with dozens of warheads. But the story gets even more interesting due to 
 character development and plot twists. See, Call of Duty 3 wasted their time on horribly cheesy 
 melodramatic segments, such as the one which dealt with a Scottish commando who refused to call 
 French people by their actual names and instead called them all "Frenchies" but then toward the 
 end of the game changes his views on their work and starts to call them by their actual names. 
 Call of Duty 4 ditches that s*** and instead develops their characters in game as you play, or 
 in one case even has a level about another character's past work. You do actually grow to somewhat 
 like these characters, even without cutscenes and melodrama. And the plot twists (don't worry I 
 won't spoil them) are either shocking, intense, or scary, or all at the same time. Basically Call 
 of Duty 4 has the best story you could find in a modern day military shooter.
  GAMEPLAY - The gameplay in COD 4 is perfect. The game retains its old philosophy of never fighting 
 alone, and while there is no cover system, is largely a "stop and pop" game more than run and gun. 
 But the notable new additions are bullets' capability to pierce through, or destroy, your cover. 
 So basically, behind tin, wood, or cars you won't be safe for long, so this adds a new dynamic 
 to the game. You have to use cover, but also regularly have to switch cover. The other new additions 
 are of course the modern day stuff. Night-vision goggles, heat seeking missiles, long range gunships, 
 grenade launchers, and the plethora of new weaponry at your disposal are a real treat to use inside 
 the Call of Duty series' game mechanics.
  The singleplayer spans quite a number of missions and covers a lot of territory. It seems as though 
 almost every level can bring something new, inventive, and/or just purely bada**. Let's take the 
 cargo ship level for example, you'll start off quietly picking off guards, then you'll be participating 
 in an all out gun battle, then you'll be making an intense getaway after the side of the ship is 
 hit by a missile. Another really cool mission is one in which you take control of an AC130 Gunship 
 gunner, and pick off enemies with huge guns from miles away, spotting them on one of those infared 
 TV screens. Basically the singleplayer is full of intense moments, really dramatic plot twists, 
 and really cool new ideas.
  Multiplayer is awesome too. You basically will play your normal Deathmatch and Team Deathmatch 
 modes until you gain ranks. As you gain ranks, you'll unlock new guns, camo, and gadgetry, as well 
 as new game types. This ends up being similar to what you'd find in something like Rainbow Six: 
 Vegas, but what truly separates CoD 4's system from Vegas's is Perks. As you gain rank, you'll 
 unlock perks that will give you anything from the ability to reload faster, to being able to have 
 the chance to cap your killer while bleeding out on the ground. You'll eventually get Ground War, 
 a bigger team deathmatch, Domination, a king of the hill gametype with multiple hills, and the 
 CoD classics Headquarters, and Search & Destroy. Then once you get to a high enough level, you'll 
 get game altering modes of play like Old School, where guns will spawn in various positions on 
 the map and you can take more hits, and Hardcore, which is pretty much a one shot kill type of 
 deal. So multiplayer has it all, with awesome game types, good maps, and a lot of cool stuff to 
 play toward.
  
  GRAPHICS - The graphics in COD4 are pretty awesome as well. The series remains as one of the few 
 next-gen titles to not rely solely on good bump and normal-mapping (though when there, they do 
 look good) , but instead on great textures, lighting and models. The effects are also pretty nice 
 (especially explosions and smoke.)
  
  SOUND - The sound in Call of Duty 4 is also amazing just as the sound quality is in all the other 
 games of the series. You have excellent voice-overs, awesome dynamic battle chatter, and great 
 weapon/explosion sounds. But one of the notably better things this time around is the music, which 
 has been greatly improved and sounds more epic.
  
  VALUE - You'll be playing Call of Duty 4 for a while. In my experience the singleplayer is about 
 as long as it is in Call of Duty 2, and quite a few of the levels will probably merit a second 
 play through. The online multiplayer is fun and addicting, not to mention the split-screen is pretty 
 damn addicting too.
  
  TILT - With an awesome singleplayer, multiplayer that'll last you a while thanks to a great rewards 
 system, and superb production values, you pretty much can't go wrong with Call of Duty 4. Really, 
 any fan of shooters will probably enjoy this game, and it was hard for me to even spot a single 
 flaw.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: childofrock11
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 7, 2008 1:07 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty has been a long running series that has remained focused on the past to bring us cutting 
 edge warfare to the present. With its basis set in WWII the last three games it was easy to say 
 that the battle between the axis and allies were growing a bit old. But now we see a knew step 
 for the COD world as it inserts itself into modern day warfare.
  
  The game runs with an awe inspiring smooth frame rate through out the entire game and boasts enough 
 detail to make you piss your pants and not even realize it. I found that the overall reason the 
 graphics look so good comes from the actually areas and scenarios you find yourself in. All to 
 many times in a shooter you just see your gun in front of you and you run through the level or 
 mission that are staple to the genre (a warehouse, a dessert, a place with snow, etc.) . But COD4 
 puts you in places you have never been before. Now some of them you have but the way they are portrayed 
 make you feel as if it is a brand new experience. Some of these include a sinking barge in which 
 you can see the roaring waves surround you. Another is storming a house in pitch black while you 
 wear night vision goggles and your enemies stumble and fire blindly in the darkness. All of these 
 and many more scenarios make for a heart pounding and insane experience.
  
  The campaign is short but definatly top notch, but where the meat of the game lyes is in the multiplayer. 
 COD4's multiplayer is, in my book, equivalent to or actually better than Halo 3's. Granted they 
 are two different styles of shooter but it all depends on what you like more; over the top or a 
 bit more realistic. There is a large number of maps that are well balanced and have alot to offer 
 in ways of strategy and such. You are able to rank up and in doing so unlock more weapons and abilities. 
 One of the coolest aspects of your rank is that after the first few you are able to create your 
 own class, choosing your primary weapon side arm and numerous perks from the ones that you have 
 already unlocked. Overall it is a well rounded online shooter that allows for plenty of team strategy. 
 And how can you pass up the chance of being able call in a helicopter to reek havoc on your enemies!
 
  
  Call of Duty 4 is a masterpiece that all fps fans should own! The game play is almost identical 
 to past COD titles but being in a new time era with plenty of new weaponry and abilities to go 
 around makes for a brand new experience that will blow you away with jaw dropping moments and visceral 
 cutting edge action! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pill922
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 19, 2007 3:59 pm PT
Review:  The fight continues in Infinity wards newest game in the Call of Duty franchise. For years the 
 Call of duty franchise has been world war two games. But infinity ward changes things up here with 
 Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare. You play as a British SAS operative and a United States marine. 
 The story for a change actually is the same for the two protagonist's whish is new to the franchise. 
 The biggest flaw to the game is that it will take you between 5 to 8 hours depending on the difficulty 
 you play on. Now the story is that these two leaders from Russia and the other from Afghanistan 
 want to try to take over the world. The story is not the highlight of this game but it decent enough 
 to keep you moving campaign. 
  The graphics in this game are simply beautiful. Enemy look crisp and clear scenery look like your 
 actually their. The graphics are a huge plus with this game because they make you feel as if you're 
 really their. 
  The level design is great and never feels to repetitive. You will be fighting in city streets, 
 cargo ships, and TV stations. The most unique level is your operating a gun from a bomber, covering 
 your British squad down below. This whole level is seeing though black and white but it feels so 
 realistic. There is also a sniper level which takes into account the wind speed, which way it's 
 blowing. This part will take about 5 or 6 times to finally complete. 
  The enemy AI is good but not with out its flaws. There is usually 2 or 3 enemy's who will run at 
 you blindly firing but this doesn't occur enough to ruin the game. You allies work extremely well 
 together. Time and time again they will pick up grenades at your feet and throw them back at near 
 by enemies. But when they all die, more guys from no were come back to replace them. So there is 
 no incentive as to protect them. There is no real personality to any one in your squad, so they 
 are quite forgettable. 
  There are no vehicles in Call of Duty 4 but you will be on the gunner seat of a helicopter and 
 operate a mini-gun. But the sounds of the vehicles you encounter are simply phenomenal. You can 
 hear jets close in just by the sound of their engines. Helicopters stir up dust as they land to 
 drop off soldiers. Once you complete story mode arcade mode is unlocked. This is single player 
 again but you accumulate points by killing enemies. It doesn't add much but its fun to string together 
 combos. 
  The thing that will keep you play Call of Duty 4 for months is the amazing multiplayer. There are 
 16 maps for you and your friends to wage war on in 13 game modes. Game modes include Death match, 
 team death match, Search and destroy a counter strike style of game play and many more. There is 
 also a game type that is recycled game modes but it's in hardcore mode. Know hardcore mode is there 
 is no hud display, no radar and guns do much more damage. 
  The newest edition to multiplayer modes this year is the perks system. Perks are skills that your 
 character can have. Such as more bullet penetration, faster reloading, and dropping a grenade when 
 you die. After accumulating a certain amount of kills for your currently used gun you unlock scopes, 
 silencers and grenade launchers. The multiplayer has an arcade feel to it, so every time you kill 
 some one depending on what game type you're playing on the number of experience points will show 
 up on screen for each kill. If you go on a killing spree you are rewarded with UAV, air strikes 
 and helicopter support. These all depend on how many kill you get in a row. 
  All in all Call of duty 4 has great single player and amazing multiplayer, this game will not disappoint 
 any one looking for a solid first person shooter. 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DirkMcGuirk
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 19, 2007 1:54 pm PT
Review:  Over the last few months, I've simply grown tired of shooters, between Bioshock, Halo 3, Call of 
 Duty 4, The Orange Box (including a nearly mind-numbing amount of Team Fortress 2) . I'm at the 
 point where it's safe to say I'll stay away from shooters for awhile, which might be why Call of 
 Duty 4 couldn't keep me interested past the stellar, although short, single player campaign.
  
  The gameplay remains the same from the other entries into the Call of Duty series, except instead 
 of a Thompson and MP-40, you're now outfitted with modified M-16s and MP5s. The vehicles present 
 in the 3rd Call of Duty are now absent, but doesn't hinder or lower expectations one bit. There 
 are no visible flaws in the gameplay, so there's not much more to say here.
  
  The first thing I thought of now that Call of Duty had switched to a modern setting, was the possibly 
 of overt political commentary. I was throughly surprised to see Infinity Ward not take that route, 
 other than the dangers of nuclear weaponry use, the only thing you're concerned with is the battle, 
 not the political ramifications behind it. Which brings me to the story... to put it simply, you're 
 a member of the British SAS, Sgt. "Soap" McTavish, or a soldier in the US Marine Corps, whose name 
 passes me at the moment, I just remember the last name was Johnson, but that really isn't important. 
 Your task as these soldiers is to simply dispose of terrorist warlords who harbor nuclear weapons, 
 and by the end of the game, brings you to accomplish this mission. End of story.
  
  The single player campaign is an intense and visceral experience any die-hard shooter fan would 
 enjoy, but for some reason I lost interest in the multiplayer very quick. As I mentioned early, 
 I've had my unhealthy dose of shooters (ahem... TF2) this fall/winter, and with Call of Duty 4 being 
 the last one I picked up, I was simply tired of the genre. Points to Infinity Ward for the customization 
 aspect of the multiplayer, which I'm sure will keep most fans of the game and series hooked for 
 awhile, but the multiplayer aspect really couldn't hold my attention and I couldn't see myself 
 playing this on a regular basis.
  
  So, all of you die-hard shooter fans out there will most likely hail this game as the second coming 
 of Jesus, or Cthulhu, or any Theological/Cult deity you worship, but for me the game is simply 
 very good, not bad, but far from perfect, just very good, namely for it's production values and 
 cinematic single player. Now if you don't mind, I think I'll go play something like SimCity to 
 calm me down after the pile of dead bodies I've left in my wake between all the shooters this season. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xTriviumx
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 21, 2007 11:00 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is a revolutionary game, great graphics, and overall great game play as well. Love 
 the story line too. Ending is great but kind of a cliffhanger but it is better then halo 2's cliffhanger 
 ending. The only problem is not that many maps. Needs more diversity in the design of each. Hopefully 
 there will be another game set in near-modern times that packs as much of a punch as this one. 
 If I could make a suggestion, addition of vehicles incorparated into some of the larger maps would 
 be a great DLC. Still Infinity Ward does it again! 10 stars easy. One of the decades best! (hopefully 
 there isn't 10 of them because that would just ruin it)
  
  
  As a side note before i forget, Prestige mode should add a bit more then just a new icon for your 
 rank. Maybe newer camos for the guns. Just a healthy suggestion nothing to do with the review. 
 I also think that the ghille suit should have some ability, like not getting owned by helicopters 
 and blending in better. This is just my opinion though as im a sniper. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkDrift2k8
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 19, 2007 8:21 am PT
Review:  Gameplay
  The gameplay is awesome because its not repetative, its fun and its enjoyable. The campaign is 
 great and not to short or long and includes arcade mode at the end to add something more to the 
 gameplay once completed.
  
  Graphics
  The graphics on this game are absolutely stunning from the characters to the scenery and explosions. 
 Your environment is also very detailed and so is everything else in this game. The weapons look 
 amazing along with the the characters you play along with.
  
  Content
  There is enough weapons in this game for everybody from the ak-47 to the R700 Sniper rifle. Arcade 
 mode which I mentioned in the gameplay part. In more detail, in the arcade mode you get to replay 
 all the levels you played previously but with a score at the side. So set yourself a target and 
 replay the game.
  
  Multiplayer
  The online aspect of this game is one of the best ive seen in a FPS for a long long time. The game 
 modes are all fun. Theres over 12maps to play from the streets to the open grassy areas which makes 
 for some fun sniper matches. The online ranking is also very fun to do. You will gain different 
 weapons and perks as you progress through the ranks untill you finally reach prestige mode at level 
 55. Prestige mode allows the player to reset their rank and lose everything apart from leaderboard 
 stats. This may sound a bad idea but it is really fun to get your levels up again. The one bad 
 side about the online is the lag issues which happens mostly at weekends and eventually brings 
 the servers down for a few hours. This only happens some of the time though.
  
  Overall this game is worth your money for the gameplay and online.
  For me personally this game 
 beat Rainbow 6 Vegas with ease and even halo 3.
  
  9.5 - Truely amazing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wonderboy_46
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 19, 2007 7:18 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is the first game in this established franchise to be set outside 
 The Second World War. Its also developer, Infinity Ward's, return to the series after Call of Duty 
 3 was taken on by other developers.
  
  Story (6.0) :
  
  As far as storylines go COD4 is poor to say the least. It feels incredibly disjointed and its very 
 easy to lose track of what's going on. That said, it has very little impact on how you approach 
 the game, other than determining the locations you go to, but don't expect to get emotionally involved 
 with the characters or anything like that.
  
  Graphics & sound (7.5) :
  
  COD4 has received many accolades for its visual presentation, but honestly I can't see why. Its 
 a very mixed bag. The character models and weapons are solid enough but the environmental textures 
 are really poor at times. The set-pieces (including a nuclear blast) and the lighting are spectacular, 
 but this certainly isn't the best looking game on the 360.
  
  The sound design works very well, helping to make you feel like you're actually in a warzone. The 
 musical score is also fantastic and is written by Harry Gregson-Williams, of Metal Gear Solid fame.
 
  
  Campaign (7.0) :
  
  The single-player missions in COD4 are very bland. They basically consist of walking forwards and 
 shooting at people. This may seem like a strange criticism of a first-person-shooter, but games 
 in this genre need to become more creative because the genre is so saturated. 
  
  There are one or two more interesting levels, including an on-rails shooting section and a stealth 
 level, but these have become token elements of all FPS games. OK, in COD4 they're better than most 
 in shooters, but the concept is nothing new. On the other hand, the game does a great job of creating 
 the sense of being in a hectic battlefield, something which most FPS games really struggle with.
 
  
  Its also a very short single-player campaign (you can finish it in around 6 hours) . However, there 
 are multiple difficulties and the achievements are only focussed on single player so you will come 
 back to it more than once.
  
  Multiplayer (9.0) :
  
  Online COD4 is a much better package than most FPS games. The game-modes are very similar to other 
 shooters but where it comes into its own is with its system of leveling up, RPG style. As you do 
 well in matches you will earn new "perks" which you can choose from to give your character different 
 abilities, such as "stopping power" (which increases damage dealt) . This is a great addition which 
 really lets you approach the online arena your own way.
  
  You can also unlock a huge amount of customisable weapon options which further deepen the online 
 experience. On top of all this, you have the ability to create your own character classes, choosing 
 weapons and abilities. Overall, COD4's online experience is up there with Halo 3 as the most complete 
 online console shooter.
  
  Overall (7.5) :
  
  COD4 is best suited to gamers looking for a great online experience. As a single-player game it 
 does very little new, despite a couple of great set-piece moments. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bacardi0987
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 19, 2007 6:48 am PT
Review:  After the release of halo 3 two months apart from call of duty 4 i didn't think this game had a 
 chance. As soon as you play the first level you wondered what you saw in halo 3. (thats what I 
 thought) The detail in everything in this game makes it so life like. The single player is short 
 but every level is awesome so i would rather play a game that every level is great then play thew 
 a game where you shoot teletubbies for 10 hours and run and gun threw every level. (halo 3) But 
 the games online is as great as its single player. You have so many different kinds of games make 
 the replay even better. The one thing that makes this game great is the challenges online. They 
 use the reward systems so instead of just using the same gun over and over they say if you get 
 150 kills with this gun well give you this better gun and some cool attachments to make your other 
 gun better. There is plenty of weapon selection so you never get bored of the same gun. So many 
 upgrades that you can unlock makes this game very addicting. The only bad thing that i see in this 
 game is that there isn't any vehicles. But all of there level are buildings and ally ways so vehicles 
 wouldn't fit in most of there levels any way. Games like halo are big open fields with a base at 
 each end so transportation is good in thoughs kind of games. This is a great game and is a def. 
 buy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GSx0
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 19, 2007 1:01 am PT
Review:  I've played through the game and tackled most of the online levels. What I've found is a solid 
 shooter likely to get anyone's attention. 
  
  First, let me tell you about the campaign mode. The first thing I read in the Gamespot review is 
 that it's short. I was expecting something that felt unfinished or rushed, but it was quite enjoyable 
 and ended exactly when it should have. Recently I played through the Halo 3 campaign and it just 
 seemed long winded. CoD4 gets right to brass tacks and has you moving all over the place in all 
 the right ways. I never once felt like the campaign was too short. 
  
  The story itself is pretty amazing. Without going into specifics I can say its something that lets 
 you feel immersed in what's happening. It's one of the most successful stories I've seen in both 
 movies and games. Infinity Ward writes a story that is more true to life than maybe even what we 
 see on CNN. I wasn't disappointed.
  
  The graphics and audio are both top notch. Bullet casings fly all over the place and you can hear 
 them hit the ground. (However, if you're listening to bullet casing you may want to redirect your 
 attention to where your bullets are going.) 
  
  Call of Duty 4's multiplayer is the prologue part of the campaign. This is where the game has its 
 value. The ranking system seems to work well, although prestige mode is more than weird. After 
 attaining all 55 ranks the game will let you enter prestige mode. You receive a prestige 1 icon 
 and the game will take away all your ranks allowing you to reacquire all 55 levels. There are 10 
 total prestige ranks, but with only an icon as motivation it seems more like an unnecessary time 
 sink. Other than the small prestige annoyance the multiplayer is solid. It includes strong spectator 
 support. Hopefully we'll see some tournaments on TTV. 
  
  If you know what F. P. S. stands for, you'll at least want to rent this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RawSushiSociety
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 18, 2007 4:12 am PT
Review:  Ive played the game on Harder difficulty setting. It was a compelling play, that put you in the 
 seat of multiple factions and vehicles for a interesting turn but i still feel its lacking something. 
 Not sure what... Maybe if there were more missions. The last mission (minus the plane mission) 
 was extremely well put together aside from the fact that its impossible to aim an RPG in a moving 
 car. But aside from that the ending was magnificent. The only thing that this came couldn't own 
 up to was the RSLV factor that you could pick your weapons before the levels. With the multiplayer 
 combined this is a must buy. The multiplayer feels crisp and new. The fact that your killing sprees 
 add up to much more than just points. With a ton of game types and very intricate and distinguished 
 levels makes it fun to play and fun to watch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kickerscrt
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 17, 2007 7:58 pm PT
Review:  I was apprehensive to pick this game up for two reasons. #1 was the poor quality of CoD 3, and 
 #2 was that I was just sick and tired of hearing about it. After reading numerous reviews I finally 
 broke down and purchased it... and I have no regrets about it! Before going any further, let me 
 just say that I am a huge Halo fan. Some might say that would cause a biased review, but I am being 
 totally impartial in this review. That being said, this is an excellent game... by far the best 
 in the CoD series. The campaign can feel rather short, but I think a lot of that has to do with 
 the fact that it is such a high quality campaign that it's almost a disappointment when it's over. 
 Seriously folks, this is damn near the best campaign I've ever played, taking a really close second 
 to the original Halo. There were so many times throughout the whole thing that I was like I can't 
 believe they put something like that in the game! A good example of one of those moments is the 
 Death From Above Mission! That, along with the sniper mission, have to be my favorites. The visuals 
 on this game must be seen to be believed... preferably on an HDTV. If you think CoD 2 looked good 
 on the 360, then you ain't seen nothing yet! I feel that this game surpasses any other game on 
 the 360 as far as visuals go, although Gears of War and Rainbow Six Vegas are pretty close. The 
 audio design is top notch. Weapons sound accurate to their actual counterparts. There's excellent 
 use of the surround channels and especially the LFE channel. I had to turn my receiver down on 
 a couple missions so my neighbors wouldn't get too upset! Gameplay is straightforward CoD. Same 
 basic mechanics as CoD 2 so no real suprises. If it works, might as well stick with it. It did 
 take me a while to 'relearn' after getting used to Halo 3's control scheme! (I don't know how many 
 times I threw a grenade when I wanted to reload!!) I can't really comment on the multiplayer component 
 of this game because I've only played a couple games. I will say that it does appear to have a 
 really nice feature set and a good amount of maps to play on. My only complaint with this game 
 is that if you decide to step it up to Veteran difficulty to get the Achievements, you best have 
 a lot of patience. The game goes from somewhat difficult at the normal setting, to nearly impossible 
 on the veteran setting. Enemies will hit you 99.9% of the time, and of the hits, 97% will be head 
 shots. You might try to argue that a game on it's hardest difficulty should be very tough. I completely 
 agree, and do enjoy a good challenge, so all I can do is recommend that you try out the campaign 
 on Veteran so you can see the difference between difficult and just plain ridiculous. Believe me, 
 that does not take away from the quality of the campaign, but in my opinion it is not even fun 
 playing this game on Veteran. Overall, you can't go wrong with this game if you are a fan of first 
 person shooters and the military. You will be gifted with a great campaign, amazed by the gorgeous 
 visuals, and possibly blown away by the sound. To newer or less experienced gamers, do yourself 
 a favor and play on the Normal setting because you will enjoy the game a whole lot more! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vampiro1313
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 17, 2007 6:00 pm PT
Review:  infinity ward must have UAV, because they know exactly where everything is supposted be. let me 
 start off by saying that this is the BEST fps i've ever played, hands down. the graphics are top 
 notch, and sound quality is perfect, and the overall polish has set a new standard. i honestly 
 believe this game has ruined me from ever enjoying any other game, CoD 4 is that good. the single 
 player campain is engrossing with plenty of Oh S-- t!! moments, while it is a bit on the short side 
 (about 10 hours or so) . i prefered it that way, as i'm a father of two working a full time job. 
 however the multiplayer is where the game truly shines, after a long hard day of work, there's 
 nothing quite like fragging for while and relieving some tension. maps are well varied and thought 
 out, except Ambush and the missle silo maps ( i just don't like them) . so if you're going to buy 
 only one game this holiday season, (poor you) make sure it's this one. you will not be dissappointed. 
 now if you'll excuse me, i just unlocked prestige mode and get earn all of gear again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sedated_Emotion
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 17, 2007 4:24 pm PT
Review:  This game's great, the moment you pick up the box at your local gamestore you know you'll be in 
 for one hell of a ride! Infinity Ward are among the best developers of FPS's nowadays and Call 
 Of Duty 4 doesn't disappoint. It has everything to make a game good, fast-paced adrenaline injected 
 action, climactic battles, tight controls, lots and lots of weapons and humpf , simply put, this 
 game rocks.
  
  The developers got bored (like everyone else out there) of the WWII era and decided to bring it's 
 next war game into the 21st century, hence the title of Modern Warfare. The plot follows the path 
 of two soldiers, an American Delta and a British SAS, long story short, an eastern european terrorist 
 group as seized a nuke and it's up to our two fighters to prevent the world from falling into World 
 War III. The story doesn't disappoint a bit and it's so briliantly done, it rivals even the best 
 hollywood action movies with lots of sweet action scenes that never repeats itself and keeps you 
 interested and immerged in this world in crisis.
  
  Graphically this game is simply stunning, even on my 32 Sony Flatscreen the colors are amongst 
 the most vivid and stunning in a game to date. The best level is by far the All Ghillied Up , in 
 which the grass, the sky and the buildings litteraly dropped my jaw to the floor.
  
  The Sound is also amazing, the guns sound powerful, the explosions were loud, the bullets ripped 
 holes in different materials realistically, etc. In brief, everything seems like it's real life 
 counterpart.
  
  The gameplay is tight, if you've played other shooters on the Xbox 360, you'll have no trouble 
 at all to maneuver in the world. The animations are really well done and shooting through walls 
 is essential to your survival online and offline in the hardest difficulty. The only complain I've 
 got, is that this game hasn't a freaking cover system... It's alright when you can simply run and 
 gun like in Halo, but in COD4, bullets are flying everywhere around your head and sometimes the 
 moment you show your face to actually see and aim at an enemy, he already punched a new hole between 
 your eyes... I found that to be very frustrating since most of the enemies could see and shoot 
 me without me being able to fire back without dying. Realistic yes, but not always fun... And since 
 almost every other shooter now has one, I thought that it would have been a nice gameplay option 
 also. But aside from that, everything else feels perfect!
  
  Now everyone read reviews and it's no surprise that the campaign is short, it took me around 7 
 hours to finish on Hard (Veteran is the hardest) , but the campaign is so sweet that it's nice to 
 play over and over again and try different routes. Plus the multiplayer which is probably the best 
 thing right now, it's fast, furious, fun, addictive and has lots of replayability, this ain't a 
 game that'll pick up dust on your shelf.
  
  So if you're still reading this... Go buy the freaking game, it's worth every penny! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 12Colors
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 17, 2007 1:54 pm PT
Review:  There are many different things that make good games. However, a game is split up into two different 
 parts. The singleplayer and the multiplayer. Most games have only good singleplayer and no multiplayer 
 or vice versa. But Call of Duty 4 Modern Warfare perfectly weaves the two together to create a 
 phenomenal masterpiece. The singleplayer, while over fast, pacts a powerful storyline with great 
 gameplay that is playable over and over again. The multiplayer options are fantastic and they lead 
 to what I may call an almost perfect design. And the fact that both the singleplayer and the multiplayer 
 are so great shows that this game was not just a quick addition to the series like Call of Duty 
 3, but it is a true masterpiece. This game rates as a 9.5 out of 10 and a true must have for any 
 one, gamer or not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RELL1K
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 17, 2007 1:35 pm PT
Review:  This game starts out great and get's better. It seems and is a bit short but only due to the fast 
 pace of the game. With any game I play I always pass the campaign before I try out the online multiplayer. 
 Halo 3 was my favorite online multi-player game before I fully got into COD4. Last night I played 
 a few matches of COD4 on XBL and then played a few matches of Team Slayer for Halo 3 on XBL and 
 the difference was huge. The action is a lot faster paced on COD4. COD4 is so realistic it is surreal. 
 You level up the same way you do on Halo 3 on Multiplayer, the difference is that the higher ranking 
 you get the more weapons and upgrades you can unlock. It is these rewards you earn in Multiplayer 
 that add another level of entertainment. One thing I feel I need to mention is that when you play 
 online the servers do not match you with people that have the same rank as you. It matches you 
 up with whoever is available so you might play with someone that is a recruit or a general as well 
 as anyone in -between. If you play a lot of FPS's then this should not be an issue but for noobs 
 this might be a bit frustrating. In closing due to it's tight graphics and controls as well as 
 its very faceted multi-player I give this game a score of 9 1/2 purple monkey people eaters. There 
 I think this should be enough words to qualify as a review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trashcanpunch
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 17, 2007 11:15 am PT
Review:  In a time of gaming were players are trying to find a first person shooter that will satisfy there 
 thirst for fast pace action Call of Duty 4 Modern Warfare delivers in spades. It has a fresh story 
 to play through, but thats just the tip of the iceberg. Call of Duty 4 modern warfare has the most 
 addictive multiplayer experiences players have been waitng for for some time so get ready to calm 
 that itchy trigger finger!
  
  On top of great online gameplay the visuals are equally impressive and will please your eyes from 
 watching an airstrike carpet bomb your enemy to useing deep impact to finish off your opponent 
 through a wall makes this game look and feel all the more real. On my last note the audio doesn't 
 let you go for a second, it will take ful advantage of your surround sound equipment in such a 
 way that you can hear your opponents sneaking up from behind you but beware this works both ways!
 
  
  All in all you will not be let down with this game it has plenty of weapon options and challenges 
 to keep anyone busy for awhile so pick this game up and enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ryo_Kensen
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 10, 2008 3:24 pm PT
Review:  The Good
  Action-Packed and amazing presentation, great story, gameplay is excellent, voice acting is top 
 notch, every level is filled with unexpected moments and intense gameplay, there's a nuclear explosion.
 
  
  The Bad
  Way too short.
  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare came as a surprise from the team at Infinity Ward; they stepped 
 away from the World War II storyline and moved onward into modern day warfare. The result of this 
 move is nothing short of substantial and revolutionary, and modern war games will never be the 
 same.
  
  The story kicks off with John "Soap" MacTavish, a British 22nd Special Air Service Regiment operative 
 in Russia, meeting your future teammates Gaz and Captain Price in some training tutorials to get 
 you acquainted with the game's mechanics. Captain Price you may recognize from the first two Call 
 of Duty games, in Modern Warfare he is a younger version of himself from the first two titles, 
 which makes relatively no sense but the result isn't so bad. Once you're done with the training 
 in the beginning of the game you're thrown right into intense action packed gameplay, which the 
 game starts off with sending you to a cargo ship with your team. The story also revolves in a lesser 
 extent around Paul Jackson, a member of the United States Marine Corps 1st Force Recon. Your missions 
 with Sgt. Jackson are stationed in the Middle East, the story of this is really short and would 
 have been disappointing if it didn't have a surprising ending, but I don't want to give anything 
 away. There are also small cameo-esque rolls in the game where you play as a operator of a turret 
 on an AC-130 gunship and as a familiar face in a flashback mission.
  
  The gameplay is mostly going to be nothing new to veteran Call of Duty players, but Infinity Ward 
 incorporated many new surprises that further evolve the gameplay of the series. One of the most 
 substantial additions to the game are the experience points, which takes a cue from other FPS titles 
 like Halo 2, but Modern Warfare further improves it and does it in a much better fashion. Once 
 you reach certain levels you unlock better weapons, weapon attachments, clans, challenges, and 
 multiplayer perks. Multiplayer perks allow you to select from a nice number of things that will 
 further improve the gameplay in multiplayer, and also throws a few surprises at your opponents. 
 The most wildly used perk in multiplayer is probably the Last Stand perk, which allows you to use 
 a pistol before you die. Last Stand gives you an opportunity to shoot the person who got you or 
 others, so it's highly understandable why it's so popular.
  
  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is also surprisingly photo realistic, if you look at photos from 
 around the world and of some modern weapons, vehicles, armor, and locations, then you'll see why 
 it's so incredible. There aren't that many games on the market that you can look at and then look 
 at a photo and see where a lot of the inspiration came from for the game. Its incredible looking 
 at each weapon and seeing the amazing attention to detail that Infinity Ward put into them. It's 
 also pretty neat looking at each character and seeing their armor and clothing and thinking that 
 they look like a real person and not over the top. Even Captain Price looks like he could be a 
 real person, though he does have rather funny facial hair. Some impressive examples of the graphic 
 engine come from the lighting of Captain Price's cigar on the cargo ship mission and the shadows 
 that come off of the characters and objects.
  
  Modern Warfare also hosts some of the most impressive sound you'll hear in video-games on the market, 
 whenever you're in game playing it sounds like you're in the middle of a real war. Each weapon 
 has highly realistic sound effects, and Infinity Ward can pat themselves on the back for a job 
 well done. 
  
  For the purchase price of $60, you're getting a lot out of Call of Duty 4, maybe not as much from 
 the single player campaign, but you'll get quite a bit of enjoyment from the multiplayer. Call 
 of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is an immense and intense experience to be found, and any FPS fan is 
 sure to love Modern Warfare. It's a game that's recommendable to any hardcore gamer or even casual 
 gamers who like FPS titles. 
  
  If you're a parent and are looking into buying it for your kid, I'd advise checking in on some 
 of the gameplay videos before you purchase. There's highly realistic warlike violence, and a fair 
 amount of language. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gurgel2
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 16, 2007 9:21 pm PT
Review:  Overrated game. Good packaging and looks. No depth. This is a multiplayer only review. Coming from 
 a strong clan fps background (bf2 and bf2142) I sold this game after 3 days because of:
  
  1. Overly complex levels, making it very hard to carve out some sort of tactics. Id be suprised 
 if this gains a big clan community on the 360.
  
  2. To slow controls, to be able to meet the unexpected encounters you'll get from 360 degrees wherever. 
 This would be more OK on the PC.
  
  3. Matched against US players when in Europe - thats atleast 200 in ping = unplayable in any other 
 game. CANT be hidden with some good looking prediction. So dont believe thier Allways instant action 
 4 ya 
  
  4. Martyrdom. Xmas present for the mentaly unlucky. It should be called something like 
 
  
  5. unbalanced. Sniper too good. Sometimes submachine guns and assault rifles feel sub par compared 
 to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fman12
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 16, 2007 6:59 pm PT
Review:  This game is great. The story is one if not the best of all the call of duties. The graphics are 
 fantastic and game play smooth and easy. This game can be very challenging depending on what difficulty 
 you play on. Like me if you play on veteran it is very challenging. It is also unique in that its 
 not like other games where you fight to the end and come out without a scratch. You and most of 
 your men die. At least one of the people you play. ; ) It is basically a fantastic game to play 
 and if you love call of duty games, even though this one is in present day, you\'ll love it. It 
 is a must buy for 360 owners. And the on-line play is amazing. Oh and its a little short though. 
 o afk [a [ae [ae [ [oajfo [jprj pp poa wpo pur pup psw jdmvmzc pj aw [9wuj vposj spajf jv's a [pw 
 ps phsaph p pa [ g [a [h p [p ogou 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jarvis100
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 16, 2007 2:48 pm PT
Review:  When you turn this game on and start in to Campain mode, you'll be amazed by alot of things. The 
 first thing of course would be the beautiful graphics. They are the first thing to catch your attention. 
 Well thena gain they are the first thing you ever see. Also, the sound is great. That is the next 
 thing that you are going to yell Holy ****! at. Then you'll get in to the gameplay. And then you'll 
 yell so many things in joy that you'll probably forget that you are being shot at by terriosts.
 
  Anyways, this game is the best in the series by far. But I think we all saw that one coming. The 
 gameplay is slick and it is fast paced. You can't get enough of it. You won't want to stop. Your 
  will have to pull you away from the game. And if you don't have 
 a  then you lead a very sad and lonely life.
  The Online play is also great! The multiplayer adds some fun things in with Airstrikes, UAVs, and 
 a helicopter for your team. But the helicopter is a pain in the ass if your on the other team. 
 And the airstirkes, although they look cool, they suck. They couldn't hit the broad side of a barn.
 
  Oh and here comes the dreaded but. Oh yes. The dreaded but is, campain mode is too short. You 
 get so in to, that a couple of hours pass by and the game is over. And then you say That is it? 
 BUT if you have XBox Live then it wont matter at all. But if you do not have XBox Live. YOU'VE 
 BEEN SCREWED!! AHAHAHAHAHAHA! But don't fret. Go get a 3 month XBox Live gamecard, and have fun. 
 So it is almost perfect, and it pretty much is perfect if you have XBox Live. But if you don't, 
 then it is not perfect. But it is close. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hellomotto1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 16, 2007 1:42 pm PT
Review:  Finally, just as I thought the Call of Duty games were going in the deep, they created this game. 
 Not only does the amazing graphics add to the effect, but also the improved gameplay. I don't want 
 to go into detail at this moment but many things have been upgraded from the previous Call of Duty 
 games. First off, the story is obscured, unlike the other COD games where you know the outcome 
 of the game. Also, (SPOILER.. I think) unlike the other COD games the ending, and I wont go into 
 detail for the sake of not spoiling it, seems to end up worse than the start. The story is also 
 fantastic. Though short, the storyline really sets Call of Duty 4 from the rest of the games. Actually 
 scratch that.... the multiplayer is what REALLY sets the game apart. There are so many different 
 customizable things, such as game type and more. The weapons also vary dramatically, from snipers, 
 to pistols. Plus, you get perks, which are things you get when ranking up on XBOX LIVE, which permit 
 you do some bonus things, like drop a live grenade when you get killed and stuff like that. If 
 you want more of a review, which I could give to you (i have the game) , please Private Message 
 me because I don't have much time to write this review, however, I would like to say one thing: 
 GET THIS GAME. Though the campaign is short, the multiplayer will keep you up for hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pspdemoboy52
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 16, 2007 1:43 pm PT
Review:  Thank God they got rid of WWII (for now, wait til CoD5) ! And thank God the game that strayed away 
 from the dull repetition of war games we are used to was good! Wait... not good... GREAT!! This is 
 by far the best FPS I have ever played! The campaign was great until about the last few missions 
 which started to get repetetive. But overall it was good. The start of the game has you following 
 the British S. A. S. soldier known as Soap . With Soap, you start out in Russia (I think) or near 
 that area. (All I know was there was snow in the levels!) But anyways you are him for the first 
 couple missions where you are on a wild goose chase to find an Al-Qaeda terrorist. But anways after 
 the first two missions you switch to the good guys... er... the Marines. Where you are with a guy 
 who has a name that I forgot cause it wasn't cool like Shampoo . But anyways then you do a couple 
 missions with him switching back and forth between Soap. But then something happens, to the Marines 
 guy (won't tell you what because I don't like spoilers but something happens to him) and you're 
 Soap for the rest of the game. Anyways there is a Russian sniping level with Soap later in the 
 game that is (in my opinion) the best level in the game. There is also a very cool and unique level 
 in which you commandeer an AC-130 gunship that is the s***! This is actually the best level with 
 the sniping one coming in at a close second. Overall, with the campaign, it is great and has some 
 nice unique and diverse levels in spots. Overall the campaign alone would give this game a 8.5 
 or 9.0.
  
  Now I will switch to the best part of this game... the multiplayer! First I want to give a shout-out 
 to pill922 for playing with me online with me, that was a great time and I hope to see you online 
 when I get my hands on my permanent copy. But anyways, the game has great multiplayer and should 
 definitely kicks Halo 3's ass when it comes to most addictive online play and best online play 
 on 360 so far! With a great unique feature called the Perks System you can earn (that's right you 
 have to work for it) great abilities such as, throwing a grenade down when you die and getting 
 some important final shots with your pistol to even out the points when you die. These are great 
 and it has the ranking system that we know and love in Halo 3. You also get some challenges to 
 increase your skill with the weapons you use. Not much more to say about it except that it's great! 
 Ok, so once Call of Duty 5 comes out it better have changed to go back to the War in Iraq instead 
 of this crappy WWII genre that got old after CoD2 minus 5 years. But if it is in WWII they better 
 add some of the great features I have come to love in CoD4, especially the online gameplay! So 
 if you haven't played this I higly recommend picking it up for at least a rental but it's definitely 
 worth a buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: odst_derek
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 16, 2007 7:33 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is an intense and unique experience that is unparalleled by any 
 other game to date. Let's break it down into single player and multiplayer portions.
  The singleplayer experience in CoD4 is unrivaled. The general pace of the action never lets up. 
 One thing to make sure of is that your difficulty is set high enough, if it's too low you'll just 
 get bored. The standard missions are excitng and well paced, with a few sequences breaking up the 
 action. Getting to man the weapons on an AC-130 Spectre gunship is an incredibly fun time, and 
 the stealth mission is definitely the best. The feeling of tension simply can't be beat.
  The multiplayer of Call of Duty 4 seems on the surface simple. However, when you play it longer 
 you realize how good it is. The drive to unlock challenges and rank up is incredible, and the competitiveness 
 of the game is intense. The rewards of hard work are many, from better weapon sights to the oh 
 so beautiful golden camouflage. The polish that's gone into the MP aspect of the game is simply 
 undeniable. The variability in gametypes, from Hardcore to Old School, with all the standards back, 
 you're sure to find something you'll love in this multiplayer experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SillyLoki
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 15, 2007 3:11 pm PT
Review:  To all those mutiplayer lovers, I'm writing this review entirely based on the single player. Multiplayer 
 fans look elsewhere. First the good. This game has excellent visuals on par with any game of it's 
 size and scope. The story also doesn't fail to disappoint. An intricate timely story follows the 
 lives of two elite soldiers, complete with terrorists, nuclear weapons and many other excellently 
 simulated modern weapons. Now the bad. If you like rainbow six, this game will be frustrating. 
 While the weapons seem accurately modeled, the enemy unfortunately is not. There is an excellent 
 AI that will toss maddening amounts of grenades and fire from cover. Unfortunately it also cheats. 
 Endless streams of enemies will attack you until you physically occupy unknown areas. For example, 
 there is a scene where you must assault two buildings separated by a road. Enemies will continue 
 to respawn and occupy areas you cleared from far away, until you enter the first of the buildings. 
 Enemies will continue to spawn in the other building after you kill them until you occupy that 
 building as well. In other words sniping and tossing grenades at enemies 50 yards away is nearly 
 useless. To advance in this game you must run from one position to another and kill your enemy 
 at point blank range. This keeps the action frantic and fast paced, but also sucks out all strategy 
 and realism this game could have commanded. The game is also highly dependent on scripted events. 
 It often seems like you are running from one ambush to the next. Sometimes the game will allow 
 you to kill enemies from 50 yards away. As you approach where they were however, more often than 
 not another ten enemies will pop up and ambush you. All of this ensures frantic exciting gameplay, 
 but makes Halo seem realistic in comparison. In short this is a great shooter, but you must play 
 by its rules. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: awoneillz
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 14, 2007 1:10 pm PT
Review:  I would highly recommend this game to any xbox 360 owner as a must have purchase. The single player 
 game is so engrossing, fast paced, frentic that once you have completed it you just want to start 
 all over again and complete it on a harder diffuculty setting.
  
  The multiplayer is second to none. At some points you really feel you are in the middle of a large 
 scale battle, with airstrikes and helicopters being called in and granades expolding all around 
 you. The variety of weapons is fantastic and the unlockable bonus attachments for each weapon really 
 adds depth to your loadout. Also with the perk system that really works so well, gives every player 
 online their very own original soldier attributes and weapons.
  
  In closing, just simply get in your car drive to the nearest game store and give them the required 
 amount of cash, then go home and enjoy!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spydiggity
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 14, 2007 1:07 pm PT
Review:  If you own Call of Duty 2, i recommend you pop that disc into your xbox and fire it up and play 
 through it for about 20 minutes, then immediately remove the game and insert Call of Duty 4. You 
 should notice right away the character models are the same, the movement is the same, the enemy 
 movement and tactics are the same. In fact, i'm willing to go as far as to say even most of the 
 guns are the same. Some of them look like they are straight out of WWII and some look like cheap 
 models with a red dot for an aimer to indicate that this warfare is modern. 
  
  Call of Duty has always been good at overloading the screen with STUFF... but that is all it is. 
 It overloads the player with cinematics but once you look past this, if you are capable of looking 
 past this (which most of you apparently are NOT) , you quickly realize that the gameplay itself 
 is very shallow and uninspired. The graphics do not even meet the standards of the aging Unreal 
 Engine 3. In place of graphics, they add a lot of objects, in place of smart AI, they distract 
 the player by placing them in smoky, dark zones with a lot of explosions. There is actually too 
 much going on. This causes the average gamer to over look the fact that the guy they just killed 
 behind this wall, car, tank, whatever was almost instantly replaced by another guy who is hiding 
 in the exact same spot doing the exact same animations and when you kill him... dies the exact same 
 way.
  
  It doesn't take a seasoned gamer to recognize the ultimate flaw in this game, it just takes a person 
 who can overlook the distractions and get right down to the game play.
  
  As for the multiplayer... there are so many good FPS multiplayer games out i find it to be amazing 
 that anyone can regard this game as one worth spending more than a few hours on. again, they use 
 gimmicks to trick the person into thinking this is more entertaining this is. They took Halo's 
 ranking system and then added extra incentives to keep playing by letting you unlock new guns, 
 skins, etc...
  
  Unfortunately the game tries to do two things and once and neither of them it does well. it tries, 
 in a sense, to be a fast paced action/arcadey style shooter, but then allows a person to be killed 
 in just one or two shots. A game cannot be realistic and unrealistic at the same time. and this 
 game seems to be having an identity crisis in this aspect. Also, there is virtually no environment 
 interaction. It's run here, shoot this guy, they respawn in 1 second (often right behind you) then 
 you get shot and do it again. after you kill a few ppl an exciting new rank pops on your screen 
 and you feel a wonderful sense of accomplishment.
  
  When you look through the distractions and the gimmicks, it is clear to see this game barely belongs 
 in this generation. It is essentially the same game as COD2 but new skins on the character models 
 so they look modern. If you want to play an exciting, realistic shooter with better graphics and 
 better physics, play Counter Strike source. and the sad fact here is that game IS leaps and bounds 
 beyond COD 4 and COD 4 is almost 4 years newer. and as for arcade style shooters, Team Fortress 
 2 and Halo 3 are both far better, more exciting games. and all 3 of these games do it with the 
 gameplay. They don't have to distract and confuse the gamer with an excess of cinematics and explosions 
 that seemingly come out of nowhere and for no reason. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: j-son05
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 14, 2007 3:01 am PT
Review:  Well i was more excited about getting this game over halo3 and now i have it know why, the whole 
 game has taken a great turn making it even more impressive than previous cod games and yes more 
 impressive tha halo!
  
  The graphics are among the best i have seen and are well up ther with bioshock and gow.
  
  
 The storyline well it great story from the action packed ship level to the sneaky stealthy sniper 
 mission, alough this game is short on normal it still puts up a good game, and if you play it and 
 vetenary you will take alot longer.
  
  Sound is good but i dont realy pay much attension to sound so cant comment much on it.
  
  Online 
 play is amazing fun hours of entertainment rank-up is great additive. one thing i miss is the ability 
 to have two peeps on one screenn playing over the net. The fact that there are no veachles dont 
 make this anyless enjoyable in factnit makes it maore fun!
  
  well to sum this game up it is the best there is in modern war games and in the cod series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D34DLY_V1P3R
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 14, 2007 1:39 am PT
Review:  GRAPHICS: PRETTY
  
  GAMEPLAY: GREAT FUN
  
  CONTROLLS: FLUID
  
  ORIGINALITY: NOT ENOUGH
  
  STORY: SHORT BUT SWEET
  
  IMMERSION: MILD
  
  RENT OR BUY?: 
 BUY
  
  MULTIPLAYABILITY: HIGH
  
  SINGLEPLAYABILITY: MILD-HIGH
  
  REPLAYABILITY: HIGH
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  Adult
  
  Aeroplane
 
  
  Air
  
  Aircraft Carrier
  
  Airforce
  
  Airport
  
  Album
  
  Alphabet
  
  Apple
  
  Arm
  
  Army
  
  Baby
  
  Baby
  
  Backpack
  
  Balloon
  
  
 Banana
  
  Bank
  
  Barbecue
  
  Bathroom
  
  Bathtub
  
  Bed
  
  Bee
  
  Bible
  
  Bible
  
  Bird
  
  Bomb
  
  Book
  
  Boss
  
  Bottle
  
  Bowl
 
  
  Box
  
  Boy
  
  Brain
  
  Bridge
  
  Butterfly
  
  Button
  
  Cappuccino
  
  Car
  
  Car-race
  
  Carpet
  
  Carrot
  
  Cave
  
  Chair
  
 
  Chess Board
  
  Chief
  
  Child
  
  Chisel
  
  Chocolates
  
  Church
  
  Circle
  
  Circus
  
  Circus
  
  Clock
  
  Clown
  
  Coffee
  
  Coffee-shop
 
  
  Comet
  
  Compact Disc
  
  Compass
  
  Computer
  
  Crystal
  
  Cup
  
  Cycle
  
  Data Base
  
  Desk
  
  Diamond
  
  Dress
  
  Drill
  
  Drink
  
 
  Drum
  
  Dung
  
  Ears
  
  Earth
  
  Egg
  
  Electricity
  
  Elephant
  
  Eraser
  
  Explosive
  
  Eyes
  
  Family
  
  Fan
  
  Feather
  
  Festival
  
 
  Film
  
  Finger
  
  Fire
  
  Floodlight
  
  Flower
  
  Foot
  
  Fork
  
  Freeway
  
  Fruit
  
  Fungus
  
  Game
  
  Garden
  
  Gas
  
  Gate
  
  
 Gemstone
  
  Girl
  
  Gloves
  
  God
  
  (THERE U GO, 100 WORDS, U HAPPY NOW??) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beer_4_skip
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 13, 2007 10:32 pm PT
Review:  This game is close to being great. This is the first game review i've ever written but i've been 
 compelled to do so because of my frustrations with this game. the graphics, sound, action, and 
 pace of the game is excellent but after playing both the single player and the multiplayer i've 
 noticed some flaws that really keep this game from being a must have.
  
  The single player campaign is probably best summed up in the sniper level. It starts out excellent, 
 you are sneaking up on/by enemies, taking them out, and executing the fun mile long shot with the 
 .50 cal. but then the frustrating part comes next. All of a sudden it is you and your AI counterpart 
 against 50+ (with just sniper rifles and pistols at close range) trying to fight them off until 
 the chopper arrives at the final extraction point. At this point you have probably died 100 times 
 over because your Ai partner shoots like Hellen Keller and you would swear every bad guy throws 
 his grenade on the mark. And forget trying to choke out the friggin' guard dogs! And this is the 
 second hardest difficulty level setting on the game! The hardest setting must be like Legendary 
 Mode times a factor of 2 on Halo. So after you have shouted WTF! for about the 50th time and successfully 
 avoided throwing your controller into the tv it comes time to try the online mode.
  
  The multiplayer also has its flaws as well. Don't bother using any guns besides the assault rifle 
 class with a red dot scope because it evidently rules all others. Somehow it has better range, 
 power, and accuracy of a sniper rifle even at long distances! It takes quite a bit of experience 
 points to finally create your custom class and perks to finally offset the obvious advantages of 
 the more experienced players. but all in all the online mode is great. any fan of the previous 
 call of duty games will love this one and if you thought the call of duty games were ok, then i 
 would suggest renting before buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metalzombey
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 13, 2007 3:49 pm PT
Review:  just rent this game before you buy it. im not saying this is a horrible game but it is definitely 
 not worth 60 bucks. i beat the game in six hours witch was really sad i think it was on hard dificulty. 
 which was frustrtating at times but i was able to make it through the campaine in a short amount 
 of time. the single player mode had pretty graphics but it was boring at times. i really liked 
 the sniper mission but i didnt like it enough to go back and play it again. NO CO-OP!!!!!!! no 
 co-op they really need to get that in there. it was a good thing that they swiched to moddern day 
 i dont know if i could have handeled another wII shooter again. the change is different but not 
 enough to stick out of all the other shooters. the online is okay but id rather play rainbow six, 
 halo 3, or team fortress. rent it then dont look at it again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowblade99
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 13, 2007 2:24 pm PT
Review:  It's that time of year again. Another Activision installment of another over done series. But this 
 time there is a twist, it takes place today. Yes the story is of modern telling, as well as the 
 weapons and the players, but it's still a fictional story. However it feels like it could very 
 well happen. 
  
  Call of Duty 4 hands down has the best graphics on 360. It's hard to say that because there are 
 so many good looking games on the 360. But the details are very deep. The animation smooth. The 
 lighting and shadowing precise. It's hard to say that with excellent looking games like Gears of 
 War, Assassin's Creed, and Halo 3 on the system. 
  
  The controls are pretty good once you get used to them. They aren't totally tradional as far as 
 FPS go, but they do the game justice. You can change the control scheme if you wish but the standard 
 scheme feels pretty good. 
  
  The music (the little that there is) is great. But the lack of music is made up for back ground 
 noise such as screaming, explosions, bullets flying, choppers, fighter planes, you really feel 
 like you are in the middle of combat. This is as close as it gets to the real thing. The voice 
 acting is pretty good. All of it is done via radio, so it's not too hard to mess that up. 
  
  Basically you switch off between an American Marine (killed half way through the game) and 
 an English SAS agent. As the plot unfolds the Russians have a nuclear missle that they are planning 
 on blowing up the world with. This of course is supported by the islamic terrorists and along the 
 way you go through many of the "free worlds enemies" of old and new. The game ends with a cliff 
 hanger so that another one can be made. The game is pretty steep as far as difficulty. If you're 
 new to the 360 or FPS then you should probably steer clear. 
  
  The online game play is very deep. Although it's not quite the power house that is Halo 3, it's 
 quite deep and worth playing with some friends. The game play is pretty cut throat and very well 
 balanced. 
  
  Call of Duty 4 is the gem of the series and worth a pick up and play for any 360 owner, Call of 
 Duty fan, or FPS fan. I highly recommend it. It has game of the year contender written all over 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: docprufessuh
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 13, 2007 8:25 am PT
Review:  When I saw at gamestop call of duty 4 coming out I pre-ordered it and I wasn't expecting it to 
 be an epic game but to my surprise It was. It's a short but action packed game that keeps you going 
 with the amount of variety that the game has to offer
  
  The Good 
  ========
  -The games graphics look awesome the game looks so good no frame rate drops or any wierd texture 
 pop ins the game just looks awesome from the environments to the bloom effects on the guns
  -The game has great sound as well like in the cut scenes there is some great voice acting, the 
 guns and explosions also keep you going
  -There is a lot of variety to the missions. You have your run and gun, a turret on a helicopter, 
 a sniping mission and much more
  -The story is another great factor added to the game you switch through multiple characters throughout 
 the campaign like in other cod games but these characters have to do with the same story 
  -They took a different but good approach with the campaign, instead of making a 12 hour repetitive 
 mess they made a nice short simple action packed campaign with a lot of depth
  -Online mode is real fun and I never wanted to stop playing it like the campaign has a lot of variety 
 and tons of rewards like level ups and on a kill streak you can get helicopter for aid
  
  The Bad
  ======
  Theres not much bad to say about his game
  -The campaign as we all know 
 was short
  -The game really doesn't do that much different
  -It leaves you wanting more and that's really why I gave it an 8.5
  
  So you say to yourself 
 what makes this game so good I've seen other games pretty much using the same formula. Well It 
 all comes down to just how well the game plays it just plays so smoothly that's why it's so great. 
 This game is very well worth 60 and you still feel like your getting more than your moneys worth 
 with an awesome online mode but I just wish there was more out of this game. But for everybody 
 and anyone you need to play this game
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ibanezdropd
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 13, 2007 4:00 am PT
Review:  The game is simply beautiful. The sound design is spot on. The only thing I can complain about 
 it the difficulty level. I have played through Gears of War on Insane without much trouble, but 
 I die constantly in cod4 on the easiest difficulty level. There is something wrong withe the enemy 
 AI and game design in general when countless respawns and perfectly thrown grenades (every time) 
 is what is used to stop you. I found Dead or Alive 4 less frustrating than this game. If I can 
 only beat a game on it's easiest difficulty, I am okay with that. But.... when the game design, 
 AI, etc make the game not fun to play anymore and just create a scene of me saying "what?" or a 
 spray of curse words at the tv because I don't know what going on is ridiculous. Many people will 
 enjoy this game, I am not one of them. I looks cool, it plays awesome, but its too hard for its 
 own good. The online seems to be the saving grace for this title..... sadly, thats not my bag. 
 So if you are into online, go for it. 
  
  edit: i've played the game more and as i get used to it.. and get away from the earlier missions 
 i like it a lot better.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chillay
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 13, 2007 12:19 am PT
Review:  This game was incredible, great single player story!
  Insaine graphics.
  And insaine gameplay
  
  only 1 thing let me down, the story length!
  the story was too short 
 = [ but because of the games incredible multiplayer you can look past this.
  
  Defantly worth getting, once you pass the great single player, you will be hook on multiplayer.
 
  TONS of ranks and unlocks.
  
  No need to rent it, just buy it!
  
  The single player story line is pretty well set, but the cinematics are so great, it makes you 
 feel like your apart of the story.
  
  So i gave it a 10
  
  thankz
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: outbombin
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 12, 2007 3:51 pm PT
Review:  The best game ever online is good and its realistic too i think its the best shooter game i ever 
 played too. i give it a 10. my favorite weapon to use is the p90 and the skill last stand if u 
 like shooter games pick this one 
  or u will be losing out on a good game . i think the best mission to play is one shot, one kill 
 . i love how u can pick diffrent skills too. and putting camo on ur guns that sweet tooo . its 
 also a challenge online because theres alot of people out there that are super good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kithooton
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 12, 2007 11:51 am PT
Review:  This Review is about Multi-player aspect 
  
  If you haven't heard Call of Duty 4? Where have you been stranger!
  Call of Duty 4 is the Best 
 Multi-player on Consol to date, well I think so anyways. 
  To say its kinda like Counter Strike and Battle field 2 in one! But without fall Control to Vehicles, 
 (Please let Call of Duty 5 do!)
  
  Mostly Everything upgrades, Your Level status, Weapons and Peaks. Your Character or Uniform (Armour 
 is a perk) doesn't change. You can't choose a character model like Rainbow 6 or put your face on 
 it, ( So why the hell did I buy a Web Cam that only 2 of my games use it!) Gimmick Microsoft!
 
  
  Call of Duty 4 Multiplayer has all of the Favourite Modern Weapons out there, of course you start 
 with the basic, then the gun upgrades with things you can attach like a scope etc and Camo paint.
 
  And then through the game, you get other weapons in other category's. 
  
  Type of Weapons; Assault, Sub-machine gun, Machine Gun, Shot Gun, Sniper Rifle.
  
  Perks; Perks 
 are the abilities the character or gun has, it is balanced, you have 3perks; example faster reloading 
 time, Quicker Fire rate, more health, more grenades, UV Jammer ect. They all balance to make your 
 favourite soldier and weapon. What ever makes you feel you killing more people haha!
  
  Setting up a game, is similar to Halo3, even teams and good connection. 
  
  Single Player is 
 Small, but so great, is like watching Black Hawk Down but your in it!
  
  Buy this Game NOW!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: james95turner
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 12, 2007 10:50 am PT
Review:  this is the next in the series and it rulles i like the modern fact about it the guns the tactics 
 the game rules and the graphics a great the sharper actions the hellecopters its like your the 
 soilder and your fighting the wars. its pure fun . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 
 . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 ... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Praetor
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 12, 2007 8:18 am PT
Review:  The Call of Duty games (1 and 2 [COD 3 doesn't count] ) have amazed me. Providing the player with 
 epic and realistic battles, top-of-the-line graphics (for their respective game generations) , and 
 likeable characters. This game doesn't break stride. If anything, it has given Activision a second 
 foothold in the gaming market (besides Rock Band and GH 3) .
  
  Pros and Cons:
  
  + Fantastic, modern, and believable story
  
  + Realistic weapons and effects, but still able 
 to keep it a game and not a simulator
  
  + Likeable characters, with some making repeat appearances
  
  + Incredible multiplayer with 
 unlockable weapons and perks
  
  + Wise placement of achievements (only in singleplayer)
  
  + Sequences that have you using vehicle weapons
  
  + Great battle chatter that sucks you 
 into the game
  
  + Possibility of a sequel with a fantastic ending and post-credits ending
  
  - PUNISHING Veteran 
 mode enemies (which contains most of the achievements)
  
  - Occasional hiccups with the AI and scripted triggers
  
  + and - Although individual in-game 
 experience ranking makes matchmaking a better experience, it takes away necessity to play with 
 friends.
  
  I won't go over the story, just suffice to say that it is great. It plays out like a 24 episode, 
 having a very similar storyline (Russian provides terrorists with missiles, cliffhanger ending) . 
 Captain Price, featured in Call of Duty 1 & 2, has apparently had a descendant that also has the 
 same amazing red moustache. He will be your squad leader while playing as 'Soap' MacTavish. The 
 other player character is Sgt. Paul Jackson.
  
  One of my few complaints with the game is the scripted AI. They are triggered by your movements, 
 so when you pass a certain point more NPCs will spawn. This becomes an obstacle when you come upon 
 a good firing position, but no more enemies will come until you pass and cannot return. This makes 
 for a hard veteran mode, as you are deprived of good firing positions in large firefights.
  
  Age recommendation*: There is quite a bit of blood spray that is really only noticeable in 
 singleplayer. The worst language in the game is the "s word." Thus, with violence that would be 
 allowed on 24, and language that would be allowed in a PG-13 movie, I'd say this game would be 
 fine for a 14 to 15 years.
  
  
  10  Perfect game
  
  
  
  
  * I usually don't agree with the ESRB, therefore I have decided to include age recommendations. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ultimo8
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 12, 2007 7:46 am PT
Review:  This game is awesome, I never really played the other call of duties, but this one is like the 
 best action game I have played this year, it was just constantly crazy. Here I thought GRAW was 
 nuts. The game is just overall solid and you can comb over it a few times without getting bored 
 at all, the game just makes you keep going and going without needing rest. The HORRIBLE thing about 
 it is that it is too damned short! it took me 5 days to beat it, since I don't play much. But making 
 it longer would have just drawn it out too much and I understand, although a lot more levels like 
 "epilogue" would have been damn right awesome. The multiplayer is good too, I suck at multiplayer 
 personally. They make you EARN your rank there. In Halo you just have to be top 4-5 or be on the 
 winning team. Here though, you have to earn your keep. If you are skimpy on the skills, don't plan 
 on getting promoted at all. Team play will get you some points, but you need to get to work in 
 order to ge your rank and open up more modes of play. Overall though, good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Demonic_Dante-
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 12, 2007 5:07 am PT
Review:  This is the Best in the series but some parts are kind of lacking mostly in mutiplayer only faultis 
 in the serves which means anyone with a horrible connection can enter the game and mess it up for 
 everyone
  
  the campain is the greatest but still in the middle you feel like something important was missing 
 in the storyline but the game play varies making the weapon you use switch nearly everytime. you 
 play as two characters one on the British S. a. S and the US' U. S. M. C but the other call of duties 
 had you play as 3 or more so to me that was the real reason the game seemed to be shorter then 
 the rest of them
  
  as game of the year this one deserves a 80% chance of winning but am not putting a full bet on 
 it yet 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Justinblade101
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 12, 2007 2:34 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is a beautifully crafted game that runs smoothly through the intense battle scenes. 
 Gamespot reviewers may say the single player is short compared to most games available at the moment. 
 I disagree, infact i actually went back to play it through to try different methods of getting 
 through each mission, such as challenging myself by not calling an airstrike for instance (where 
 jets come down and shell the enemy creating masses of explosions in the chosen destination) . Although 
 even on the hardest difficulty it still doesnt quite keep the average gamer grinding their teeth 
 through frustration. It really is just a well balanced shooter. Containing beautiful graphics, 
 really intense battle scenes- a hundred enemies running at you throwing grenades as you throw them 
 back only to find the grenades timer was too short as it blows up in your hand! It is small touches 
 like this that will keep my buying the Call of Duty series. It must be said that this is one game 
 you will not take back once completed! The Multiplayer alone is an excuse to buy it. The exciting 
 and competitive multiplayer is really intense. 
  if you are thinking of getting this game for single player then i suggest you rent it, however 
 if you wish to play on the most thrilling multiplayer this year then why are you still reading 
 this... get out there and buy it!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beltbite
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 11, 2007 8:45 pm PT
Review:  Well, Finally a war game thats does not revovle around World War II. Now they are starting to revolve 
 around the Iraq war lol. Just kidding. When i played this game the very first time. The proluge 
 (The cargo ship) . Sneaking on a ship taking a special package. I thought yea yea yea played this 
 before but as you leave BANG. theres a explosion and now the ship is sinking. your men grab you 
 and tell you get off the ship. As your running through the ship the screen is tilting left to the 
 right walls coming down because of the water. everything is shaking and you hear you men screaming 
 to get out. When you get tot he top you make the leap of faith on the helicopter.
  
  When i played that the first time i was like holy shananigins. That was really intense. Running 
 through a sinking ship trying to get out to save your skin. 
  
  The campaign is really gripping your main role is Private Soap most of the time but your switch 
 roles to a helicopter gunner but most of the time youll play as SOAP. you do special operations 
 in iraq and russia to stop a nuclear warefare.
  
  The controls are basically what first person shooter controls should be right trigger to fire the 
 gun, joysticks control your character. but one exception, when you push in the left joystick you 
 perform your Melee attack which is "knifing" (If your familair with Counter Strike) . Which is conventient 
 when your trying to melee somebody and they duck. you don't have to take your thumb off the Left 
 joystick to press the B button you just aim and press down on the joystick and bam you knifed them. 
 You can also dash with the right jostick and knife to do quick kills.
  
  The Multiplayer. Has the usaul game types, Death match, COnquer, capture the flag. The ranking 
 systems reminds me of Rainbow six Lockdown. You gain expierence during the match and as you level 
 up you go up in rank. for example (Corporal I Corporal II) . as you go up in levels you unlock features 
 such as new weapons, new add on for the weapon such a pierce bullets. 
  
  Overall this game is amazing kept me playing it from day one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoeGio7
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 11, 2007 7:32 pm PT
Review:  When I first read about this game I was excited about it and ever since then I've been wanting 
 to get it. One of the thing's that's cool about this game is how it bring's Modern warfare to the 
 battlefield and not WW2 yeh i liked the other one's but we've get enough of that with Medal of 
 Honor. The weapon's and enviroment look's great and the gameplay too. Also the multiplayer doe's 
 too, that be cool to do and play. They said though that it's too short, but that doe'snt mean it is'nt 
 awsome and everything. I can't wait to get it to play it and everything because i know it's going 
 to be sweet. Yeh COD4 MW ot Rock's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nears_puzzle
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 11, 2007 7:28 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare begins as every other FPS should, with a tutorial. Surprisingly 
 enough, the game manages to make the tutorial fun and interesting at the same time with the input 
 of corky characters and a great challenge. The game develops into a cinematic thrill ride with 
 the invasion onto a cargo ship in the Pacific, near Russia. This was one of the most intriguing 
 opening sequences in a game ever presented. In Call of Duty 4, you find yourself playing for the 
 S. A. S., a highly-advanced British Squad team, fighting the forces of a Russian terrorist group 
 and as the USMC, the United States Marine Core, who look to take down the threat of a powerful 
 terrorist organization in the Middle East. Shockingly , the game manages to combine the two stories 
 in a very creative matter, making the last levels very interesting. The Ending as well as the Epilogue 
 were both great game-finishing experiences. Furthermore, Call of Duty brings back what it always 
 did best; its' highly addictive multiplayer. The graphics look stunning and gameplay is fantastic 
 in both the single and multiplayer, offering great experiences for anyone who plays this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: commando611
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 11, 2007 1:38 pm PT
Review:  Well, The much as i like my halo 3 but if i had to choose this game out of halo 3.
  it would be 100% on call of duty 4.
  
  I have been playing through the CoD4 single player campaign 
 on the XBOX 360 over the past week. The campaign on regular is a bit of the short side, roughly 
 6 hours or so, but it's really hard count much against this game. The enemy AI on "regular" isn't 
 completely dumb, but they also tend to miss a whole lot at close range, while the friendly AI seems 
 more accurate and helpful. At times the game feels very guided as the AI leads you ahead on missions.
 
  
  There are two more difficult skill levels to choose from, "Hardened" and "Veteran." While "regular" 
 is fairly easy and you will probably end up getting wasted a dozen or two times or so, Veteran 
 will straight up kick your ass. You better know what your objectives are, and how to complete them 
 because the enemy AI is now extremely accurate. Don't stray away into the open, or you will be 
 head shotted. Your aim better be top notch and you need to expect the enemy to flank you from all 
 sides. You will see enemy troops jump down from rooftops to try to come around open areas to flank 
 you. Expect to spend an extra 3-6 hours going though the hardest mode.
  
  Once you have completed the game you unlock the "Arcade" mode and the "cheats menu." Play the arcade 
 mode to get scored and see how you compare against your friends and the rest of the XBL community 
 in the leader boards.
  
  Then there's the XBox Live side of the game. Anyone who has played the beta knows that this is 
 the most solid online "Call of Duty" game ever made. It was probably not too difficult to improve 
 on crap, so this is a huge leap forward for the series. While there are no achievements for the 
 live portion of the game, Infinity Ward did a great job rewarding you for playing. You gain experience 
 points for playing, and with experience points you unlock different weapons and abilities. You 
 will unlock the ability to create your own class of soldier with what weapons you want to use, 
 and which extra abilities you think you might need. Expect to spend a whole lot of time playing 
 CoD4: MW online.
  
  So with one of the most solid campaign modes on the 360, and an extremely solid multiplayer mode 
 I score "Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare" a 9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: M49907
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 11, 2007 11:59 am PT
Review:  Where do I start. The single player is different. It plays out like a movie almost. There is a 
 lot of awesome things that play out in the story, like the nuke. After the nuke you must crawl 
 to the end of your chopper and watch yourself die :) . all ghilled up is an awesome mission, probably 
 the best mission of any game. Crawling around in that field dodging tanks and soldiers was nerve 
 racking. The mini game when you have to snipe some dude, you have to watch a flag by him so you 
 know the wind direction was also a nice touch of detail. This game is hard even on normal difficulty. 
 Veteran is just impossible. You could buy this game for single player alone but multi player might 
 be even better. 
  
  On-line play is amazing. I have up to 100 hours online. I enjoy most of the maps. There are a lot 
 game modes that you can pick from befor it starts matchmaking. Create a class works well, the perks 
 system is awesome (could do without last stand) . Perks add a different level of strategy to the 
 game. what perks work best with what weapons. For any SMG i like to do stoping power because they 
 are weak guns, and steady aim, to make it easy to fire from the hip because most SMG encounters 
 are close range and its faster to fire from the hip. There is a wide selection of weapons and none 
 of them totally dominate, they all have pros and cons. Unlocking weapons gives you something to 
 play for, challenges give you a way to gain points faster to go up ranks, and prestige mode keeps 
 it from getting boring. prestige mode is when you can restart from rank 55 back to 1 and loose 
 all of your weapons and challenges. Your rank icon becomes something different to show that you 
 have started over so people in game know you did. there are 10 prestiges i believe. 
  
  I think they should have put a co - op mode in because veteran is so hard a little help would be 
 nice. 
  
  this game is on multiple platforms BUY IT NOW!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DigitalWatch
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 11, 2007 9:33 am PT
Review:  There are very few games that leave me going, "Wow," after I finish them. COD4 managed to do that, 
 not just at the end of the game but after every single level.
  
  For those of you who have not switched over to HD and at least a 5.1 surround stereo, you'll really 
 be missing out on the graphics and sound in this game. For those pondering when to get HD and surround, 
 the time is NOW. This game is a shining example of next gen graphics and sound that you won't want 
 to miss out on. 
  
  But the actual graphics of COD4 aren't the only eye-candy in the game-the motion capture is, for 
 lack of a better or more descriptive word, awesome. I have never need movement like it before. 
 Enemies collapse before you in countless ways depending on where your bullets hit them; and if 
 they don't die, they roll around on the ground grasping at their last breaths, toting a pistol 
 that could be your demise if you're not careful. With the sprinting feature, you can duck in and 
 out of all the corridors in tightly-packed middle-eastern war-zone streets and silently execute 
 waiting enemies with your melee-knife. Or you can even get decked-out in a full Gillie-suit and 
 crawl inches infront of oncoming patrols, boots crunching in your face so close you can almost 
 taste the dirt, without ever alerting a single person. You simply go through the entire game holding 
 your breath because the enemies are so lifelike you expect them to sense you coming.
  
  Continuing that thought, the AI is exceptional. With the help from some invisible "trip-wires" 
 programmed in some buildings, the AI takes advantage of all the corners and ditches you yourself 
 would use as cover. Every corner you go around could have someone laying-in-wait, and when these 
 guys shoot they don't mess around! The only drawback I found was that the men shooting out of helicopters 
 seemed to be a bit TOO good; but, if they're supposed to be using infra-red technology like you 
 get to try out in a very unique level of the game then it's fully understandable. But just because 
 it's understandable doesn't make you less angry when someone's chopper shoots you down in multiplayer!
 
  
  The physics are also top-notch. Explosions launch tires from busted autos into the air, which bounce 
 on impact and when you shoot them, spin out of control before flopping to the ground. You can even 
 interact with silly objects like slicing some fruit on the various abandoned fruit stands in the 
 middle-east with your knife. The bane or triumph of many people, especially in multiplayer, is 
 the added addition of walls/textures that you are able to shoot through with certain weapons. This 
 concept is quite new to FPS and some people just simply don't think about shooting through walls 
 to kill their enemy. The ones who take advantage of it, however, rack up a good amount of points 
 and tend to become the Public Enemy Number 1 of a match. Because, afterall, you can watch the last 
 5 seconds from your killer's perspective when you die and then get angry at the guy carrying around 
 the giant machine gun who just sits back and shoots at a main-traffic-building all day.
  
  I really don't want to say much about the campaign in this review because the really interesting 
 parts that people would like to talk about would be complete spoilers. I'll just say that there 
 are some crazy twists in the storyline that are so intense you sit back and think, "Did they seriously 
 just do that?" "Whoa," is another one that I hear myself saying a lot too. I personally don't think 
 the campaign is too short. My first run-through was on Hardened difficulty and at parts it was 
 quite a challenge. I'd like to know what difficulty all the people who breezed through the game 
 in 3-5 hours played because even now that I know the levels I cannot play them that fast. At the 
 end of the day I thoroughly enjoyed the campaign because of all of the unique things they through 
 into the mix and just the fact that from the first second of the first mission to the last of the 
 last, there is unprecedented action in this game unlike anything I've ever experienced.
  
  Onto Multiplayer. It's a decidedly unique approach that gives tons of replay value. The leveling 
 system is role-playing in many aspects-the more you do, the more you level; the more you unlock, 
 the more you rock. No long waits to find games because you play with people from level 1 to 55. 
 What does that mean, you ask? It means that if you're lower in level you don't have all the fancy-schmancy 
 guns and scopes like a level 55 but it's not that hard to get yourself some kills. And if you like 
 objective games you have a pretty fair chance of killing someone regardless of weapons, or scoring 
 points by doing the objectives. You can also pick up weapons dropped from dead people. In effect, 
 you could be a level 1, pick up a P90 from a dead level 40, and score more kills than anyone else 
 in the game. Once you're level 55, you can choose to restart from square 1, with a shiny new medal 
 of course but with all newbie weapons again. So far, I've only encountered people on their 4th 
 run-through of the leveling system but I'm sure there are people farther than that. The multiplayer 
 also just seems way more relaxed than let's say . . . Halo 3. I think a lot of that has to do with 
 the fact that you can see who killed you and how. It takes a lot of the, "What the f***?!?!?!" 
 factor out of question. And it also let's you get a sneak peek of guns that aren't available to 
 you yet, or hiding spots you would never have guessed to look for!
  
  Now onto the bad. Bad . . . bad . . .? What bad? Sadly every game has to have something that lets 
 you down because if all games were perfect there would be no need to improve. No need to write 
 this review! And for me, the "bad" of COD4 is lack of co-op. I'll sit and play a game's campaign 
 over and over again with new people just to have fun like in multiplayer, but here it's just not 
 possible. I can see how doing a co-op of 2 people would change the game incredibly (let alone 4 
 people) so I do have mixed feelings on the issue. Maybe co-op would have made it too easy? And 
 I see that a lot of the fighting, especially in buildings, is really designed for 1 person. Maybe 
 they were just pressured into releasing the game ASAP and had to leave out co-op . . . who knows! 
 This game was a shining example of pretty much everything else so in the future I'll be expecting 
 something as awesome as this WITH co-op, and I'm not angry that I have to wait for it. Because 
 I know it'll be something worth waiting for.
  
  
  In conclusion COD4 is pretty much it-top notch, head honcho, cream-of-the-crop. All the developers 
 of other recent games are probably sitting there going, "Crap." This game is simply a "must-have." 
 And I know I said there was something about the game that I didn't like, but there are games in 
 the past that have gotten a perfect 10 that can't stack up to the adrenaline-pumping rush that 
 COD4 gives you. In my book there is nothing more perfect to date than this game so it gets its 
 well-deserved 10.0.
  
  
  Final Score: 10.0
  
  C. Leschinsky 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ReconDemon
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 10, 2007 10:48 pm PT
Review:  Ive Always been a fan of IW Im Glad they came back to make COD4 MW the online play is great u can 
 really get the feeling of the game right after the first few games if people never played any of 
 the COD games they should try this out it isnt that hard, The Graphics Are Great Even WithOut A 
 HD And The Single Player I Really Enjoyed I Thought It Was Kinda Short But They Covered Alot Of 
 Ground In The Story Line.
  They Have One Level On Single Player Call All Gillied Up Its A Fun Single Player Level One Of The 
 Funnest To Me. Anyways This Is The End Of My COD4 MW Review Thank You IW For Making This Great Game 
 My Review is 10/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Farsided
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 10, 2007 10:45 pm PT
Review:  frankly, i wasn't blown away by this game... it felt just like COD2, but with automatic weapons 
 and a few added bonuses (helicopter, air strike, spy plane) it just felt like i was getting more 
 frustration than joy out of the crappy ranking system, and i feel like the shooting through walls 
 thing was a tad bit over the top. and what happened to being rewarded for firing at the head/center 
 mass? every time i lost a firefight, it was because they were aiming at my feet and just unloading, 
 rather than the what i would have thought to be more accurate burst fire. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joe_Do_This_To
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 10, 2007 9:50 pm PT
Review:  So when you start out in the Single player Campaine your in some kind of SAS trianing program. The 
 grafics look nice. really nice. So anyways after looking at such clean Grafics you have to shooot 
 these targets then have to similate a Boat penetration So the game is Call of Duty in the modern 
 day.
  
  The Difficulty unfurtenetly is either too easy or too hard. The Hard difficulting was good untile 
 I came to a mission I couldnt pass. Now for me the normal Difficulty is a bit easy. So unless you 
 are really good at it. Normal Difficulty will have to Do.
  
  The Story is good but it has a rather Sad ending for SAS and Marines. Not as sad as you think but 
 just feels wasted.
  
  Luckily the graphics and gameplay and Multiplayer makes up for such. The Multiplay is one of the 
 best. Too bad the short and unsatisfying campaigh really doesnt live up to Muiltiplay.
  
  Get this game because Multiplay is one of the BEST!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Holmes5788
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 10, 2007 9:06 pm PT
Review:  Unbelievable. You have to play it to know what nigglings all about ite? Its the best first person 
 shooter that i've laid my hands on since i was crawlin my a$$ to the tv to shoot 007 style u know 
 what im sayin? 64! thats right. more real than your life. PLAY IT BIZQUICK
  
  100 words? What do u mean 100 worlds... I cant spell for my lifeee doagggggy? 100? 67 words, 68 
 words, 69 words, ????? its a good game. I would steal some money and buy it. do it now, your parents 
 want u to buy it. DO IT FOR AMERICA! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcburger99
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 10, 2007 8:52 pm PT
Review:  No matter who you are, this game will spark some interest. CoD4 has stunning graphics along with 
 a great story-line. The game starts and already you begin an unforgettable adventure. you play 
 as two players from different organizations as you attempt to suppress the terrorist forces. The 
 game graphics are truly amazing and the game runs beautifully. The only concern i have about the 
 story mode is that it is so short, it is so much fun but it ends so quickly, making you want the 
 game to never end. The Artificial Intelligence is very good in this game. At some points, it seems 
 like you are relying more on the AI, then they are on you. This leads to a more advanced gameplay 
 and the AI seems quite a but less of a nuisance and much more helpful. 
  
  CoD4 has my vote for the best online multiplayer game. It is so much fun and exciting, with a large 
 variety of game modes, and maps. The only slight disappointment i have, is that you cannot customize 
 your players looks.
  
  Overall Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is a must have game. If you are heading to your local game 
 dealers anytime soon and are unsure of what game to get, CoD4 will not let you down.
  i promise 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arachanox01
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 10, 2007 4:56 pm PT
Review:  This game is just awesome! When I first saw COD4 i thought it was going to be the same as the other 
 CODies. Then a friend told me that it was great and made me play a mission... oooo and what a mission. 
 You are soldier and you have to pass through a field full of enemies!! yeah!! that was so fun, 
 and stressing! Definitely one of the coolest missions Ive ever done in my hole life in any game! 
 Really, buy this game, it worths every single cent. Also I have to mention that the graphics are 
 the best graphics of all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: puckhead778
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 10, 2007 4:37 pm PT
Review:  
  Let me start by saying that I have played every other Call of Duty game made for consoles. This 
 installment in the military series is by far the greatest. The transition from WWII to modern war 
 was the correct move for the developers to make. It worked out perfectly. Now, about the game:
 
  
  Overview:
  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare takes place in middle-eastern warzones. It deals with United States 
 Marines along with British S. A. S. soldiers. There is a wide selection of weapons and upgrades available 
 through the campaign and specifically the multiplayer. The graphics are next generation and the 
 game is just fun.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics in Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare are stunning. They use the power of the Xbox 360 
 to the max. Although the multiplayer graphics are toned down a bit so that the game runs smoothly, 
 the environments, character and weapon models, and the special effects still look great. With better 
 graphics on the campaign portion of the game, the experience is made even more thrilling.
  
  Gameplay:
  We all know that gameplay is really what gamers care about. Graphics are great 
 nowadays, but they cannot make a game. The gameplay in Call of Duty 4 is not even comparable to 
 any other game out these days. It is much different than the other Call of Duty games, and that 
 is definitely a good thing. The gunplay is smooth and realistic and the variety in missions helps 
 to make this game a must have. Also, the multiplayer is right up there with Halo 3 and Gears of 
 War, and by that I mean that this online battlefield is amazing!
  
  Campaign:
  The campaign story is not very in depth, but it has more bang than the previous games. You are 
 a soldier in either the U. S. Marines or the British S. A. S. fighting a war in the middle-east. There 
 is one bad guy that is being chase throughout the campaign and the need to kill this badass grows 
 on you. The campaign is not all that long, but that is assuming that you are playing on the normal 
 difficulty setting. When the difficulty labeled "Veteran" is turned on, a whole new fight is started. 
 The game becomes much more real, and you can die much, much faster. This can be tedious, but it 
 is a fun challenge to try and beat the game on the hardest difficulty setting, plus it will make 
 the single player component of the game last a lot longer. Overall, the campaign in this game is 
 nothing amazing, but it is still pretty enjoyable. 
  
  Multiplayer:
  The online play in Call of Duty 4 is where this game really hits the spot. First off, it never 
 gets old. There are countless hours that can and will be put into this part of the game. The features 
 in the multiplayer are fresh and different from other games out there. Like Call of Duty 3, there 
 are still classes to choose from, but once a player ranks up a bit, the ability to create a custom 
 class is unlocked. Custom classes can be made with any gun that has been unlocked, along with different 
 sights, add-ons, and camouflage available for that weapon. When players choose to be a sniper, 
 their online character will come prepared to battle sporting a ghillie suit, which, amazingly, 
 can completely hide a player in grass or a similar looking environment when prone. The addition 
 of perks in the series has pushed the customization options to the edge. Not only can you choose 
 and customize your weapon for online play, you can now add three different perks from three different 
 categories of perks. Some of these perks include Martyrdom, which drops a grenade where a player 
 dies; Frag x3, which gives a player three fragmentation grenades instead of one; Juggernaut, which 
 gives the player more health, thus enabling them to live longer in gunfights; Double Tap, which 
 increases rate of fire on a weapon (i. e. enabling Double Tap on an M16 allows the assault rifle 
 to fire around a six shot burst instead of a three shot burst) ; and many more. There are over 20 
 different perks available. The majority of these perks need to be unlocked by ranking up. The ranking 
 system online is pretty solid as well. Players gain XP from capture points, kills, assists, and 
 challenges. As players earn more XP, they will rank up in both number and military rank. Each number 
 that is gained has a corresponding military rank. There are a total of 55 military ranks. Once 
 a player achieves the highest level, level 55, they can decide if they want to go into prestige 
 mode. Prestige mode gives a player a new insignia, but the player will be "reset" so to speak. 
 All unlocked weapons, challenges, and perks are locked up again and the player must start over 
 from rank one to regain abilities and guns. This is a tough decision, although it makes for a good 
 challenge. A player can enter Prestige mode up to ten times, each with a new insignia that shows 
 experience among players. Throughout the multiplayer experience, players unlock new challenges 
 to complete. Some of these are quite simple, while others take try after try to complete. Each 
 gun has challenges to get certain numbers of kills and headshots, each unlocking a different scope, 
 add-on, or camouflage. Other challenges, along with the weapon challenges, give players XP according 
 to the difficulty of the challenge. All of these features make the online worth spending hours, 
 maybe even days, on end playing. There is never trouble finding a game because of the huge number 
 of players, and the game lobbies allow for invitations to friends. If players feel the need to 
 be less competitive, they can host a custom match with standard custom options. There are over 
 a dozen game types that can be played on a current total of 16 maps. The last part of the multiplayer 
 that I can think about is the kill streaks. Like other online games, kill streaks give players 
 something. Some games have an emblem, while others just tell players that they got a kill streak 
 and end it with an exclamation mark. In Call of Duty 4, players get rewarded with much better prizes. 
 If a player gets a three kill streak, they can call in UAV, which gives players a scan of the enemy 
 and their locations. Once a player gets a five kill streak, they have the ability to call in an 
 airstrike. If UAV is enabled when a player calls in an airstrike, they can strategically place 
 the airstrike and make it devastating to the enemy. The last streak that offers something up to 
 players is a seven kill streak. This streak gives players a helicopter call in. The helicopter 
 will fly in and shoot down opposing players viciously. The downfall to the helicopter is that it 
 can be shot down, so players will want to suppress enemies that firing at their helicopters. From 
 then on, kill streaks are just announced, but no award is given. These numerous options and features 
 in Call of Duty 4's multiplayer make it one, if not the, best to date. 
  
  Overview:
  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is one of the best games to ever be released. It has a fun and action-packed 
 campaign alongside an unbeatable multiplayer. This game alone is worth an Xbox Live Gold subscription. 
 The uniqueness of this game and the replay value make it a must have in this wicked next generation 
 video game battle. Hats off to Call of Duty 4!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CPTPeter
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 10, 2007 10:59 am PT
Review:  Honestly I have never been into the Halo franchise as much as I have in the COD franchise  great 
 play and feel to the game and this one beats all before it  graphics, story and situations are 
 all phenomenal! 
  It is true that I wish I could have more time in single player mode, but that pales to the online 
 playabilty of this game  The online experience is fantastic. The only thing I do not enjoy is 
 the wait. I liked the online "lobby" in COD 3 better where you could hope into a game already in 
 progress as opposed to the Halo-ish method of having to wait until you get everyone to start.
 
  On the flip side you have great customizability of your player than ever before and the team balancing 
 feature is very nice  makes for some great matches. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ahmed_009
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 10, 2007 10:43 am PT
Review:  I have to say that, it's a perfect game by all means, the story, the graphics, the soldiers even 
 the writes on the walls in the Mideast region, it's all well made, cause I'm an Arabic and I can 
 understand the writing on the wall, and the best part of game when back 15 years ago and you will 
 take the role of Capt. Price when he was lieutenant. back there you will run right beside enemies 
 while they talking ,watching or even executing other soldiers, and the enemy BMP's pass just beside 
 you, and the other great thing of the game is when you take the role of Al-Fulani, who he is a 
 president of a virtual state which lies in the land of Saudi Arabia & Kuwait And Iraq, you will 
 suffer with him until his executing (or Yours) , they will put in the back of the car, and drive 
 you through a city where a revolution has begun already and take you in place where you will be 
 executed by Khalid Al-Asad , & the other perfect thing in this game is when you hit the enemy tanks 
 in Javelin Missile, Oh my god what a wonderful thing it was ,it will take time to lock on the target 
 and u will see the missile hits the tank from above , I've Played the XBOX 360 Version & The Pc 
 Version , there's no any difference between the two, in the end I recommend anyone who reads this 
 review to buy this game and it really deserves the 10.0 Rating 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadygeneral
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 10, 2007 3:38 am PT
Review:  Amazing game. I normaly steer clear of COD games as I hate WW2 games with a passion. But with this 
 being set in modern times I thought i'd give it a go. Im glad I did. Everything in this game reeks 
 of quality. The graphics, characters, atmosphere, set-pieces, particle effects, level design, everything. 
 
  Great sense of danger which makes you use cover. If you go out guns blazing you'll die, no doubts. 
 You have to work with your team mates. Who have the best squad AI ive seen. They never once got 
 in my way & took care of themselves. I never had to worry about them. 
  There ar some truly oustounding set-pieces. The nuclear bomb explosion you actualy see is masterful 
 & some of the scenes really do get the emotions going. Another great thing about this is that the 
 scenery tells a story, you go through levels that you can tell used to be lived in but now are 
 deserted & wrecked. These are really unsettling. One of the first times ive felt real emotion in 
 a game. 
  
  Yes it is short but its superbly paced. you never want to put the game down once you get started 
 & a game like that will always feel shorter than you like as you just never want it to end. It 
 comes down to this with me, its either a 8-10 hour blast like this is which you'll love & treasure 
 or you get a game that lasts 20 hours & you cant remember a single stand out moment & it felt more 
 a chore to play through rather than fun. I know which I prefer. In fact its probably going to last 
 me longer because with it being so short & great I am actualy going to replay it on a higher difficulty, 
 which is something I havent done for years. 
  
  Best current gen game yet
  My one & only complaint is that sometimes the squad is too efficient. Theres times I wanted to 
 go on a 1 man killing spree or sneak up & knife someone but my teammates beat me too it. This is 
 a very minor complaint & i'd prefer this to happen rather than them act like complete morons. 
 
  
  Superb! Buy it now!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: keyhole_romance
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 25, 2007 5:32 am PT
Review:  The single player campaign is excellent. However, it took one evening's play to complete on regular. 
 I've since played it on Veteran, and it's a lot more challenging but also incredibly frustrating. 
 It seems as if the enemies are constantly respawning, so inevitably you have to flashbang them 
 and run into the building they are in and try to clear them out without dying. The A. I. of your 
 fellow soldiers is nigh on useless as well. They constantly walk into your line of fire, and why 
 is it that they and the enemies can shoot from behind cover ala Gears Of War but I can't? I found 
 COD 3 had a great deal more variety. Where have the drivable vehicles gone? There isn't a great 
 deal of variety in the levels in COD 4. You get cool gadgets like claymores, night vision etc, 
 but you don't need to use them that much. And the multiplayer is good, but not as good as say, 
 Halo 3. Graphically the game is fantastic, but the gameplay is a bit of a letdown, very scripted. 
 It all feels a bit "on the rails" so to speak. There are a lot of FPS' on the 360 and this is easily 
 one of the better ones, but I still feel there is a lot that could have been improved. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agubna
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 9, 2007 12:31 pm PT
Review:  I loved all the other call of duty game and was a little skeptical at how a game set in modern 
 times would do, but it worked perfectly and this is now one of my all time favorite games. I'll 
 start with this games campaign. The campaign is probably the longest out of all of the call of 
 dutys. This will take you quite a few hours to complete, or more if you take the plunge and try 
 to conquer veteran difficulty. This story mode is just so good, I can play it more than once and 
 not get bored. The visuals in some of the parts are just breath-taking. Sometimes there are so 
 many things going on, on the screen, but the framerate holds up fine with no problems at all. The 
 game also had a wide variety of weapons to choose from, which is one of its best aspects. Now onto 
 the live, this game has the best live I had ever played. Despite having no achievements for the 
 live play, it is still my favorite game for xbox live play. In place of the achievements, you can 
 unlock new weapons by ranking up and completing challenges. You rank up by just killing enemies 
 and winning matches, when this happens, you get points which go towards ranking you up. It takes 
 a very long time to rank up as far as you can go , and there are so many different weapons and 
 maps that it never really gets boring. I would recommend this game to just about any shooter fan, 
 it will be worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darksoul323
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 9, 2007 11:18 am PT
Review:  COD4 is a great game!. Finally a war game that isnt based on WW2, its very refreshing. Some new 
 things have been added to this game that previous COD games didnt have. Things like the brestly 
 50 cal sniper, advanced AI and the abililty to shoot through walls. YES you can destroy a terrorist 
 while he thinks he's safe behind cover! Now I do have one complaint, SHORT SINGLE PLAYER CAMPAIGN. 
 I finished the single player story in one day. So it may not be the longest campaign but it does 
 end with a big bang.
  Now, the multiplayer. INSANE! Fact paced and vicious combat keep every match feeling like new. 
 The soul of COD4 is the online play. multiple different game modes but they are mostly variants 
 on CTF and Deathmatch. UAV's, Heli's and bombing runs are some of the things one can deploy dureing 
 the intense multiplayer matches. You will never get bored if you have a Live subscription. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Master_of_Fate
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 9, 2007 9:50 am PT
Review:  Very few games come out as strongly as this title. This is one of the best ,if not the best, games 
 out. Because of its new storyline that is not WWII related, it gives this game its freshness. The 
 Story makes you feel like you are their helping them do what they are there to do. Now to talk 
 about the games great mutliplayer. The game mutliplayer hits a homerun, because of the skill based 
 unlockable, it makes you try the hardest just so that you will be able toget even one kill. So 
 overall I Give this game a perfect 10 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: camp1301
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 8, 2007 10:46 pm PT
Review:  I've played a lot of multiplayer games and this one is by far the best. The playing field seems 
 to be leveled a lot on this game. No bunny hopping around like some sort of retarded kangaroo like 
 people do on that piece of crap Halo 3. there are many unlockables in the multi player such as 
 weapons and "perks." These perks add everything from increased damage infliction to eavedropping 
 on your opponents chatter. The campaign is fairly difficult, but could be a little longer. My only 
 complaint about this game is the lack of co-op campaign. Try this game, you'll be hooked! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grapetoucher
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 8, 2007 9:59 pm PT
Review:  Damn, this game is like crack on multiplayer. The single player is very good, but they left some 
 stuff out. Single player really needs some sort of cover system, even old rainbow six pc games 
 had a lean. I mean, your squad will lean behind cars and buildings and peek around corners. Even 
 the enemy AI will blind fire and use cover, why can't I do any of that. I only played regular difficulty, 
 pretty tough if you ask me, but not impossible with practice and strategy. Very good graphics, 
 awesome sound. Story is good enough to pull you in and seem believable. I do agree about enemies 
 constantly spawning until you reach a certain invisible line, some missions seem endless until 
 you just sprint away to the next checkpoint.
  
  Multiplayer is crazy addictive. The ranking system is quite fun, unlike GRAW2, which sucks. I loved 
 GRAW2, but only player matches, ranked matches were full of jerks and if you got destroyed by a 
 bunch of 15s you lost your current level. I like the steady progression up the ladder, unlockables, 
 challenges, etc... It makes playing seem worth something. The only problem is how long I find myself 
 playing just to get that next 10 kills to complete a challenge, or 100 more xp to the next rank. 
 Can't beat it. 
  
  The overall gameplay isn't much changed from previous COD games. Feels almost exactly like COD1. 
 It takes getting used to after playing GRAW and R6 games, feels very primitive in comparison to 
 other modern shooters. Once used to it though, it's well worth it for shooter fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Holopaw
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 8, 2007 7:50 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is a fantastic idea on the part of the development team, for it 
 is what the CoD series really needed, change. There are a lot of great things about this game, 
 just about the whole game is perfect and what I think any modern day FPS should be. An awesome 
 single player with an even more awesome multi-player provide for an excellent game.
  
  The gameplay is fantastic, shooting feels realistic and you can feel the impact of your bullets. 
 Movement is smooth, and what you come to expect from a good fps. The single player missions are 
 intriguing and exciting, never really a dull moment throughout the whole game. The story is well 
 thought out and fits with todays warfare, keeping realism and fiction on a thin border from each 
 other. Sound is what you would expect, great action music and realistic weapon blasts make you 
 immerse yourself even deeper into the action. The multiplayer is probably the best aspect of the 
 game, and its hard to say that with such an awesome single player campaign. It combines rpg elements 
 to your fps experience, by letting you level up and earn new weapons and upgrades. Also, Challenges 
 are another great way of earning upgrades as well. But even without this great addition, the multiplayer 
 would still be great, because its just very smooth and to the point. It is truly an amazing game, 
 and worth every penny. I give CoD4 a 9.5, for it deserves such a score for delivering everything 
 you could want from a FPS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: randoman356
Rating: 3
Date: Dec 8, 2007 6:38 pm PT
Review:  This has to be the most annoying game I have ever played! You can barely move forward because enemies 
 never stop spawning! Every single gun was inaccurate and none of the cli [s held enoug bullets! 
 Also, the levels are way too hard. I've been playing it on Regular and I have never died to much 
 in a video game. I understand that game-makers want to challenge us but we need to be able to finish 
 the game in general. But, the worst part of this game is that the AI is the worst I have ever seen. 
 Your team and an enemy will just look at each other for a minute or two before I have to kill the 
 enemy. Your team stays way behind you and they provide no help at all. You don't have enough health 
 and your own bullets aren't as strong as the enemies even if you are using the same gun. The only 
 thing that kinda saved this game are the first three or four levels and the multiplayer. The multiplayer 
 is very fun but the rank system is dumb. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bluey2323
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 8, 2007 4:13 pm PT
Review:  This game is the game of the year for in my opion. This game IS the reason why YOU should by a 
 360. If i could only have one game for the 360 this would be it. BUY THIS GAME NOW! It has an fantastic 
 single player and a triumphit multiplayer. This game is a success in every way. There is only two 
 minor things I see missing. Co-op and online guests. If you can live without these get this game 
 now. If you can't get halo 3. Umm........... i dont have anything else to say. Umm..... la la la 
 la la la la la la la la 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pulli1cj
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 8, 2007 3:31 pm PT
Review:  Overall, Infinity Ward did their home work, after a somewhat week Call of Duty 3 I was a bit scared 
 when they decided to make a modern combat FPS. This was a new part of the FPS target audience. 
 I know, the WWII games are all the same, but Call of Duty was the best of them all. They now had 
 to step up and compete closer to games such as the Battle Field series!! So little to say, I was 
 a bit worried about the game. The first time I played erased all those worries, specially when 
 on-line! They made leveling up a crack addiction with the huge text on the screen and unforgettable 
 sound. I found mind self saying I can play to the next level multiple times. There was one large 
 let down, allowing more than one player to be on XBOX Live at the same time!! Overall this game 
 rocked my world and left my Halo addiction in the sand.. Congrats Infinity Ward for developing 
 one of the best FPS of 2007!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: operkov
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 8, 2007 11:53 am PT
Review:  What do I have to say. On of the greatest shooters of the year and the greatest I'vee ever played. 
 First the Campaign. The Story is great but the problem is its way too short. Then the AI is amazing 
 for both sides on easy or veteran. The sound effects make the levels with cars exploding, grenades 
 going off and Rockets flying past you. The weapons are what also make the game like call in an 
 airstrike or call a helicopter. This leads me to online play. The Online play is amazing but they 
 should have added more things to killstreaks like make a plane drop poison gas on a location or 
 have a medic heal you on your next death. The online has these things called perks that makes the 
 game fell like an rpg to evolve your charcater. One of the best levels inj campaign is guillies 
 in the Suit were your a sniper and taking out people which leads you to killing a guy like a real 
 sniper with a .50 Caliber. this game is a must own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Clutch22
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 8, 2007 10:56 am PT
Review:  This is by far the best COD that they have come out with so far... the graphics in this one are 
 just as good (better) as all of the COD games have been... this is by far the best one thought. 
 The campaign in this one is very good and comes with a shocking part that if you get this game 
 you will find out what i mean... the guns in this one are much better and easier to aim... the 
 difficulty is up there with the other COD's... If you want a challenge than i would say put it 
 on Veteran difficulty then you won't beat it as fast and you'll have a great challenge trying to 
 do so. The multiplayer is not to bad... i only have played a few games i must say that its hard 
 to find a good multiplayer after halo... the ranking system is very much like halo 3 as well... 
 i strongly recommend this game to those of you who are fans of COD... this is by far the best COD 
 they have come out with. Enjoy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bannockburn1314
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 8, 2007 9:30 am PT
Review:  
  
  I've been playing modern warfare for a couple of hours now, and this is my first impression. The 
 graphics are good, and the environment looks nicely well done. The cut scenes when you're in a 
 helicopter look excellent. The weaponry is fun for the COD series, and is a nice change than using 
 a M1 or Tommy gun. Thus, playing modern warfare is a nice change for a first person shooter that 
 is often WW2 based in this series.
  
  With that being said, the game doesn't offer a lot in originality. It still feels very much like 
 a COD game, and depending on your position of playing the same game with a new title will change 
 your perspective on it. The AI behave very much like the other COD AI, and doesn't seem like there 
 has been any improvement. This is also the same with your "team mates" and as a result you don't 
 feel very connected to your squad. Thus, it feels like you played the game that's been glossed 
 over with new environments. Your life meter is highly forgiving and it's now your basic get shot 
 and wait until you're healed. What is missing in this is what has always been missing  being able 
 to cover and peek. I don't know how many times I've been shot simply because I can't angle a corner 
 properly. 
  
  As I said before, it feels and acts very much like previous COD games and as a result after you 
 get over shooting a round or two from a M4, then it'll feel your right back playing COD 3, or even 
 finest hour. With that being said, I must add the fact that they added blood, but this feature 
 doesn't make the game seem any more realistic. However, with that being said, what I do like about 
 the game is when your enemies are injured they will crawl away and fire back at you. Hence, they 
 are still dangerous and you want to make sure they aren't moving. That's nice. 
  
  If you're a fan of the COD series, then you'll enjoy the game and the sense that you've played 
 the game before. If you haven't liked previous COD series games, and thinking about picking up 
 this game, then you'll probably be disappointed simply because its basically the same game with 
 some minor details changes; instead of ww2 uniforms you have modern uniforms  big deal! Instead 
 of firing at hundreds of Nazi's you'll shoot Arabs who act just like Nazi's. Thus, this game at 
 least for me seems like I've done it all before and if you're not a fan of the series, then you'll 
 get the same impression. In all, it's a good game equivalent to its predecessors, but hardly goes 
 beyond them. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_Lykouleon
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 8, 2007 5:39 am PT
Review:  This is one of those shooters that can be summed up with a very simple phrase.
  
  Its just fun.
  
  Call of Duty 4 is developed by IW who did COD2, and so they had plenty of 
 time and resources to get back to basics, boiling Call of Duty down to what makes it fun.
  
  Its a solid, primarily multiplayer experience that will keep you playing just one more game 
 to rank up one more time, for that new perk, rifle, SMG, insignia, or game mode unlock.
  
  That being said, if you do not have Xbox Live, I would not advise this game.
  
  If you DO have 
 Xbox Live, this is a must have for all xbox owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xSoHxGhost
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 8, 2007 4:01 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 can be argued as the best first person shooter of the past few years, let alone 
 this year. From the great single-player to the simply amazing Multiplayer, this game is top notch 
 on all scales. Let me begin with the campaign. Yes, it can be argued as being short, but when you 
 actually play it you find the gameplay is deeper than anything else out there. You'll get so drawn 
 into it that after you beat the game, which is about 8-9 hours for most, it will of felt like you 
 had played a twenty hour campaign: that's just how loaded the dang thing is. From the faced-paced 
 gunfights, to the split-second deciding moments that could either end the game or bring about untold 
 glory, the intensity is present throughout. 
  But the game doesn't end there. After you get passed the nine plus hours of singleplayer (which 
 has a very high replay value) , you discover the other game mode present: multiplayer. If you were 
 drawn into the campaign then you haven't seen anything yet. The number of customizations avaliable 
 to players exceeds any other game I've played. There's things called, "Perks," (over 30) that give 
 your chatacter his own feel and orignality. No matter how you play, whether it be run and gun with 
 a uzi or pick people off with an M14, you can make a character that allows you to experience the 
 game like how YOU would want to, not just how the developers pictured it. The gameplay in the multiplayer 
 is a real treat, mixing elements of games like Battle Field 2 and Ghost Recon into a perfect representation 
 of what modern warfare gameplay is like, while still holding on to the classic feel of old Call 
 of Duty games of late. The multiplayer is very addictive and rewarding, when you rank up you feel 
 like your acomplishing something, an element many games today lack. 
  When you get passed the first few days of playing Call of Duty 4, you'll see what I mean. Setting 
 aside how realistic and "right" the game feels, it happens to have another important element that 
 doesn't usually go with realistic: the game is FUN to play. You'll enjoy playing the game, rarely 
 will it ever make you frustrated or angry (although it will inevitably happen) . Its one of those 
 games that will be in your xbox 360's disc drive for weeks, if not months to come. What I'm saying 
 is you'll get yout money's worth, many times over.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: caseyaaron13
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 7, 2007 8:27 pm PT
Review:  It takes place in almost an Iraq war setting but you play through the campaign to find a dictator 
 and shut him down, and you play through some amazing levels which have amazing graphics but what 
 really sets this war game away from all the others is the multi player it has some of the best 
 game play i have played although the server does go down sometimes but besides that there are no 
 draw backs. Like i said before the game play is what sets it apart go to your local best buy or 
 store that sells it and get a copy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LedZeppelin1234
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 7, 2007 7:25 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is obviously the greatest in the series becuase of its incredible story and awsome 
 online multiplayer. When I heard that COD4 was going to be short I expected it to end in about 
 an hour or 2, but I was wrong it took about 8 or 9 hours to finish the game. I know that that might 
 not be a long time, but during that time youll be so entertained you will never want to turn off 
 your X360. Campaign modes levels arent as long as other FPS games, but the story is great and the 
 gameplay has improved greatly. The graphics are great no matter if your using an HD or regular 
 TV. The sound effects are extremely realistic and make you feel as if you are fighting in the war. 
 The weapons are so much better because of the games new modernized gameplay. Unlike the other Call 
 of Duty games this one doesn't take place during World War II, but in the modern day warfare. Thus 
 the name Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare. When I completed the level shock and awe, I was so amazed 
 that one of the main characters died so early into the game. For the rest of the game you controll 
 John "Soap" MacTavish. this game is an excellent game and the action starts and ends from epilouge 
 to prolouge. Multiplayer gives you even more reasons to play this game. The maps are huge and you 
 can choose a position to give you different weapons. If you like stronger weapons then youll chose 
 the position with stronger weapons. This game is a great choice to get, but if you think that this 
 game might be too short then DONT BUY IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: infinite_venom
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 7, 2007 6:36 pm PT
Review:  This time, one of the highly anticipated game, Call of Duty 4 is here created by Activision and 
 Infinity Ward. The gameplay is certainly great. Battles are intense and fun and also, the missions 
 are great. The AI in the game is smart as they will try to take cover, try to throw grenades at 
 your position and they'll sometimes even throw your grenades back if they have the time to do so. 
 They may sometimes do foolish things like charge at you although they can sometimes kill you easily 
 if they do this especially on the harder difficulties. Weapons in the game are all great. You may 
 not have the ability to take cover like in Gears of War but you'll probably try to do so. The game 
 though is a little bit short which isn't pretty good but you'll enjoy the game while it lasts. 
 The only difference in gameplay between the Xbox 360 and PC version is its controlls. The visuals 
 of the game are simply amazing. The lighting, rain, shadows, environment, weapons, smoke, characters, 
 water, etc. all of this looks great. You might notice though that the water at the first stage 
 isn't that great but you won't probably mind it. The games frame rate is also completely smooth 
 and stable and the game rans at 60 fps which already high despite the large amount of detail on 
 screen at once. The visuals of the Xbox 360 and PC version looks almost alike although if you have 
 a strong computer, the PC version of COD4 will have better performance. Music and sounds on the 
 game are also good. The bad thing is you don't hear much music unless on certain situations in 
 the games but if you do, they are great.
  
  Call of Duty 4 is another revolutionary title. Great gameplay, graphics, and sound will certainly 
 keep you entertained until you finish the game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: herbie12282
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 7, 2007 2:40 pm PT
Review:  FPS are my bread and butter as a gamer. The first one i ever played was Doom on my dad's work laptop 
 back in 95. My how far we've come. This is hand's down the most intense shooter i've ever played. 
 Single player is short but intense. Arcade mode is a great distraction from the real meat of the 
 game, the Multiplayer. Mulitplayer will have you coming back for a long long time. Playlists are 
 varied and will have something everyone likes from the tactical fanboys to the run and gun fans. 
 Perks and Challenges are a great way to unlock weapons and separate the 733t from the noobs. BUY 
 THIS GAME so we can battle it out, nerd style. If you love shooters, don't miss this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TimmonsP
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 7, 2007 12:22 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is a FPS which takes place in the modern world. Unlike most FPS' you play two people, 
 one soldier from the SAS and one from the Marines. The game is all about war in the modern world 
 and fighting terror. 
  
  First of the graphics are undoubtedly brilliant, the shadows, the light effects, the textures, 
 its all breathtaking. Even the detail on the guns, grenades and all sorts of weapons are superb 
 and it all adds up. The game play lives up to the same brilliant level as the graphics, it feels 
 so smooth so good. 
  
  So how good is the online play? In a word... Groundbreaking... It really is no joke about it. It 
 has so many multiple different game types, weapons and abilities but no online official 360 achievements 
 but in game achievements. You gain xp to go up in rank for instance officer. 
  
  The single player story though is far too short, its over in a flash even though it is filled with 
 lots of action. The story is good and if it were longer this would have been the definitive prefect 
 FPS.
  
  Overall COD 4 is a brilliant game and should not be underestimated. Its far better than any COD 
 that has come before. BUY THIS GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robosushi
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 19, 2008 11:15 am PT
Review:  Like I said, great graphics... but call me crazy, I still see that same gameplay and AI that I 
 really didnt think was that great from the first Call of Duty years ago.
  If Im going to play a military style shooter, Id rather a game like Rainbow Six or GRAW. Those 
 games have some strategy to them at least. I feel that in Call of Duty the game is to just run 
 ahead and shoot. Certain levels just keep sending AI bad guys at you, until reach a certain point... 
 making it where you arent really taking cover, and moving up... you just move up... and hope that 
 you dont die.
  
  And the dog gimmic? Its stupid. Fine, do it once or twice... but there are times in the game when 
 you have no idea why a dog would be attacking you in battle.
  
  
  2/18 so I have finally started to play the multi player... and yes, just as in halo 3, the multi 
 is so much better than the game itself. really really love it, just wish I didnt die so much by 
 the random dudes that toss grenades haphazardly in the air
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Omegax23
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 7, 2007 9:06 am PT
Review:  First person Shooters have come a long way since the days of Doom and Quake. Back then you got 
 solid corridors and mindless action coupled with insane guns and gameplay. Nowadays, FPS are getting 
 a little more realistic and quite honestly... stale. Almost every FPS you'll play has almost the 
 same mechanics and gameplay styles. Flash forward to 2007 and you get CoD 4! This game quite honestly 
 blew me away. Not only was the story amazing (and yes it was a GOOD story for a FPS) , but it had 
 all the mechanics that I wanted that were lacking in other games before.
  First I'll start with the obvious, Graphics. The level of detail in this title was completely photo-realistic. 
 Everything from the NPC's to the level design right down to the gun detail was all done with effort. 
 The lighting brought everything together. There were some levels that were dark and there was only 
 a little light in some areas making it out to be an amazing experience.
  Next I'll talk about the gameplay. In earlier Cod games you would run around and shoot whatever 
 moved. In Cod 4, I noticed that I was making more tactical decisions rather than running and gunning 
 my way through the game. If you tried the latter you might end up dead... FAST! The multiplayer 
 aspect of the game, to me, was by far one of the better online experiences thus far! Even beating 
 a certain game previously released! The leveling system employed in the game is an amazing idea 
 that draws players back in for round after round of fun. Every kill gains you a bit of experience 
 points that will later level you up and also unlock new guns and camo and even attachments to augment 
 your load-out! The maps are quite nice although I'd like to see more variety. One map in particular 
 has you running around a missile launch site... topside.
  The soundtrack is pretty good but seems to be pretty typical of the CoD franchise. The gun sounds 
 and environmental noises are pretty top notch and probably sound terrific on a surround sound system. 
 Unfortunately for me, I have no such system.
  Overall, the experience was one of the best this year and I add this to my top 5 games of 2007. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lovets
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 7, 2007 8:33 am PT
Review:  first the story: its a pretty intreating and gripping story and the ending is great and the part 
 in the middle east when you get nuked is amazing! the story is great but you dont get enough of 
 it beacuse like the other 360 shooters there too short like halo3 and gears of war is. 7/10
  
  sound and graphics: the graphics are pretty good for todays standards and the reflection on 
 the scopes on the guns is impressive. theres a vairety of scenerys that look good. the atmophere 
 is great and does feel like your in a warzone if you have dolby surround sound. all the guns sound 
 different 9/10 
  
  gameplay: well for a start the gameplay is similer to cod3 but has more depth to it, its a mixture 
 or realism and fun unrealism and it mixes well. all the guns feel unique and the unlockable atachments 
 on mutiplayer make quite a bit diffence 9/10
  
  mutiplayer: well this is the main thing about this game, the story you will complete in a flash 
 then comes the mutiplayer mode which is abousultly amazing and defently the best and deepest mutiplayer 
 game ive ever played on console. well first you have a level and xp system where you level up nd 
 unlock waepons game modes and perks, its not like halo3 where to get xp you need to win, its all 
 about your perfomance not the team, you get xp for assists kills calling in assaistance (UAV airstrike 
 and helicpopter) and defusing and plating bomb and captureing things. theres 16 maps. theres things 
 called perks which is a great feature that no game has, its like a add on like eg theres a perk 
 to drop a live granade when you die which you can get lots of kills, or like douple tap if the 
 gun is slow it double increase the fire rate. well i could go on and on and on about the mutiplayer 
 but i havnt got time to, basicly mutiplayer is realy good on cod4! 10/10
  
  value: well this game is easly a very great game for vaule with the extremly deep mutiplayer, but 
 the stroy is short so if you do not have xbox live get it or you wont realy get your moneys worth 
 for it with online 10/10 without 5/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rustman911
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 7, 2007 8:25 am PT
Review:  This game clearly needs to be the 2007 Game of the Year just like Oblivion was the clear cut choice 
 for 2006. This is by far the best Call of Duty game yet. Nothing rivals this game in game play, 
 graphics, and just plain ol' fun!
  
  There is one thing that I wish this game had. That one thing is Coop Campaign mode. I absolutely 
 loved playing the Coop Campaign mode on Rainbow 6: Las Vegas.
  
  Other than that one thing, I loved this game. I'm so happy that it was not another WWII game. I 
 could have went all through school not ever learning anything about WWII and know all about it 
 by now through video games, lol. If this one would have been another WWII game then I would not 
 have bought it.
  
  If you're not a fan of FPS games then this will get you hooked. EVERYONE needs to play this game! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Almighty-mints
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 7, 2007 6:06 am PT
Review:  Ive only played this game for about 12 hours over a 3 day period but I have to say Call of Duty 
 4 is simply amazing.
  
  Graphics 9\10- The visuals that COD4 brings some of the best most of us have seen. Everything is 
 detailed to perfection, especially the guns. The gun models are by far the most perfected in any 
 game created. Everything is sooo acurate. Once again the smoke and explosions look good also. But 
 all of this comes with a price. Every 5min or so a framerate issue arises, especially when online. 
 When things are blowing up, people are shooting guns, and all hell has broken loose, the framerate 
 explodes with jitters.
  
  Sound 8.5/10- Sounds for me are not that important; until I turn on my surround sound of course. 
 And with this game on surround sound on, I was blown away, literally. Explosions and gun fire pulse 
 through your body as if you were at a rock concert and the amps were all the way up. Voice acting 
 is also another great aspect of the sound even though its not even close to Mass Effect's. But 
 some of the sounds are reused constantly and even taken from COD2.
  
  Gameplay 10/10- SIMPLY MIND BLOWING. Best gameplay in a shooter ever? I think so. Im not even going 
 to say anything about it because its perfect. No flaws.
  
  Value 9/10- Giving this a 9 because the campaign took me about 4 hours on casual. But im already 
 on my 3rd playthrough and on Veteran; your patience will truly be tested. Then theres the multiplayer 
 which is probably the best on a console ever. Some of the game modes are dumb and feel like they 
 were created in 15minutes but everything else is great.
  
  All in all I must say that you have to buy this game and if you dont youre dumb.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RocKtheCasbaH
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 7, 2007 2:24 am PT
Review:  Immersive, realistic, gorgeous, addictive, fun are just a few words that spring to mind when thinking 
 about COD4. 
  
  The single player game is straight from the Infinityward school of game making - scripted and linear 
 but those are the only downsides and to be fair most of the time you will be so engrossed you will 
 not even notice. The single payer section takes around 6-8 hours to complete on normal difficulty 
 and it leaves you yearning for more - it is that good.
  
  The multiplayer game raises the bar massively and makes previously great games look weak. With 
 the exception of a couple of bogus maps (Bloc and Shipment) , they are all well designed and balanced 
 and the game play is of the same quality as the single player game. I'm araid I just haven't got 
 anything negative to say about this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: codemaster44
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 6, 2007 10:24 pm PT
Review:  Cod 4 is probably one of the best shooters ever to wander into the world of gaming. The single 
 player campaign was fun all the way from the start till the finish. The multiplayer will give those 
 who did not enjoy the single player campaign something to marvel at, infinity wizard really out 
 did themselves this time with there multiplayer part of the game. My only problem with this game 
 is that it is to short, I think it took me about 5 hours to beat the game on medium difficulty 
 but once I started playing the multiplayer all the anger about the short single player campaign 
 melted away as i learned to enjoy the constant firefights and upgrading going on in the multiplayer. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Visnovsky17
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 6, 2007 8:35 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Story, Gameplay is fun, Single player is great, Multiplayer is awesome, Campaign replay 
 is good, Voice Acting, Graphics, Sound, Music
  
  The Bad: ... uh...
  
  This game is amazing. I almost didn't get it and now i know that would have been one of the biggest 
 mistakes i could have made. this game just won't let me put it down. Finish the game play it again 
 on the harder difficulties, it really ups the antie and makes the campaign fun to play for the 
 2nd and even 3rd times. Multiplayer is one of the best if not the best i have played. Graphics, 
 voice acting, sound, and music are all astounding and really add the immersiveness of the experience. 
 I loved HALO 3 but i got this and said this is better (which for me is a big deal cuz i love halo) . 
 You have to have this game it's amazing i recommend it to anyone with anything that can play it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nevernight490
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 6, 2007 3:45 pm PT
Review:  I have been anticipating this game since it was announced. I had high expectations for this great 
 FPS series, and this game did even better then I expected.
  
  The Singleplayer is very fun compared to all the other FPS campaigns that I have played in a while. 
 It gives you multiple different scenarios to fight in and makes you want to keep playing again 
 and again. Besides the fact of Call of duty's famous Unlimted Enemies in Campaign feature (COD 
 veterans will know what I'm talking about) the singleplayer should give you an enjoyable experience.
 
  
  For Multiplayer, Xbox LIVE is the way to go. With a much better ranking system then Halo's, and 
 unlockable weapons and perks makes it even more fun. Also, the challenges make things more interesting 
 as players strive for those XP bonuses. The fact that COD 4 introduces many new game modes to the 
 COD series is a bonus to. For example, they added Search and Destroy which is exactly like Counter-Strike.
 
  
  Personally I believe that this game is the GoTY. This game has not dissapointed me yet, and i don't 
 plan on it ever doing so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UncleLev
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 6, 2007 2:53 pm PT
Review:  When it was first announced that Call of Duty 4 would be departing from its classical roots in 
 the WWII era, I must admit that I was a bit disappointed and worried, to say the least. Not just 
 because I happen to be a WWII "fan" either, but because of how well Call of Duty has managed to 
 capture the feeling of what most of us can only assume it must have been like. Since the birth 
 of Call of Duty, realism has been redefined in first person shooters, while still retaining the 
 essence of gaming and keeping things enjoyable. I am pleased to say that Infinity Ward's latest 
 offering has assuaged all of my worries and rejuvenated my faith in this series.
  
  Modern Warfare isn't just good - it's excellent. While retaining the solid game play mechanics, 
 new elements are also introduced which only strengthen the already solid mechanics. New to Modern 
 Warfare is the ability to shoot through wood and many other surfaces including many walls. Plus, 
 air strikes are no longer restricted to the sharp-shooters in multi-player matches, as there are 
 now several parts throughout the campaign in which you can call in for air support. Obviously, 
 since Call of Duty meets the modern area, weapons and gadgets have also improved. You now come 
 equipped with night-vision goggles to help you through all those scary lights-out areas. In addition 
 to the traditional smoke grenades there are now flash-bangs, which temporarily blind your opponents 
 (or yourself, depending on how bad your aim is) . Though, I personally find smoke grenades to be 
 far more helpful and affective than flash-bangs, which seems odd considering that the flash-bang 
 concept is a newer technology. I guess it may just be a matter of opinion in the end, though.
 
  
  
  Even if you put all of the improvements and additions aside, you are still left with an incredibly 
 rock-solid and challenging game that rewards perseverance and punishes arrogance. After all, that 
 is what many of us like so much about Call of Duty. Unlike virtually every other shooter where 
 you can just run towards your enemies shooting them relentlessly, Call of Duty has always focused 
 on a more strategic approach. Fortunately, Modern Warfare is no different. If you think you can 
 just rush into this without looking war with guns blazing, you're not going to accomplish much 
 more than providing the enemy with an easy kill. Modern Warfare is challenging - in many ways more 
 challenging than the recent Call of Duty releases. Not only are there now environmental hazards, 
 such as flammable barrels and vehicles which can explode, but you need to take into consideration 
 what you are using for cover, because if it isn't sufficient your enemies fire will greet you as 
 if to say "not good enough". Of course, the addition of penetrable material also works to your 
 advantage by providing you with the opportunity to take out the trash when you have a good idea 
 where someone is hiding.
  
  Unfortunately, I was a bit disappointed to learn that you still do not have the ability to shoot 
 around cover, as you can in Gears of War, for example. Sadly, this seems to have been left out 
 probably out of laziness, since the developers have given the AI the ability to do just this in 
 Modern Warfare. If the transition between Call of Duty 2 to 3 is any indication, then hopefully 
 we will be able to do just that in Call of Duty 5, since Call of Duty 2 allowed AI to pick up and 
 throw back grenades and later you had the ability to do just that in Call of Duty 3. Sadly, shooting 
 from behind cover, aside from shooting through it, is not possible yet.
  
  Graphically speaking Modern Warfare is a monument and will set a standard for games to come. The 
 near photo-realistic character models and high resolution textures are only a fraction of the visual 
 beauty in this latest installment. Modern Warfare also features some of the nicest looking particle 
 effects, from smoke trails to explosions and even floating bits of debris. The lighting effects 
 are also amazing, with some of the best uses and applications for creating atmosphere, and they 
 are never misused for the purpose of making things look cool. If an area is really dark or is casting 
 amazing looking shadows, it is out of either incredibly brilliant planning or pure coincidence.
 
  
  Modern Warfare also boasts some of the most creative uses of first person perspectives I have ever 
 seen. I don't want to say too much since I would risk the possibility of spoiling something, but 
 it must be said that the methods used to put the player into the eyes one witnessing many of the 
 events of the game are completely unparalleled. There is one scene where you are driving around 
 in the backseat of a car through an urban war zone, and the feeling created by the events surrounding 
 you is amazingly realistic. The way the art direction has managed to use the "camera" to portray 
 what one is seeing is absolutely superb.
  
  Textures are also much crisper and clearer looking, and there is an even more impressive amount 
 of detail all around you. The polygon count seems to have risen dramatically, but somehow the game 
 performs surprisingly well. Unlike Call of Duty 3, which did suffer from rare dips in frame rates, 
 Modern Warfare runs virtually flawless. I cannot recall a single time throughout the entire game 
 that the game displayed any noticeable lag, which is amazing considering just how good the graphics 
 are.
  
  If you're anything like me, the best graphics don't mean a damn thing if the execution of the models 
 are animated poorly. Thankfully, the motion capturing of Modern Warfare ranks up there with the 
 best of the best. Every gesture, from the reloading of weapons and signaling between AI, is very 
 realistic with much more fluid movement between animations without as much of a noticeable transition 
 between animations as with the previous games. Other smaller touches to the environment around 
 you have also been thought through, as pipes will now spray steam if shot, and picture frames can 
 fall off of walls if you blast a grenade in their vicinity.
  
  Regardless of what is going on in the war, you constantly have the feeling that you are drawn into 
 the actual events that are occurring, thanks to how well orchestrated the special effects are, 
 with the sights and sounds. Many of the battles of Modern Warfare are on a completely different 
 intensity scale than all the previous Call of Duty games combined. After an amazing start, you 
 find yourself escaping a sinking ship, with some of the best uses of camera shaking and tilting 
 seen in a game. Water is pouring in from all around you, while gravity is pulling you in different 
 directions. Intense is an understatement here because you can't help but begin to feel pressured 
 to actually make it out alive. Later on in the game, you find yourself in a ghillie suit, which 
 is one of the most suspenseful and masterfully composed levels in a shooter ever. Amazingly, it's 
 possible to clear the entire level without even being spotted  a feat that if you manage to pull 
 off will earn you an achievement to boot.
  
  
  Not only are graphics high caliber, but so are the sounds. Call of Duty has always aurally shined 
 by boasting some of the most realistic sound effects in gaming, and Modern Warfare is no different. 
 Every gun has its own unique pitch, every type of material makes its own special sound as bullets 
 penetrate it, and every cry and cue by your comrades serves a purpose. No sounds are just thrown 
 into the mix to create atmosphere  if someone is crying out, someone has been hit, if your buddies 
 are shouting orders or information, you best heed their advice since it is only being said to assist 
 you. The shattering of glass is crystal clear and can easily be mistaken for real glass shattering 
 off screen. Everything you hear is an indicator of what is going on around you, so keeping an ear 
 open at all times is a must to survive, especially on the more challenging difficulties. The music 
 of Modern Warfare is generally along the lines the previous releases, although the rap song at 
 the end of the game, during the credits, seems oddly out of place. Throughout the campaign, it 
 should be noted that music does not seem to play as often as previously, though when it does it 
 serves its job perfectly by setting the pace of the action.
  
  While perhaps close to perfection, Modern Warfare is not without its quirks and problems. There 
 aren't many, but there are at least a few which need to be mentioned. First of all  what happened 
 to the radar / map? It didn't actually completely disappear; you just have to pause the game to 
 see it. This is a bit of an inconvenience, since the map does indicate the position of known enemies, 
 but if you want that information you need to pause every time you want to see it. All you have 
 to keep you orientated, during game play, is a compass indicator which direction you are heading. 
 I also encountered a bit of a collision detection problem, which resulted in me instantly dying 
 for merely brushing past the side of an opening missile silo. You don't have to actually jump in 
 or on it, but just brush the absolute edge and you will instantly be killed. This feels, unfortunately, 
 rather last-gen, or at least in need of some tweaking.
  
  Worst of all, the campaign is terribly short  not just by a little bit either; the game is over 
 before you have time to think about what is coming next. It took me no more than 3-4 hours to complete 
 it on my first run, and even novices and should have no problem completing the game in less than 
 five hours. While it is understandable, that games like Call of Duty tend to put a far greater 
 emphasis on multiplayer, there really is no excuse for being able to finish the campaign in a few 
 mere hours on your first time through. Fortunately, since all of the achievements have been dispersed 
 throughout the single player action, there is a major incentive to go back for a few more goes 
  at least for all you achievement hunters out there.
  
  And speaking of achievements, there are a few pretty cool ones, which are based on your ability 
 to make quick responses to a few key eyes. However, I noticed a rather annoying problem concerning 
 one of them in particular. At a certain point in the game, you are to be rewarded an achievement 
 if you manage to keep a farmer alive and taken down the soldiers harassing him. The first time 
 I managed to pull this off, I didn't get the achievement, although it was more than obvious that 
 the farmer had lived. I gave this another try later on and did the same thing I did earlier and 
 the event played out identically; this time I was awarded the achievement. So it seems that there 
 may either be a bug in how one or more achievements are rewarded on the game's end or on the end 
 of the console itself, because I had to fulfill the requirements for the achievement two times 
 before actually being rewarded it. It's too bad because this is one of the only titles I have ever 
 encountered such problems with the achievement system.
  
  One of my biggest complaints with Call of Duty has always been its insufficient AI, both in terms 
 of your friends and your foes. While it has often been claimed that the AI of Call of Duty is superb, 
 I feel this is a bit of an exaggeration and oversight. The AI only appears to be intelligent because 
 it is scripted and given specific orders to follow a linear set of commands. When it comes to actual 
 decision making  thinking of the best way to attack, the best place to hide from an explosion, 
 how to avoid running into friendly fire, and so forth  it still needs quite a bit of work, and 
 doesn't seem to have improved at all. Your own comrades will still run directly in front of your 
 line of fire, and your buddies will still virtually run around in circles when you take their place 
 of cover. Generally speaking, the AI is quite good, but there is still much to be desired. I was 
 hoping for a bit of an improvement with the AI, bud sadly there does not seem to be any, as the 
 computer is still making some really brain-dead decisions you can't help but wonder about.
  
  It is also frustrating that the AI is often too passive and dependant on your actions before 
 they are capable of making a move. While it can be understood that you are the one playing the 
 game, and there is little, if any, point to playing if the AI does all the work, but there still 
 needs to be a bit more aggression on behalf of your comrades. Otherwise, the developers might as 
 well change the mechanics of the game to allow you to order your buddies around, like in Rainbow 
 Six, for example. Whenever you are in desperate need of assistance, your AI helpers seem incapable 
 or unwilling to continue the assault and wait back several meters behind the action until you push 
 on through. If they are so unwilling to make decisions, are they only there for affect? And, if 
 the developers are simply trying to put an emphasis on your actions, then why not allow you to 
 control the AI? It is my feeling that the AI needs a lot of work to give it decision making abilities 
 and a more natural and thoughtful sense of the environment around it. Most of these problems can 
 only be seen if you closely observe the individual behavior of each of the AIs  otherwise, you 
 are likely to draw the conclusion that the AI is great because it seemingly appears to be acting 
 intelligently, simply because it is following a very strict and rigid list of operations to carry 
 out. Though, it should be emphasized, that the AI of Modern Warfare, or any of the Call of Duty 
 titles for that matter, are below average  they simply leave a lot to be desired and improved 
 upon.
  
  If you're as much of a fan of driving around in a tank and blasting everything to little pieces, 
 you will be disappointed to learn that Modern Warfare does not contain any tank missions. This 
 came as a real bummer to me, because of how much I enjoyed these parts in the previous Call of 
 Duty games. Fortunately, to break the monotony, you do get to blast your way through a level from 
 the sky, although you only get to control the cannon and don't have any influence over where the 
 aircraft flies, so it doesn't quite compare to manning a tank. Even worse is you run absolutely 
 no risk of failing the mission, aside from repeatedly killing your friendlies  the foes serve 
 no threat to you and cannot harm you, which makes the mission boring and not the least bit challenging. 
 At least, there is another mission in which you control the cannon in a helicopter and do run the 
 risk of being KIA if you don't take out the foes on the ground launching RPGs at you. Still, you 
 have no control over where the aircraft maneuvers so it isn't quite the same as tanking up. It's 
 unfortunate, but not a real big blow to an otherwise well balanced game.
  
  Well, balanced loosely in most ways that is. I found it rather frustrating that you seem to die 
 far more often from grenades in Modern Warfare, than bullets. It isn't because the blast radius 
 has been increased either  which I am not even sure if it has or not, but definitely feels that 
 your foes throw grenades far more often, especially if you are trying the game on one of the more 
 difficult difficulties, such as veteran. Sometimes as soon as one grenade blows up you'd have four 
 or five tossed your way, and as they would blow even more would keep coming. While you have the 
 ability to toss grenades back, it just isn't good enough a lot of the time when you have countless 
 grenades coming your way. I felt like I died four times more often from grenades than any other 
 way, which seems a bit too much.
  
  Though, sometimes you don't even need to die, for it to be "game over". For being a fictional game, 
 the story felt a bit too linear. I have always thought that Call of Duty should base the progression 
 of the game, and the ending, upon your actions throughout the game and how well you perform certain 
 tasks and if you are able to pull off certain objectives. Since all the prior Call of Duty games 
 were modeled around WWII, it wasn't possible to create a more open story, since we all know how 
 things play out. But with a fictional story, one would think that the story could take turns and 
 changes depending on whether or not you can meet your objectives. Instead of simply failing a mission 
 because you couldn't meet an objective, but survived nonetheless, the game could still continue 
 on a different course with a different ending. Since we now have a fictional war with fictional 
 outcomes, I see no reason why the developers couldn't have created a more open story with more 
 possibilities. The linear nature of the course of events in Modern Warfare comes as an unfortunate 
 disappointment because there was a lot of potential in writing a fictional story that seems to 
 have been squandered.
  
  And what would a Call of Duty game be without dead cows? I was very happy to see our bovine friends 
 lying on the ground, since it's always been amusing how they continue to use them throughout the 
 series. Not wanting to disappoint weird people, like myself, Infinity Ward didn't forget to add 
 the grass eating victims of the latest war.
  
  The underlying sense of persuasive conditioning is also there in all its glory. You know, the whole, 
 "the enemy is destroying churches and killing civilians, and the west is here to save the day by 
 keeping those churches safe and saving the innocent civilians." The typical misbalance of peace 
 and war quotes also exists, with the addition of several less thought provoking statements by leaders 
 of the war on terror, such as Colin Powell and Condoleezza Rice. These seemed oddly out of place 
 since the majority of the other quotes were at least philosophical in nature and urged a sense 
 of thought, where as these seemed more to be placed in an effort to rally support for the current 
 war and didn't seem to have any relevance to the topic of war in general. It's nice to see developers 
 taking so much passion into something they create, but one who is open-minded cannot help but think 
 whether or not the influence such statements will have, in collaboration to the actions the gamer 
 will take during the game, will yield a positive or negative affect on the minds of so many of 
 the younger and persuasive gamers out there. As much as I love the Call of Duty series, I cannot 
 help but wonder if the series is being used as a tool for something so much larger than mere gaming.
 
  
  In any case, Modern Warfare is an awesome game, with an incredible amount of detail and consideration 
 put into its development. There are a few problems and design elements one might question, but 
 the game is solid overall with some of the best graphics and sound effects in any game currently 
 released. While, the campaign will be over before the blink of an eye, the addition of "arcade 
 mode" and, even more likely, the multi-player support are going to be where most gamers get the 
 bang for their buck. With the addition of "leveling up" your stats for multiplayer, more life is 
 added to the otherwise, short game. If you find first person shooters entertaining at least a little 
 bit, there is no question about it: Modern Warfare is a must own.
  
  
  
  Gameplay: (9) Classic COD game play with updated weapons and gadgets. Shoot through walls, blow 
 up cars and sneak your way through enemy terroritory.
  
  Graphics: (10) Amazing visuals with better effects, more detail and running extremely consistent. 
 Little, if anything, to be desired.
  
  Sound: (9) Top notch sound effects with fitting music, when it is present at least.
  
  Lasting 
 appeal: (8) If it were not for the arcade and multiplayer modes, you would be through with this 
 game in a few hours tops. Fortunately, the addition of unlockables and levelling up on Xbox Live 
 increases the replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RHCPfan24
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 9, 2008 2:15 pm PT
Review:  Having won numerous awards at E3 and being surrounded by hype, Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare already 
 seemed like it would be one of the games of the year. Now that it is finally out, it has lived 
 up to all of its expectations and then some. I have played Call of Duty 1, United Offensive, Finest 
 Hour, Big Red One, COD2 and COD3, but this game is by far the best yet in the series. 
  
  First off, the graphics and sound take this series to a once-thought unreachable level. The framerate 
 never drops and levels like "All Ghillied Up" will blow you away with textures and shadow effects. 
 The sound, as always, is the envy in the game-industry and features some amazing explosion and 
 gun effects, as well as new radio conversations that help players immerse in the action. 
  
  But the technicals don't always matter, so how is the gameplay? One word: Amazing. Most of 
 the missions open with a drop off by a helicopter or a satellite fixation on your position, and 
 from then on it is intense and authentic, and sometimes you don't even leave your helicopter when 
 something amazing or terrifying happens. The story is daring and gutsy enough to be taking place 
 in this age of time in the Middle East, and, while it is all fictious, it seems like it could be 
 ripped from the front page of The New York Times. While nothing can compare to the real action 
 of genuine combat, the situations and objectives this game throws at you is extremely authentic. 
 
  
  Perhaps the best part of the package, the gunplay, is tighter than ever before and the best shooting 
 you can find on any game, including Halo 3, BioShock, and The Orange Box. The A. I. is sometimes 
 lacking or extremely smart, and sometimes you will be very frusturated by dying (many times) , but 
 it is worth it, because beating missions will give you an excellent feeling of accomplishment. 
 I cannot say enough about how awesome shooting a gun is in this game, and when you have to take 
 out a target from 500 meters away and see the results, you will definitely agree with me. Level 
 design is awesome as well, and every mission will want to warrant more than one play. 
  
  Rounding off the package is the multiplayer that is on par with Halo 3's. While I still love Halo's 
 multiplayer, COD4 throws in some nifty features like perks and customizable classes. The general 
 feeling of multiplayer is great, and the classes seem very balanced. Not many other new ideas are 
 added to the table here, but it just feels great playing multiplayer in this game, and is as good 
 as Halo 3, no doubt. 
  
  
  Essentially, Call of Duty 4 is just an extraordinary game. Playing through the single player missions 
 will immerse you in battles and war unlike no other game ever made. If you are an Xbox 360 or PlayStation 
 3 owner, you owe it to yourself to buy this game and see what all the fuss is about. 
  
  Rating: 9.5 out of 10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 8smokes
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 6, 2007 1:10 pm PT
Review:  To begin, the graphics of the are just amazing. The destructable courses really add to the feel, 
 and the story, let's just say after the game, you look at yourself and say, "Wait? That was a STORY"? 
 In Multiplayer, you get to choose a class that best suits you which has a default set of weapons, 
 smokes, grenades, flash bangs (yes in this game there are flash bangs which turn the screen completely 
 whit (flash) and sets of a eerie pitch that disrupts your hearing (bang) . This is one effect that 
 really puts you into the game) , and you have a variety of differnt sidearms unlike CDII, and CD3. 
 Online play has tons of different features, and settings. This is definatly a MUST BUY for the 
 Holiday Season, or just in general. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarshStomp
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 6, 2007 12:42 pm PT
Review:  I got to say this is an awesome game. I have never played a game like this in my entire life. It 
 has AWESOME grafics. Im a fan of Halo 3 but when my friends said that an IGN review said it was 
 better than halo 3 i didnt think so. I was wrong. The charaters act so bad ass, my personal favorite 
 was Gaz. The online is awesome too! The kill cam is cool, basicly it is the view of the person 
 that killed you when that certant person shot you. Its an awesome online to because there is many 
 classes to pick from and you can make your own class. I'd give this game a 9.0 because the only 
 thing its really missing is the riding veichles but one mission your in an AC-137 and you get to 
 mow down tons of terriorist. So this is my Review for Call of Duy 4: Modern Warfare. Its too good 
 for words. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: harza12
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 6, 2007 12:06 pm PT
Review:  bloody awsome if people dont like it ya gay bloody awsome if people dont like it ya gay bloody 
 awsome if people dont like it ya gay, bloody awsome if people dont like it ya gay, bloody awsome 
 if people dont likbloody awsome if people dont like it ya gay, e it ya gay, bloody awsome if people 
 dont like it ya gay, bloody awsome if people dont like it ya gay, bloody awsome if people dont like 
 it ya gay, bloody awsome if people dont like it ya gay, bloody awsome if people dont like it ya gay, bloody 
 awsome if people dont like it ya gay, bloody awsome if people dont like it ya gay, bloody awsome 
 if people dont like it ya gay, bloody awsome if people dont like it ya gay, bloody awsome if people 
 dont like it ya gay, bloody awsome if people dont like it ya gay, bloody awsome if people dont like 
 it ya gay, bloody awsome if people dont like it ya gay, bloody awsome if people dont like it ya gay, bloody 
 awsome if people dont like it ya gay, bloody awsome if people dont like it ya gay, bloody awsome 
 if people dont like it ya gay, bloody awsome if people dont like it ya gay, bloody awsome if people 
 dont like it ya gay, bloody awsome if people dont like it ya gay, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ting0065
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 6, 2007 11:56 am PT
Review:  well i rented the game and completed it. i had a choice to rent this or lego star wars tcs.
  my first words on the boat mission were wow. the graphics were the best i've ever seen in a shooter. 
 the voice acting was terific, the sound of the wepons were amazing. 
  and in the nuciar bomb seen in Iraq, that was just AWESOME!
  the seen just looked amazing, sounded 
 amazing everything was amazing!
  the multiplayer was solid and fun but not as good as halos.
  i wish the campaign was longer, 
 the game would have been even more amazing than it already is.
  
  pros
  great graphics
  good voice acting
  solid online
  wepons sound very realistic
  the campaign (tho short) was 
 good.
  the knife was a good idea
  
  cons
  short campaign
  ur characcter is too small!
  can't hit bad guys with ur gun
  rs was not a good button to have 
 for the knife
  
  overall a stunning game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aronimus
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 6, 2007 11:06 am PT
Review:  sorry but this game is much better and more beautiful than anything on the 360 console, this game 
 is all that i want and more. the single player game is short if you play it on casual or easy but 
 a real challenge on veteran. 
  
  the multi player mode is so great that i really don't understand what the fus is over halo 3. it 
 looks great and the consoles are perfect. the game should definitely be higher rated than whatever 
 is out there.
  
  everybody should play this even the people who don't normally play shooters i am sure they would 
 love it. 
  
  a great experience, a great challenge, the best graphics until this moment in single player and 
 multi player
  
  BUY BUY BUY BUY 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sam_2006
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 6, 2007 10:35 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is a great game no doubt, having said that I still have to make some unpleasant 
 comments on it, though. 
  
  The graphics of this badass are just mind blowing and I was blown away right from the first seconds 
 of the game. great lighting and smoke effects as well as some of the most polished levels i've 
 seen in games recently. the character models are also well handled and weapons look realistic and 
 powerful. 
  
  The game play is a blast and right from the moment you start the game you can't let go and you're 
 sucked into the experience wholeheartedly, the game is one of the most intense games I've ever 
 played so far. you will never feel bored or have a chance to breath, it's just packed with solid 
 action and immersive intensity. the game will keep you on the verge of your seat all the way along. 
 
  
  The sound system is excellent and weapons sound so realistic and powerful and the story is quite 
 interesting too, though you'll feel a bit indifferent about it as you progress because the shooting 
 and exploding is what makes this game so awesome.
  
  however, I have to say that I was so let down by the game's short single player, which I finished 
 in no time (about 4 hours and a half) . there is the multiplayer of course, but that just doesn't 
 do it for me, or anyone who's not too much into multiplayer. I mean, there are so many people out 
 there who don't give much attention to multiplayer and wants a decent single player that extends 
 over 10 hours at least. 4 or 5 hours is just absurd and even for people who enjoy playing online, 
 this may be disappointing. Also , the game is very hard and the enemy AI is crazy , you'll die 
 a loooot , espcially from grenades and RPGs . there's the Arcade mode too, that's nice to have 
 given the short compaign, but still that doesn't solve the problem and you'll still get a short 
 experience out of the game.
  
  all in all, COD4 is a great game and has some very nice levels , so variant and so intense as hell. 
 however, the single player is nothing to be excited about in terms of length and if you are not 
 into Multiplayer and focus more on the solo, you'd certainly be frustrated and disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stu11
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 6, 2007 9:02 am PT
Review:  Awesome game. Fun multiplayer and great graphic! It is fun to unlock different guns, camo, ,and 
 challenges. Different multiplayer game plays which are very fun to do. Not sure if I like the prestige 
 mode. I have not played long enough to get there so I am not sure if I am going to go through the 
 whole thing again. Probably after awhile. The single player campaign is fun and again the graphics 
 are amazing. All of the achievements are through the single player mode, none in the online multiplayer. 
 This game is definitely a worth buying game to have fun with all of your friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigpella44
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 6, 2007 6:34 am PT
Review:  This is by far the most realistic and engaging Call of Duty game that I've played. The way that 
 the battles and missions take place all seem a little more believable and realistic than some of 
 the other FPS.
  
  Up to this point, I have only played the campaign missions; I have yet to try out the multiplayer. 
 The single player mission has a great storyline and many unique environments and levels along the 
 way. You can choose from 4 difficulty levels, I went w/ the normal or 2nd easiest level. 
  
  I found the enemies to be fairly smart, as they take cover when firing, will throw grenades 
 back at you, and will surround you if you aren't careful in your strategy. 
  
  All in all, I found the Call of Duty 4 campaign to be very enjoyable and would be well worth a 
 few hours of your time. It's that good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dehearik_nova
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 6, 2007 4:23 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 deviates away from the standard WWII scenarios and finally moves up to modern and 
 near future modes. Although the campaign is relatively deifficult even on easy the campaign ending 
 is one of the best. Another drawback of the campaign mode is that its strictley single player and 
 not only are the NPCs useless , their constant whinging about you nearly being dead is quite irritating. 
 The main plus of call of duty 4 is the deep and intense online play, the team battles are amazing 
 with features never before seen in an FPS such as Matrydom , last stand and the polished 3, 5 and 
 7 kill streak bonuses. These bonuses are quite annoying for the other team and could draw pre pubesent 
 screams. All round though, the game is worth the 49.99 and will keep gamers going for months. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djrmc
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 6, 2007 2:21 am PT
Review:  This game is addicting let me start off by getting that out of the way. Sure you may have heard 
 that the campaign mode is extremely short but that is only if you play it on the easiest difficulty. 
 I played the solo campaign on the hardest difficulty and it took me about 12-15 hours to beat. 
 Trust me it gets real intense and basically 1 shot to the head and you are dead on this difficulty. 
 There is plenty of surroundings to explore and different routes that you can take when trying to 
 complete a mission. The graphics are the best looking ones that I have seen on the 360 since gears 
 of war came out. Now I wouldn't say to buy this game just for the single player campaign, what 
 I would say is buy it for the addicting online multiplayer mode. It has tons of different modes 
 that you can play and you can play with up to 18 players online which makes for a fun battle for 
 whatever mode you play. Now the only downfall for the online multiplayer is that for some reason 
 you can only have 1 person play per system online. This game is defintely worth yout 60 bucks and 
 I would buy it if you love first person shooters with a great storyline. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrashMacKenzie
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 5, 2007 8:21 pm PT
Review:  Rumor has it this game has a single-player campaign.
  
  Just kidding. The single-player game is really short, but everything about it is excellent. The 
 graphics, the voice acting, the classic CoD gameplay and the story.
  
  Nevertheless, it's the superb multiplayer that makes this game great.
  
  With exciting game 
 modes, well-designed maps and realistic weapons, there's plenty of fun to be had.
  
  Ultimately though, it's the marriage of FPS intensity and RPG leveling that make this the supreme 
 multiplayer experience.
  
  Players gain xp by killing people, winning matches and accomplishing certain goals. Leveling up 
 unlocks new weapons, scopes and perks.
  
  The perks really set the experience apart and allow for customization that maximises your ability 
 to succeed at playing the game your way.
  
  If your a fan of multiplayer fun, get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jenks10
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 5, 2007 4:59 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is one of the best games I've played this year. I've been a Call of Duty player 
 since the first one was released on the PC. This installment is by far the best one I've played. 
 Both the campaign and Multiplayer are superb. 
  
  The campaign is very, very short. It only took me about 5 hours to beat the game on the first day 
 I got it. Although the campaign is short, it's so much fun I just couldn't put it down. You'll 
 find yourself playing for hours on end because you just won't get bored of it. Once you finish 
 it you can always try for a harder difficulty and It really makes you play differently, especially 
 on veteran. Although this does make the game a little more frustrating. The Arcade mode is a spin 
 on the campaign as well that adds some replayability.
  
  The multiplayer is great as well. I've put over 22 hours into it so far. The ranks make you feel 
 like your accomplishing something in every game while still having a lot of fun. It feels similar 
 to being addicted to an RPG. You just want to keep playing because every second not playing is 
 a second wasted.
  
  If you don't have Xbox live then you're probably better off just renting this one. The single player 
 is good enough to have you coming back but it's just too short to make you want to buy it. On the 
 other hand if you have live it could easily be the best multiplayer you've played all year. Making 
 it a must buy. Regardless this is a game you wont want to pass up if your a fan of shooters.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: theunloved
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 5, 2007 2:49 pm PT
Review:  Having played many Call of Duty, I was truly happy to see the series take a turn to our modern 
 times. This game is very fun, and addicting. It has a good storyline, but the usual kill the evil 
 terrorists with the nukes. Though actually this is the first one I've played with that storyline 
 really... lol. The weapons are a blast to use and the level layouts are great. The mulitplayer is 
 also a highlight, and the little perks each soldier class has is fun. I like the perk where when 
 you get *killed* you fall to the ground and have the ability to fire with your pistol to, hopefully, 
 get some kills before your undone. Though for some reason, I'm out of things to say about this 
 game. If you like shooters, buy it, its something to play till Call of Duty 5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Soxguy09
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 5, 2007 12:30 pm PT
Review:  This game is a must to buy by the Christmas season! Even if you haven't been following the Call 
 of Duty games, it is still a must to buy or even try!!!
  The campaign is just right. It is not really short that people get disappointed, and it is not 
 too dragged out so that people could get board. It is like Goldilock's pick. "Just Right!" The 
 campaign has all the right components to be a successful story. The downfall that in some spots 
 it doesn't make a lot of sense. But then it does give you the missing holes later on. Plus the 
 graphics are great. When you go up from cod 1-3 they are the best you have ever seen. But when 
 Modern warfare comes to your living room. You are blown away!
  What is even better is that the multi-player is so addicting! The challenges and perks make it 
 different from any other multi-player which makes it a whole lot better. It has a whole heck of 
 a lot to say about its pros, but there aren't really any cons to say about it. Buying this game 
 would be the best decision anyone has made all season! It becomes a win, win situation when you 
 buy it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hlciceman
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 5, 2007 11:41 am PT
Review:  If your like me and you have played cod 2-4 on the xbox, your realize cod 2 and cod 4 are almost 
 the same game. Although graphics have improved gameplay has not. The Ai is recycled from cod2, 
 the voices and gameplay seem also recycled. Unlimited frags will be thrown at you over and over 
 whilst under cover. The ai also know every move you are making if your reloading they will start 
 charging you, if you start advancing through a building they will start firing off rounds from 
 their ak's before you round the door threshhold. As soon as you pop out of cover, the enemy is 
 programed to stop shooting at who every is shooting at them and to open fire on you. 
  The game does offer some intresting points. Such as the A-10 night mission. Overall I suggest renting 
 the game first before buying the game at 60$ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EyeOweU1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 5, 2007 11:30 am PT
Review:  The Good: great in-game audio and video qualities, fantastic campaign story with twists, multiplayer 
 is excellent, a modern setting for Call of Duty
  The Bad: campaign is too short, no co-op option
  
  My first reaction to this game was "finally 
  a modern day setting for Call of Duty and it better be good!" Well, it isn't good  it's excellent 
  and is probably one of the best shooters on the market next to Halo 3 and Gears of War. I'm a 
 big fan of WW2 shooters, but Activision's move to make the next sequel to Call of Duty a modern 
 setting was exactly what this series needed. The story seems like it was ripped from today's headlines, 
 and has you playing as a SAS British soldier "and as US Marine - battling foes in the former Soviet 
 Union and the Middle East. There are a variety of missions from infiltrating a cargo ship, finding 
 a rebel middle east leader and his safe house, operating an AC-130 gunship, and running from the 
 Russians. The weapons are realistic and range from standard issue military weapons like the G3 
 and M14 to RPG's and AK-47's. The game still has the Call of Duty feel you still have a compass 
 with your objectives, you can hide behind cover to regain your health, you can return grenades 
 to their adversaries, and there is a car chase (as in every call of duty game to date) . The story 
 is well written and the cut scenes blend in with the actual gameplay, so there is no break in the 
 story. There are points in the story where you will be screaming "oh s**t" and times when you'll 
 say "oh my god, that just happened?" 
  The multiplayer in the game is excellent. Once again the Call of Duty class system has been used 
 so each class you pick has a specific load out as far as grenades, weapon, C4, and claymores. Players 
 have a wide variety of maps and can choose from a variety of game variants to death match, team 
 death match, and objective based games. Players can call in UAV drones to seek enemy positions, 
 call in air strikes, and helicopter close air support. There is an online ranking system and you 
 can unlock better perks, skills and weapon upgrades as you level up.
  The only aspect of Call of Duty 4 I didn't like was the fact that the campaign was too short and 
 some campaign based objectives seemed like they didn't take enough time to complete the objective. 
 Toward the end of a level, you'll be wishing that there was one more hill to take, or one more 
 building to clear, or another helicopter to dispose of. The other thing that was disappointing 
 was a lack of co-op for the campaign. I thought that the new modern setting would have had Activision 
 create a co-op mode for the campaign, since this seems to be the one feature most gamers are looking 
 for. With Halo 3 using online 4-player co-op mode, this feature will be looked for in future games. 
 Hopefully it will be added to Call of Duty 5, which is in the making and the reason why this game 
 didn't get a perfect 10. In all, Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is an excellent and solid game 
 and is a must-own for any 360 gamer. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: scottyc407
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 4, 2007 7:33 pm PT
Review:  Absolutely buy this game if you love the Call of Duty games or any first person shooter. It really 
 makes you feel that you are in the fight, even though your sitting in your game room. You get to 
 play as the British special forces (S. A. S) and the U. S. Marines. Although the campaign was too 
 short, it was long enough to give you alot of action and a good storyline. Buy this game, because 
 if you rent it, you'll have wasted eight dollars because you'll need to buy it after you play it 
 just once. When you get the game, I would recommend starting off playing on at least regular of 
 hardened, so that you don't finish the game too quickly. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: UrbanSpartan125
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 4, 2007 7:23 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 capitalizes on everything that the other Call of Duties have done and more, it has 
 a compelling story line that will leave you wanting more.
  
  When i first played this game, i was simply awed by the beauty of this game, the graphics, the 
 game play and the multiplayer all seemed perfect. The storyline is a great one and will make you 
 feel like you are there. The sound is amazing and the details make the game every bit better than 
 other shooters.
  
  The multiplayer utilizes an amazing ranking system that gives you incentives to rank up, different 
 weapons and challenges can be unlocked and completed. The maps are amazing and overall this game 
 will leave you playing for months. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: indzman
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 4, 2007 6:47 pm PT
Review:  Infinity Ward and Activision teams up once again to present us Call Of Duty 4 : Modern Warfare 
 ,a breathtaking cum fantastic FPS game .
  
  Call of Duty 4 has superb graphics and can be easily compared to any best looking game Xbox 360 
 game out there . COD 4 has breathtaking visuals , environments , till date not shown in previous 
 Call of Duty games .You will be fascinated by COD 4 's graphics at first look .COD 4's cutsenes 
 rocks .
  
  Soundquality of the game is very impressive . Plus the soundtracks of the game is solid .
  
 
  AI is excellent in the game .Voiceacting of characters are pretty impressive.
  
  COD 4's story is amazing. This time Infinity Ward / Activision has totally moved away from same 
 WW 2 formula and presented us a action game situated in modern days .Your character takes the role 
 of a member of U. S military force and British spec ops to eliminate hostiles (global terrorists) 
 threatning enough to world peace .Your missions takes you to various levels of the world to neutralize 
 terrorists .Our beloved Captain Price (from old COD game days ) is also back in the game .
  
  You get top notch modern day weapons throughout the single player game plus you get to unlock 
 more customisable weapons in ranked online matches .The weapons aim sight are accurate in the game 
 and player will have no problems firing / aiming his weapons even in Xbox 360 version .Plus you 
 get to do melee bashing in the game .You can order attack helicopters or fighters jets to take 
 down your opponents too.
  
  Call Of Duty 4 multiplayer shines most . Its certainly one of the best and popular multiplayer 
 game amongst Xbox 360 owners . You get 2 - 18 player multiplayer , split screen , leaderboards 
 , content download , voice in its multiplayer .
  
  Play COD 4 in a HDTV to experience the game at its best . Plus ingame you get to unlock cheats 
 by gathering intel laptops for more fun. Unlocking its acheivements points are very fun and not 
 so hard to get.
  
  Overall, i recommend this game highly to everyone .Its a game not to be missed .Its a thrill at 
 every step joyride . 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bermudabrian
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 4, 2007 11:22 am PT
Review:  As a fan of the Call Of Duty franchise since the original XBox versions, the move to the modern 
 setting was both exciting and scary for me. Taking our beloved WWII series opus and changing the 
 formula was risky, but the game looked too good to be completely embittered by the changes.
  
  Having now played through the campaign twice, I can say that this was the right thing to do. 
 The feel of the Call Of Duty series is preserved in the new setting, and the gameplay is greatly 
 improved upon. The original story and settings are wonderfully created and the feel of all of the 
 modern weapons is as fulfilling as that first shot with an M1 Garand was way back on the XBox. 
 
  
  Not to be missed by fans of the series, Tom Clancy games, or tactical and action shooters, this 
 is the new masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: quiksilver38
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 4, 2007 9:38 am PT
Review:  this game is amazing. very polished and you can tell activision but its best employees on this 
 game. the game is the most realistic first person shooter i have ever played. Very well made game. 
 Game play is great you play different characters and in different vehicles like gunships, you also 
 play as a gorilla sniper which was really fun. online play is very adictive and well produced also, 
 much like rainbow six vegas (which this game owns on) you unlock new weapons and upgrades when you 
 rank up. plenty of online game modes to choose from. A MUST OWN IF YOU LIKE FPS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dobbybaron
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 4, 2007 7:08 am PT
Review:  I have always been a fan of realistic games. sports sims and shooters alike. It always seemed as 
 though i could only find one type of realistic game fun though. There just wasn't any good shooters 
 that hit me with reality. Then came Call of Duty. I had finally found a game that was realistic 
 and fun. So i was really excited when they put it in our times. It doesn't dissappoint. The campaign 
 is over quickly, but with the way the story is told, you really couldn't ask for much more. It 
 gives a good sense of the battlefield, teammate chatter and frequent deaths make you realize something. 
 Play smart and you live, be like some of your dumb teammates and rush, be prepared to read alot 
 of quotes about war. That said, most of your fellow soldiers are smart enough to not die and will 
 be with you along the way. In short for single player, good level variety and amazing storytelling 
 along with some fun little elements, makes for a quick but fun time. minus the dogs.
  Now the multiplayer is where this games shines like a diamond. Maps are extremely different from 
 each other, no 2 play the same and are all based off of single player locations. The ranking system 
 is similar to halo 3, but in CoD:4 you actually unlock useful stuff, like guns, and perks. the 
 perk system gives your character special abilities, and come in three categories. They add a new 
 element and don't make a game really lopsided. The gametypes are really different, from straight 
 deathmatch to headquarters. There is just so much to do in this game, i can't wait till they put 
 out a new mappack to expand the field past 16 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jhenry2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 3, 2007 9:39 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the few games that i cant complain about anything after owning it for 3 weeks. Graphics, 
 gameplay, multiplayer maps, weapons, ect... everything is great and very life like. I dont play 
 singleplayer so i cant say much about it, but the multiplayer is some of the best i've seen on 
 any 360 game. It took a while to really get into the game, and some of the controls are uncommon 
 to other shooter games, but in the end it becomes very natural and i happen to think the normal 
 control layout is better than other shooters now. 
  Activision has also upped the realism by letting you shoot through certain types of walls with 
 certain guns, and giving you a last stand perk, which could mean killing an enemy just before fully 
 dying. Theres no cover, but then again this isnt a tactical shooter and i honestly dont think it 
 would be as fun as such.
  All in all this game should be crowned #1 shooter of the year..... if not game of the year. Even 
 if your not a shooter fan its worth picking this up used just for those moments of boredum. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soulshot147
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 3, 2007 3:57 pm PT
Review:  Now, don't take me wrong. The other call of duty's were impressive, but nothing matches the graphical 
 level and realistic-ness of the new Call of Duty 4. With graphics going as far as 1080p and a fun 
 online game, what's not to love? Well, what's holding back this game from getting a perfect score 
 would have to be the short Single-Player campaign. With it being only 5 - 6 hours, your going to 
 want to be online from the start. The single-player, however, is probably the most realistic action/shooter 
 game out there. With it staying almost in first person the entire game (except when loading) , you 
 don't have much time to breath because of all stuff happening around you. Whether it be the cinematic 
 affects happening in the background or simply the way the game progresses, the single-player is 
 as fun as it starts, as when it ends. Now, to move on to multi-player. With 18 player online, you 
 would think this would move as slow as Rainbowsix Vegas, would you not? Actually, it's the exact 
 opposite. With so many game modes to chose from and almost no room to run from the enemy, the 18 
 player limit was a good idea. Man, I can't even walk without getting gun-downed a few times. What's 
 good about the game is it's RPG style in online games. As you rank up, you unlock new weapons and 
 "perks", which allow you to get to make the game as you see fit. Whether it be the Last Stand perk 
 (where you fall to the floor and only have a pistol) or the active grenade drop, Call of Duty 4 
 takes the franchise to the next level, that's why I would have to give this 9.0 for outstanding, 
 but I would like to have seen a longer single-player game because this one only lasted me an afternoon, 
 while the online - a life time. And for those who think I'm a noob to the game, I am currently 
 ranked 55 and have had the game since it's release date. I have all other Call of Duty's and plan 
 on getting future one's as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChestyMcGee
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 26, 2008 4:40 am PT
Review:  We all know what a let down Call of Duty 3 was under its new developers. But Infinity Ward are 
 back with Call of Duty 4 to restore their name to its former glory.
  
  It's modern! As a result, the storyline is about those nasty Arabs and those nasty Commies working 
 in collaboration to end the world as we know it through the use of nuclear weapons. Not if the 
 United States Marine Corps has anything to do with it! Just wonderful. The game begins with the 
 player under control of a silent protagonist, namely "Soap" McTavish of the British Special Air 
 Service, therefore you better be ready for lots and lots of strong cockney accents (apparently 
 the only accent in the whole of the UK) and lots of "bloody 'ells!" and "cor blimeys!". It's your 
 job to secretly bring about the end of the Russian side of this evil equation through secrecy, 
 stealth and quick, decisive strikes at the enemy. And now on to our other character, Sgt. Paul 
 Jackson of the USMC whose more inclined to ride in on a big helicopter and blow stuff up, so be 
 prepared for a mandatory video game black man with huge muscles shouting things like "ooh raah!" 
 and "yeah baby" with shouts from your other friends like "go go go!", "get down!" and "RPG! RPG!". 
 You know, looking at it now, I don't think this storyline could be more clichd and politically 
 incorrect.
  Luckily I couldn't care less about the storyline as I never have with any of the Call of Duty games 
 thus farI didn't even bother to learn my comrades names.
  
  As far as the singleplayer is concerned, although it has more variety than Call of Duty 2's, it's 
 just not as fun or memorable. There are some interesting segments like gunning away on the huge 
 weapons of an AC-130 gunship or using the repeating grenade launcher on the side of a Chinook helicopter 
 but these on-rails sections, although interesting and a refreshing change the first time, seem 
 dull and unexciting every other time. Another low point is, and I found this with Call of Duty 
 3, the British levels are quite boring (perhaps owing to the fact they're all in the dark) where-as 
 the American levels are very difficult to tire of and, especially the first time, are fairly epic 
 and Hollywood-style. A lot of people may find this a high point in the game, but it seems to me 
 as though they just tried way to hard to get the whole "modern" thing across; silly holographic 
 loading screens and far too much use of things with lasers and computer screens makes you feel 
 more like you're playing Mass Effect than Call of Duty.
  
  That said, the graphics in this game can be fairly spectacular at times. Things like the heat haze 
 coming off tank engines and the end of gun barrels really show off the graphics. The textures aren't 
 exactly amazing but it's things like the brilliant explosion effects and well done grass that get 
 you. At times it can all seem a little over the top but for the most part it really gets across 
 a feeling of the utter mayhem that a battlefield has. 
  Sound-wise this game is almost second to none, although the sounds are somewhat unrealistic, that 
 has never been the point of Call of Duty and gun sounds convey this film-like quality perfectly. 
 Another fantastic point is the brilliant ambience; jets and helicopter screeching and chugging 
 on over head, the dead boom of distant fire fights, the shouting voices of comrades and enemies 
 over all the gunfire.
  
  The multiplayer is where CoD4 is at though and I'm confident in saying that it is the best online 
 play on Live to date  yes, better than Halo 3 and better than Gears of War. It's just so in depth. 
 This owes almost entirely to the brilliant "create-a-class" system that, although it is blatantly 
 copied from Rainbow Six: Vegas, works incredibly well (you'll very rarely join a game with someone 
 with exactly the same classes, or even individual class, the same as you. The consistent character 
 and unlocking system, although copied again from R6: Vegas, really makes you feel like you're playing 
 towards something  not just bragging rights. Unlocking a new weapon or special ability or getting 
 enough kills to get a new paint job or attachment for your weapon really makes you feel like you've 
 achieved something you can use not just a rank badge. Also, I feel that the online is very fair 
 thanks to the clever idea of having crosses appear in the middle of the screen and a sort of thudding 
 sound to be played if you cause damage to an enemy, couple this with the "kill-cam" (where-by you 
 can watch your killer's view point seconds before your death) and match-lobby screaming and arguments 
 about cheating are almost eradicated. 
  One of the few low points of the online is that after a while (though a very very long while admittedly) 
 it can get a little boring, especially if you have no friends to play with and also, when playing 
 in parties, despite the fact the matchmaking works perfectly on your own, it can be very difficult 
 to join a game together or even get into each other's parties.
  
  Overall then, Call of Duty 4 has a fairly good singleplayer let down by a poor storyline and gameplay 
 too similar to previous games, but it also has the best online available at the current time. So, 
 if you've got Live I definitely recommend this shooter as a 'must-buy'. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jefferson1964
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 3, 2007 11:43 am PT
Review:  I give this game in the 9's and is a terrific FPS. Graphics, gameplay, controls are top notch and 
 some of the best on the xbox. I really enjoyed the Single Player game is why i really purchased 
 the game. However, i soon finished the game in 3 evenings of play after work... VERY dissapointed 
 and SUPRISED at just how short the single player campain was compared to COD2 and 3.
  
  Upon finishing the game and wanting more... i jumped over to xbox Live and joined into several Team 
 Death Matches. I was Hooked... and quickly earned my Sergeant Stripes in just over a couple of hours 
 this weekend!! The unlocks are nice with rank advancement and the Boot Camp and Challenges are 
 a great focus point to advancement of rank and weapons upgrades.
  
  If you have LIVE BUY THIS GAME the value is really in LIVE play, if not Rent the game as the single 
 player can easily be finished in a few hours.
  
  The one thing i miss that i would have liked to see was being able to drive vehicles like in COD3. 
 That was fun getting some folks into a tank or truck and driving around for a tank duel... other 
 than this minor point missing from the game its a GREAT GAME!!! Whatever you do BUY OR RENT but 
 GET YOUR HANDS ON THIS GAME!!! 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: che15
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 3, 2007 10:21 am PT
Review:  I just started playing call of Duty 4 and I must say that this is one of the best First Person 
 Shooter games around. This is an absolute must- get game. 
  
  After training you are launched into combat. Be ready for Non Stop Action from beginning to end. 
 Even though the campaign is short I was fully satisfied with the action. 
  
  The graphics and cgi in COD4 are excellent. I felt as if I were on a tour of duty somewhere in 
 the Middle East and Russia. I really enjoyed the sniper level too
  
  so far the story line is going well and hoping that is finishes with a bang!
  
  Can't wait 
 to play mulitplayer
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_specialist4
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 3, 2007 9:00 am PT
Review:  Wow! This game rocked. One of the best FPS i've ever played, and although the campaign was short 
 it was the most satisfying ten hours of my life. The highlight of this game for me was the nuke 
 going off and killing everyone instantly except you. You crawl out of the helicopter to see the 
 damage and then you also die. Another high point is the sniper mission with Captain McMillian. 
 
  This game is not perfect but it does almost everything right.. except the ending. Although very 
 unique and thoughtful it did not suit me and after it was over i didnt know if i died or got airlifted 
 to safety. The ending seemed too cinematic and fake for me but it was still unique as hell, i ve 
 never seen anything like it.
  This game is amazing on so many levels and is a must buy for any shooter fan. Infinity Ward nailed 
 it big time.
  The online multiplayer is even more impressive but i wont get started on that right now i ll let 
 u witness it yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: laster_2
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 3, 2007 7:24 am PT
Review:  This game is really good... it has a really good story line and for me the best shooting multiplayer 
 there is. The highest level is in multiplayer mode is 55
  and after you get higher level u can get new weapons and new modes to choose from. When you play 
 live you can talk to people in your team ... which really helps you with getting more points. The 
 points you get for killing people from other team. In team mode you get 10 points per kill and 
 to win you need 750 points. In stand alone you need to kill 30 people to be first. And this game 
 has the best graphics i ever saw in the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Manbot_AMP
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 2, 2007 11:28 pm PT
Review:  masterpice quiet dosnt cover it. from the first second you step in the shoes of sergent soap you 
 will be amazed by the graphics which sorounds you, if it wasnt for the 4 walls around you, you 
 would think that you had enroled in the army. 
  
  The gameplay is amazing, easy to use and quick to learn, with the usual right trigger to fire your 
 weapon, left bumpers to throw your granades, B to crouch, Y to chang weapon and the usual first 
 person comands. 
  
  Beside the amazing graphic and the easy controls Call of duty 4 puts you ib the shoes of a soldier, 
 as bullets wizz past you and granades go off , it will look and feel so real that you will be jumping 
 off your chair.
  Each level is filled with intense firefights, which will put you and your squad agains imense numbers 
 of soldiers.
  
  The best part of Call of duty 4 is the unexpected events in the Game, such as rushing out of your 
 helicopter to rescue a downed pilot, as you are forced to drag her back to your helicopter as you 
 mates lay supressing fire.
  
  The only bad point of Call of Duty 4 is its lenght, the game seem short, due to the difficulty 
 level. One must play at the top difficulty just to get a challange. The medium size level also 
 dont help, for a game that covers 3 continents it feels much too short.
  
  Overall CoD4 is an amazing game, and anyone that love his FPS needs to rush to the closest store 
 and grab a copy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark_Spartan192
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 2, 2007 10:35 pm PT
Review:  The Call of Duty games have been great from the start but the one problem I always had was the 
 WWII setting. There must be something about the mass killing and combat of WWII that makes developers 
 keep making more of those games. Sure is fun to play but what about today? Well with the new move 
 to Modern Warfare the game only gets better.
  
  GRAPHICS
  -------------------------------------------------
  This game is an amazing visual accomplishment. 
 From the giant landscapes to the cold steel of your rifle the game seems to come alive around you. 
 You almost start to wonder how they did it all. Well they have and it is a great asset to COD4.
 
  
  SOUND
  --------------------------------------------------
  The game has an amazing amount of dialog in it! From your enemies yelling out and your allies calling 
 in on the radios it makes the game incredibly immerse. The Weapons all sound like thier real life 
 counterparts and the effects are top-noch.
  
  SINGLE PLAYER
  --------------------------------------------------
  The single player campaign is a great experience 
 and is where you see what the experience of 3 previous games comes in. The story is top-noch nd 
 the game never makes you feel confused on what you have to do. The AI is fairly intelligent and 
 so are your allied NPCs.
  
  
  MULTIPLAYER
  --------------------------------------------------
  Many people have played COD multiplayer and 
 it has been great in the past games. In modern warfare it only gets better with the new weapons 
 and of course perks. The perks are great enhancements to your playing strategy and can really help 
 you out of some dangerous situations. 
  
  So as a summary I give:
  Graphics= 9.0
  Sound= 9.5
  Single Player= 9.0
  Multiplayer= 9.5
  
  Overall= 9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stevoreno
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 2, 2007 10:03 pm PT
Review:  This is definitely the best game in the series, everything is knew and exciting and you wont be 
 able to put it down for awhile, This game will definitely take you away from Halo 3 for some time.
 
  +Amazing campaign story.
  +Amazing audio will really make it feel like your in the fight.
  +All the effects make it feel like less of a game and make you feel like your in the fight.
  
 +moments that make you old your breath in some of the missions, "all gillied up" in particular.
 
  +Lots of surprises along the way.
  +Awesome multiplayer.
  -Campaign is way to short, about 5 hours.
  -Some VERY frustrating parts on the harder difficulties.
 
  ? What's the back story behind the prologue? COD5 maybe? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: winduck07
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 4, 2007 12:51 am PT
Review:  Leading my team of Dumba$$es in Modern Warfare.
  
  
  
  If Modern Warfare is like this then forget enlisting. 
  Basicallly the squad or team is stupid. 
 
  Other stupid people are the main team-partners characters who operate in God Mode but me, you, 
 the player doesnt. In the lower levels, its easy to play through but on Veteran, the unkillable 
 squad hides, why do they hide if theyre unkillable? For every 10 enemies I kill, my "helpful" God 
 Mode squad might get one.
  Try the Mile High Club on Veteran and you will see your your squad hide behind you and shoot around 
 or ignore enemies. Many a time I was shot in the back while my squad members snuggled side by side 
 with the terrororists.
  Great graphics, great sound, yes its the best looking and greatest sounding game to grace the 360. 
 Play it on Easy or Normal and accept it as "wow" play it on Veteran and lead the idiots around 
 and flashbangs, yet those flashbangs work on me but may not work on the enemies, 50/50 chance some 
 are immune to flashbangs.
  Frustration does not equal challanging.
  Getting pi$$ed while playing and then dying, dying and dying again and again is not "fun gameplay"
 
  
  If the squad had an inkling of a mouse brain, I would have gave it higher score. Started out fun 
 but now its Pi$$ing me off. Not fun anymore.
  I think it should be called "Bumrush! Lemmings Fighting Lemmings: Modern Warfare" 1000/1000 COD4 
 Gamerscore and I bet my roomies probably think Im nuts, I was cussing and yelling, "team leader 
 to team fu*k-up, your other left you &@#%@!!!" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xnipes
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 2, 2007 6:01 pm PT
Review:  This was my first time playing a Call of Duty 4 game, and I was highly impressed by CoD 4. I'm 
 a big FPS player, and for some reason CoD felt fresh and new.
  
  Campaign was a great experience, and I'm still enjoying it as I replay it on veteran. The dialogue 
 and sound was top-notch, and with a good sound system every little detail felt real. From the crackling 
 of a barrel fire, to the woosh of a helicopter, it was all realistic and immersing. The gameplay 
 was fun and challenging. I first went through on hardened and found it a challenge, but not frustrating. 
 Even on Veteran I don't find it overly-frustrating because it's always fresh. Each level brought 
 variety. From stealth missions, to brute force missions, or air strike missions, each mission had 
 its own mood and feel and was always interesting. The graphics were great too. I don't have an 
 HD TV and even then you can "imagine" the HD and it's wonderful. Shadows and lighting were great 
 and realistic. The characters moved realisticly, and gun models were good. I didn't encounter any 
 problems or bugs with the game either, which just added to the already well-done presentation.
 
  
  Multiplayer is excellent so far as well, and I anticipate I will be playing multiplayer for a long 
 time. There's always things to unlock, and the wide-variety or game modes provides endless hours 
 of fun and addiction. I'm currently prestige level 1 and level 46, and I'm working my way to prestige 
 2. There's just always so much to do, and there's no real way to describe the addicting powers 
 of multiplayer. I haven't encountered any bugs on multiplayer either.
  
  Overall a great game. If you're interested in war FPS, then this is a must buy, any time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darklord239
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 2, 2007 5:40 pm PT
Review:  Here's another game that will take your nice social life, beat it with a slege hammer, cut it into 
 pieces with a chainsaw, and then flush whats left of it down the toliet. Cod 4 is an amazing FPS, 
 and its one of the best games to come out this year. The multiplayer side of this game is put simply 
 the one of the best multiplayer action gams you'll get on your 360, and the only thing that even 
 comes close is halo. As you play through the multiplayer you'll gain new gun for yourself, and 
 then the ability to create a custom class, to play as you like, and give yourself your own perks. 
 Perks are things that give you different abilitys in the game. For example you could use stopping 
 power, which gives your bullets that extra power, or last stand that lets you pull out you pistol 
 so you can try to get a kill on the person that just got you. There are a lot to chose from, and 
 they set it up where that even when you reach a really high rank, your not unstoppable, you just 
 have more options than the other guy. The only thing that holds this game back from a perfect score 
 is the single player. While it is amazing and very fun, its just to short. Hardcore gamers will 
 probably beat it there first play through, and it really only takes 7-9 hours to beat it. Its not 
 that the single player is bad, cause for the most part its very good, it just ends way to soon. 
 There is an arcade mode, where you get points for kills kinda like halo 3 single player scoring 
 mode. In the rent or buy catagory if you have online or plan on getting online this is a buy, the 
 multiplayer really that good where even though the single player is very short with no co-op, you'll 
 be playing the multiplayer for months to come. If you don't have online and don't really like multiplayer 
 games you should just rent this one. Its an amazing game that you'll enjoy, one of the years best, 
 and if your a multiplayer person, you can't overlook this one.
  
  The good
  Amazing multiplayer only rivaled by halo
  
  The bad
  Single player is just to short 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kevthedude
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 2, 2007 2:09 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 push the envelope by developing the multiplayer before even touching the campaign 
 mode. Let's start off the the single player for those who lack Xbox Live. Call of Duty 4 does a 
 great job of giving people the chance to play the game on their own difficulty level. The easiest 
 difficulty maybe a little too easy but it does allow people who want to see the story and not have 
 to curse every second to do so. The veteran difficulty will cause the player to break multiple 
 controllers and fabricate multiple new swears. Don't even get me start with the extra mission after 
 the credits on veteran (It's a one minute mission that takes approximately 6 hours to beat) . Now, 
 the storyline for this game is great. It makes sense and it flows nicely. The time period of the 
 game is within a few days except for one or two missions that show how the whole war started. In 
 the single player mod you get to play as both SAS and Devil Dogs (USMC) who each have their own 
 arsenal of weapons. Now I'm going to talk about things that effect both single player and online 
 play. The graphics in this game are AMAZING. You will feel like you're really in a war and you're 
 really getting shot at. It gives the player a great connection to the battlefield and the troops 
 around them. I'm going to sum of graphics with one word, perfect. The sounds in this game are also 
 very realistic for Infinity Ward recorded the real sounds these guns make. Play this game in surround 
 sound and you'll be jumping on the ground when you hear an RPG. Now for online play. The online 
 play for this game is exemplary. As you play you get to move up the ranks gaining more weapons, 
 addons, and "perks" (which I will describe later on) . The cool thing about this game is that there 
 is a prestige mode you get when you get to the highest rank. This allows you to get a new insignia 
 and work your way back up the top. IF invented a great way to keep players playing once they got 
 to the top. Now, the perks in multiplayer allow you to change the way you play. For example there's 
 perks that allow you to pull out your pistol when you get shot for once last chance to take out 
 the shooter. Another is the ability to drop a grenade when you die to take out any nearby soldiers. 
 Perks give the game variation from two players of the same rank and skill. The multiplayer in this 
 game is just plain fun. One thing that is missing in this game (hence the 9.5) is coop. Halo 3 
 brought it in and it's really a must in all multiplayer based games now. Call of Duty 4 is a great 
 game and a must buy this holiday season. Happy fragging and see ya'll on the battlefield. Hooah! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shakenbake312
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 2, 2007 11:20 am PT
Review:  I played this game for about 2 hours this morning on Xbox Live and i was amazed. Sure I wasn't 
 an experienced player when it came to this game, but I had a lot of fun playing it. I got up to 
 about rank 5. This is a very addictive game for multiplayer (haven't played single player yet) .
 
  
  At first, when I had Call of Duty 3, I thought the next one was going to be another WWII game, 
 and I lost interest, but when I saw the title, Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare, I thought I just 
 might buy it. It's great that the makers of this game are changing the perspective of Call of Duty.
 
  
  It was pretty hard to get frags, but I was playing with a bunch of rank 40+ players, I was literally 
 the only player under rank 10. 
  
  I would recommend this game to anyone, seriously. The graphics are perfect (on my HDTV :) , the 
 gameplay is excellent, the multiplayer is outstanding, and the level of addiction is pretty high.
 
  
  I would give this game more than 10 but I guess it wont let me...
  
  In-game name is LotsOfPuppies 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vaderhater99
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 2, 2007 10:21 am PT
Review:  At first, I never thought anything would beat Halo 3. I was completely wrong. The campaign is unbelievable, 
 with endless challenges, twists and turns in the storyline, and gameplay that beats out any other 
 game on the market. But the multiplayer is what really makes this game so great. When you first 
 begin online, you'll have limited weapons and not many special attachments or perks, but as you 
 progress you'll unlock new weapons, perks, and different types of scopes you can put on your weapon. 
 The thing I really love about this game though, is how you level up by getting kills and not having 
 to win the match. That's one thing that really bothered me in Halo. Overall this game has endless 
 possibilities and a stellar multiplayer, making this title a must; have for the holiday season! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jasonziter1
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 2, 2007 9:31 am PT
Review:  This review will be short and sweet. You see, I use this site to buy my games. Yep you read it. 
 But I dont read the gamespot reviewer reviews. I only read good player reviews. 
  
  What does that mean for my reviews? It means, more often than not, I only review top notch games. 
 If you look at the ones I've reviewed you will see that. 
  
  This game is no different. If you are looking for a first class FPS, look no further. Forget about 
 Halo3. Yep they are in the same genre, and Halo 3 sucks. Seriously, I know you Halo junkies are 
 out there flipping me off right now, but how much better was it than halo2? Did it really make 
 any significant strides. Answer honestly now. It didn't did it? NO IT DIDN'T. Dont try and pretend 
 it did. 
  
  Now call of duty 4..... thats a whole different story. The graphics have improved dramatically, 
 but the gameplay responsiveness is still as good as COD2 without the over played WWII theme. The 
 weapons are crisp, and accurate. The controls are superb. Everything for this game just flows sweet 
 and pure. 
  
  This game, simply put, is a must own for anyone who is a FPS shooter lover. In fact..... trade in 
 Halo 3 towards the purchase while the trade in value is still high.
  
  -JZ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdc1394
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 18, 2008 3:29 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is the fourth installment in the Call of Duty franchise, which was starting to get 
 old with all the WW2 games out. But COD 4 is not in WW2 it is in modern times.
  The single player campagn is really fast paced and intense. It is very fun to play, but if you 
 play the game on regular difficulty it takes about 6 to 7 hours to complete (though on harder difficulties 
 it takes longer) . Even though it is a little bit on the short side, it is rollercoaster ride of 
 intense fun with a story full of twists and turns. And all of the achievments are for the single 
 player campaign and they all can be obtained, no impossible achievments.
  The multiplayer is the high point in this game. It is some of the best constucted and most fun 
 multiplayer ever in a game. The military rank system is perfectly constructed and the challenge 
 system always gives you somthing to do. You will play the multiplayer for months and months to 
 come.
  
  Graphics-Easily some of the best on the 360. Player models look excellent and the environments look 
 great too.
  
  Gameplay-It plays really well. Your teamates actually help you in the single player game. The AI 
 is good too. Oh and I forget to say it runs on 60 fps which means no slowdown.
  
  Sound-It really makes you feel like you are in the middle of a war. The voice acting is really 
 well done and all the weapons sound lifelike.
  
  Value-The single player is still fun after multiple playthroughs. The multiplayer will keep you 
 playing for months to come.
  
  Final thoughts-One of the best to grace the 360. If you don't have it you have to get it right 
 away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deft2121
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 2, 2007 7:16 am PT
Review:  This is just one of those games that delivers. Every part of the game is great and enjoyable. The 
 single player, while not being particularly long, it is solid. The single player isn't even the 
 main focus of the game, once you have played the Cod4 multiplayer you begin to look at the single 
 player as a bonus to the game, making it feel like you really got your $60 worth out of the game. 
 The multi player is an engaging experience, and you don't even want to put the controller down. 
 The graphics are amazing probably one of the best of this gen. I recommend this game to any fan 
 of FPS games, you will not be disappointed, in my opinion the best FPS on the 360 as of now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: necessity01
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 2, 2007 7:07 am PT
Review:  COD 4 is quite simply the best multiplayer game I have ever had the pleasure of playing. The perks 
 matched with weapon and level upgrading is superb. And then to have the guts to create Prestige 
 mode which allows the player to start over gives it an even longer life span. I was recently asked, 
 "Aren't you getting sick of playing this game?" It was easy to respond that I felt like I was just 
 now starting to learn some of the small techniques to make this game even better. I was loaned 
 a copy of Assassin's Creed this weekend and I played it for about an hour before the desire to 
 get back to COD 4 became too great. I was playing Assassin's Creed but in my mind I was thinking 
 about the next place I would try sniping from.
  This is one for the ages. A fantastic game. Well done Infinity Ward! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheWesker
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 2, 2007 12:02 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is one of the best games to come out this year. It features a great storyline, intense 
 combat and robust multiplayer that will keep you thirsty for more.
  
  One of the first things you'll notice in Call of Duty 4 is the graphical overhaul. It's certainly 
 not the best graphics you've seen, but it sure does look pretty. Everything is technically impressive 
 and with no framerate hiccups running at a solid 60fps with a lot of friendlies and enemies on 
 screen at once, I can't really complain. Chernobyl is freaking beautiful.
  
  The story is actually pretty neat and a nice change from the previous entires in the Call of Duty 
 series. It's set in modern times, hence "Modern Warfare" compared to WWII of the Call of Duty brethren. 
 The setting is really nice and flows well with the story. I won't detail too much for fear of spoilers.
 
  
  The controls work extremely well and are some of the most intuitive to be found. Quick grenade 
 throws, quick weapon switiching and quick melee all come together making the controls one of the 
 finer aspects of Call of Duty 4.
  
  Multiplayer is really where it's at with Call of Duty 4. There's a dozen game modes, 16 maps and 
 a rank-up system that has you begging for more. The ranking system has class-based play that lets 
 you build your soldier as you wish. Plenty of customization options with perks and add-ons that 
 still somehow balance out. 16-player play with a party and voting system that works perfectly. 
 Gameplay with challenges that add experience makes for an addicting game that needs to be experienced 
 to be appreciated.
  
  In closing, Call of Duty 4 is one of the best shooters this year and possibly ever. It executes 
 everything nicely and only has a few faults, such as a short single player experience and a few 
 frame rate issues here and there. No fault should keep you away from Call of Duty 4 though, as 
 it's simply amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aaronball
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 1, 2007 11:48 pm PT
Review:  I couldn't even get into the single player mode, it was just too friggin hard, most of the time 
 it seems like you need the survival skills of an elite soldier to make it through the game. Same 
 can be said for multiplayer, which isn't very user friendly toward newer gamers of the genre. On 
 top of semi- tough controls which can only allow a couple kills per respawn if your decently skilled 
 is those who are the real pros who spam the mic with obscenities and call in airstrikes several 
 times a round. I just wasn't as satisfied with this game as I was with other FPS games of the Genre, 
 there are better, older FPS games out there. It's better for newer gamers to the genre to play 
 Counter-Strike Source and Rainbow Six Vegas to hone your skills before renting or buying this game.
 
  
  Call of Duty 4 gets an 8.0 for Breathtaking Graphics and maps, bearable gameplay, but still gameplay 
 just feels a bit biased. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlandAnimal
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 1, 2007 8:47 pm PT
Review:  I wasnt sure if this would be all that it was hyped up to be until I put it in my disc tray and 
 realize it's sheer epicness. The first level has you infiltrating a sinking cargo ship in the atlantic. 
 Eventually you will find yourself sniping down helicopters, running from hounds, firing from a 
 gunship, and doing other unbelivable actions that have never been expierienced in a video game 
 before. Not to mention the incredible multiplayer expierience that has a great rank-up system and 
 lets you customize your weapons and abilities to create your own special class. Call of Duty 4: 
 Modern Warfare is a true masterpiece that will be cherished as a benchmark of first-person shooters. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Munkey4098
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 1, 2007 8:11 pm PT
Review:  I have made it clear that I am in the army and love playing games based on my job as I am an Infantryman. 
 I have been to Iraq and this game represents a firefight in modern combat quite accurately with 
 adding some of the more fun stuff like air strikes.
  
  
  This game drops you into an intense world 
 from the view point of the British SAS and Marine Force Recon teams and does a fine job of making 
 you feel like you are in a war. Your team mates handle themselves pretty well even though they 
 have stupid moments sometimes. Which is the only thing stopping this from getting a 10 .
  
  
  
  Wow with everything going on from 
 firefights to the number of enemies to the enviroments to the close quarters combat it was awe 
 inspiring. I didn't notice any frame rate slow down and was immersed in the world.
  
  
  The Explosions, your squad yelling, 
 and bullets snapping by your head it completed the world. Your Captain or Platoon Leader yelling 
 orders at you. Makes you feel like that you are immersed in a world that has went to hell.
  
  
  Eventhough the single player is 
 shorter than COD 2 the focus was multiplayer. I don't play a lot of multiplayer games but this 
 one had me hooked since the beta.
  
  This game is a must buy for fans of shooters as it is one of the most intense accurate representations 
 of modern warfare. The missions even are similar to some of the missions I had while deployed. 
 Very enjoyable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hunter_44
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 1, 2007 7:04 pm PT
Review:  There are a ton of things to like about Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare. The first are the incredibly 
 imersive graphics and the shockingly realistic chaos and intensity of a battle field. The multi 
 player mode is addictive and deeper than most Xbox games and the campaign, while short, is still 
 pretty incredible. 
  
  The negatives are few and far between in this game, but they're certainly worth mentioning. If 
 you're looking for a long, drawn out game, find something else. The single player campaign is pretty 
 short. That being said, you get a treatsie in just about every form of combat you could imagine. 
 The Sniper level through Chyernoble, was a particular favorite of mine. Through the journey you'll 
 get to experience close and chaotic urban combat, sniper missions, stealth missions, chase missions, 
 everything. So despite the campaign being surprisingly short, you'll still have a sense of fullfillment. 
 
  
  The AI is pretty stupid as can be expected, but in terms of other FPS, it's about average to above 
 average. The close quarters combat is paticularly frustrating, but in a good way. 
  
  The multiplayer is where this game just completely blows the rest away. It's deep, fun and *que 
 novel concept* you legitimately have to fight towards something. The accomplishments and ranks 
 give you a reason to keep on coming back for more. The modern, crazy weapons you can use draw you 
 back even more. 
  
  The storyline is pretty medicore and you don't really feel drawn in at any time, which isn't a 
 problem that is exclusive to this game, but still something I tend to look for in every game. It's 
 your typical Tom Clancy type modern warfare saga with twists and turns, communists, Islamic fundamentalists 
 and a whole plethora of baddies to keep you occupied. 
  
  The graphics and control are pretty great for a console system and make the whole experience pretty 
 icredible, especially trapsing in and out of old Soviet apartment complexes. The sounds are insanely 
 accurate for a game like this, and it makes for a very immersive experience altogether.
  
  While I wouldn't say upon plugging this one in, that it blew me away like say, Resident Evil 2 
 or 4, Grand Theft Auto III or World of Warcraft, it's a pretty unique experience and I feel is 
 the first game to really go for the genuine modern warfare type feel. I'm as big a WWII buff as 
 the next guy, but it was getting tired and this is certainly a fresh re-start for the series, despite 
 it not being exactly revolutionary. Fill in the WWII guys for modern guys and that's basically 
 your game, but the settings are overall just way more fun. The multiplayer is sensational, the 
 single player campaign is short, but sweet and it certainly is a stand out game. Don't come in 
 expecting to feel revolutionized though, as this, while an awesome FPS, isn't exactly an industry 
 or genre changing game. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: StarFry
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 30, 2007 12:36 pm PT
Review:  Infinity Ward gladly realizes World War II games are starting to become boring. So after Call of 
 Duty 2, work began on the sequel on modern warfare. There was Call of Duty 3 which there didn't 
 had to be and plus it wasn't made by them. It's odd that Infinity Ward didn't make a brand new 
 franchise just for this modern-themed war game but whatever the case, Call of Duty 4 is great.
 
  
  The single-player is short, with the length half as long as most first-person shooters like Half-Life 
 2 or Halo 3. What makes up for the short single-player is the story. You play 2 characters, one 
 from S. A. S. (British) , and the U. S. Marines. There's other supporting characters, one of them you 
 get to play in a mission set years before the actual story-line. The story is better and consistent, 
 you truly feel you're in a battle of a great story, and not playing someone who's in a famous WW2 
 battle. From start to finish, you'll never know what will happen next and who knows you'll survive. 
 It's an adrenaline-pumped thrill ride borrowing elements from 24 or The Kingdom involving action 
 and politics, and this game does so well. One of the best missions is where you only have a pistol 
 and a sniper rifle along with only 1 team-mate. You and your team-mate have to go through the entire 
 mission without alerting people, you could but you'll be outnumbered. It's a chilling experience 
 and it makes you really feel like you're doing some tactical.
  There's not a lot of replayability to the single-player unless you want to play it on the hardest 
 difficulty, or Arcade Mode which is interesting like Halo 3's. 
  
  The multi-player is where Infinity Ward focused and man is it good. You could create your own character 
 not by his appearance but by his set of weapons, and perks/abilities. All the weapons are fairly 
 balanced to say the least but the perks are sort of... off. It'll take more to kill someone with 
 a "Juggarnaut" perk (extra health) , grenade launchers, and one perk you might hate is "Martydom" 
 which is where a person who dies, in a second a live grenade explodes in the location of his/her 
 dead body. It's annoying and it ruins the fun. Shanking is a pretty cool element combing stealth. 
 
  
  With that said, the multi-player does have problems. It tests your patience hard and asking too 
 much. You have to pay attention to everywhere you go, which I like, it gives you a great feeling 
 of intensity. But there are instances where you die for an unfair reason even if there's a KIll-Cam. 
 There's also really bad spawns, where you die instantly from campers, enemies, airstrikes, helicoptors, 
 grenades, turrets and other stuff that's going on. So much stuff going on isn't a good thing all 
 the time. With that said, the multi-player isn't that bad and its quite enjoyable, but please consider 
 the problems I've listed, you've been warned. 
  
  The graphics are the best, in instances in the single-player you'll see the range from a sniping 
 point to the rest of the town, and it's beautiful. The multi-player is toned down a bit, but still 
 looks really impressive. The sound is the best, you hear gun sounds far away or next to, characters 
 screaming, grenades, cars blowing up, helicoptors and airstrikes makes you feel like you're in 
 war. The tilt is good, and the first-person view changes if anything happens to you. If stunned, 
 you move slower. If you need cover fast, the corners of the screen have blood vessels shown here. 
 If you fall off a big height, you hear a cracking sound and a black blink on the screen. It's great 
 to see Infinity Ward paid attention to little things like that. 
  
  Overall, Call of Duty 4 is without the doubt the best of the series, the single-player might not 
 last long but it's so deep you'll love how it goes from start to finish even if... well see yourself. 
 On top of that is great multi-player which actually is enjoyable at spots, but rarely you see you 
 and your friends just having a private match and not going online. If you're a COD fan get it, 
 and if you're into fast and tactical shooters, you should get this as well. War is hell but this 
 game is heaven. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daveman_Ci
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 1, 2007 12:20 pm PT
Review:  What can I say, this game is just really well made. I really cant fault it... maybe just a little 
 on the length of the single player, but then again the amount of multi player features more than 
 makes up for that.
  
  Graphically this game impressed me a lot more than I thought it would, and its the blur effects 
 and lighting that just made me sit back in amazement. At many different points in this game it 
 got me so involved that my heart rate just increased all the time as I scraped my way through pretty 
 sketchy situations. One incident that comes to mind is when the boat on the first level starts 
 to sink and I was running out... I didn't release that I was holding my breath the whole run until 
 I jumped on the helicopter and sucked in some air! Games that can make you get involved that much 
 with the environment and make your heart race is just awesome! 
  
  Over all I really enjoyed this game and glad to have it in my collection. I think I would go as 
 far to say that this is my favourite game I own right now. I'm sure I will enjoy the multi player 
 for months to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hardcore_gamer1
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 1, 2007 12:08 pm PT
Review:  Lets start off by saying that Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is a great game. The graphics are 
 amazing, the audio sounds great on my speaker system, the enemy AI is pretty good, and overall 
 is really fun. The only problems I had with the campaign was that it was short and sometimes I 
 would be walking and my squad would get in my way but if the campaign was longer then no doubt 
 I would've gave this a 10. The multiplayer is fun and addictive with the challenges and perks you 
 can do. I recommend everyone to buy this game its worth it and you won't be disappointed unless 
 if you just want to buy it to play campaign then I would think of just renting it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TripleXpacK
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 1, 2007 8:30 am PT
Review:  Now this is a shooter with great visuals, sounds, gameplay this game has it all!
  
  If your looking for a great shooter on the Xbox 360, well you can't go wrong with this title. Your 
 always right into the action, jets flying over your head, explosions everywhere, enemies coming 
 from every sides!!
  
  Great visuals has you run trough the streets of a city full of enemies trying to stop you from 
 getting to point a to point b, really make you fell like your in the middle of a war!
  
  Sounds are great you ear your troops screaming yelling has their trying do do their best to keep 
 you alive, great explosion sounds!
  
  Great control makes it easy too aim, run, get down on your knees of flat on you stomach while your 
 trying too eliminate enemy troops
  
  Graphics: 10
  
  Sounds: 10
  
  Gameplay: 10
  
  Value:10
  
  A must have game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: llTylerll
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 31, 2007 9:36 am PT
Review:  this game is alot of fun multiplayer is 100+ hours of fun, the only real problem with this game 
 is too short, no online acheivments but that all be said dont hesitate to rent or buy. llTylerll 
 llTylerll llTylerll llTylerll llTylerll llTylerll llTylerll llTylerll llTylerll llTylerll llTylerll 
 llTylerll llTylerll llTylerll llTylerll llTylerll llTylerll llTylerll llTylerll llTylerll llTylerll 
 llTylerll lllTylerll llTylerll llTylerll llTylerll lTylerll llTylerll llTylerll llTylerll llTylerll 
 llTylerll llTylerll llTylerll llTylerll llTylerll llTylerll llTylerll llTylerll llTylerll llTylerll 
 llTylerll llTylerll llllTylerll llTylerll llTylerll llTylerll Tylerll llTylerll llTylerll llTylerll 
 llTylerll llTylerll llTylerll llTylerll llTylerll llTylerll llTylerll llTylerll llTylerll llTylerll 
 llTylerll lllTylerll llTylerll llTylerll llTylerlllTylerll llTylerll 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jericho721
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 1, 2007 5:25 am PT
Review:  Personal score 9.8/10
  
  Achievement System: Great. They worked hard on the achievement list that gives us a good amount 
 of time to accomplish them in certain ways which is only obtainable through the singleplayer campaign 
 and some other modes offline.
  
  Singleplayer Campaign: Excellent. You play a role as a S. A. S and UMSC soldier throughout the singleplayer 
 campaign to stop the threat all over the pandemic world, just another day of the job. Intense Cinematic 
 gameplay feel with a sense of realism, feels just like your in it. bullet penetration system throughout 
 the game on all modes including multiplayer, can't see them? Spray over a thin layered wall if 
 you know they are just right behind it.
  Nice touch of weather and sound effects which makes this game feel perfect, plenty of enemies to 
 either blast your way through them RAMBO style or just simply take cover and fire. Wide urban warfare, 
 play through farmlands, streets of Iraq, urban conflicted grounds that have been damaged pass decades 
 of battles, radio stations, streets, underground top secret facility which is all just another 
 day of the job to gun, pistol, stab your enemy. Last but not least there are other modes just outside 
 the singleplayer campaign which are also achievement related such as Arcade mode, bonus missions 
 such as Mile High Club avaliable after completing the game.
  
  Multiplayer Mode: Excellent. Offers a wide range of weapons and perks to choose from, pistols to 
 shotguns, submachine guns, machine guns with custom parts such as laser scope, grenade launcher 
 and skins to choose from which most of them are unlockable throughout ranking in the game, yes 
 that is right there is a ranking system in the multiplayer mode which will keep you busy for a 
 really, really, really long time and offers a wide range of gameplay modes from capture the flag, 
 team deathmatch and all the way to oldcore.
  
  Framerate: Run so smooth you can barely find any lag or glitches in the game which makes it a perfect 
 game for any shooter fan.
  
  Graphics: Intense in realistic at all modes which feels like you are just literally there.
  
 
  Controls: Just right, similar controls functions to most shooting games which makes it a easy 
 step to kill an enemy without fussing around with the manual book to actually learn every button 
 if you know what I mean.
  
  AI: Excellent Artificial Intelligence, they know what to do, when to do it which in other words 
 they are not stupid to either stand still for you to kill or not to shoot at you for some reason 
 and they react like real humans, if you shoot, throw a grenade, run or take cover they immediatley 
 react and know what to do.
  
  The Bad: Veteran mode can be a pain to achieve some achievements which can force you to play it 
 literally a day just to obtain one really hard achievement.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilhawkkid182
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 13, 2007 5:20 pm PT
Review:  Yes, I am giving Call of Duty 4 Modern Warfare a 10/10. No, this not just going to be a fanboy 
 review where I dont explain what is so great about this game. Call of Duty 4 creates an amazing 
 atmostphere with amazing multiplayer with a single player so intesnse that if feels like it can 
 only be matched by the real thing. First lets start out talking about the single player. The single 
 player takes place in the Middle East and eventually moves over to Russia. The game is seen through 
 the eyes of a US Marine and a British SAS soldier. Unlike the previous Call of Duty games that 
 were heavy on the action and light on the story, Call of Duty 4 features not only more intense 
 moments than anything that has ever been done in the series before, but it also features the best 
 story seen so far in any modern war game. Call of Duty 4's single player although short, will hav 
 eyou on the edge of your seat from the beginning until the end. Not to mention that all of the 
 games achievements are single player only so not only will the super intense campaign and amazing 
 story keep you coming back, the achievements add even more replay value to the game. The Call of 
 Duty series has always been about World War Two, but Call of Duty 4 Modern Warfare does an amazing 
 job at making the war on terror seem like it is in fact World War Three which at least for me sparked 
 quite a few thoughts in my head that made that game seem even more meaningful. Is this Infantry 
 Wards way of making a statement on where this war is headed (play the single player about half 
 way to fully understand this statement) ? If it is then the guys at Infantry Ward might just be 
 on to something and in a way complete geniouses.
  
  Call of Duty 4' single player is easily one of the best single player games of all time. Yes the 
 game is beatable in just under seven hours on the easier settings, but if you go on and keep playing 
 you wont be sorry. I could see myself playing thorugh this game more than a GTA game, mainly because 
 of all the paths that you can take throughout the levels. About halfway through the game there 
 is a mission called Ghullies in the Mist , this mission puts you in post-Chernobyl Russia, with 
 you and your commanding officer quietly crawling your way through the countryside, with nothing 
 but a sniper rifle and a Ghuillie suit. The two missions that comprise this section of the game 
 are hands down the greatest missions in the game. They may just the two most exciting and thrilling 
 moments to ever take place in gaming. If there was ever a time that you felt like you were in the 
 game, it is definately in this section of the game, and is hands down the most immersed I've felt 
 in a game in a long long time. Sure the tactics are not super important in this game, but thats 
 what Ghost Recon is for.
  
  Call of Duty 4 may just have the best graphics that I have ever seen in a game. On a regular TV 
 Call of Duty 4 looks absolutely amazing. It might just be one of the best looking games ever made. 
 However then plug your Xbox into an HD TV and throw it into 1080 and it is without a doubt the 
 greatest looking game ever made and it will hold that title for a very very long time. I seriously 
 had to stop in the middle of an intense multiplayer battle to look at a car that was on fire, and 
 I seriously wondered, is this real? Of course then I got mowed down but that is beside the point. 
 If you dont have an HDTV you are still getting some pretty high end graphics, but if you have an 
 HDTV then you will be in graphics heaven and you will probably be never too look at an older game 
 ever again.
  
  The multiplayer aspect of the game is perfect in every way shape and form. There are no achievements 
 for it, but that does not matter (this surprised me quite a bit since I am addicted to them) . Building 
 your character and moving up in the rankings and unlocking challenges is easily one of the most 
 rewarding things I have ever seen in a game. The multiplayer maps are perfect, and there is not 
 one that I do not like. There is a large amount of weapons and there are hundreds of upgrades to 
 them. PLus the player environment is spectacular. No little pre teens with squeaky voices talking 
 crap about everybody, on that note I dont think I have ever been on a server where I ever heard 
 anything that anyone would find offensive, which is nice because sometimes you just want to play 
 the game and not listen to the stupid useless banter that goes on between fellow players.
  
  Call of Duty 4 is in my humble opinion the best game on the Xbox 360. The multiplayer and single 
 player are some of the best that I have ever seen in the first person shooter genre. If you are 
 a fan of modern war shooters and you have an Xbox 360 Call of Duty 4 and Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter 
 are the two games that you will need to be satisfied. Its addicting and fun. Pick this game up 
 and you will not be disappointed 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Redwake
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 30, 2007 9:59 pm PT
Review:  Like I said this game needs some getting used to. When I first started playing I was like "wtf?" 
 I was going to stop playing. But I waited and played some more and in the process got addicted 
 to this game. Halo players will have difficulty setting into this game, but all you have to do 
 is find the class that suits you in this game. Do you like ambushing players and then spraying 
 them? Are you one of those people who throws some frags then runs in shooting? Do you just sit 
 there and camp out? Whatever your playing style this game is good for you. I personally like to 
 play with submachine guns, it is just so satisfying to run in with a silenced Uzi knifing people 
 and shooting them down. Not to mention be rewarded for doing so with the system that lets you earn 
 upgrades as you go along. Overall this game is great for lone wolfs and team players, every gun 
 has a weakness and every map has tons of possibilities. Just get warmed up and bring your A game 
 to this one because death is always lurking... 10/10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pandemic-7
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 30, 2007 6:35 pm PT
Review:  This is the most addicted I have been to a game since Winter 04 and playing World of Warcraft for 
 the first time. It has a great campaign, nice achievements that don't require all your time to 
 attain, and an incredibly addictive and deep multiplayer. The weapon upgrades keep you coming back 
 for more and this game actually rewards for any ownage you hand out., it's not just cosmetic upgrades 
 to armor and the like, these rewards are worth fighting for. I recommend to anyone who even remotely 
 likes a shooter. There is a long list of weapos to choose from and being able to change your class 
 in the middle of a fight to take out a chopper is awesome. There isn't enough for me to talk about 
 how much I love this game. Way to go Infinity Ward! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sir_Wader
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 30, 2007 2:36 pm PT
Review:  Now when i first bought call of duty 4 i went straight for the online mode before even looking 
 at the single player and too be honest i was getting owned and it didnt grab me. Then after a few 
 hours of online play i started getting more of a feel of the game and it just got better and better 
 from there. The online is all it is cracked up to be, it is amazing. The ranking system gives it 
 that edge that makes it a distinctive shooter and the maps added all together it is a fantastic 
 multiplayer game. The only flaw i could think of with Call Of Duty 4 is you cant have guests which 
 would of made the game a whole lot better . The campaign, all though short , is the best campaign 
 i have ever played on from the training level to the dramatic I was engrossed in the gameplay and 
 when i finished the campaign all i could say was WOW! 
  
  I recomend that anyone who loves a good shooter should buy the game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theevans
Rating: 10
Date: May 2, 2008 5:49 am PT
Review:  After playing the last 2 Call of Duty games on the Xbox 360 I was very skeptical to get the latest 
 offering from Activision. While the previous installments had incredible graphics, sound and game 
 play, something about them made me feel sick. Literally. Too much action? How can that be? Frame 
 rate/refresh rate issues? Maybe. Whatever the reason, I didn't enjoy playing the WWII chapters 
 of the series for very long. I ended up getting Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare as part of a retail 
 package promotion - intending to turn back in for something else. I even went so far as to refrain 
 from opening up the package and taking a quick look. As fate would have it, the store I returned 
 it to was only paying for "used value", so I figured what the hell. Cracked it and I haven't looked 
 back.
  
  It's hard to pinpoint the best features of this surprisingly enjoyable game. The market has been 
 flooded with shooters and there hasn't been a game to come close to Gears of War quality in that 
 arena - until now. COD4 is everything and more that you'd want in a next-gen 3rd person shooter. 
 Yes Activision has updated the local of its battlefields, but more than that, it's the perfect 
 blend of technical achievement and level/art design that make the game a clear champion for the 
 long running series.
  
  The graphics are phenomenal. Player models, weapons, explosions, clothing and vehicles have been 
 rendered with incredible detail and care. Animations have been taken to a new benchmark. But the 
 most impressive graphic component are the intricate and lifelike environments that your epic firefights 
 take place. The campaign is thoroughly enjoyable and offers a wide variety of indoor/outdoor missions 
 that take you to war zones that will tempt you to put your weapon down so you can take it all in. 
 The multiplayer maps are equally as beautiful (if that can be said for a battlefield) . From pounding 
 rainstorms, dusty helicopter sweeps, decaying cities and everything in between your jaw will be 
 left dropped in awe at the attention to detail. 
  
  The game sounds just as good as it looks. The impact of firing your weapon and getting hit is visceral. 
 Explosions are terrifying. Chatter is immersive. The soundtrack isn't bad either. 
  
  The game play is even better than it was in the last game. There are a ton of new options - especially 
 in the multiplayer game that keep things interesting and challenging. Radar sweeps, air strikes, 
 helicopters, weapon upgrades and player perks are some of the things you'll be "dying" to unlock 
 as you progress through the ranks. The single player campaign has been called "too short" by a 
 lot of reviewers, and while I agree that it would have been nice to have it be longer, its not 
 as short as you think. I was fully satisfied, if not impressed by the campaign. It was about 8 
 - 10 hours on regular difficulty. The quality more than makes up for its lackluster length. I think 
 most players will be left wanting more. The final level is one of the most exciting game experiences 
 ever. 
  
  If there are any short comings with COD4 it could be the fact that multiplayer throws any and all 
 players into the area together - no matter what your skill level. It can be difficult and somewhat 
 frustrating to face opponents that are 50+ levels higher than yourself. A grouping system would 
 be a nice feature. The game also has a bit of a learning curve. Figuring out how each weapon performs 
 and how the upgrades affect game play takes some patience and diligence. Overall Call of Duty 4 
 is this year's best game. If the game offered an online co-op campaign with some more lasting power, 
 COD4 could have taken the top spot as the best Xbox360 game yet. This is a very close 2nd to last 
 year's Gears of War in my opinion. Bottom line is that this game is highly addictive, completely 
 immersive and fun to play.
  
  Final Rating = 9.8/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lebbin
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 31, 2008 10:08 am PT
Review:  First and foremost, this is an amazing game that anyone who likes action should play. It's full 
 of action from beginning to end, and has a perfect difficulty that's not too hard and not too easy 
 on the normal setting. I'll start with the single player gameplay. It has the same "down-the-sights" 
 shooting mechanic that was in past CoD games, and the similarities end there except that it shares 
 the same intensity that the previous games had. In fact it may even be the most intense, and it 
 helps that the control is perfect. Everything is responsive and the buttons are mapped well. 
 
  
  The campaign should last from 6 to 7 hours, and while it may sound short, each level is filled 
 to the brim with exciting and new experiences that you won't find anywhere else. The game includes 
 a stealth level called "All Ghillied Up" that is the best level of the series. The pace of the 
 game is perfect. Shooting enemies couldn't get more fun, and the fact that the developers replaced 
 the gun melee attack with a knife stab is just plain cool. There is only one level that wasn't 
 perfect, "Heat" , but it was still so good that it stands out in it's own way.
  
  Call of Duty 4 is a linear game. You go from point A to point B, and while it may sound a little 
 last-gen, it still works because of the cool scripted events. All the weapons handle great. They 
 are very cool looking, and the pistols kick butt. Headshots are easy to pull off, and the sniper 
 rifle is sure to be a favorite weapon by the end of the game. The ability to shoot through walls 
 adds extra fun to the experience. The enemies don't really change. There seems to be only 4 enemy 
 character models, that range from "guy with red hat" to "rocket dude with cloth mask". It doesn't 
 take away from the game, but if they added more character models, it would have added to the game. 
 There are also other problems that keep me from rewarding Call of Duty 4 with a 10. 
  
  The fact that killing your teammates makes you go back to the last checkpoint could be frustrating 
 and they also get in your way sometimes that could cost you your life. It's a good thing the checkpoint 
 system is near perfect and you have an infinite number of lives. When you beat the main game (which 
 deserves a 9 all by itself) , it unlocks arcade mode. Arcade mode is A LOT of fun. You are timed 
 and each kill awards you with points. It is very different from Halo 3's metagame. In Arcade mode 
 you also have a number of lives and if you lose them all, it's Game Over. It is very cool to see 
 your points multiply and having each kill reach the 1,000's in points.
  
  Now for the multiplayer. It has the best online multiplayer... ever. Even the splitscreen can be 
 very fun. It is so polished, and the RPG Lite system of giving you new guns and upgrades is fantastic. 
 It may not have as many options as Halo 3, but that doesn't keep it from being more fun. 
  
  Now onto the technical stuff. There aren't any frame rate issues, except for the Airstrikes 
 in the single player. This is pretty surprising, since the game is so intense. The graphics are 
 very, very, very great. They couldn't get much better. The sound is perfect. Explosions, gunshots, 
 and even voice acting is better than most games I've played. Overall, the look and sound of the 
 game are top-notch. 
  
  To conclude this massive review, I'd like to restate that if you like action, you must play this 
 game. It plays out almost like an action movie, and is the definitive game for shooting baddies 
 in modern environments. I rarely give out 9's, and this is very deserving of one. There isn't much 
 else to say. All the action and intensity stacks up to create one of the best FPS game of the year, 
 and possibly the decade. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bringndaheat08
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 29, 2007 8:28 pm PT
Review:  Like many other long time Call of Duty fans, I was wary of what Modern Warfare would mean for the 
 series. Call of Duty had become the quintessential WWII shooter of its time, becoming the FPS that 
 all other WWII shooters would be measured against. When Activision/Infinity Ward announced that 
 the series would be leaving its WWII roots for a more modern themed iteration, many of its fans 
 were naturally worried. Thankfully, Call of Duty: Modern Warfare puts many of those fears at rest. 
 Slick modern military design, cinematic flair and the same great gameplay that Call of Duty is 
 known for come together to create a compelling and worthy addition to the series. As the name suggests, 
 CoD 4 (As I will refer to it from now on) takes place in a "Modern Warfare" setting. The classic 
 Garand, Thompson, BAR and horde of Nazi's from the previous series has been traded in for modular 
 battle rifles and Russian Ultranationalists. The change for the most part is cosmetic of course, 
 aside from a few upgrades the same great gameplay is alive and well. CoD4 does a great job of integrating 
 what made the series so good with the necessary changes that the new theme requires.
  
  The gameplay in CoD4 for the most part remains unchanged from previous iterations, which considering 
 how good the series has been isn't a bad thing. Controls are virtually identical to most FPS games 
 on the market and veterans of past CoD games will be quite at home. CoD4 features the same semi-tactical 
 but still forgiving gameplay that have been a CoD staple and it works just as well in the modern 
 setting as it did in WWII. Along with the new theme comes a new modern set of weapons and gear, 
 and CoD4 does a great job on both the weapon models, design and sound. Sound is particularly good, 
 everything from the muffled taps of silenced weapons to the crack of the more powerful sniper rifles 
 are satisfying and really give weight to the weapons. Graphically, CoD4 is just slightly above 
 CoD3 and on par with most next gen games on the market. While it may not be groundbreaking, it's 
 certainly nothing to scoff at. Models are nicely detailed and animations are fluid and natural, 
 both your enemies and allies look great. The levels in CoD4 are nicely done as well, though some 
 levels show amazing possibilities while others come off as bland. Like the previous CoD games, 
 the single player campaign in CoD4 is a great mix of large scale battles, scripted events and stylized 
 gameplay. Though somewhat short, the campaign is compelling and immersive. The campaign puts you 
 in the shoes of an SAS commando and a US Force Recon Marine fighting in a number of different locales, 
 from a cargo ship in the Bering Straight, a fictional small Middle Eastern country and deep into 
 war torn Russia. The story certainly has potential, but is never really fleshed out. There are 
 numerous cinematics and news story style narration throughout the campaign, but none of them really 
 tie in the story. Then again, most of the background story is just an excuse to put you in the 
 action anyway, so it's not much of detraction.
  
  Multiplayer wise, CoD4 has perhaps the most full featured multiplayer component of any CoD game 
 thus far. Aside from the wide variety of maps and game modes, the most dramatic addition is that 
 of a ranking system. These ranks allow access newer weapons and weapon upgrades as well as special 
 abilities. While these upgrades are definitely a good incentive to keep playing online, they do 
 sometimes skew the balance toward veteran players. Fully upgraded players definitely have the advantage 
 over newer players, which might turn off some newer players. Though the ranking system is surprisingly 
 lenient, and it won't take long to earn those upgrades. In the end, CoD4 is a great addition to 
 the CoD series. The change of theme in CoD has thankfully not affected the high caliber of the 
 game. The tight gameplay, visuals and design come together to make a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wargodjocky2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 29, 2007 8:20 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty is on of the best games your going to pick up this year. the story mode draws you 
 in as 2 different characters. No more WWII!! This game is full of terrorists and Spetznas ( russians) . 
 The game feels like an actual war , especially when your playing as the marines, my favorite. The 
 graphics are top notch with great blood effects to amazing environments. the sound effects are 
 top notch outstanding. If someone is in another room while your playing, theyll think theres an 
 actual war going on in there. You own guys shout commands and the bad guys cuss you out. the AI 
 is very good and if you dont constantly move, you will die. the terrorists are pretty much Super 
 Bowl Quarterbacks when it comes to grenades. every grenade thrown will land at your feet. The new 
 ability to shoot through objects really adds a nice touch to the game. if you see somone hiding 
 behind a wall, you can still lay bullets in him. The only bad thing is , the bad guys can shoot 
 through walls too. Taking cover is basically crouching behind something which gives you realism, 
 but makes it hard to see the enemies. Your gonna want to play the career mode on hard because easy 
 is too easy. Hard will give you a nice challenge, with great fun. 
  
  Now onto the Multiplayer. This is the main reason you should get the game. The multiplayer offers 
 many modes like Team Deathmatch, Free for All, Sabotage, Domination, Oldcore , Hardcore, etc.... 
 In multi player, if you get shot 3 times, your dead. Its pretty much opposite from Halo. THe multiplayer 
 offers something called perks, which are special abilities you obtain from getting higher ranks. 
 For example, one ability might let you hold your breath longer for more accuracy on the sniper. 
 The abillities get better and better. Dont Worry, it all balances out when you play. 
  The only reason Call of Duty didnt get a 10 was because of slow matchmaking and no vehicle control 
 whatsoever, BUMMER. What happened to tanks and jeeps. You do get to use helicopter guns in story 
 mode , but in multiplayer, you can just call them to do the job. Basically, if you have a 360 and 
 you like shooters, CALL OF DUTY IS A ABSOLUTE BUYER. ITS WORTH MORE THAN 60 BUCKS FOR GODS SAKE. 
 BUY THE GAME. THANK YOU FOR READING THIS. 
  
  ALI MOHAMMADIZADEHAHAHAHAHAHAHA 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickdastick
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 29, 2007 4:56 pm PT
Review:  So I would like to say that CoD4 should be game of the year! It's a solid game that has the best 
 FPS multiplayer I have every played. This game does so many things right it's sick! My only gripe 
 is that they should have kept the online splitscreen but it's not a huge deal. Here's my breakdown:
 
  
  Graphics: Yeah, this game is just gorgeous! From the explosions to the environment, this game does 
 it all well. Just amazing.
  
  Gameplay: Solid solid solid! You can't say that enough when playing this game. Everything feels 
 so solid when playing. From shooting to running to stabbing, this game just feels perfect.
  
  Audio: This game is just straight up intense! I just got surround sound and it's even more 
 intense! Spot on.
  
  Overall, this game is amazing! It really does everything you would want an FPS to do except give 
 you a cover button (how has nobody done what Rainbow Six Vegas did...) but it's not that big a 
 deal. This game rocks, period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: szpek64
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 29, 2007 4:17 pm PT
Review:  To be brutally honest with you, I cannot find a flaw with this game. It is simply fantastic. From 
 the multiplayer to the single player mode it's all phenomenal. The multiplayer has all the makings 
 of the Halo series, but has that extra sense of game planning of sorts. You need to use your teammates 
 to succeed in this game, unlike Halo in which it feels like your just looking at your HUD for the 
 next sorry red-dot to go and destroy. The multiplayer is extreamely deep. I've played 25 hours 
 of this game and still have yet to even crack 50% of the game options in the online. 
  
  With the greatness of the multiplayer the solid, yet short, one player campaign mode is overshadowed. 
 It really has some intense firefights. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reign357
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 29, 2007 3:01 pm PT
Review:  This game is simply amazing. I never personally was too fond of the previous call of duty games, 
 but this one really hits it off for me. The last few were good, but just not the greatest. Call 
 of Duty 4 is unique in its own way. Running at 60fps+, this game is as smooth as it gets. With 
 stunning graphics, especially the weapon models, smooth, lagless gameplay and online play seems 
 like it would not come along with it. 
  Lets start with the singleplayer.
  - The storyline of the single player Call of Duty 4 is very good. A strong storyline as well as 
 intense gameplay always keeps you on the edge of your seat dying to see whats going to happen next. 
 Call of Duty 3 especially, i did not like the single player. It became repetitive, and for me it 
 was confusing playing soldiers in various military forces. It got old after a while, and was a 
 chore to finish for me. Call of Duty 4, however, did do the same approach with different forces 
 in the army. What is different is that youre always on the same side (United States) , but are in 
 forces such as the Maries, Army, Helicopter units, Airborne units, Sniper Recons, and many others. 
 Each one offers a unique and exciting playing experience that is always fun, new, and accurate 
 to todays military. The loading screens are short and far apart, never leaving you waiting. Also, 
 the AI of the people youre playing against is very high, making the game even better. 
  Another thing that really made me love the single player was how youre always in a large squad 
 with anywhere from 10-30 AI players in your squad or recon. Youre never left alone to fend for 
 yourself. Its not one of those games where youre fighting off endless amounts (thousands) of enemies 
 alone, making it unrealistic. Here, no matter where you are, you and youre squad members will fight 
 off a limited amount of people. They wont respawn and keep coming back forever. All of these things 
 together, making it one of the best single player campaigns ive ever played.
  
  Multiplayer 
  - The Multiplayer of Call of Duty 4 is also priceless. As i said before, its running 
 on a solid 60fps+ with extremely rare lag. Even if you do happen to hit a spike of lag or a bad 
 host which is also very rare, you never get bullet lag. The worst thing youll get is a twitch or 
 two. The gameplay is great, with tons of guns you unlock with a higher rank. Each weapon you use 
 frequently unlocks new perks for them as you complete benchmarks (ex. kill 25 people with this 
 gun and unlock a red dot scope) . With a high rank comes high bonuses, such as good scopes, silencers, 
 M203 grenade launchers, and other things. Youre player also has 3 bonus slots for your character, 
 including things such as higher health level, raised damage, further bullet penetration through 
 walls, and many more. Bullet penetration is one thing id like to touch on. I loved the fact that 
 youre bullets go through thin materials such as thin weaker walls (not like brick) such as normal 
 house walls or thin sheet metal. This is a great, realistic bonus. The multiplayer is just great, 
 and if you have not played it yet or dont have live, its worth buying live for. 
  
  Overall
  - Overall this is one of the best games ive ever played in my entire life. The single 
 player is the kind that you could play over and over, the multiplayer would never get old, with 
 ranks and unlockable guns and perks making you always have something to do or a goal, great graphics, 
 and pricesless gameplay. 
  All i can say is, if you dont have a copy of Call of Duty 4, get one right away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoshS24
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 1, 2008 9:52 am PT
Review:  Reading the other reviews will get you the answers you want for the single player campgain, its 
 good stuff but too short. The mutliplayer on the other hand is very deep, but very sketchy. It 
 seems hitting people with sniper rifles in the chest sometimes just doesn't do the trick. Or knifing 
 them in the face results in a miss, or rather 3 shots to the chest with an M16 doesn't slow them 
 down. Plus there are only about 3 good maps, the rest are just total crap. The developers of this 
 game had a great idea but need to tweak it a lot. I don't mind dying a lot, but I do get pissed 
 off when I shoot someone 5-7 times and they don't die and they shoot me once and my head splatters 
 all over the wall. Its pretty ridiculous. Other than having great visuals and sound, and a decent 
 campaign and a shoddy multiplayer, its worth getting from Gamefly, I wouldn't recommend this as 
 a buy as it needs some tweaking, which they will hopefully do with the upcoming map pack. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stinkfinger724
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 29, 2007 1:46 pm PT
Review:  Great. Another WWII game. Or iis it? The answer is no. This is not another WWII game (even though 
 the last two COD gmes were really good.) And after playing through the single player campaign and 
 playing some of the most awsomness multiplayer ever, you realize that Call of Duty 4 is a definite 
 Game of the Year choice.
  
  On the positive side: This game is full of moments that GameSpot refers to as "Oh Snap!" moments. 
 And the mulitplayer in this game could quite possibly be better than any of the Halo mulitplayer.
 
  
  On the negative side: ... nothing really. The only thing is that if your playing on Veteran difficulty, 
 don't be surprised if you have to restart a few times on certain areas (e. g. the ferris wheel) 
 
  
  Verdict: Gotta love COD4. Best in the series and a definite buy for anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Legally_Drugged
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 29, 2007 12:26 pm PT
Review:  I had my doubts going into this game since I was never a fan of the war type games. I hated socom, 
 GRAW, and even though Rainbow Six was a highly rated game, I could never really get into it. I 
 know people will probably say that the games that I have named are totally different. But to the 
 casual eye it all seemed the same to me. So when I purchased COD4 and played my first multiplayer 
 game online, I thought oh no there goes another sixty bucks on a boring tactical shooter. But for 
 some reason I persisted in playing. 
  
  After about 2 hours it started to really grow on me with the level systems, challenges, and weapons 
 being unlocked. Even though I'm assuming this falls in the tactical shooter category, the battles 
 are more intense than Halo 3's. Winning a firefight involves both strategic locations and being 
 quick on the trigger. It has the perfect balance between action and strategy. My previous online 
 experiences with war shooters were sheer boredom. The objective type games are definitely better 
 than Halo's. Overally I feel the multiplayer is maybe a .5 or 1 point better than Halo but with 
 Halo's constant updates and map packs, Halo might have more longevity. But for right now, this 
 is definitely the game to beat.
  
  The graphics had to grow on me since I was mainly drawn to Halo and GOW type sci-fi graphics but 
 after all's said and done the graphics are great. The sound however makes the audio visual exprerience 
 very intense. Great effects.
  
  The campaign is good. But all campaigns must end, long live multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tybaudru
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 29, 2007 5:48 am PT
Review:  call of duty 4 is my favourite game in the sries because i didnt really like all the world war 
 two guns put now we have all the kickass new technology guns and the great campaign play and do 
 not forget how the online ranking system allows you to level up to get more guns and more challenges 
 to complete and different game modes and the oldschool game modes are probally my favourite because 
 u start of with a scorpion and then you find more guns on the ground and there is oldschool 1 vs 
 1 and it is very fun to play because it really tests your skill and then there is search and destroy 
 where u have to go plant a bomb on the other teams defense point and then sabatoge where there 
 is one bomb and u havee to try to get to it first and then plant it on the other tams objective. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: afatoldman
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 29, 2007 5:00 am PT
Review:  When i bought this game i wasn't sure if it was going to be good, because i did not really like 
 the other call of duties so i took a chance. When i started playing it i was like... wow this game 
 is so realistic. 
  
  Reasons why it was good:
  
  1. Good graphics (improved graphics also)
  2. Great and realistic gameplay 
  3. Clever storyline
 
  4. Not to hard of a game, just right
  5. I would spend the 55$, its worth it and xbox live is another reason to buy because i heard that 
 it was one of the best exbox live games so far 
  
  So overall i really liked this game, much improved over the other Call of Duties 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DanielDead
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 28, 2007 11:14 pm PT
Review:  Let me start out by saying that I am not by any means saying this is a bad game, in fact it's a 
 very good game. But while it is good, it is by no means amazing. I guess after the massive rave 
 reviews given to it by users I expected to be blown away, and while the story was great and the 
 game was very realistic, it lacked the pure fun factor of some other shooters. It was also extremely 
 short. Before I get massively flamed, realize I havn't had a chance to play multiplayer, and I 
 know it's supposed to be great. 
  Anyways, not a bad game, just not as good as it was hyped up to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoannaDarkxoxo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 10:25 pm PT
Review:  When I heard that Infinity Ward was doing another Call of Duty game, I immediately said to myself 
 "oh great here comes another world war two shooter. When I heard that the game was a modern day 
 shooter, I was still skeptical. My reasoning for being skeptical was because Infinity Ward has 
 done nothing but world war two shooters so I was thinking well how would a modern day shooter be 
 coming from them who are used to doing world war two shooters. 
  
  So I picked up the game and played 5 minutes of it and then said to myself, WOW was I wrong for 
 being skeptical of this game. I must hand it to Infinity Ward, they have really out done themselves. 
 I would seriously let Infinity Ward kick me in the butt for being skeptical. 
  
  On to the gameplay. Seriously I am speechless, I can't be more happy with the way the gameplay 
 turned out. Because Infinity Ward took my favorite things that I loved about Call of Duty 2 and 
 put it into Call of Duty 4. One of the things that I love about the gameplay is that you now finally 
 have more automatics (I am a automatics type of girl) with awesome scopes. The new automatics and 
 scopes makes killing enemies more accurate. All the new modern missions are just pure brillant. 
 I am just so surprised that other developers haven't really been able to fully pull off a modern 
 warfare game before Infinity Ward. I have had so many fun hours of playing the new modern missions. 
 I love playing the world war two missions in the previous Call of Duty games because I love history 
 but I do admit that I love the new modern missions more. The missions sometimes can be really hard 
 but once you get past the mission you end up saying to yourself that wasn't so hard. Now the multiplayer, 
 I have played some but I wasn't any good, but never the less I still loved it. It is definately 
 a very well built multiplayer. Overall the gameplay is just pure amazing. 
  
  The graphics are just jaw dropping. Call of Duty 4 has the best graphics on the 360 to date. Ya 
 there's other amazing games with amazing graphics, but those games I have notice still have some 
 graphical glitches. Call of Duty 4 has no graphical glitches at all which is awesome. The first 
 time I saw the graphics I was just blown away. I don't think anyone will be disappointed with the 
 graphics for Call of Duty 4. 
  
  Call of Duty 4 is a little short which is disappointing but still very very fun. Call of Duty 4 
 is my favorite Call of Duty and is definately my game of the year. For those who disagree with 
 me and have played the game, I really suggest that you go back and give the game another try. Now 
 I am off to play some more Call of Duty 4. Thanks for reading my review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MadmanMorris
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 28, 2007 9:54 pm PT
Review:  Sure, it's a FPS, there are tons of them out there. Though this one doesn't break any ground (like 
 say... BIOSHOCK) It is still one of the best shooters out there.
  
  Getting shot 30 times before i die, and death by elbow is not my cup of tea. (sorry Halo fans)
 
  
  It's nice to have the good old military shooter back in action. There are so many, but Call of 
 Duty 4 is by far THE BEST. If you are seeking a thrill ride, then look no further. The single player 
 campaign is quite a journey. But to me, shooters are more about multi-player. 
  
  The multi-player is truly where this game shines. Classes, rankings, upgrades (ok, so none of this 
 is new) But the experience is something that can't be matched by many other games. For me, it's 
 the maps, the lush scenery, the realism, and of coarse, the machinery. 
  I can compare it in a lot of ways to RB6: Vegas. But slightly better. Both are very solid in story 
 in single player, and in multi-player they shine through. 
  
  A game you will spend hours on end trying to level up, perfect your skills, kill that bastard who 
 keeps sniping you, or just for some plain fun with some online buddies or strangers. 
  
  Definitely should be added to your collection. 
  
  (I gave it a 9, because... well, it's a 
 shooter. But I'm a tough critic, so...) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shottasoul86
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 28, 2007 9:34 pm PT
Review:  Since I'm a real fan of shooter's I have to review this one. Even thought I really like Halo's 
 1, 2, and 3 for what they are I gotta give it to COD 4 for best shooter in its class for what it 
 is. in basic words, its the best moder shooter as of now. It has everything, bullets penetrating 
 walls, new age guns (that are actually real weapons being used today in the war) , air strikes, 
 UAVs. What more can you ask for. The only thing I thought they should have added is thermal vision. 
 After I played it for a while I thought that this would of been great for that one opponent who 
 like to use smoke grenades and charge right through. But other than that, the game is great. I 
 recommended it to everyone I know. And a lot of them actually went out and got it or a planing 
 on getting it before any other game because they saw how realistic and great it was. But my vote 
 for game of the year goes to COD 4: Modern Warfare. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darshakyan2
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 28, 2007 8:03 pm PT
Review:  thisis the like best game..... the multiplayer is so good and the campaign is short but its good 
 and who cares about that anyways the multiplayer is nasty.... everyone who has LIVE should buy this 
 game cuz its rlly good best shoooter and a lot better then HALO...... its addicting and awsome and 
 the gameplay is the best............. i would give this game a 10 and not a 9.0 because that is 
 not even close to what it should be....... this is best shooter on 360 and im expecting to play 
 it for a long time.... def best game from all the new games taht have come out recently.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordDeArnise
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 28, 2007 7:40 pm PT
Review:  Anyone familiar with the Call of Duty franchise knows that it has been a major franchise for the 
 WW2 shooter genre that allowed players to use a myriad of WW2 weapons and fight in many different 
 corresponding scenarios. Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare, is no exception, except for one major 
 thing. Players are not using WW2 stuff fighting in WW2 styled scenarios. This time around, it's 
 the modern world, using many of today's top weapons and tools. That means M16A1 and AK-47 rifles, 
 flashbangs, stun grenades, Berretta .50 cal sniper rifles, and classical modern smg's like the 
 MP5 and the P90.
  
  The single player campaign is quite short, though intense. You'll be using all kinds of weapons 
 and tactics in it, whether it's stealth to evade outnumbering, outgunning enemy forces; using anything 
 you can get your hands on to take down opponents, or even using the Javelin Anti-Tank Rocket Launcher 
 or Stinger Missiles to take Russian-based armored vehicles out. The most interesting part is when 
 you control the guns of an AC-160 plane and rain hell on foes from high above. It almost makes 
 you think you're an actual military enlistee serving for the States or the UK.
  
  The real beef of CoD4 is its mix of mulitplayer modes. Besides the standard FFA DM and Team DM's, 
 there are the various modes most familiar with the CoD multiplayer modes, from HQ to CS-style Search 
 & Destroy. There's even a Team Hardcore and Cage Matches for those who enjoy nostalgic matches. 
 In MP, it pays to play and frag alot, as a kill streak can let you call a satellite recon to spot 
 enemies on the radar, or call anything from an airstrike to an attack helicopter. It also lets 
 you unlock different weapons, perks, and attachments.
  
  The graphics are great, especially for today's next-gen consoles, and the Xbox and PS3 versions 
 are good alternatives for those without high-end PC's. Whatever the platform, the controls are 
 great, especially with the COD-classic aim down the sight, especially when staring through a red-dot 
 scope, or through a sniper scope. The avatars move just as close to a real modern soldier as Infinity 
 Ward & Activision could manage, as you'll see AI-controlled soldiers in SP move like actual soldiers.
 
  
  The audio is also great, as you'll hear every noticeable gun being fired, or the sounds of your 
 teammates' avatars shouting out things. The voice acting in SP is also good, as it's real close 
 to actual modern military communications.
  
  The only drawback, besides the short SP campaign, is the recycled voice sets used in SP, as most 
 of them come from the previous CoD games. Otherwise, it's nothing that major, as you do get to 
 hear some seemingly well-done use of the Russian and Arabic languages. Otherwise, this is great 
 change of pace for those seeking it from countless hours of Halo 3 action. CoD4: Modern Warfare 
 is, perhaps to many gamers, a great game to get a feel of what it's like to be out in today's combat 
 zones. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warewolf77
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 28, 2007 7:05 pm PT
Review:  It is a great game. Has everything a good game needs. The online is great and you can customize 
 almost everything. I love using the 50 Cal to shoot through a wall right into a persons head. The 
 campaign is also really fun. The Controls are great and same with the cut scenes. The graphics 
 are definitely next gen. If you have an XBOX 360 and you like shooter games, this game is for you. 
 The amount of weapons that you can use is awesome. Oh and who doesn't love last stand, it's like 
 saying HAHA i didn't die but your going to. Oh but what happened to Medics? If anyone can answer 
 that, that would be awesome. Oh and are they going to make more maps? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dom_boi14
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 6:02 pm PT
Review:  Best multiplayer game ive played ( found it 10x better than Halo3 btu thats just my opion ) the 
 online is very immersive and has alot to offer foe example many intense weapons like the AK-47, 
 M4 Carbine, MP5, Desert Eagle and the almighty Barrett 50. Cal Sniper Rifle,
  The online offers 16 maps and many game modes like team death match of course headquarters, old 
 school, and many more.
  
  no for the single player, it has a fairly good story mode and puts you fighting Russians and arabics/ 
 typical for modern warfare/ the story really only take 4 to 6 hours to beat and well thats pretty 
 much it but they do set them selfs up for a better and hopefully longer single player.
  
  I'll have to say the only reason for this review is to say the multiplayer is great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamecubefan2000
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 3:19 pm PT
Review:  Sure Bioshock and Halo 3 have been out and did good work, but Call of Duty 4 is the real deal. 
 One of the most anticipated games of this year, Infinity Ward really outdid themselves by creating 
 an amazing game with an impressive multiplayer. The campaign is well designed and has the most 
 beautiful looking levels in a war game. It's too bad the campaign goes by too fast if you're playing 
 on Recruit or Regular. Hardened and Veteran are pretty challenging, but somehow, I've beaten the 
 game on Veteran. Especially the "Mile High Club" level which is considered the hardest level on 
 Veteran. But anyhow, Multiplayer is probably the strongest multiplayer in a game (besides Halo 
 3) . Like Halo 3, you gain EXP by winning matches. But Call of Duty 4 also gives you EXP for killing 
 enemies, capturing objectives or planting bombs in gametypes. "Perks" in the game can give you 
 an advantage or your enemies a disadvantage. Pretty cool. Last Stand is a perk where after you 
 are dead, you can actually pull out your pistol and shoot at anyone before you finally die. Pretty 
 nice for getting some kills with this perk. Overall, Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is an amazing 
 game, and in some ways Call of Duty 4 squeaks by Halo 3 but we'll have to see who wins Game of 
 the Year. It's up to the gamers out there.
  
  Xbox Live Gamertag: Linkdude678 (Feel free to send me a friend request if you wanna play Call of 
 Duty 4) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: julesisback2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 1:18 pm PT
Review:  If you can find a better 1st person shooter... I'll shoot myself. (No... Halo 3 was just a game 
 to pass time until COD4 was released.) If you can find a better 1st person shooter... I'll shoot 
 myself. (No... Halo 3 was just a game to pass time until COD4 was released.) If you can find a 
 better 1st person shooter... I'll shoot myself. (No... Halo 3 was just a game to pass time until 
 COD4 was released.) If you can find a better 1st person shooter... I'll shoot myself. (No... Halo 
 3 was just a game to pass time until COD4 was released.) If you can find a better 1st person shooter... 
 I'll shoot myself. (No... Halo 3 was just a game to pass time until COD4 was released.) If you 
 can find a better 1st person shooter... I'll shoot myself. (No... Halo 3 was just a game to pass 
 time until COD4 was released.) If you can find a better 1st person shooter... I'll shoot myself. 
 (No... Halo 3 was just a game to pass time until COD4 was released.) If you can find a better 1st 
 person shooter... I'll shoot myself. (No... Halo 3 was just a game to pass time until COD4 was 
 released.) If you can find a better 1st person shooter... I'll shoot myself. (No... Halo 3 was 
 just a game to pass time until COD4 was released.) If you can find a better 1st person shooter... 
 I'll shoot myself. (No... Halo 3 was just a game to pass time until COD4 was released.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LosDaddie
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 7:31 am PT
Review:  The only (and I mean "only") feature holding back this amazing game is co-op for the campaign. 
 Sure it's a personal preferance... that's why this is my personal review.
  
  Otherwise, CoD4 is flawless in every aspect. Amazing graphics. Tight controls. Great campaign pacing. 
 Awesome online multiplayer, which finally has a party system a la Halo3.
  
  Whether you own an Xbox360, PS3, or gaming PC, you should at least rent , if not purchase, CoD4. 
 Your money will be well spent. Everything (aside from co-op) an FPS fan could want in a game is 
 in CoD4.
  
  In a year with a crowded FPS market, CoD4 clearly shines. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prate20
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 27, 2007 10:37 pm PT
Review:  When I seen Call of Duty 4, I was skeptical. Sure I knew Call of Duty games are great, but where 
 I look for the game to take it to the next level is in the multiplayer mode, and COD 3 just didn't 
 do that for me. There was always connection issues and no way to play with your friends. People 
 complained, COD 4 answered. The offline story is very short, although it is as good as any other 
 shooters. It's exactly the quality you'd expect from the Call of Duty team, it's solid gameplay 
 and keeps you entertained and into the game whether your a simple marine, or a sniper with just 
 one shot. 
  Now where this game truly shines is its multiplayer. You have many of the modes seen in other games 
 such as basic deathmatches or free-for-alls, but also Call of Duty takes a new approach from the 
 basic respawn and capture the flag modes with a 'hardcore' mode as well as sabotage and search 
 and destory. They also have 'oldschool' modes and 'cagematches' a 1 on 1 game. But those are just 
 the modes! Although you start with only basic weapons if you are familar with the game and controls 
 you can jump in and compete instantly. At first you are only able to enter the games basic online 
 modes, but these are the most forgiving and help the player learn. Once you level up you unlock 
 new weapons, accessories for them (scopes, silencer, red dot sight) and perks. Perks range from 
 anything like double ammo or extra grenades to last stand (pulling out your pistol as you get killed 
 and firing off a few extra shots) , matyrdom (drop a grenade when you die) or Eavesdrop, where you 
 can actually hear the other teams chatter when they are near you. All this together makes for an 
 incredible experience that will last a long time, especially for anybody who goes online. I was 
 very skeptical at first when I seen this game, COD leaving its familar WWII setting and heading 
 into the modern era, but I think this game is not only a great step forward in the series, it is 
 a great step forward in gaming. Halo 3, Bioshock, and Assassins Creed move over, Call of Duty 4 
 is THE Game of the year, hands down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamerking8
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 10:07 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is simply an amazing game.
  
  My campaign description will be brief. The story line in my opinion is awesome, with the exception 
 of an incomplete ending. The computer AI is quite intelligent, if not annoying in a few key areas.
 
  
  Graphics. Simply amazing. One of the best games I've ever seen. The sound is also amazingly realistic. 
 And the way people move, so much realism in the game. Even the few destructible/movable environment 
 objects are neat.
  
  And the multi player. I have gotten hooked on this game. The gun selection, the perks, side arms, 
 grenades, challenges, game modes, there's just so much in this game. It's so packed. This has got 
 to be the best multi player I've ever played. The gun damage is decent, compared to some games 
 where it takes 6 shots to kill. The different games modes can keep you occupied for weeks. There 
 are also plenty of maps to keep you occupied. And the thing I like about this game is there's a 
 purpose. You play to level up, earn gun attachments, inherit guns and perks, and complete challenges. 
 This is the reason I love RPGs so much.
  
  The way the point system works is basically every kill you get, you get 10 points. Assists (damage 
 an enemy that a teammate kills) give you 2 points. Calling in UAVs (radar, Airstrikes, and Choppers 
 are all also 10 points. Different game modes reward points differently. Search and Destroy awards 
 50 points for a kill and 25 for a death. It also awards 100 point for planting or defusing a bomb. 
 There are more modes like Hardcore. Oldschool, Free For All, Headquarters, Sabotage, and much more. 
 Completing challenges also award XP. Challenges are certain missions you are listed to do. Some 
 examples are : Get 150 kills with M16A1, Call in 20 UAVs, Destroy 1 Car, and SO MANY more. These 
 can help you level in game. More example, there's a challenge to fall 30 feet or more and die to 
 get 250xp. So you can jump down a deep hole, die, and level up. And then you can boast about it 
 :p
  
  And then the level system. The way it works is liek any other game. Every level gets harder. The 
 maximum level is 55. Once you hit 55, you can get the XP that you would need to get to 56 (although 
 there is no 56) . Once you get the xp, you can enter Prestige Mode. What that does is takes to level 
 1 and resets EVERYTHING except your leaderboard ranks. By doing this, you get a new rank icon. 
 You can do this up to 10 times which currently, 1 person has done. Rumor has it that once you hit 
 Prestige 10, you can have a Red Dot Sight and Silencer attachment at the same time.
  
  Guns. The guns are split into 5 categories: Assault, Sub Machine, Light Machine, Shotgun, and Snipers. 
 Examples are AK47, P90, M60E4, (forgot shotgun names : () , and Barett .50 cal. You get new guns 
 as you level up. Alogn with guns come attachments such as Red Dot Sight, Silencer, ACOG Scope, 
 Grenade Launcher, and Grip. There are also 5 sidearms. M9, USP, Colt, Deagle, and the Golden Deagle. 
 There are 3 types of grenades: Flash, Stun, and Smoke. And then there's Perks. There are 3 different 
 perk slots, each can only be fit with a specific perk (a Perk 1 can; t fit in Perk 2 slot) . Some 
 Perk 1's include RPG, Claymore (trip activated mines) , and x3 ammo clips. Grenade Launcher and 
 Grip attachments take up Perk 1 slot. Some Perk 2's are Stopping Power (increase damage) ,, Double 
 Tap (x2 the rate of fire) , and Sleight of Hand (faster reloading.) Some Perk 3's are Martyrdom 
 (drop a live grenade when killed) , Iron Lungs (longer breath holding for sniping) , and Last Stand 
 (lay on ground for a few seconds with pistol after dying) .
  
  
  The only 2 downsides I'd have to say about this game are... 1, the fact that some people complain. 
 "Noob tube!", "Nubz0rz!", "Nub camper!", and stuff. The other problem is that many, many, MANY 
 times, when I get killed, I can't see the person AT ALL. But when I watch their kill on the kill 
 cam after I die, they see me in full view. I don't know how this can happen so dramatically. I 
 can understand if he saw a few inches or a foot of me but when he sees the top half of my body 
 behind cover where as all I can see in the cover 1 inch away from my face?
  
  All in all, this is a GREAT game. If you love first person shooters, you NEED to add this to your 
 collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wsuSHOXfan101
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 8:47 pm PT
Review:  The first time I popped this game in, I was excited like every other Call of Duty fan. I started 
 playing on Veteran difficulty, and it seemed to be about the right difficulty. Then as I progressed 
 through the game, I started to become very disappointed. The combat and the A. I. are very lackluster. 
 I thought this game could do much better. Every time I wanted to make a special type of kill, for 
 example: shooting the helicopter pilot, inside the helicopter, I could only do this on one level, 
 which was the One Shot, One Kill level. Again, on the One Shot, One Kill level, I was hiding in 
 one of the three buses in the area you go to, after you rappel from the building, and a dog somehow 
 killed me inside the bus, while it was underneath me. Then enemies would just randomly appear behind 
 me, and they would just keep on killing me in the most impossible ways. The graphics on Modern 
 Warfare are pretty good, but they didn't seem to be as good as Call of Duty 2 or 3. They sort of 
 reminded me of previous generation graphics. The sound is great as always. That is one of the only 
 really positive things I have to say about this game, other than the level ideas. Xbox Live was 
 absolutely terrible to me. I don't want to get into that. It looks like I will keep playing Halo 
 3, instead of this bargain bin bound game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KMKfreak29
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 7:49 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is the game you can buy for your xbox. The visuals are stunning the sound is superb 
 and the game play can't be beat. When you mix all that together boom Best game ever!! I had this 
 hooked up to my 62 inch with the lights low and surround sound going and there was times i had 
 to shut the system down because i was getting shell shock!! That's how real it feels. At times 
 I caught myself (well actually my wife caught me) yelling at my feel brother in arms to "Move your 
 asses we are gonna get boxed in!" The AI is smart and extremly capable they notch together quick 
 (on harder settings) to take you out. The only down fall is it ends far too quickly. But where 
 that lack the multiplyer shines. the multiplyer has all these perks and tools to make it addictive 
 as hell. I'm sure I'm gonna have to go to rehab because of the multiplayer. "Hi My name is Wr3nch 
 and I'm a COD4 junky" "Hi Wr3nch" BUY THIS GAME!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geodisicdome
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 2:44 pm PT
Review:  Worth getting? Sho is. This game is the kind of experience you dont often find in gaming. The kind 
 of addiction that makes you call in sick for work and lose sleep.
  The single player is good. Excellent is probably a better word. The problem is that I dont get 
 much time to play it because the mutiplayer is so amazing. Ive clocked in a stupid amount of hours 
 cappin fools in the head and anywhere else i can reach. The reason everyone plays so much is the 
 level system. Much like gamespot, you go up in levels the more you play the game (10 points to 
 kill someone etc...)
  Unlike gamespot, this actually means something. You unlock more guns and perks, not to mention 
 you look like a badass the higher your level is. I am currently level 46. There are only 55 levels 
 but as you would expect, they get harder and harder to get to the next one.
  
  Go and buy this game now if you have Xbox live. If not, go and buy the game aswell as xbox live. 
 You are really missing out if you dont. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leshatton
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 12:00 pm PT
Review:  This game is THE BEST FPS on the 360 at this time, forget Halo3 ( or Halo2.5 as it should be called) .
 
  The first thing that hits you is the graphics, they are totally jaw dropping, and i have played 
 this on PS3 and although the graphics are identical the framerate on the 360 is a lot smoother. 
 Thats not a dig at the PS3 its just a fact. 
  The difficulty level is set just right, gently easing you into the game and getting a little harder 
 bit by bit until you are really using the surroundings just to stay alive until you can spot who 
 is shooting at you.
  The sound is spot on with the bullets whizzing past, hellicopters overhead and explosions all sounding 
 very real.
  The gameplay is the standard COD stuff, but that was pretty good anyway. One highlight is giving 
 support fire to ground troops from a hellicopter whilst using the night vision view, it looks just 
 like a video from off the news, the graphics really are THAT good!
  The only downside to this game is that its a little too short in single player mode, once its over 
 you just want more!!!!!
  I really cant recommend this game enough, if you have a 360 you NEED this game!!!!
  Im tempted 
 to give this game a score of 10, bit im deducting 0.5 because its a little too short and nothings 
 perfect! I just hope they are planning a COD5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bacula3
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 27, 2007 9:43 am PT
Review:  I my book it is the best multi-player I have played. The single play game is vary challenging when 
 you get to the veteran level can be frustrating at times, but most gamers will like the challenge 
 as I do. The match makeing on the multiplayer is one of the best I have seen. Having a good party 
 if one of the keys to playing knowing what your team mates are going to do helps in dominating 
 a map. The ranking system has to be one of the best it makes the multi-player that much more intriging 
 and putting the prestige mode in the game makes you appreciate how good some of the early weapons 
 actually are. The perks are some the best options in your arsenal depending on what you are trying 
 for you can set up one custom to be an assassin one to be a sniper and so on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GotRustyB
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 27, 2007 9:20 am PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong I love Halo 3 and I feel certain loyalties toward the franchise but the fact 
 of the matter is that COD4 is just more enjoyable to play. Due in part to the fact that COD picked 
 up the party system which Halo pioneered. It has all the smoothness your looking for with a gritty 
 realism that makes it believable. Another great on line feature is that the level up system is 
 such that your always moving forward, maybe slowly but you never go backwards. For those that say 
 the single player is too short, play it on veteran, cause for most of us thats gonna be hard enough 
 that the game takes a while. Well even if you disagree that the game is better than Halo3 you can't 
 argue that it is definitely worth the price of admission. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leakybubbles
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 27, 2007 9:00 am PT
Review:  Dang... this game is just... wow. I could play it 4 hours straight. Let's talk about Single player 
 first...
  
  SINGLE PLAYER:
  
  Great story... sense it's pretty much true. Your after a terrorist, Al Ashad. And you need to kill 
 him and alot of crazy things happen. Now! The awesome part is that it's so realistic. The Graphics 
 on the Campaign are amazing. You get dropped off by a helicopter, rope down buildings, snipe leaders, 
 invade buildings, fire missiles, blow the crap out of terrorists and it feels good everytime! Depending 
 on your strategy and moves can save the lives of fellow American Soldiers. Anyway it's awesomely 
 realistic. You get shot multiple times your dead. No recovering shields. You do recover your health 
 naturally but you can't take too many shots at once. If grenades hit u... boom your dead! A sniper! 
 boom your dead.
  
  MULTIPLAYER/XBOXLIVE:
  
  Deffinetly one of the higher quality First Person Shooter games. The Multiplayer over Xboxlive 
 is awesome. It pretty much depends on how good of a soldier you are and how aware and smart you 
 are in battle that determines the leader. You grow ranks similar to Halo 3 and unlock new modes. 
 You will spend many hours over Multiplayer XboxLive.
  
  
  -so anyway I love this game. Call Of Duty 4 is an amazing shooter and worth your time and i suggest 
 your check it out. Graphics 9 Gameplay 9 Sound 9 Value 9 Realism 10 Fun 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TransAmSD455
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 26, 2007 7:36 pm PT
Review:  I have never really been a big fan of the Call of Duty series, sure their campaign mode has been 
 more interesting than the other WWII and other various war games, but Modern Warfare has been the 
 FIRST to pull me into its gameplay and especially online. I must say this, in my opinion, this 
 is the best Call of Duty and its multiplayer is the cream of the crop!
  
  Action packed, explosions, bullets flying around, screams and boom! you're playing Modern Warfare, 
 especially during the US campaign! Online is a blast to play with the challenges the game gives 
 you to unlock MORE guns and attachments and camos for the guns. Earning points and ranks and especially 
 perks such as extra health can really be rewarding to players who really play online a lot. 
  
  Gameplay is really only missing one thing that i can think of at the moment... The ability to 
 duck behind walls (Gears of War and Ghost Recon) but come to think of it, with as fast as the gameplay 
 goes by, you wouldent want to waste your time with hiding! you wanna get out there and kick some 
 butt! Fast shooting, good selection of guns and classes, scoping... man i just cannot go on with 
 how cool the gameplay has turned out to be.
  
  Graphics: One of the better looking FPS around now, considering most FPS's right now look incredible, 
 it says a lot about this game!, watching bullets fly, watching cars blow up and just the overall 
 atmosphere of war is incredible. Obviously a few things here and there can be improved on but man, 
 this is just a great looking game.
  
  Overall, Call of Duty 4 is the top of the Call of Duty's in my OPINION and im sure a lot of people 
 agree thanks to its online system and its in depth campaign. Guys the game is definetly worth the 
 money, for all the fun you can have with this. Ill see you online! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluedragon99
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 26, 2007 5:22 pm PT
Review:  Hte single player is very involving and cinematic. With excellent surroundings, and awesome voice 
 overs, it won't matter that is a little short. The Multiplayer makes up for the single player and 
 more. With a revolutionary perk system that allows you to fully customize your classes. Even though 
 you can't edit your appearance, not everybody will look the same. Back to the perks though. Each 
 set of perks can be paired up with camo, weapon upgrades, and a side arm. The challenges make for 
 months of gameplay. Even after you finish the multiplayer by making it to Lv 55, you can play back 
 through the levels in prestige mode where everything is reset and you recieve a new symbol each 
 time through. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: advanracer
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 26, 2007 5:19 pm PT
Review:  This is the same game that I've played a dozen times before. The only thing new here is the modernized 
 setting and awesome graphics, but even that manages to feel the same, especially when all the in 
 combat lines are the same as the last two games and one of the main characters just happened to 
 serve with you in WWII.
  
  And while this game is beautiful (IN REALITY.. most of the SCORES on Gamespot is based on the graphics) .. Therefore, 
 makeing the gameplay feel rather dated, repetitive and tired. About halfway through the game, I 
 realized something. WWII isn't boring. Your same old run and gun gameplay is. Not to mention your 
 almost brain dead AI. Its just wave after wave after wave, until you manage to cross some unseen 
 marker on the map that just stops them. There's no real need to fight through hordes of enemies, 
 just run to the point on the map that ensures no more come out and deal with the ones that are 
 out there.
  
  In addition, the game seems plagued by inconsistent and sometimes maddening checkpoint saving (at 
 the end one time it didnt save as I reached the doors to the launch center, one time it did) and 
 weird trip lines that progressed the mission for no reason. (ie hiding in a corner to reload the 
 story forward, while reloading behind a wall doesn't, all the while the original objective remained 
 incomplete - specifically on the War Pig missions.)
  
  So, in conclusion.. with the lack of decent 3rd person coversystem, blind fire (because.. the bad 
 guyz blindfire) and like with most FPS games, customizable weapons this game sadly lacks in substance 
 not only in the dyanamics of the gamplay but also in the story line itself..
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: steve_59
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 3:20 pm PT
Review:  Well this game was excellent the only bad thing was that it didn't last as lomg as I expected it 
 to do, not being one for online gaming I was glad that I rented this game and didn't buy it as 
 I finished it in 2 days, which for me is very quick. I didn't play it none stop as I like to alternate 
 my games. having said that the mission were great I especially liked the one when the SAS captain 
 went back in time to Chernobl ?? spelling, and although I do like dogs the way you had to kill 
 them was imagative. I did find the mission when you were in the aircraft and you had to shoot the 
 enemy using the on board weapons a bit tricky and I didn't enjoy that one. It would be good to 
 have another game to follow on perhaps they could try one in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: texasfight54
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 24, 2008 5:40 pm PT
Review:  The newest, and greatest thing about Call of Duty 4, is the modern setting. The modern setting 
 really helps electrify the campaign, no more WWII, good.
  The campaign sets you off on a ship near the Bering Strait, in little time, you are busting your 
 butt to get off a huge sinking ship in freezing water.
  
  The campaign is exciting, and theres no getting around that. Decent AI really shows in this. You 
 might catch a stray enemy not really doing his job, but you can punish him easily. The campaign 
 is just way too short. It is great for it's length. I could call it one of the best campaigns in 
 a war FPS ever. But the length of this game really holds some questioning for the people without 
 XBL.
  
  Multiplayer. The hugest part of a large portion of next gen games. Call of Duty 4 has a similar 
 ranking and online system like Halo 3, And Rainbow Six: Vegas.
  Call of Duty is much, much more detailed though. You can pick your guns, your attachments to go 
 with it. A part of what makes online so fun are perks. Perks are small, but useful unlocks that 
 you get as you rank up. They range from more health, or to dropping a live grenade when you are 
 dead. Most of them come very useful. Perhaps the most exhilarating thing about online is to call 
 in a air strike and wipe out an entire team, or even a helicopter. When you get a kill streak of 
 3, you get radar, 5, Airstrike, 7, Helicopter. These are what balance out games sometimes, and 
 are very rewarding to earn.
  
  Whether its beating campaign three times, or playing online for the next few months, Call of Duty 
 is a great war game, with a wonderful modern twist. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lannyboy334
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 2:25 pm PT
Review:  What an odd statement to make, it doesn't make much sense to you, I know, but to me there is really 
 no other way to describe this work of near perfection. Halo 3 was by all means a great game, a 
 phenomenal game, a game that, to me, lived up to it's expectations, but it was Halo 2 all over 
 again. Once I beat the campain, which was much better then Halo 2's, I turned to multiplayer, and 
 it was awesome. But I had already played that game, that multiplayer, for 3 years, it was a game 
 called Halo 2. This game, Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare, is the game that I wanted Halo 3 to be 
 in a different way. I wanted to be able to sit down and obsessively play an insanely fun, fresh 
 multiplayer all over again, that wish was granted time and time again. Every time that I play another 
 round of CoD 4 I am rewarded with an experience that I have wanted to experience since the Xbox 
 360 hit the shelves. Yeah yeah yeah the singleplayer is short, but it sure isn't short when you 
 are finding all of that intel and beating it on veteran! Me, I'm a multiplayer guy anyway, so the 
 singleplayer wasn't even a factor to me in this review, the insanely awesome multiplayer is all 
 of this game, simply because it is so good. The feeling of rolling through opponent after opponent 
 and getting spree of after spree is second to none! The sound quality is something that has always 
 been ahead of it's time, the graphics have finally stepped up to play with the big boys, and the 
 control is the best mapped control scheme ever created, better then Halo's (between boxer, normal, 
 the claw, it gets sketchy, especially seeing as the claw totally owns if you are willing to put 
 that much time into a simple control scheme) . The progression and near RPG experience of the online 
 is extremely fun and entertaining, mainly in comparison to Rainbow Six's which gives too much advantage 
 to elites, even if they got there through noobish play they will still own you with their superior 
 camo and weaponry. Overall, this is my game of the year, this is one of my games of my life, and 
 this is a game that you would have to be absolutely absurdly opposed to FPS's to not thoroughly 
 enjoy to the very limits that someone could possibly enjoy a video game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jokermann1
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 26, 2007 6:10 am PT
Review:  I think that COD4 has the best multiplayer on the market. With the custom class, that lets you 
 choose you own guns and perks, you can really tailor the game to your liking. I really enjoy most 
 of the maps on this game, they were well though out, and force people to use different classes, 
 instead of being a sniper (COD3) on every level. The different games available are great offering 
 even more diversity. I usually stick to Domination or Headquarters, although a free-for-all is 
 fun every once in a while. Headquarters is the best way to level up. I usually get around 700-900 
 exp on every match. I rate this game a 10 out of 10, for the amazing graphics, and the ease of 
 multiplayer. There is not another game out there that even compares to this game. Halo 3 seems 
 childish and boring compared to a game as fast paced and fun as COD4. I gave Halo 3 a fair chance, 
 and it was just a disappointment from start to finish. I got real tired of putting about 150 bullets 
 into someone, only to have them walk up to me, hit me with their elbow and kill me. So, all of 
 you Halo 3 fans out there, do yourself a favor and get a real game, COD4.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Heistenfaust
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 26, 2007 3:12 am PT
Review:  the good:
  
  - Stunning graphics. looks very realistic and there's virtually no slowdown
  - Brilliant scripted sequences that Call of Duty is known for.
  - great sound, weapons sound 
 awsome and you'll feel great when shooting stuff
  - Multiplayer is very good and rewards you the more you play.
  
  the bad:
  
  - Single player 
 is very short
  - Story is pretty drab, not very different from every Tom Clancy game thats out now
  - Doesn't 
 take many risks with innovation. It feels rather stale after playing 3 other Call of Duty games, 
 despite the new setting.
  - No co-op whatsoever.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: godigoshin
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 25, 2007 7:23 pm PT
Review:  What a game... here's a review!
  
  gameplay - Gameplay is awesome. COD games have always been great when it comes to first person 
 shooters and this does not disappoint. Shooting and blowing stuff up is as fun as it gets. The 
 controls are very easy after getting used to for a while. The only thing that hurts gameplay is 
 the infinite number of enemy spawns in single player at many locations. Its unrealistic when, over 
 time, 100 guys come running out of one little house. 
  9.5/10 
  
  graphics - Graphics in this game are amazing. On an hd tv they are almost too amazing, no joke. 
 Character models are very realistic, so are the guns, objects, and environments. 9.5/10
  
  sound - The sound is great. Guns all sound very good and realistic. Explosions are great, along 
 with voice acting which is actually some of the best i have ever heard in a game. And to note - 
 the sound you get when you level up in game on multiplayer is probably the best sound clip of a 
 scream ever, as it has been used in pretty much every movie made in the last 20 years. 9.5/10
 
  
  multiplayer - Split screen in... split screen and i have not tried to LAN this yet, but the online 
 portion is amazing. I have never played a better fps online, and that includes the Halo and Rainbow 
 6 games. Leveling up is fun and addicting, and there are way too many things to unlock to even 
 list. Lots of game modes with lots of players playing provide lots of variety... you can do so 
 much its really hard to explain. The competition can get hectic, and cooperation with teammates 
 may fail in times of need, but it all provides for a very dramatic, deep, and fun online portion 
 of the game. 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PureRevenge
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 25, 2007 6:03 pm PT
Review:  Well I'll start off talking about single player, of course the single player is going to be short 
 if you do it on easy. Just try this campaign on Veteran, it took me more then 3 days. Now i did 
 it on Medium in maybe 7 hours maximum. Then i moved on to Veteran and the first mission I might 
 of died about 4 times atleast. This campaign was great, I had an amazing expeirence playing as 
 a sniper and crawling through the grass, and then jumping up and slitting a tangos throat. Oh and 
 i can't forget sniping that bald guy from up on the building top. Its great.
  
  Now the Multi player. The multi player was obviously the best feature of this game im already on 
 my prestige mode and lvl 55. Its amazing, theres nothing much more say its just that unbelievble. 
 Sniping is actually finnally a challenge like real life! It takes skill to snipe now in this version 
 of CoD. Now I know leveling is kind of easy but when your up in the ranks you get amazing guns 
 and perks. The maps are great. Just let me put it this way. ITS F***ING AMAZING!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gm_jyoo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 25, 2007 5:09 pm PT
Review:  The previous titles in the renowned Call of Duty franchise have been set in the iconic and turbulent 
 World War II era and rocked the gaming world with its uniquely explosive and intense gameplay. 
 But now that CoD franchise has gone a new direction: modern warfare. While there were concerns 
 regarding the franchise's departing of its roots, those concerns can be put to rest and buried 
 under miles of concrete. This game is nothing short of spectacular.
  
  As fans of the series have come to expect, the latest installment is just as packed with exhilarating 
 action. There is a real sense of battlefield chaos as scores of enemies swarm around you, bullets 
 whizzing through the air. The action is relentless and even the quiet sniper level is filled with 
 heart-pounding suspense. There is never a dull moment in the masterfully executed single player 
 campaign. And the word "masterfully" is stressed. The single player campaign is charged with edge-of-your-seat 
 action and suspense. The plot is believable and satisfyingly grisly. Like in previous installments, 
 the tale is told through multiple perspectives and is executed with such extraordinarily expertise 
 it puts shame to recent Hollywood flicks. Unfortunately, all good things come to an end and the 
 sweet, sweet single player campaign ends rather quickly. 
  
  The visuals are packed with every bit as much detail as you would expect from today's games and 
 everything runs at a solid frame-rate. There are virtually no dips in performance even when there's 
 dozens of enemies, explosions, and bullets whizzing about on screen. The lighting is superb and 
 the particle effects are pleasingly stunning. And the animations are smooth and believable.
  
  In terms of sound design, the game also deserves an award. The sound effects are supremely 
 gratifying and each gun sounds perfectly destructive. The staccato of gunfire has never sounded 
 so good. The soundtrack is also fairly good. It is reminiscent of the score from the film "The 
 Rock." Its strong orchestral influence charges the game with a truly epic atmosphere.
  
  The controls are smooth, comfortable, and feel just right. Players can jump right in and feel right 
 at home (if they've played any console shooter prior to this one) . Shooting people has never felt 
 so good on a console.
  
  And as fans have come to expect, the multiplayer is also nothing short of amazing. The game now 
 features a persistent character system with tracking of online statistics and leveling. As you 
 play more and more online, your experience goes up, which allows you to go up in rank, which lets 
 you unlock a variety of weapons and perks. Perks are a new feature that give your persistent online 
 character abilities that aid you in combat. This ranges from additional damage output, increased 
 health, radar invisibility, and a last chance to kill your foes after you've been fatally injured. 
 These perks are all balanced out so no one person can become a super solider. There are also a 
 huge variety of game types from free-for-all, to team deathmatch, to goal oriented modes that will 
 cater to every fans' needs. Unfortunately, there is no dedicated "capture the flag" mode, but this 
 omission is quite forgivable due to the overall excellent quality of the other game modes. It all 
 makes for an action-PACKED online experience that will surely keep players gleefully shooting for 
 hours-days, perhaps. 
  
  The only qualm about the multiplayer is the Death Cam, which allows you to see exactly HOW you 
 died from your killer's perspective. Sometimes, due to network lag issues, this can become frustrating 
 as you see yourself just standing there when you know you went down guns-blazing. Additionally, 
 this Death Cam feature effectively eliminates stealth and flanking tactics. It is also the bane 
 of snipers, who rely on being stationary to be effective. However, this option can be turned off 
 or players can head into a hardcore modes.
  
  All in all, this game is simply outstanding. It delivers an action charged ride from start to finish 
 (and beyond with the fantastic multiplayer) . Console shooters have come a long way and CoD4 pushes 
 the bar even further with its superb visuals, sound design, and brilliant gameplay. While the single 
 player campaign is woefully short, the multiplayer will keep you happy for hours on end. Without 
 a doubt, this game ranks as one of the best damn console shooters ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RakinR
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 17, 2008 9:32 pm PT
Review:  Pretty dam good game, just missing co-op, with co-op and a longer story line the game would have 
 been easily better. The guns are great. The perks were a good idea and the challenges. It was smart 
 to allow players to play different match types online when they achieve higher levels because then 
 people would be more into it. They should have added online achievements as well. So i'd say this 
 game could have been amazing if you
  
  1. Increase Story Lenght
  2. Add co-op into story mode and allow at least two people to play online on the same 360 console. 
 
  
  Other wise its the best shooter out there. i havent put halo in my 360 for a while ever since this 
 game came out o. o If your like a halo veteran that started playing since halo 1 and hate the players 
 on halo 3 live, hey ur not alone. I HATE THOSE DAM NOOBS. They suck but they got such a high level. 
 Everyones so good now, so call of duty is the game for everyone, where you level up according to 
 kills and its impossible to level down :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nuttyirishman
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 25, 2007 2:43 pm PT
Review:  A brilliant game for all call of duty fans, or just a game fan, this game is sharp from head to 
 toe and then some, looks amazing, sounds deafen, and replay is a definant, it works with everything, 
 i played call of dut for a while and this is awsome. I love this game, short and to the point campaign 
 but fun and entertaining but live play is the aspect. If you have xbox live buy this game. The 
 only downside is it looks abit better graphics than call of duty 2 but are still good, all in all 
 this game is top notch in my belt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joejohnson16
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 25, 2007 1:43 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is in my opinion the best game in the series. There is a very good multi player 
 as well as single player mode. The difficulties on the single player campaign are very different 
 and give you a challenging play through. 
  
  The single player campaign was a very addicting and I did not want to stop. However, i was disappointed 
 yet satisfied because even though it took about 6 hours to complete Recruit the storyline was satisfying. 
 The dual campaign with S. A. S. as well th Marines was also a great feature because it shows to ways 
 of thinking on the battlefield.
  
  The multi player is what makes this game stand out above all the rest. It gives you the first of 
 many created jobs and then after you play a couple of good multi player matches get to create your 
 own job. After that you can play even more multi player to unlock all of the other weapons and 
 add-ons. This takes forever because in order to get all of the extras you need not only kills (Halo) 
 but head shots. This can be real challenging especially with a shotgun. 
  
  The Bad: The server for Xbox live needs to be worked on and the short campaign.
  
  Conclusion: 
 If you love shooters, this is a must-buy no exceptions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thorpe89
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 13, 2008 12:55 pm PT
Review:  The Call of Duty series makes a big change by entering into the Modern Warfare. This is a good 
 change from the popular World War II time setting used in the previous games. The campaign is short 
 but very fun whilst it lasts. It's the multiplayer that works great most of the time to add to 
 the replay value. If you've ever become bored of the World War II setting, then Call of Duty 4 
 looks to be the best pick. Not only does it do great for its series but also it is a tremendous 
 effort that deserves to be one of this year's best games.
  
  Call of Duty 4 very much plays like a film as you progress though. You'll start off learning some 
 basics, which is very helpful for those new to the series and then you'll jump right into a cargo 
 ship out in the stormy weather. For the most part, this level seems to focus on showing you what 
 effects can be achieved in Call of Duty 4. You'll have parts where you have limited control because 
 you've been injured and parts where the camera angle changes to show the change in position of 
 the cargo ship.
  
  The campaign missions are put into four main categories. The "Prologue" category contains the beginning 
 missions, which start as a learning curve for the later missions. Most of the missions are playable 
 throughout but there are a few which will be in a "cinematic" setting. When in one of these missions, 
 you will notice that you can control the camera to make you feel like you are the person in that 
 position. After the final Prologue mission, this is where the action really starts to let off. 
 From there on, you'll notice the opening credits just like how they would be portrayed in a film. 
 Rather than have the opening credits right at the beginning, these are placed in a little later.
 
  
  Throughout, you'll play a few different characters. For the most part, you are a guy referred to 
 as "Soap." You're not alone in most missions; with the help of your team to take out enemies with 
 you. Unfortunately, there doesn't seem to be any sort of directions you can tell these guys to 
 go in. It feels as if this was needed since at times, they can become in the way or be taking your 
 cover spot. They do a fairly good job at helping you take enemies out but sometimes they'll go 
 ahead of you. When they're ahead, you assume they've killed and gone past some enemies but that's 
 not always the case.
  
  Missions do have quite a bit of variety between them. Some will have you placed in major gun fights, 
 some will require you to go find someone and some require you to plant explosives. Some missions 
 use a combination of these to make it varied. There's even one mission where you have to be very 
 stealthy. The story throughout keeps you wanting to find out more and to reach the conclusion. 
 It's fictional but some parts do compare to what we do see in real life. This is probably why the 
 game was given a higher age rating.
  
  Controlling works great and doesn't throw too much in to new players. Your player can duck, lay 
 down and run. It is important to take advantage of these things when you are under heavy fire. 
 The missions include some sort-of cover point such as a container, trash cart or vehicle to hide 
 behind. However, some items can explode such as cars and the red barrels. There are no health pick-ups 
 needed since your health regenerates after a short time. So, getting into a good cover position 
 is needed for when you are low on health. Like many titles, your health is indicated by a red glow 
 around the screen. The more redder it becomes, then the more closer you are to death.
  
  For those who like to "plan ahead" and take out all enemies and then proceed will be slightly disappointed. 
 Many of the missions seem to have what seems a constant spawning of enemies. So, at times you could 
 be in one spot taking out what seems hundreds of enemies, when in fact, the game seems to be placing 
 more and yet more enemies down. This feels like a rather cheap excuse at times to make the game 
 feel much harder. At times, you'll have to run through gun fire to proceed to the next checkpoint. 
 There are many checkpoints throughout that are triggered by taking out some enemies or by proceeding 
 further down the level.
  
  Some missions have a timer on them. Even with a timer, there are checkpoints but these only seem 
 to activate if you reach a part at a good time (this is morenoticeable on Veteran difficulty) . 
 So, if you've spent too long in one place, you could find yourself not being able to activate a 
 next checkpoint. In terms of mission presentation, there's always a few missions here and there 
 that really do shine with the effects and cinematic presentation.
  
  Now being set in "Modern Warfare," Call of Duty 4 offers a good selection of weapons that can be 
 used in the campaign and multiplayer modes. Some missions will provide you with a good selection 
 of weapons (your player can hold two weapons) , with more to pick up that enemies have dropped. 
 There are a few special weapons such as theRPG and a weapon that auto-aims onto a tank. You'll 
 be required to use this later on in the game. The animations on the weapons seem good and there's 
 always a decent amount of ammo to hand. Many enemies can simply be taken out in a few shots with 
 most of the weapons. There's a knife automatically equipped too. This comes in handy when you simply 
 want to take an enemy out usually instantly if they are close. It can work great at times - especially 
 on the multiplayer when you sneak up to someone who doesn't realise you are there. It's dirty but 
 certainly gets you the points.
  
  On the easiest difficulty ("Recruit") , you can pretty much get through whilst taking quite a bit 
 of damage. However, on higher difficulties, you will constantly be needing to take cover a lot 
 more often. It seems, the health is more limited on the higher difficulties. Although, at times 
 on the highest difficulty ("Veteran") , enemies seem to throw far too many grenades. On this difficulty, 
 some parts of levels seem near impossible. You'll be relieved when you get to a checkpoint. A few 
 shots can often lead you to death. Timers for missions also seem to be decreased to further add 
 to the difficulty. Getting through some parts on the Veteran difficulty seems to rely more on luck 
 than a "learn and try again" formula. Enemies can be unpredictable too on this difficulty. So, 
 when you restart from the last checkpoint, you could go to one part and then notice an enemy that 
 was not there before. Playing through on the easier difficulties will be sure to make the campaign 
 feel short. Playing through on Veteran seems to take a lot more time because you are constantly 
 needing to take cover in many of the missions. It's certainly a tough challenge if you're prepared 
 for it.
  
  Call of Duty 4 does seem very linear so it's unlikely that you'll ever have a moment where you 
 are not sure to go. The compass is shown at the bottom of the screen, which will usually indicate 
 the direction you need to head towards. It works well and other members of your team often refer 
 to a direction that an enemy may be coming from. As well as showing you what direction to go in, 
 it also shows you how far away you are from the target. Thankfully, if you are below or above a 
 target, this should usually indicate with a message.
  
  Aside from the main campaign, you do have some very fun multiplayer modes. These modes are something 
 you'll just want to keep playing over and over with a few buddies. Of course, you have local play 
 and system link modes. The best way to play though is online, with a few buddies in a party. The 
 whole matchmaking system works great and there's very little "hanging" around trying to get into 
 a suitable game. You basically start off in a party. From there on, you can invite some friends 
 if you want. Then, you can go find some matches. The good thing about this is it works so smooth.
 
  
  There are typical team death matches, where you and your team have to go kill the opposition. The 
 team with the most kills/points wins. There is a time limit though if the team does not reach the 
 maximum points cap for that mode. So, upon the timer finishing, it decides who the winning team 
 is with the current points. Occasionally, you may get draws. The key is to be on the winning team 
 with a decent amount of points in order to rank up more quickly. Other modes include a free-for-all 
 match. This is limited to just yourself against seven other opponents. You earn less points in 
 this mode but have the opportunity to get more kills here. Later on, as you rank up, you'll unlock 
 more modes where you can have 1-on-1 battles, and classic battles. These classic battles typically 
 involve you going around the map with the default weapons and picking up weapons from spawn points. 
 The usual modes, let you choose your own weapons and perk selections.
  
  Another mode requires you to be more tactical. There's one where you have to go plant a bomb and 
 prevent the other team from defusing it. Another has you taking over flags and defending them. 
 So, plenty of variety here. It's this multiplayer mode that probably makes this game so much more 
 lasting. The level of customisation is awesome, too. There are various weapons to choose from; 
 ranging from machines guns, shotguns to snipers. Perks are a great addition. These give you some 
 special ability. There's one for if you get killed, then it will drop a grenade, another lets you 
 reload faster, one gives you increased health, another gives you a more steady aim and much more. 
 Using some of these perks with the right weapons can be very helpful. Later on, you will be able 
 to use more perks and more weapons. Upon completing the various challenges, you'll also unlock 
 scopes and such for your weapons.
  
  When you get matched up, the process is done to put you against similarly skilled players. You 
 rank up by earning points, completing challenges and by winning matches. The higher your rank, 
 then the more stuff you'll be able to unlock. This is a good system to show off to your friends 
 about your dedication to the online modes. There's plenty of maps available - some you may have 
 recognised from the beta. You can't choose a map yourself as the system chooses for you. However, 
 whilst in the lobby, you can vote to pass that map and it will skip onto another (as soon as it 
 receives enough votes) . If you host private matches (these don't rank you up) you do have more 
 freedom in selection of maps. Many of these you may have noticed are slight variations of the single-player 
 levels. Each map has some good hiding spots, cover areas and good uses of the environment.
  
  The multiplayer is a high point for Call of Duty 4. There's some minor problems at times but 
 nothing too bad. Thankfully, you'll be shown how you got killed through a "killcam" in case you 
 were ever wondering "how on earth did that happen?" Occasionally, the 18 player matches can seem 
 a bit laggy but still playable. It may seem unfair in terms of spawning at times. Sometimes you'll 
 just spawn right near an opponent or an air strike. These air strikes are good ways of getting 
 some extra kills. You can get these from getting a good killing streak built up. If you get seven 
 kills in a row, you can call in a helicopter to take out some opponents. The helicopter can feel 
 annoying when it is not friendly but you do have the option to shoot it down.
  
  In terms of graphics, Call of Duty 4 lives up to be pretty impressive. From smoke effects, to animations 
 and lighting - it all goes together well. To further aid the experience, you get some great sound 
 effects chucked in too. When you're shooting, it sounds solid and action-packed. Even in the distances, 
 you can hear the firing and explosions. To top that off, the soundtrack is certainly an excellent 
 addition. It feels very combat-like and comes in nicely when the mood changes. The score would 
 certainly be worth having if it were to become available.
  
  Call of Duty 4 suits just about anyone who likes a first-person shooter. The single-player campaign 
 is brief but fun whilst it lasts. The multiplayer just adds continuous hours of fun with your buddies 
 and well, that just does great on its own. Nothing feels too complicated or slapped right on the 
 plate. Call of Duty 4 slowly pushes you to getting better on the campaign. Whilst on multiplayer, 
 it doesn't feel like you're overwhelmed. It does a good thing by offering only a selection of modes 
 and weapons to start you off. As you progress and rank up, you'll be able to dive a lot deeper 
 with all the new unlockables awaiting for you. Certainly not to be missed for both the campaign 
 and the multiplayer elements. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xeuse51
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 25, 2007 11:15 am PT
Review:  This was hands down the best COD to date. The WWII genre has just been way over played. This was 
 a very refreshing update for the series. From the get go the game hits you with the fast pace action 
 that you are going to face through the whole game. No sneaking around and stealth kills in this 
 one. The graphics are outstanding. The characters, weapons, environments, and vehicle models are 
 top notch. The sound is also spectacular. Playing on a surround sound is a must for this game. 
 The sound of the weapons are very distinct to each one. The one problem I had with the game was 
 the sniper level. The level was a blast to play and I loved the east block of Europe map. But ghille 
 suits do not make you invisible to troops passing less than five feet from you. That was pretty 
 unrealistic. Also the game was just a little too short. I am not much of a MP type person, so all 
 I did was the campaign. Ok story and very intense firefights did make this game leave a lasting 
 impression. The best part of the game was the AC-130 mission. They did a lot of research for that 
 part of the game. The chatter on the radio, the thermal vision, and the weapons were true to life. 
 Great game overall. Good graphics, great sound, and intense game play make this one worth playing. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JC346
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 25, 2007 10:27 am PT
Review:  So I pop in my Call of Duty 4 disk and what do I find? The Game of the Year!
  
  Gameplay- This game plays beautifully. The controls are the best out of every FPS that I have played. 
 The story mode is amazing although only about 6 hours. The online is where the game really shines 
 only if you have an open NAT. If you have a strict NAT, like me, then you will have some trouble 
 finding a game of Team Deathmatch and Free for All. All of the other game types work fine. The 
 online rarely lags and is very good. The maps are great too and there are many different types 
 to choose from.
  
  Graphics- This game's graphics are incredible, probably the best graphics ever. The lighting and 
 textures are amazing and look great. The guns and the characters look great. Every blade of grass 
 looks great. Infintry Ward also makes the settings and places look great as well.
  
  Sound- The guns and soldiers sound better then ever. It sounds as if you were actually in a war. 
 The guns sound great also. If you put a silencer on your gun it makes the best sound. I don't know 
 why.
  
  Value- This game is well worth your $60 for any FPS fan. You get more then what you pay for. This 
 game will keep you busy for a while. This is easily the best CoD in the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gomez619
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 25, 2007 9:34 am PT
Review:  this game is soo much fun! 
  not only is the multiplayer awesome but the singleplayer is OUTSTANDING!
  This games SP is one 
 to actually want more instead of wanting me to get over it. SP is much like MP just with your facing 
 computers. Once your done theres always mission select and arcade mode which adds to the fun.
 
  MP is even better. Perks add and rpg element to the game and lots of customizable weapons from 
 snipers to Light machine guns. This is the first game were run n gun is the most fun. of course 
 you could take a tactical take on the game and kill quietly. There is somewhat some kind of teamwork 
 involved. 
  The only thing i dont like about the game is about the MP, i feel its missing something? along 
 with no co-op is a big put down but i hope to see it in the next COD along with vehicles.
  
  There are many maps to play on along with challenges to keep you busy. THis is by far one of 
 the best games ive played and i cant waint to see future DLC! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MMAKing623
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 25, 2007 5:30 am PT
Review:  This is possibly THE BEST GAME of the 2007 gaming season. Let's start with the graphics. They're 
 some of the most amazing graphics I've ever seen in gaming. But what if you're like me, and you 
 don't give a crap about the grapics because you just want a fun game. Unlike the other 3 Call of 
 Dutys this game takes place in modern day middle east. Which I think is great because personally, 
 I've been waiting for a game where I can kill some terrorists for a long time. Anyways, this game 
 is great make sure it's one your Christmas list. If you already made it and it's too late, get 
 your butt out to Gamestop and get it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: radikal01
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 24, 2007 10:20 pm PT
Review:  Radikal Review for Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare for X360
  
  SOUND:
  
  Quality: Sound quality is very good and clear, from gunshots to orders being shouted. Some sound 
 effects have still carried over from previous Call of Duty games - 3/3
  Intensity: The sound effects pull you more into the game and will probably cut your conscience 
 off from the outside world - 2/2
  Music - Music is okay, but not used in as many areas as necessary throughout the game. 4/5
  
 
  GRAPHICS:
  
  Quality: The worlds and environments, from the steel hull of a cargo ship in a thunderstorm to 
 the windy, dusty streets of the Middle East, to the very textures on the soldiers and weapons, 
 the game's graphics are awe-inspiring - 10/10
  Realistic: The game looks very good, but still lacks the detail and likeness to reality of Medal 
 of Honor: Airborne, or Gears of War - 2/3
  Visual Effects: The quality of the effects makes you feel like you are the Middle Eastern president 
 being executed or the dying SAS soldier. Effects of shell shock and near-unconsciousness are very 
 realistic - 7/7
  
  INTERFACE:
  
  Menu Quality: The menu has an interesting style based on grey palettes, and is easy to navigate 
 - 3/3
  Controls: Controls are the same as the previous Call of Duty games, and anyone who as ever played 
 a first-person shooter will pick it up quickly - 5/5
  Bonus/Unlockable Content: Unlocking weapons and accesories on multiplayer and achievements on single 
 player is a fun challenge - 2/2
  
  STORY:
  
  Quality: The bin Laden-like story of tracking a powerful enemy of democracy keeps you playing, 
 and the two viewpoints of the situations encountered by Britain and the U. S. makes the story enjoyable 
 - 9/9
  Easy to Understand: The constant switching of the viewpoints of different nations may slightly 
 chop up your overall understanding of the story, but otherwise is somewhat simple - 3/4
  Diverse Characters: You will be able to distinctly recognize your leader's names, but the characters 
 are all the bossy type - 2/3
  Game Replayable: The campaign gets slightly boring over the entire length, but overall, is fine 
 - 7/9
  
  AI
  
  Smart?: The AI is somewhat smart, but have some fairly frequent times of inhuman stupidity, such 
 as standing still even if a live grenade is ticking at their foot - 3/5
  Improvisational: The AI seems to be about 75% scripted. Enemies will man the same areas every time, 
 and every replay of each mission doesn't feel different than the previous experience - 2/5
  
  WEAPONS
  
  Fun?: Each of the weapons are very fun to wield - 5/5
  Strengths vs. Weaknesses: 
 The S's and W's of the weapons are visible through lots of practice with them, and each class is 
 diverse - 5/5
  
  MULTIPLAYER
  
  Addictive: It will be hard to rip yourself from the multiplayer - 3/3
  Fun and Competitive: Even 
 newbies will have surprisingly equal chances against more experienced players. Unlockable acessories 
 and ranks are really great, and maps are amazing - 13!/12
  
  
  Sound: 9
  Graphics: 19
  Interface: 10
  Story: 22
  AI: 5
  Weapons: 10
  Multiplayer: 16
  
  
 
  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare: 91/100 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bremsy
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 24, 2007 9:39 pm PT
Review:  Well, Infinity Ward certainly makes the better Call of Duty games. Here is why:
  
  Graphics. The game runs pretty smoothly. I have yet to see any choppy graphics on play online or 
 just in campaign mode alone. Almost everything in COD 4 looks fantastic. A step up over the previous 
 Call of Duty games.
  
  Sound- Pretty much what you would expect in any Call of Duty games. The intense battle sounds are 
 captured well. It's easy to hear the grenades, gunfire, almost everything.
  
  Gameplay- Exactly what I want in a Call of Duty game. The melee attack has changed from hitting 
 someone with your gun to slashing someone with your knife. I like this improvement the most in 
 the Call of Duty series. It did feel weird trying to use your melee attack in the previous Call 
 of Duty games. The addition of the perks for multi-player is also an outstanding addition to the 
 game (Last-Stand for example) .
  
  The only set back in this game would have to be in the System Link and online play. The makers 
 of Call of Duty 3 added the option of having 4 people on one screen play online or in system link. 
 Call of Duty 4 does not have that option as it's only one player for system link or online.
  
  For any COD fans, this game is a must. 
  
  8.9 is my overall rating 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Prince-
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 8:10 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is the best FPS I have ever played. Let me just start by getting this out of the 
 way, the only bad thing about the game is that the campaign is too short. Other then that the game 
 is a must have for any fan, Call of Duty fan or not. This is my first COD game, and it's one of 
 my favourites. The realism of the game is just breath taking, plus the variety of weapons and options 
 you have, this accumulates to be a terrific game. The campaign is so intense, with Russians everywhere 
 you go. You play as a soldier from the US and from the UK. You must use strategy and skill in order 
 to kill all the targets and save the country.
  
  The online is also very impressive. You rank up as you gain xp, which you get from killing me and 
 completing challenges. As you rank up, you unlock more weapons and perks. Also, another very impressive 
 aspect of the game is if you choose to be a sniper, you have the best possible camo for the map 
 in which you're playing. For example, if you are playing on a map with a lot of grass, you have 
 a ghily suit, which is grass camo and it is almost impossible to spot you, so it makes the sniper 
 job very precise and real.
  
  Concluding this review, COD 4 is an amazing game, and like I said before, if you don't already 
 have it, get your ass to the store and pick it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkAngel9809
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 24, 2007 6:40 pm PT
Review:  The campaign is incredibly intense, and does not feel short at all. When played on the harder difficulties, 
 it could take even longer than most shooters because of a few challenging parts. 
  
  Although the single-player campaign is great, it is the multi-player that will keep it as one of 
 my favorite games of all time. The innovative create a class and ranking system works so flawlessly 
 that even when you start off at the first level you do not feel inadequately prepared to take on 
 the competition. At the same time, the challenge system and the idea of unlocking new guns and 
 perks as you gain experience makes you want to just keep playing until you have unlocked everything.
 
  
  In the end, it is worth the money, and if you can shell out for a live gold subscription but don't 
 know if you should, do it. The game is great without it, but even better with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jedi_Master1121
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 4:03 pm PT
Review:  I Love This Game. Only Bad Think I Would Say Is There Is No Co Play. You Can't Play With Other 
 Players Which Is Weak And Why I Give It A 9.5
  
  
  
  The details on the missions were just sick. The weapons is sick. My favorite Mission is when i 
 was on stealh and i had to craw and duck and hide and fire at the right time. Just amazing how 
 great this game was. I thought it would be like Call Of Duty 3. That game was dispointed.
  
  
  
  I am glad they finally steped into mod war time. I think it was a safe move by Activision. 
 Great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamefreakwill
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 24, 2007 2:41 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty is a long running franchise that has mostly been set in the time of World War II. 
 Well now with Call of Duty 4, the game jumps up about 60 years, and pits the battle against terrorists. 
 Sorry, no Nazis here WWII fanatics, just brutal, blood thirsty terrorists. No more M1 Garrands 
 or Tompson SMG's either, everything from the past is dead.
  
  What makes Call of Duty 4 so different from shooters of its kind is how story focused the game 
 is in the campain mode. The past games have been incredibly straightforward in story, mainly just 
 basing the experience on an event in WWII, and you jsut re-enacting it and playing it. In here, 
 the story is much grittier and intense. The plot is that there is a terrorist group that has taken 
 over a Middle Eastern country and plans on doing horrible things against the West, while in Russia 
 there is a civil war with the same terrorists, only they are separtists and extremists.
  
  Now your probably wondering how the terrorists pose as a threat in this game. Infinity Ward did 
 not want to do some lame guerilla type warfare and IED affair here. Your enemies are highly trained 
 and very well supplied in COD4. The enemy AI is a bit similar to Call of Duty 2's, but much tougher 
 and more tactical. Here, besides advancing on your position, enemies provide covering fire for 
 eachother, and the ones who are being covered advance on you or try to flank you. Its a great system, 
 and it works flawlessly, and the enemies put up a big fight. You will die often, but there is little 
 frustration involved, unless your playing on Veteran.
  
  Call of Duty 4, besides gameplay wise, ramps up the graphics a ton. The engine is still similar 
 to Call of Duty 2 and 3's engines, but have much more detailed textures and character models. The 
 lighting and shadowing in particular are outstanding and look fantastic overall. Character models 
 hold a hell of a lot more detail as well, such as designs on clothing, such as scarves or skii 
 masks.
  
  The sound in the game is also outstanding. Voice acting and gun sounds are fantastic, and the sounds 
 in the guns are also very authentic to real life sounds. IW took the sounds of real life guns, 
 and then implemented them into the game, and the sounds of war have never sounded better. Explosions 
 sound awsome, and firing a weapon feels great as well. Grenade explosions sound fantastic as well.
 
  
  A great thing about the single player is that each level has its own bit of awsomeness to it. One 
 mission in particular, where your dressed in a Gullie suit, is easily one of the best missions 
 in shooter history, let alone game history. The levels in the game are all fast paced and intense, 
 and the 60 frames per second never let up. The campain moves at lightening speed and never slows 
 down a bit, and it all feels very cinematic at the same time.
  
  One bad thing about the game is that the single player is short. It can be beaten at the most in 
 about six hours, which is really disapointing. The game covers a lot of ground in the single player 
 though, so nothing of a cliffhanger is shown at all. The mutliplayer is what will keep you playing 
 Call of Duty 4 for a long time though. Here there are 65 levels that you must climb to reach the 
 top rank. In this climb though, you receive upgrades in weapons and perks as well. Weapons wise, 
 you may unlock maybe a grenade launcher or ACOG scope. Perk wise, you can unlock something like 
 Juggernaught, which can make you absorb more bullets, or Last Stand, where you have a few seconds 
 to pull out a pistol and try and have the last laugh before you are sent to your grave. The multiplayer 
 is easily one reason to even play Call of Duty 4, because it has so much depth to it. It easily 
 rivals Halo 3's multiplayer as well, which is really a big accomplishment. Its also just a lot 
 of fun and very fast paced, and VERY addictive.
  
  Call of Duty 4 is recommendable to everyone. This game will easily get you into shooters, and the 
 mutliplayer will easily get anyone into mutliplayer games. The multiplayer also will enourage others 
 to join Xbox Live, and the more people who join, the more people to fight against. It boils down 
 to this people: You have to play Call of Duty 4, its that simple.
  
  A 10, out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheVinster
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 24, 2007 2:12 pm PT
Review:  So I have a lot of things to cover in this review, both multiplayer and single-player. I'll separate 
 gameplay into MP (multiplayer) and SP (single-player) categories, but the rest of my rating categories 
 will be explained together (i. e. graphics in SP and MP will be discussed together instead of separately) . 
 First I'll go over the Pros and Cons, then into the categories of: SP gameplay, MP gameplay, Graphics, 
 Sound, Value, and my "Final Comments."
  
  Pros
  -Immersive SP with great sounds, and action-packed missions.
  -Veteran difficulty is fun to play, 
 when it plays fair.
  -Weapons pack a punch, cooking grenades is great.
  -Multiplayer is better than Halos since it's both tactical and gives you reasons to keep levelling.
 
  -Perks are the new MP "must."
  -Guns and graphics are fantastic.
  -Treyarch didn't make this game.
  
  Cons
  -Veteran difficulty can be very cheap with infinite 
 respawning enemies.
  -Some MP game types aren't meant for maps that you sometimes have to play on.
  -Knifing enemies 
 needs to be fixed, sometimes you go through them.
  
  SP Gameplay: So you'll get a 6 hour SP story, but fortunately, it's a CoD game so the campaign 
 is something to be remembered. In fact, I've been an avid fan of how CoD campaigns are made. You 
 feel as if the game is more than you, hardly are you ever just running and gunning by yourself, 
 but instead, getting orders by Cpt. Price and constantly hearing gunfire in the background, with 
 your team members calling out where enemies are. Sounds great, doesn't it? Of course, it may seem 
 a little short but the lengthtivity is in the MP, where it's meant to be. The SP is really fun, 
 for the two times I played through it (Normal then Veteran) , but something I hate about all CoD 
 games is in the Veteran play. Sure the checkpoints are nicely placed, but regardless, enemies usually 
 know where you are even if you sneak around, they know what stance you're in at all times, and 
 they spawn endlessly (for the most part) from certain places until you advance. Which sounds easy, 
 but when you get hit twice and go into full red about to die, well it takes the fun out of it. 
 The weapons are great, you get that war feeling, and you feel as if you're a real soldier. In fact, 
 there's great loss in the SP, you'll feel as if you've gone places, seen friends die, and so on.
 
  
  MP Gameplay: Where it's at. The MP is great, giving you new weapons, challenges, or perks everytime 
 you level. You start at 1, then when you get to 12 you can have a clan tag, when you get to 55 
 you can restart with a special icon in Prestige mode (if you want) , and along the way you'll along 
 increasingly fun to use guns. MP controls are just like SP, except when you get a 3 kill streak 
 you can call in a UAV, 5 kills earns an air strike, and 7 earns a helicopter. The game comes packed 
 with a bunch of maps, over 12, and probably 10 or more game types to play with your friends. So 
 in other words, the controls are perfect, the game is perfect, the MP is perfect, it works very 
 well.
  
  Sound: The sounds are just amazing. The voice acting is great, as well as the sound effects you'll 
 hear. CoD is renown (in my eyes) for it's fabulous sound design, providing constant war-esque feel 
 with the bombs going off, yelling, and firepower always active. Never do you need a better reason 
 to get new speakers.
  
  Graphics: Great graphics. All the character models are great, the animations as well are just perfect. 
 The guns themselves are probably the best part, since they're always interesting to look at as 
 well as good-looking. Then there's the environments, which are almost as good. Obviously you get 
 that CoD feel, so it kind of seems awkward when you can sometimes compare the environments to CoD2's 
 WWII scenery.
  
  Value: Worth all of your $60. Worth it to buy, not just rent. You get 55 online levels, tons of 
 guns, a thrilling SP and an addicting MP, some greatly varied Achievements (for SP only) , and the 
 quality of Infinity Ward.
  
  Final Comment: Worth the money, like I said. That's it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: quaIity_control
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 1:06 pm PT
Review:  The campaign may be a little short, but it has an excellent cast of characters and a very engaging 
 storyline. But seriously, who buys FPS games for single player anymore anyway?
  
  The multi player is where its at with CoD4, as it has been with any other CoD game out there. With 
 the ability to customize classes via "perks" and weapon attachments, you have yourselves a highly 
 addictive online multi player with RPG elements. The idea to have XP for completing challenges 
 and getting kills, and gaining "levels" that unlock new challenges, perks, and weapons, along with 
 unlocking weapon attachments such as red dot sights and silencers, is pure genius.
  
  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare blows any other FPS out there out of the water. 
  
  Yes Halo 
 fan boys, that means you too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: foritxxar
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 4:48 am PT
Review:  Alright, to give an overview of what my review will say... the game is great. Everything about 
 it is great, except how short the single player is.
  
  Visuals: 10. Beautiful. THE most photo-realistic game on the 360. Character models, vehicles, and 
 even the ground itself looks to be done with much love and skill. Frame-rate was always very high. 
 It didn't drop once, even when there were tons of guys on screen and helicopters blowing up above 
 you with explosions and chaos everywhere. If you want to be nitpicky, you could say the running 
 animation looks a little unnatural sometimes, but it's so minor you'll only notice it the first 
 5 minutes. After that, you forget.
  
  Sound: 10. Again, beautiful. Everything from that satisfying "POP" from firing a sniper rifle to 
 the radio chatter is top-notch. I truly wish I could experience this game in surround sound...
 
  
  Gameplay: 9.5. I've yet to play another game that feels so... so right. The controls work extremely 
 well. It actually controls better than Halo 3, in all truth. There weren't any bugs I managed to 
 find (although I'm sure there are some) . Gameplay is not a 10 because, in my opinion, it's impossible 
 for any game to have perfect gameplay. This game just comes VERY close.
  
  Innovation: One of the coolest things in this game is the fact that you can shoot through cover. 
 That's right. You know that sniper hiding behind the tree? Shoot him THROUGH the tree, if your 
 gun's powerful enough. The leveling and class system in the multiplayer is also very neat. Read 
 the multiplayer section of my review for more details. Other than that, this game doesn't really 
 need anything new, since it does everything else so great!
  
  Campaign: 9. A very, very fun experience. Its a shame it's so short. If you took your time, and 
 attempted to get all the achievements, the campaign will last roughly 10-15 hours. If you simply 
 played the game, it'll be closer to 7 hours. The developers managed to fit a lot of different things 
 in the short campaign. On one level, you'll take out a terrorist from a high rooftop using a sniper 
 rifle. On another, you'll be the gunner on an AC 130 Gunship. There are many cinematic moments 
 that are almost movie-like, and the campaign is highly replayable. Be sure to check this out before 
 you get into the multiplayer - it's well worth it. The campaign is not a 10 due to how short it 
 is.
  
  Multiplayer: 9.5. I have yet to play a game's multiplayer as fun as this since Halo 2. Not much 
 fun locally, but online, it's second to none. The maps are top-notch and done expertly. Game-types 
 are all fun and varied. There's classic free for all, team deathmatch, oldschool, and a host of 
 other kinds. The coolest and most innovative part of the multiplayer is the leveling system - as 
 you level up, you're able to create your very own class, with a wide variety of weapons and perks. 
 Perks are abilities, passive or aggressive, that define your class. Maybe you want some claymores 
 to lay around the field? Or how about quieter footsteps to help you sneak up on unwitting foes? 
 It's all up to you... at least, when you get to the required level. One thing that some people 
 will dislike (it depends on you're personal preference) is the fact that killing someone can only 
 take one direct hit with the right guns. This basically means that most of the time, getting kills 
 just means seeing the other person first. There are perks to get back at them (to name a couple; 
 martyrdom, which drops a live grenade when you die, and last stand, which lets you pull out your 
 pistol when you die and get a few extra shots off at whoever's nearby before they finish you) , 
 though. All in all, one of the best multiplayers around.
  
  
  This game is definitely worth paying $60 on, even if you're not really into shooters. You won't 
 be sorry.
  
  Notes:
  -This review is an opinion. All reviews are. It's always a good idea to rent games and form your 
 own opinion before shelling out $60, especially if you're unsure if you'll like them.
  -Some people said this was the same old stuff. That is true. This game is not great because its 
 really innovative. It's great because it manages to do what every other shooter does, just a LOT 
 better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DoubledToKe420
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 23, 2007 10:19 pm PT
Review:  Ok, so I pre-ordered this game 2 days before its release because I thought everyone would have 
 it. I wish I didn't have to pay 60dollars for it since its mainly online maybe pay 40dollars.
 
  
  Game play:
  Like its previous games the CoD franchise has followed the same game mechanics..... The new in this 
 one is the ability to level up and "earn" new weapons (all you really have to do is play FFA over 
 and over for hours on end)
  But, what is there after you get the highest rank.... is it not the same game over and over again. 
 Much like Halo 1 2 3 you could play DM over and over but does that not get boring... I think it 
 does..... We need some added flavor!
  
  Sound:
  As real as it gets without blasting a 7.1 surround sound.
  
  Graphics:
  Good But Not the 
 Best - Even though everyone says that it would lag XBL to the max ... I still think they should 
 have added destructive environments
  Bullet holes in the wall is cool but I've seen that since Goldeneye 007 for N64
  
  Difficulty:
 
  Varies from match to match
  CoD "fanboys" ruin many matches for me because all they do is play the game and try to be the best.
 
  
  Matchmaking:
  Should be more like Halo3.... why at lvl 29 do I get in a match with 48's and 50's.... not that fair
 
  
  Re playability:
  Mainly online so YES its very re playable
  
  Difficulty:
  If your good at FPS then you will be good at this game.
  
  Overall:
  This game is fun (to 
 and extent) graphics are nice to look at and leveling up is pretty cool (for now)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: heavy_rocker29
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 23, 2007 6:51 pm PT
Review:  I was scramble from cover point to cover point as the faceless enemy's bullets tear through the 
 terrain. Allies falling left and right and explosions roaring in the distance. My heart was racing. 
 Then I pressed Start, pausing the game, I set down the control and actually had to stop to collect 
 myself so I could continue. It is that intense! 
  
  Call of Duty 4 is actually the fourth game by Infinity Ward (Cod 3 was by Activision) and you can 
 see why they opted out of doing that one so they could do this. This is an amazing game. The weapons 
 feel realistic and really have an appropriate amount of bite. Sounding like your bullets could 
 really tear people up. The level of detail in the maps is spectacular. Debris reacts to physics 
 and the placement of buses and trashed cars are perfect. The game looks amazing with some of the 
 best particle effects and lighting in the business. So much chaos is always going on that I couldn't 
 believe that it runs at a solid frame rate through out. I mean always. It never dips. Try all you 
 want it will never happen.
  
  But i must say the game is short, real shirt you can pretty easily beat it in one sitting but this 
 is rather minor quip for the multi-player is so damn good. With a deep class building system and 
 a really steady level progression and awesome challenges multi-player really rounds out the package.
 
  
  Call of Duty 4 in short is the best of the series, and is the best shooter on the Xbox 360 (besides 
 Gears of War) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gerardomobile
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 23, 2007 11:59 am PT
Review:  It took awhile, but Infinity Ward finally got the message that World War II is played out. With 
 modern times and international affairs becoming more and more, shall we say, interesting in recent 
 years, the 1940s just don't carry as much weight as they used to. Perhaps that's why Call of Duty 
 4 has a new subtitle, Modern Warfare. By bringing things into a fictionalized story that still 
 seems fairly plausible, the developer has made a much heavier game. But COD 4 is more than just 
 an updated setting. It's also an amazing multiplayer first-person shooter and a great but brief 
 single-player campaign with the visual chops to make it a standout shooter in an era filled with 
 seemingly dozens of standout shooters 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dorkerbiter1
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 23, 2007 11:55 am PT
Review:  When reading the reviews for CoD4, you will hear how short the campaign is (The first time) . That's 
 all the negative that there is to the game. 
  The graphics in 1080p with HDMI will allow you into the world that is Modern Warfare. It is simply 
 stunning.
  The gameplay is flawless, and like I said above, much much better that even the mighty Halo controls. 
 Sniping is fluid and precise from even 1500 meters away. LMG's and SMG's (light machine gun and 
 sub machine gun) are spot on with their sound and damage capabilities. The Golden Eagle is a sight 
 to behold in high def as well. Play to find out what I mean. :D
  In closing, I find this game to be simply one of the best I have a ever played. Everything is spot 
 on. Gameplay, controls, graphics, storyline, and even length is superb.
  
  You mean you're still reading? Go buy it already! You will thank me.
  
  
  XxMikeMachinexX 
 XBOX 360 Live. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NoW_FoReVeR
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 23, 2007 11:46 am PT
Review:  This game is fantastic, the graphics are top notch, everything about this game is perfect. I have 
 spent a lot of time playing this game and looking for glitches, but I could not hardly find anything 
 that is too big. I am surprised that this game didn't get a 10/10 for gamespots review. This obviously 
 is the best game out for Xbox 360 since Rainbow Six Vegas. Unlike the previous Call of Duty 3, 
 which lacked interest after playing it for some time, Call of Duty 4 gave it a second chance, and 
 it succeeded with honor. I would recommend this game to many people who like to have fun and like 
 to kill terrorists. 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deadruler08
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 23, 2007 11:45 am PT
Review:  I've played a call of duty game maybe once in my life, and I thought it was stupid primarily because 
 of how easy it is to die. I'm use to halo 3 and rainbow six vegas which are both excellent games. 
 I bought Call of Duty 4 based on the high reviews and the snazzy commercial they're still airing 
 even today. I'm not biased at all, but this game is simply revolutionary.
  
  Graphics:
  One of the best on xbox hands down. 60 fps = high definition glory at it's best. There's little 
 to no slow down, and the character models are absolutely stunning. Textures are near perfect and 
 the reloading animations as well as character movements are jaw dropping.
  
  Sound:
  I love waking up my family in the morning to mind numbing crackles and explosions from my high 
 definition tv. I don't have surround sound (yet) , but i couldnt imagine how much better this game 
 could sound. The weapons sound like you're really there, and the voice overs are perfect. I adore 
 hearing the British news reporter briefing before every mission. It sounds as if I'm watching CNN
 
  
  Gameplay:
  The single player is near flawless. I know a lot of people are saying it's very short, and I wouldn't 
 exactly know since I haven't beaten it yet. I got it about two weeks ago, and I'm stuck on one 
 of the later SAS missions. The story is amazing; there's one mission where the US marines are boarding 
 a cobra chopper and a nuclear bomb is detonated in the area. That mission was so incredible I was 
 speechless for days. The multiplayer is even better. The challenges and weapon unlockables as well 
 as the intuitive ranking system make this game both highly addicting and extraordinarily immersive. 
 Simply put, this game is addicting as hell.
  
  Overall
  This game was everything it could've been. I loved halo 3, but the single player sucked, and the 
 online got boring quick due to a horrendous selection of maps for the game. I suppose I'm a bit 
 biased because I love modern warfare and i'm also a graphics guru. This game will stay in your 
 xbox for many months to come, and it's the ultimate remedy for all those who are completely fed 
 up with halo 3. Get this game now! Call of Duty 4: Modern Ware (aka game of the year to be) is 
 one hell of a ride. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XCOD23
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 23, 2007 8:00 am PT
Review:  Infinity Ward's highly anticipated FPS finally arrives, but is it worth the wait? The answer is, 
 OH YEA!
  I'll start with the single player. It can be beaten in about 5-7 on Regular difficulty. This can 
 be a little shorter than regular shooters, but the story is meatier than any average shooter. It 
 follows 'The Four Horsemen', an Ultra-nationalist group of terrorist bent on conquering the Middle 
 East and turning Russia back to its communist state. The first day I got it, I didn't even touch 
 the multiplayer aspect of the game because the story was so addictive. I kept playing just to find 
 out the outcome of all of the events that happened.
  Now the multiplayer, and let me tell you, it is freaking awesome. Lets begin with the ground materials. 
 There are 12 multiplayer modes with 16 maps to square off on. But what about that creation system? 
 Create-a-Class allows you to build your ultimate modern soldier. The micro-engine that builds create-a-class 
 are perks. Perks are small enhancements that give you advantages on the battlefield. They are divided 
 into 3 categories. The Perk 1 slot is more for your explosives. Perk 2 and Perk 3 slot have no 
 general subject, but they are spaced out very nicely. Yet another cool aspect of the multiplayer 
 is the air support. Kill streaks unlock these pretties. Get a 3 Kill Streak to summon a UAV Recon 
 Drone to sweep the map for 30 seconds to show where enemies are. If you get a 5 Kill Streak you 
 get an airstrike, which allows 3 jets to fly over a selected part of the map and decimate that 
 part of the map. If you manage to kill 2 people with that you will you have 7 Kill Streak and at 
 that point you will be allowed to call in a helicopter for support.
  Call of Duty 4 really delivers on the presentation standpoint. It is a wonderfully enjoyable game 
 which a definite must-buy and one of the years best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aliens1234
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 23, 2007 7:53 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty is back and better than ever. Ditching the WWII theme in favour of "Modern Warfare" 
 is certainly what makes this instalment stand out from the rest. With the change in theme you get 
 to play as either a British SAS soldier or an American Marine - with the roles interchanging as 
 the single player progresses. There is a marked difference between playing as either - as a marine 
 you will find yourself with dozens of fellow soldiers at your side, taking on the enemy in a middle 
 eastern setting. The SAS missions centre around a small team of the most elite counter-terrorist 
 unit in the world, infiltrating installations and going up against hordes of Russian rebels across 
 eastern Europe. The game is one of the most intense first-person experiences you will ever encounter; 
 while the single player may be rather short, the quality of what is there makes up for it. Along 
 with the fact that if you bump up the difficulty - it's going to take considerably longer to finish. 
 One of the reasons for it's level of intensity is that it is a very linear game - there are never 
 more that two ways to approach the next objective, so you won't need to think about which direction 
 you need to be in. As a result the game can throw as many set pieces as it likes at you, which 
 while some might question as to whether that is a positive thing, here it is what makes the single 
 player so fun to play.
  
  Enemy AI is improved as you would expect, they can be very aggressive and come right for you, or 
 hang back and throw grenades at your feet. You and your teamates can throw grenades back, but then 
 so can the enemy. Team AI is good and there are many times they save your life - especially on 
 Veteran difficulty. There are parts when you notice enemies are spawning at a location and the 
 only way to stop them is to actually move forward. While a little disheartening it is understandable, 
 this isn't a game where you win by sitting back like a sissy, this is run and gun gameplay where 
 the only progress you're going to make is with a pair.
  
  Modern Warfare is about as varied as you could expect a shooter to be. You'll encounter soldiers, 
 helicopters, wild dogs, tanks and jeeps. You'll take them out with RPGs, machine guns, pistols, 
 sniper rifles, rocket launchers, grenades, flash bangs, SMGs, shotguns, C4, claymores, grenade 
 launchers, helicopters, miniguns, an AC-130, airstrikes, bare hands and your trusty knife with 
 it's one-hit-kill. The AC-130 mission is something never done before: you're in a gunship overlooking 
 friendlies making there way through a town and it's your job to provide them cover using the thermal 
 imaging and a choice of 2 cannons and a rail gun. The result is a rather scarily realistic (as 
 a result of the thermal imaging) demolition of the hapless enemies that rag-doll across the terrain 
 when one of your shells hits.
  
  While not set in WWII, the gameplay is very similar to what you have come to expect from CoD2 for 
 example. Aiming down the sight plays a big role on and offline, and the style of the game has Infinity 
 Ward all over it. Graphically, the game is very impressive. It is a wonder that the 360 can still 
 be improving in that department with an eye-bleeding frame rate to match. Lighting and particle 
 effects are spot on and the graphics are pretty much on par for the online mode.
  
  The online mode is where you will spend most of your time (hopefully) . This has to be one of the 
 best crafted online shooter experiences to date, a multitude of maps come out of the box, a matchmaking 
 system is implemented similar to Halo 3, and once you are in a round the gameplay is every bit 
 as rewarding as in the single player - or more when you remember these are actual people you're 
 taking on. The perk system is a lovely way to mix it up with some dropping grenades when they die 
 and others with deeper bullet penetration so no wall can save you. There is no cover system in 
 the multiplayer but you really don't want one - as mentioned bullets can go through walls, and 
 you don't want to be pressed up against one when the cover it provides is limited. Sniping is a 
 great deal of fun and wearing a ghillie suit makes you almost impossible to spot when lying still 
 in a field. I can't tell you how many times I decided to just hide while 6 enemies walk right passed 
 me. It's moments like that that make the game special. Get a 3 kill streak and you'll have yourself 
 a UAV which will locate every enemy on the map (unless they have the UAV jammer perk) ; a 5 kill 
 streak and you can call in an airstrike, a 7 kill streak and you'll call in a friendly helicopter 
 that will seek out the enemy and blow them to smithereens. Game modes are what you'd expect with 
 Hardcore being a little different in that there is no HUD and increased damage. But essentially 
 it is the same game type. Pretty much all the weapons including explosives and the knife can be 
 used online, so you can do a whole lot of bad stuff to your adversaries.
  
  Call of Duty: Modern Warfare is a must-buy for any shooter fan and I highly recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zebu9
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 22, 2007 10:12 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is a technical acheivment in quite a few ways. Graphically it is absolutely stunning, 
 gameplay is as realistic as it can be. One of the most realistic shooters of all time. It has a 
 lot of wow moments, the first one was dropping on a ship, second was bombarding a field & the best 
 of all was the sniper mission that really amazed me how bullet speed and trajectory was mapped 
 so realistically. Character models and player movements are stunning. Though its not just eye candy 
 game. Gameplay wise its really really good, the allies AI is the best in any game I have seen, 
 on the other hand the enemy AI is not impressive. This game has two flaws in its singleplayer campaign. 
 1) . Missions are linear & 2) . Enemy AI is scripted. That really takes the fun out of the game when 
 it comes to replayability. Graphically where it bashes Halo 3 at the same time gameplay wise it 
 lefts everyone wanting more. The other major flaw the campaign has it is way too short like 7-8 
 hours or something. Shooters now a days clock around 10-12 hours so considering that standard it 
 is still short, but does that makes it a bad game, no it doesn't its an amazing game that every 
 gamer should play. It is an amazing looking game that plays absolutely well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luckypool04
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 22, 2007 10:00 pm PT
Review:  I can throw all of the superlatives I can think of at the gameplay, but what is it that makes shooting 
 evildoers in Call of Duty 4 any better than in any of the dozens of other action-oriented FPSs 
 around? Ultimately, it comes down to polish. Everything about the game works together as a seamless 
 whole, drawing players into an experience that proves beyond a doubt that the team at Infinity 
 Ward just "gets it." The simple act of firing a weapon is fun, from the smooth aiming to the realistic 
 pop in your ears and the feeling of impact as your bullets connect with a hapless enemy or send 
 dust flying off of a structure. Missions deliver near-perfect pacing, keeping the story and the 
 action rolling while maintaining a delicious feeling of tension as you await the next suspenseful 
 urban patrol or deafening explosion. And even on the normal difficulty level, enemies will punish 
 you harshly for choosing a bad tactic or leaving yourself exposed, making tactical approaches nearly 
 as important here as in a game like Rainbow Six. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phoenixrebirth
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 7:09 pm PT
Review:  Infinity Ward showed they are the only ones who deserve to be involved in the Call of Duty franchise. 
 This game is probably as close to perfect as u are gonna get for an FPS (not taking anything away 
 from BF 2142) Graphics are serious (PC version is better but u cannot down the console version 
 graphics) . Ok the SP is short.. but not that short. U will be at attention playing this game. There 
 is no time to just chill in the game. U gotta be on point if u dont wanna get bodied. Its fast 
 paced. Frame rates are smoooooth. I never got a hiccup. Not one. The MP is on another lvl. Plenty 
 of map, and the game modes are great. Just get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bloatz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 6:57 pm PT
Review:  With out a doubt COD4 crushed everything the original 3 had. Story was unbeleivable although short, 
 they still got alot into it. So levels are just jaw dropping.
  
  But the multiplayer is still its fast paced self and the addition of uav, air stike and helos are 
 great. Even when theres a helicopter in the air the games still progress and you don't feel like 
 its unbalance. Perks are great fun and even tho they have great effects it feels like they all 
 have their drawbacks too
  
  Visuals are amazing- the addition to the sniping camo in the MP was a nice touch, you're hard to 
 see and yet kids still camp when theres a kill cam, it cracks me up every time- free kills in my 
 opinion. 
  
  Sound is just great- feels like a real battle feild and the guns are detailed and very unique.
 
  
  Now you can't have a good review without explorering what the game lacks. The fact you need to 
 get higher ranks to play other gametypes kind of sucks but that way you get more experienced playes, 
 so thanks Infinity ward- i guess. The bonus mission on veteran is so rediculous, i got the the 
 part when you shoot the hostage holder and i poped him in the head and it says friendly fire will 
 not be tolerated, that happened to me 4 times, i finally got it but it took my so long, thank god 
 im patient. second I HATE THE SPAWNING. I clear a area and reload and a guy pops up infront of 
 me and i die. like litteraly as if by pixie dust he just appears, and the worst part is he isnt 
 even holding a gun like what the hell i die in a millisecond by hudini who shoots invisible shells 
 from his invisible shotgun. normally thats no big deal but if you have drive to beat it on veteran 
 like you've done on all the other CODs this just pisses you off 
  
  in the end its a definete buy, just watch for hudini hes an ass. multiplayer is solid and leveling 
 up isnt hard like in COD3. getting to general status takes 2 or 3 days of lots of winning. 
  
  I'm no achievement whore but why are the achievements almost identicle to those of COD2, come 
 on Infinity ward, you're by far the best COD developers, but put some effort into the achievements. 
 big deal some kid beat veteran. I want to see wholy sh*t that guy has the Lucky number seven achievement 
 7 kills with one air strike. something like that. Achievements should be some thing that wows other 
 players and adds to playing the game, to give some players a goal.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: incendiumx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 6:39 pm PT
Review:  Campaign:
  
  The single player element of this game has been blasted as being too short, but i did not find 
 this to be true. If you play on hardened or veteran difficulty you will have MANY hours of challenging 
 and incredibly intense battles ahead of you. The story sucks you in and doesnt let you go. 
  
  Multiplayer:
  
  One of the best on Xbox Live. While frustrating at the start once you begin 
 to unlock weapon upgrades and perks the game becomes very immersive and fun to play.
  
  
  Graphics.
  
  WOW. The screenshots do not do this game justice. While it maintains that video 
 game look it has moments of near photo realism. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cvandingo
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 22, 2007 3:55 pm PT
Review:  The ranking system and levl design on multiplayer have mde this one of my favorite multiplayer 
 games to date. Quick, great looking and ll rund good fun.
  The inclusion of airstrikes and calling i a chopper or consecuive kills is a great idea.
  I honestly 
 cant recomend the mutiplayer exprience enough.
  single player however is different , some levels are just frustating and just require you to run 
 to a checkpoint without shooting anyone, in fact sometimes shooting at bad guysjus seems pointless!
 
  That said the one really good level requires you to use steath and really gets your blood pumping 
 when hiding from an enemy in long grass who are right on top of you.
  The multiplyer alone is worth the money 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marco0798
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 7:24 am PT
Review:  Ok if you hav played the beta and are still wandering if you should get this or not STOP GET UP 
 GO OUT AND GET IT. if you didnt play the beta get dressed B4 you read because you will soon enough.
 
  Gameplay: This is probably THE best online shooter out there RIGHT NOW thats right multiplayer 
 this game OWNZ halo. The controls respond brilliantly everything is laid out and after 10 mins 
 you wont even be thinking about how to pull you knife out and slittling that guys throat.
  Singleplayer: the story is great and very compelling and the battles feel like something out of 
 blackhawk down its AWSOME.
  Longetivity: online this game will last until CoD5 super modern warfare comes out lol singleplayer 
 it should take about 12 hours or so.
  the tilt: GET IT if you have a 360 and enjoy FPS this is a game you MUST have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fang_lord
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 22, 2007 2:21 am PT
Review:  Hey
  
  Before i start, i would like to get a few pointers clear: 
  1) If you don't like my OPINION on ANY game, don't send me hate mails
  2) I have the right to 
 express my opinion
  I have said this, because people have got 4 of my review banned because they didn't agree (halo 
 3 and gears of war were 2 of them) , and as a result i got a wave of hate mail.
  
  Ok, now to the review.
  
  Call of Duty 4 is the 4th installment to the Call of Duty Series. 
 However, unlike the other COD games, this isn't set in WW2, its set in modern day times. Its not 
 set in Iraq or anything, and the story isn't true, and im sure some of the countries are made up, 
 mabe not. 
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  The graphics on COD are amazing. Its definatly one of the best looking games on the 360. With awesome 
 explosions, lighting, character design, BIG EXPLOSIONS (you will no what i mean when you buy it) . 
 The first level looks amazing (after training) and is definatly one of the best looking levels 
 in the game and just prepares you for a awesome looking game from the get go. However, there is 
 some problems. Up close, some of the textures look blurred, and there is sometimes jaggeys, but 
 this is forgiveable considering how good it looks overall.
  
  SOUND
  
  Awesome voice acting that sets the mood. And im happy they didn't go over board with the English 
 accents, because that ruins a game for me, its just insulting. The sound of guns firing, bullets 
 skimming your head, bullets hitting walls, all sound awesome and add to the mood of the games and 
 gets you immersed in the game. Theres some music, and although i tend to not notice it, when i 
 do, its awesome, and does add to the whole experience.
  
  CONTROLS
  
  Different than most FPS on the 360, halo 3 players might find it awkward to adjust to these controls, 
 but once you do, you know that they are awesome, and in my opinion better than most FPS's on the 
 system.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  The story in COD is awesome, instead of being 5 or so separate campaigns having little to do with 
 each other, they are all link together, and although its only 10 or so hours, its 10 hours of total 
 awesomeness. The fire fights in COD4 are so much more intense than Halo 3 for example. Theres just 
 wave upon wave of enemy coming at you, and to make it harder, on the higher difficulties, you die 
 in 1 or 2 shots, so be careful. Im not going to get indepth with the story, but i will say that 
 the 2 sniper missions are amazingly fun, and my personal game moment of the year. The Multi player 
 is also the best FPS online service i have played. Mixing FPS with RPG was a great idea. The higher 
 your rank/level the more weapons and perks you have. Perks are customizations, like more health, 
 extra damage, radar jammers and more. To make multi player even more indepth theres challenges. 
 Like get 25 kills with a certain weapon and you get a reflex scope, get 75, you get a silencer, 
 get 150 and get a full sized sniper scope. However thats not just the only challenges, thers ones 
 for getting certain number of head shots with a certain weapon, getting a certain number of kills 
 using helecopters or airstrikes. Theres hundreds, and each one gives you EXP, which levels you 
 up faster, and gets your new weapons, which equals new challenges and perks. You can see where 
 this is going. Theres also loads of maps and game types, i tihnk theres 16 maps and 17 game types, 
 which are all fun to play, however, you need to be a certain level to play some of them, but the 
 good thing is, you dont need to be a high level to play all of them.
  
  OVERALL
  
  Amazing game perfectly combing single player and multiplayer together and having a awesome RPG 
 element that will get you addicted to this game for weeks after you finish the single player. 
 
  
  9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DevilToPay
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 21, 2007 9:57 pm PT
Review:  The CoD series is my favorite. Even though they all have various flaws, the games are still far 
 better than most. The CoD4 campaign was great but for $60 I expect more. Someone wrote that the 
 developers just cut out all the fluff and left the good stuff which is why it is so short. That 
 is crap. I guess that guy would be happy with a campaign game he could play in 30 minutes as long 
 as it was a good 30 minutes. I want more for my money. I really liked what was there, there just 
 wasn't enough. Put in a few more hours guys, write a few more lines of code and give us a few more 
 scenarios. I have only been on multiplayer a few times, but it looks good too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: y0urkn1ght14
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 21, 2007 6:50 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is the best in the series (in my opinion) Ithas a great story line. many new fun 
 things to do. and, of course, it's modern time! no more of those old guns from WW2! it's time for 
 mp5's and shotguns! 
  
  even though the campain was sort of short, it was still great and exciting. but that's not why 
 i'm writing this review... i'm writing this review on it's great ONLINE! better than halo3 to me, 
 and extremly fun! unlike halo 3 where when u die and you're like WTF KILLED ME! it shows u how 
 you died and who killed u. i also like being able to customize your guns, unlock gun with ranks, 
 and also the way you rank up. If you're lookin for a good shooter i suggest this one 
::::::

::::::
UserName: honkyjoe
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 4:40 pm PT
Review:  The call of duty series has been a WWII shooter to date. The previous games were intense to say 
 the least.. And were a real blast. cod4 is a different step for the COD series as it takes place 
 in modern time. the plot for cod 4 centers around a group of ultranationalist leaders as they take 
 control of the middle east. it is your job to run all over europe and the middle east in order 
 to solve this crisis. The story gets confusing at parts but is explained more in depth as you go 
 on which connects the dots in your mind. The campaign is action packed and intense and playing 
 on veteren difficulty will make the most experienced players cry at some parts. The multiplayer 
 for cod 4 is the thing that makes it stand out in the world of generic shooters. The class based 
 system coupled with all the unique upgrades make the multiplayer very unique and individual to 
 your playing style. The graphics and sound in cod4 are the best they have ever been and they really 
 make u feel like your getting shot at through your tv. Overall cod4 is a must own for shooter fans 
 and a must play for any xbox owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scotsy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 4:15 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing the story and game play is brilliant, but campaign is short. The multiplayer 
 is fantastic! especially the idea of unlocking more and more the more exp you have. You can also 
 deploy a Radar to show where all your enemies are, or an air strike to destroy all of them and 
 even a helicopter to kill any unsheltered enemies.
  Whether you are on campaign mode or online you have the ability to pick up dead enemies weapons 
 and use them yourself.
  In my opinion the best level on the game is 'all ghillied up' which is an amazing, adrenaline filled 
 level.
  
  scotsy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jp4202006
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 21, 2007 1:21 pm PT
Review:  It's action packed, but very unique and customizable. This is the only shooter on the 360 that 
 feels lifelike. The more kills you get the more perks and unlockables you get. You can create a 
 Radar to show where your enemies are, or a well placed airstrike to destroy all of them. The fact 
 that you can fully customize your players guns and perks better and better makes multiplayer really 
 cool . The uniqueness and realism are top-notch because at times it can feel like your in a warzone. 
 Not to mention the multiplayer maps are amazing. Some graphics are almost perfect, whether it be 
 your character or the backgrounds.
  
  The singleplayer campaign is better than Halo 3's, although its way too short. Great graphics, 
 story, and sound make this the best FPS of the YEAR! However it is the REALISM, that makes this 
 game better than Halo 3, and probably the best game of the year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeoJedi
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 11:58 am PT
Review:  World War II is over. It has been over for more than 60 years. Video game developers, who have 
 been churning out WWII-themed games by the truckload in recent years, are finally realizing this 
 and are starting to send their gaming franchises into other directions.
  
  Call of Duty would be one of those franchises. After making 3 games focused around WWII, developer 
 Infinity Ward, who took a break from the series after it's 2nd installment, returns with a fresh 
 new outlook on their incredibly popular franchise. Subtitled Modern Warfare, this new entry in 
 the series, as you would have guessed it, takes place in modern times, with modern equipment and 
 modern subject matter. Also, the game moves away from the traditional three-country campaign style 
 to a more action-oriented movie style.
  
  In CoD 4's single player campaign, you'll take on the role of Soap MacTavish, a member of the British 
 22 SAS Regiment and Paul Jackson, a member of the United States Marine Corps 1st Force Recon, as 
 they try to stop Russian ultranationalist Imran Zakhaev and his ally Khaled Al-Asad from getting 
 their hands on illegal nuclear devices in an attempt to hold the world hostage until they meet 
 their demands. The story is filled with twists and turns with memorable moments that will leave 
 you sitting there, mouth wide open, wondering what the hell just happened.
  
  Some levels in the game are simply mesmerizing and will take you to a great deal of locales and 
 situations. At one point, you'll be escaping from a sinking ship during a thunderstorm while, at 
 another time, you'll be deep in the Zone of Alienation in Chernobyl, trying to stay hidden from 
 a tremendous number of Russian extremists, with only your companion and a sniper rifle at your 
 disposal. Most of the missions you'll be sent on are incredibly intense and heart-pounding, as 
 you'll hear your teammates shout orders or call out the location of an enemy while your foes yell 
 at each other in many languages. This adds to the overall atmosphere of the game and makes it an 
 unforgettable experience.
  
  It's a shame that this experience doesn't last very long, as the campaign clocks in at around 6-7 
 hours tops. Also, there's no real reason to go back to it as there is no co-op for the campaign. 
 Contrary to other shooters of the genre, you do not have the ability to give orders to your squad. 
 You can take this as a good or a bad thing, depending on your point of view on this gameplay mechanic. 
 Thankfully, your squad's AI is pretty solid as they'll lay down cover fire and take out most of 
 the enemies without a problem. The enemy AI is also very acute, as they'll take cover and try to 
 flank you as soon as they get the opportunity.
  
  Aside from the excellent single player campaign, there is also multiplayer action going on within 
 Call of Duty 4. There are 12 different modes to choose from, including the traditionnal Deathmatch 
 and Team Deathmatch, Domination, Objective, and a mix of those for other modes. The game's multiplayer 
 works with classes. There are 5 of them available, including Assault, Special Ops, Light Machine 
 Gunner, Demolitions & Sniper. Once you gain enough experience points and reach level 5, you'll 
 be able to create your own classes, as 5 slots will be unlocked to do so. The more experience points 
 you earn, the more you'll rank and level up, unlocking new weapons, perks and challenges along 
 the way.
  
  Perks are a very interesting and sometimes vicious addition to the CoD series. What do they do 
 exactly? Quite simple. Some of them will allow you to use more grenades, steady your aim while 
 sniping or run for longer periods of time, while others, like Martyrdom, will let you drop a grenade 
 when you get killed or, like Last Stand, which allows you to use your pistol when you're not killed 
 instantly. As you can imagine, these perks add an exciting dimension to the multiplayer and makes 
 for quite a battle. Getting caught by a Martyrdom sucks, but catching others with it is quite satisfying. 
 Challenges are pretty straightforward. Some of them will require you to kill a certain amount of 
 enemies with a shotgun, pistol and so on, while others will require you to shoot down enemy helicopters 
 or fall down a hole (!!) . This is an interesting and challenging addon which will permit you to 
 utilize weapons you don't normally use.
  
  The graphics and visual design are absolutely amazing. The details in the characters are close 
 to lifelike and you'll see them react like soldiers would. The environments, from the sinking ship 
 to the deserted ghost-town of Chernobyl, are incredibly well rendered and make you feel like you're 
 actually there. The voice acting isn't anything special, but it does the job very well. The sounds 
 add to this game as much as the graphics do, as all of the weapons sound exactly like they should. 
 The soundtrack rivals those of big budget war movies, as the beautiful score will kick in with 
 precise timing. The controls should come natural for any shooter aficionado and are easy to grasp 
 and understand for novices as well.
  
  If Call of Duty 4 had a co-op campaign mode, it would have been perfect. There isn't much to reproach 
 to this game, as it does everything extremely well. The polished, gripping, exciting campaign and 
 the challenging, fast-paced brutal fun of the multiplayer mesh well to create one of the best first-person 
 shooters to come out in years. This game is a heart-pounding, cinematic experience that should 
 not be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deezflyn55
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 21, 2007 11:45 am PT
Review:  Completely satisfied with this game, EXCEPT. The lenth of the story mode. I really got into this 
 game when I first made the purchase. The story line is good. The ability to pick up the defeated 
 (friendly/enemies) personel weapons is great. You are able to mix and match the weapons you carry 
 during battle. This comes in handy on almost every level. The A. I. is not bad as some have rated. 
 I thought that the A. I. fit within the level selected for play. Which was great because once I 
 finished the game, my sons were able to pick up the game and play. So I guess that would help its 
 replay value. Online play is fun! Got my butt kicked, but I thought it was neat how you have the 
 ability to call in an air strike against the opposing team. I've been playing games for years ( 
 I won't say how many) and this game is well worth the purchase. I would have gave the game a 10 
 if the story was longer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jameogameo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 11:30 am PT
Review:  
  Well, this is one of the most enjoyable and beautifully crafted games I have ever played, to begin 
 with the graphics are unbelieveably detailed and gorgeous to look at, however, possibly my very 
 aspect of the game is the fantastic sound effects, trust me, they are really good! But what about 
 the campaign? Well unfortunately the campaign is very short, no wait, very VERY short, it will 
 probably take you about 6 hours at the very most to complete on normal difficulty (which is pretty 
 easy in the first place) . Moving away from what is perhaps the only flaw of this masterpiece, lets 
 talk about the actual missions within the campaign. The missions themselves are tremendously fun 
 unlike COD 2 and COD 3 (thats Call of Duty) .
  
  Hang on, I don't think that I've mentioned the modern aspects yet. The story is set in the present 
 to near future and focuses on some sort of rebellion in Ukraine (but not Germany?!) and as a soldier (s) 
 from the SAS, Navy etc: its your job to take out those bastards and prevent a Nuclear War. Simple. 
 Oh, and the multiplayer is almost as good, the only other flaw with the online is the occassionally 
 lag and the disadvantages that some new comers will have over the more experienced players.
  
  Graphics, gameplay and sound are some of the best seen on any next gen console, this is a hell 
 of a game! A must by but don't expect a particularly long experience because it is very VERY short, 
 or have I already mentioned that?
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rennie1
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 10:54 am PT
Review:  
  The death animations are good however, 
  
  The scripted play is way too much  the shooter feels like its on rails much of the time.
  
 
  
  AI that shoots so much you cant see, nor do the bullets matter, the game is on rails, its so short 
 it makes a great demo  but the multiplayer is good  
  
  But don't believe the hype
  
  - way way too short  its good demo
  - its on rails  get ready for a movie no free roaming anything
 
  - pointless shooting aimlesslessly in the background by AI both friendly and enemy 
  
  
  The on-line play is good however and there are graphical moments that are amongst the best we have 
 seen on 360 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _ConMan_
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 21, 2007 9:58 am PT
Review:  Call Of Duty 4 Modern Warfare leaps from its old WW2 franchise to the modern era and it does a 
 fantastic job doing this. CoD4 introduces new weapons and they all work really well, it feels fresh 
 and updated. Its single player is non-stop action and every single mission is different with a 
 wide variety to each one. From roping off helicopters clearing ships to taking charge of an AC-130 
 gunship with a lot of firepower at your disposal. Now the single player story isn't particularly 
 long but its so breathtaking you don't really care, some of the missions in this game make your 
 heart bound and leave you gob smacked. A single player like this cannot be missed.
  Now to CoD's multiplayer. Many games have a great multiplayer but now Call Of Duty has set a new 
 standard. The multiplayer is hugely diverse with so many custom items to choose from it rarely 
 gets old. Your character is completely customizable and so are your weapons leaving you to choose 
 a favourite style of play and a favourite style of weapon. Multiplayer offers 14 maps and a wide 
 choice of game variants, from your standard team deathmatch to the more realistic "hardcore" mode. 
 So if your looking for a game with a immersive story filled with a action and a multiplayer which 
 will keep you entertained for a long time then Call Of Duty 4 Modern Warfare is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doughboy79
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 21, 2007 9:39 am PT
Review:  This is now my favorite game of all time now....... although the game it self is to short. I'm working 
 on completing the game in Hardened mode...... One level that i think is impossible to complete 
 on the xbox 360, or ps3, is the Mile high Club level....... I've heard that the PC version is much 
 more easier to complete. Also this games good because it deals with the modern war. Call of duty 
 2 and 3 were ok, but this game kicks @$$. As for the multiplayer............. It's awesome..... 
 but the online game matches are just like halo 3...... you gain exp. every time you win. you also 
 get ranked up to like a kind of solider level...... most the time when you rank up, you unlock new 
 class or weapon, like a sniper, a mini uzi, and plenty  
 THe short way of saying this review is that THIS GAME KICKS @$$!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! Try to 
 find me if you have an Xbox 360 and Xbox live. My name is JuicyBaconBits.. Peace 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StromileSwiftee
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 23, 2007 1:48 pm PT
Review:  All I can say is... I can't wait to see what Call of Duty 5 has to offer, but until then go out 
 to your local store and see what the hype is about. 
  
  I'm sorry, didn't mention why you should? For one the continuation of the series brought up to 
 modern times; updated conflicts and weapons. The single player campaign offers intense firefights, 
 the ability to call in for air support and even the opportunity to man an AC gunship raining down 
 bullets on your enemies. Just like previous editions of CoD ramping up the difficulty up to Veteran 
 literally makes you feel like you're in a war where the next step can be your last. Only complaint 
 about the single player campaign is its length; it would be nice if downloadable missions were 
 made available.
  
  Okay, now to the reason to pull out your wallet. Multiplayer!!! I for one never been a big fan 
 of online play due to the immature individuals that you encounter from time to time, but CoD4 is 
 soooo enjoyable that it rarely becomes a factor. Free-for-All mode is every man for himself and 
 completely chaotic; running around and never knowing if someone is about to round the corner for 
 a faceoff. Or how about sneaking around trying to get into position to pick someone off only to 
 be sniped in the head. There are 12 different multiplayer game modes some featuring team play. 
 The fun lies in promoting your character by gaining experience points. Experience is gained through 
 registering kills, set amount of kills with particular weapons and meeting certain challenges, 
 the more you're promoted, the more opportunities open for more challenges.
  
  So even if you're not a big fan of first person shooters, Call of Duty 4 is worth picking up... 
 don't think so, rent it and I'll guarantee you'll run out and pick up a copy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: king-of-ruckus
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 20, 2007 7:36 pm PT
Review:  For the record I have never been a huge fan of the Call of Duty series. I always felt like I was 
 playing the same game whether it was Call of Duty, Medal of Honor or any of the other WWII first 
 person shooters. This one is different. The fact that it is a modern combat sim makes it a lot 
 more enjoyable. 
  
  Graphically this game has incredible detail. The environments are realistic and give you an edge 
 in this game. There are lots of places to hide and ambush people, which once you learn where they 
 are it can be of some use to you. 
  
  The game play is a lot of fun too. The campaign is of good length, some people on this site have 
 said it is short but if you play at a difficult level it will take you some time to complete it. 
 
  
  Online multiplayer is where the meat of this game is. You can play in tons of different games from 
 tactical to free for all. As you play more you gain promotions in rank and gain access to better 
 weapons and some cool abilities. 
  
  I advise anyone who enjoys first person shooters to play this game. It holds its own as a quality 
 first person shooter in what seems to be a never ending sea of the genre. Check it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maccer101
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 20, 2007 6:31 pm PT
Review:  First of all "Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare" is possibly the best war game out there, and praise 
 the lord its been taken out of the WWII era, it was getting done in way to many games, but I've 
 gotta give it to "Activision" they did do it the best.
  
  Anyway, back to the modern day, this is still the great addictive game-play you've come to know 
 and love from "Call of Duty" and the graphics are better than before, all the different environments 
 look amazing and feel like your in a real dangerous war-zone. Story-wise this can suck you in till 
 its really cinematic conclusion, and when i say cinematic i mean it, the build up to it and the 
 setup is amazing to the point that you really care for the characters and what happens to them.
 
  
  My only knock against this is the really short campaign, i completed it the day i got it which 
 took about 4 to 5 hours, but it stays completely strong through out. When you're finished with 
 the story there's the great fun multiplayer which will take you a while to get bored of. In multi-player 
 you can unlock new weapons and add-ons for your guns like different Camo's and scopes by gaining 
 XP (experience points) , experience points can be gained by doing things like calling in helicopters, 
 UAV's, air-strikes, and assisting people and getting kills. Perks can also be unlocked which are 
 different ways to give you little advantages, for example one of my favourites is "Last Stand" 
 in which if you are gunned down you have the chance to quickly take out your pistol and cap the 
 guy that shot you.
  
  So overall this is one great package with a really enjoyable campaign and engaging multiplayer. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: appl4s
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 6:28 pm PT
Review:  I have not played a more intense more fun amazing game ever in my life. The intensity in the firefights 
 are over the top and realistic. The first level draws you in and makes you want to keep playing 
 and not stop. From start to finish it is an amazing single-player with amazing cinamatic moments 
 and the most intense firefights ever it is an amazing single-player game. The multi-player is just 
 as amazing the matches feel long than they are and it is a blast. The create a class is good but 
 missing the kool attacments from the single-player. Everyone should own this game it is amazing 
 and there isn't enough to I can think of to say it's just so amazing. I didn't give it perfect 
 because of the short single-player and lack of equipment on create-a-class. The single-player makes 
 you feel like you did alot and it is very dramatic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benbuckley
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 5:24 pm PT
Review:  Wow i just finished playing through this game on advanced and i am really impressed. It really 
 is an amazing game. The levels are really well designed and thought out its got some amazing parts 
 in the game that are really thrilling there really isnt another war game like it. You really get 
 immersed into the game its the best war game out there by a mile. The graphics sound the gameplay 
 are really awesome not even one complaint which is rare. There were honestly parts of this game 
 that had me slack jawed and others beaming with pleasure. The only downside is the length of the 
 single player. It is short and has you wishing for it to be longer. Despite this though there is 
 no repetitive parts at all so every mission and level is very varied and different you really can 
 forgive and overlook it. It really is well designed i cant stress it enough, if you have any remote 
 interest in FPS or war/action games you must buy this game. I forgot to mention the multiplayer, 
 its amazing also but you can read about that in the gamespot review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boberto13
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2007 5:13 pm PT
Review:  HA!!! IN YOUR FACE HALO3!!!!!! lol 
  
  I thougth the game was great! even though it was short the multiplayer is the best multiplayer 
 game i have ever played. The ranking system gives you somthing to work at online. *unlocking weapons 
 .ect* 
  
  In the single player dificulty i had mixed emotions about the length of the game i played and beat 
 the game in about 2 and half weeks or so ( i didnt keep track) on hard mode. the higher you raise 
 the dificulty the longer a game it will seem. 
  
  I thought the story line ROCKED. No doubt about it . In my oppinion ( i say this at the risk of 
 being assasinated) it beat halo 3 to the ground in all aspects of the game, in graphics, story, 
 and most surprisingly, multiplayer. and if you dont believe me. play COD4 multiplayer for 30 min. 
 and then try and go back and play halo3. you will rip your brains out of boredom. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nascarfan123
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 20, 2007 3:14 pm PT
Review:  Yes, Call of Duty 4 is an extreme makeover of Call of Duty. After the first three titles the game 
 no longer sets within the WWII time span and is now in present day warfare. Just about everything 
 that you saw in the previous Call of Duty games are the same in this one, with the exception being 
 that technology has allowed for newer guns and different mission types.
  
  The campaign mode for Call of Duty 4 is a lot of fun and is also really intense. The missions are 
 all similar to where they were in the previous games, but there are a lot of memorable moments. 
 Such as the first time you go into battle with night vision goggles on or when you were placed 
 at the gunner position on an AC-130. Other than that, you will find the same intense battles that 
 you saw in the previous games. You are never fighting alone, you can only carry two weapons, and 
 you have regenerating health. The only drawback is that the campaign is really short, almost too 
 short. You will finish the game in 5-7 hours depending on the difficulty settings you have. The 
 game takes the "short but sweet" approach in the campaign mode.
  
  The multiplayer component of Call of Duty 4 is also a lot of fun and can be just as intense as 
 the campaign mode of the game. The game has a variety of maps to play on, as well as having a variety 
 of classes and game modes to play. Here's the cache, when you first start playing online you are 
 limited only to a couple of classes and game modes to play. Such as only being able to play in 
 the assault class, holstering an m16, in team death match mode. This sounds bad at first, but actually 
 the game is rewarding you for continuing to play the multiplayer. Another feature that adds additional 
 content is the "create a class" feature. Here you can specify which weapons you want to have and 
 you can choose what upgrades you want to have on them, such as a grenade launcher or a scope. You 
 can also pick certain abilities your character; such as juggernaut which gives you more health 
 or penetration which does more damage to others. The same cache applies here too; at first you 
 only have a few choices for your class, but the more you play the more choices you will get.
  
  From a technical standpoint, the graphics in Call of Duty 4 are some of the best. Explosions 
 are really satisfying to watch and the environment sometimes looks disturbingly beautiful. The 
 graphics also add to the intensity of the game, such as if a grenade goes off nearby you will be 
 knocked out of your senses for a short time, everything will be blurry and it slowly wears off. 
 When you are in firefights you will notice everything around you gets destroyed as well, cars will 
 explode and buildings will crumble. However, here are a couple of noticeable flaws in the graphics. 
 Sometimes there will be clipping issues with characters and the walls around them, such as a person 
 will be in prone position and their legs will go through a wall. Sometimes the details in the game 
 will look a little bland, no matter what happens and where it's at the same effect will happen 
 every time. 
  
  The sound in Call of Duty 4 is really impressive. Firefights and explosions all sound really intense 
 and realistic. Music has not always been the main feature in Call of Duty and that carries over 
 in this game, but when you do hear the music it sounds beautiful. However, there are a couple of 
 drawbacks in the sound. If you have played any of the previous versions of Call of Duty you will 
 notice that some of the sound effects are recycled. A good example are grenades in the game, they 
 sound exactly the same as they did in Call of Duty 2. One would think that newer weapons would 
 result in newer, better sound effects. 
  
  Call of Duty 4 is a good buy to add to your collection of games, but take note into this: it is 
 primarily a one player game. Now it does have its multiplayer component which is a lot of fun to 
 play, but if you have friends come over and want to play together you are restricted to split screen 
 or system link. There's also no co-op mode and you can't play on Xbox Live if you have more than 
 1 person. It's a bit of a drawback on a game that is this much fun to play.
  
  Call of Duty 4 is a must have for anyone. If you are a fan of the Call of Duty series or just love 
 first person shooters in general, you will fall in love with this game. It is fun to play, graphically 
 amazing, and has a strong multiplayer component. Once you get past the few drawbacks the game has, 
 you will be playing this game for a long time.
  
  Gameplay: 10
  Graphics: 9
  Sound: 9
  Value: 8
  Tilt: 9
  Overall: 9.0
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smoke0
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2007 2:28 pm PT
Review:  The Good: The best single-player campain ever in a video game, intense from beginning to end, lot 
 of memorable moments, fantastic sound and graphics, awesome mutilplayer, good replay value.
  
  The Bad: Single-Player over too soon (but it can be forgiven) .
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  World War 2 has grown a bit old these days. With Medal Of Honor introducing us to WW2, count less 
 of other WW2 games came like Brothers In Arms. Then came Call Of Duty, which made the genre even 
 better. But that was in 1999 (Medal Of Honor) , and 2003 (Call Of Duty) , and now we are in 2007. 
 Medal Of Honor has lost its touch, and now BOA, and COD is carrying on. But thats not saying 
 much. WW2 has become old. Everything is seen, everything has been heard. COD3 and Medal Of Honor 
 Airborne proved that, even though they where good games. Infinity Wards thought that thought after 
 they made COD2, so they let another company make COD3 (good game) , and began on COD4. COD4 breaks 
 away from WW2, and foucses on morden warfare. Although everything bit of the story in COD4 is fiction, 
 its still the same COD we know. Call Of Duty 4 ends with being one of the best games ever made, 
 and the following review tells why.
  
  STORY
  
  Khaled Al-Asad has taken over a unknown middle east country, and of course mighty USA is send in 
 to kill him, along with his buddy, Imran Zakhaev. You play as Sgt. John "Soap" MacTavish, and Sgt. 
 Paul Jackson, while also playing as Lt. Price - 22 SAS Regiment , Yasir Al-Fulani, and an Unnamed 
 Gunner onboard on a AC-130 gun ship, although those last 3 characters mentioned are only playable 
 in 3 levels. You play mostly as Soap though. Theres a bit more guessing here, but the story could 
 have been better. But overall, the story has been very much improved. In COD3, you where almost 
 constantly switching between between countrys, so you never really felt anything for the soliders 
 that followed you. In COD4, you play as Soap in most of the game, and you have the same guys backnig 
 you up, so careing for your friends, is much easier this time around. The story is also helped 
 by a lot of memorable moments. Overall, theres a story that still can be a bit better, but its 
 much improved over all from previous games. 8.5
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  The gameplay is basicly the same as in previous COD games, so its still the same gameplay we know 
 and love. You still move into big fields, with lots of enemys to kill, rewarding you with shooting 
 while looking down the iron sights, as a shot from the hip is basicly very hard to hit anything 
 with. Then theres the typical grenades, which you can enemy grenades thrown at you, and throw 
 them back at them. Nothing new there. But its still great. The controls are just spot on, and 
 nothing feels out of place. But its further helped by the campain levels. Every level as at least 
 1 moment that will stick to your memory for a long time. Every level is a winner. There are no 
 levels that are bad, or boring. Every level is awesome. Nothing beats the feeling of surrounded 
 by a horde of enemies, and you have to get past them, plus add that in some levels u have a timer. 
 In short: COD4s campain is epic. After completing the game, you unlock arcade mode, which allows 
 you to go through the same levels, but this time, you earn points by killing, and blowing stuff 
 up. And of course it wouldnt be complete with Leaderbords. So all in all, theres a good deal 
 of single player, even though its very quick completed. But theres also one other thing. Mutilplayer. 
 You might have played it online. There was a beta test earlier this year, and people thought it 
 rocked, so does that still stand today? Hell yes it does! COD4 moves away from the class based 
 mutilplayer from COD3, and intorduces a new form of classes. Instead of just selecting classes 
 like medic, tech, scout, and gunner, you simply start by creating your own class. You select main 
 weapon (machine guns) , side weapon (simple pistols) , and grenades as weapons, and after that you 
 select perks. Perks are special abilltys that your character has, like improved sprinting distance, 
 more health, and so on. Some also adds special abilltys like being able to hear what enemy players 
 say, when they talk with headsets, walk without making a sound, but the best are Martyrdom, and 
 Last Stand. Martyrdom drops a greade everytime you die, and Last Stand lets you suprise the enemy 
 by pulling out your pistol, and shoot at him, and hopefully drag him with you to death. You can 
 select 3 diffirent perks, and they are divided into 3 categorys. In battle, you can gain EXP, which 
 means you can level up, but it dosent mean that you get stronger, it unlocks challanges, game 
 modes, weapons and perks. Theres a lot to unlock online, and its one of the deepst experinces 
 ever made. Theres 16 maps, and 6 game modes, with 2 of them begin special. First theres hardcore 
 mode, which bullets gives greater damage, and removes the HUD. Then theres Old School, which removes 
 the class and perks, and instead lets you pick up power ups, and lets you replay the glorious 
 days of Quake, and Time Splitters. Then theres Oldcore which mixes Hardcore and Old School together. 
 All in all, the mutilplayer is this years best. Its addicting, and it beats the hell outta Halo 
 3. Theres nothing that can surpass this. And whats the bad thing about the gameplay? Nothing. 
 Only postive things to say about it. 10
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  Again just stunning. This is the most beautifull game i have ever played. Not even Assassins Creed 
 can couple with this. Only the likes of Metal Gear Solid 4 can. The first thing that stuns you, 
 is the frame-rate. It runs on 60 FPS, and it never slows down. Not even once. The character models 
 look fantastic, and the levels are stunning. Plus with all the special moments happening, that 
 looks stunning. Plus the loading screens are just awesome. 10
  
  SOUND
  
  Again just as great. Its hard to find better sound elsewhere. The voice acting, and sound effects 
 are just awesome. And with music, by Harry Gregson-Williams, and Stephen Barton (who has helped 
 HWG with music for some films) delivering a awesome soundtrack, it again gets a perfect score. 
 The sound screams for dolby surround sound, which makes the experince a whole lot better than it 
 allready is. 10
  
  LENGTH
  
  The single-player is shockingly short. Every FPS these days lasts 8-10 hours. COD4 last 5-7 hours. 
 Its over in a flash, but itll be some of the best 5 hours you have ever spent in your life. The 
 campain is so memorable, and youll want to play it through again, and with Arcade mode, and mutilplayer, 
 you got a game thats going to be in your 360/PS3 for months. 10
  
  OVERALL
  
  What is there to day? Call Of Duty 4 is fantastic. And no im not saying cause im a fanboy. Im 
 saying it cause COD4 gave me some of the best fun and experinces i ever had. This game has everything, 
 besides a epic story, but it a very good story all in all. And yes the only flaw is shockingly 
 short single player, but with so many memorable moments, great replay value, awesome mutilplayer, 
 and perfect graphics, sound, and presentation, COD4 is a must. Stop reading, run down to the story, 
 and but it. NOW!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chex81
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 2:23 pm PT
Review:  A lot of people are complaining that the single player portion is 'too short', which I cannot agree. 
 Personally, I don't like my FPS single player games to be longer than 10 hours... and this game 
 can be beat between 8-10 hours on default difficulty.... good luck beating it on Veteran because 
 it's damn tough. But i will say the single player is incredible, with tons of action and amazing 
 sequences. The game shines in multiplayer, it's easily the best shooter I've ever played (been 
 playing for 20+ years, played almost every single FPS) ... it's perfectly balanced and you can customize 
 A LOT! Tons to unlock online and it never gets boring. My only complaint is sometimes online thehit 
 detection is off (sometimes ill be shooting someone, they'll kill me.... then on the deathcam replay 
 it shows i didn't hit him at all) . Incredible game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xTSxLEGENDARY
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2007 12:10 pm PT
Review:  So first comes Call of Duty 2 for the Xbox 360. It's campaign was memorable and its multiplayer 
 mode still finds people logging on and popping some German skulls. Then, sadly, Call of Duty 3's 
 reigns were handed over to Treyarch. Little did we know that Infinity Ward was working on Call 
 of Duty 4: Modern Warfare. 
  
  Let's start with the campaign...
  Recruit and Normal difficulties are alil too easy, but that's what they were ment to be like. Hardened 
 provides just enough difficulty to keep your head down, but not cower in fear like you do in... 
 Veteran. O-M-F-G. The amount of cursewords youre sure to spout out is substantial. But in the end, 
 you truly get a sense of accomplishment out of it. You can sit back, rub your eyes, wipe the blood 
 off your controller, and go to sleep. You did it. 
  The campaign is chock full of literally jaw-dropping moments from start to finish. It's impossible 
 to be disapointed. 
  
  Onto the multiplayer, which you'll be spending most of your time with after you get all of the 
 single player only achievements. An amazing experience that is as addicting as it is beautiful. 
 The leveling system, perks, weapons, maps, everything is great. Xbox LIVE is flooded with this 
 game, so say bye bye to Halo 3 and hello to "Holly f***ing sh*t did you see that?!" It's that awesome.
 
  
  Now don't take me as some fanboy, as I've played almost every major title that has been released 
 this year (Bioshock, Assassin's Creed, Halo 3, Orange Box, Mass Effect, just to name a few) , and 
 out of all of them, none have come close to the amazingness of this game. It's a must buy for anyone 
 with a 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: L0n3W01F
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 11:24 am PT
Review:  The best Call of Duty game in the series period.
  
  Call of Duty 4 is a revolutionary step forward in the Call of Duty series. Now that it has changed 
 its ways from WWII to Modern more darker wars. However it doesn't make this game much different 
 from the previous games in the series. The game play is great as usual, with a short yet powerful 
 single player campaign with a powerful story line. It works really well, you can feel the story 
 changing into different turns, like a Hollywood movie. The graphics are amazing and it should be 
 added that (what GS said) the graphics are technically successful with a smooth frame rate to keep 
 a smile on your face. The sound effects are no less great then the rest of the games features. 
 Delivering some of the best war-like sound effects into your living room, you feel like your in 
 a war. Call of Duty 4 has some great production values, its a great game that anyone who enjoyed 
 the previous games in the series should play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thoma7500
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 10:26 am PT
Review:  When infinity ward made call of duty 2 i had 8 months of gaming heaven playing the multiplayer 
 but after that call of duty 3 launched and i was dissapointed to hear that treyarch had taken the 
 honours making it this gave me the flop feeling and i was right.
  
  So now call of duty 4 is here and unlike the previous attempts this is set in modern warfare the 
 first for the series and leaving world war 2 behind.
  The game has a short campaign but without getting to excited it is by far the most intense and 
 stunning single player that i have ever played the missions are just so much fun to play and some 
 moments will have you going "wow" its just so good. The mission that i loved was the one that was 
 shown at e3 2007 where you were sneaking through fields and the stealth and intensity is amazing 
 you feel immerssed in the experience and you just are.
  The multiplayer is just as intense as the single player but in some ways better and i will explain 
 why. The game has something called perks these are the games party piece and are used to suit your 
 style of play for example if your a sniper you will want the radar perk where you dont nshow on 
 the enemy radar and that mean unless an enemy sees you killing his teammates your killing without 
 being seen and this is a fantastic thing for the camper lol. I like the revenge sort of play so 
 i drop a live grenade when i die so if someone knifes me i get the satisfying revenge and that 
 is what makes the multiplayer non frustrating. You also have tons more perks but there for you 
 too find out.
  
  GUNS
  you can put anything on them
  silencers 
  red dot sight
  scopes 
  this like i said above will suit the playstyle of the player and it means you all are 
 unique in some way.
  
  choose your cover
  another thing about cod4 that is such a great feature is the chance to kill through walls but you 
 cant shoot through all walls and it all depends on the thickness and how close you are to the wall 
 that is so realistic and once again is balanced.
  
  graphics
  well above gears of war and the sound effects of each gun is top notch
  
  sound
  the single 
 player voices are fantastic some of them hillarious and they are so good that i will not spoil 
 them here.
  
  verdict
  So is it game of the year or a halo 3 killer its actually both and its so far the best and most 
 intense shooter i have ever played and if you dont buy this be prepared for your mates telling 
 you all year about it as you sit there playing halo 3 with no mates in sight.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: angryfodder
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 8:59 am PT
Review:  Firstly I congratulate the makers of the game in deciding to move the series forward... in more 
 than one aspect!
  
  Set in a fictional, but believable and modern day senario of warefare, COD returns for more first 
 class shooting action.
  
  For those that have played the COD games in the past, you'll find yourself at home straight away. 
 The controls have remained un changed and still work as well as they always have. The graphics 
 are spot on and so is the sound. The single player, although short, is of great cinematic quality. 
 The voice acting is of a high standard and really helps give a sense of realism to the game.
  
  To counter the short single player, the online is fantasticly addictive. What first appears 
 to be quite a basic, repetative shooter actually becomes a think of simple addictive fun. The game 
 has challenges to achieve in the online play, which are not really game changing, just simply an 
 added extra and gives you something to work towards. It gives and insentive to play different modes 
 and use different weapons - which opens up the online play quite a bit.
  
  All in all a great shooter and a very worth while gaming experience 
::::::

::::::
UserName: waveddiamond
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2007 7:51 am PT
Review:  Graphics: top notch, upto date second to crysis and mass effect.
  Controls: really smooth, gameplay becomes almost natural.
  gameplay: excellent both online and 
 offline
  story: great and realistic, shows you the true side of war and that not everything has a happy 
 ending
  Difficulty: is perfect as long as you play on veteran
  Weapons: a huge variety of guns, an upgrades that keep you playing for hours trying to get the 
 perfect combination of perks and guns.
  
  
  
  Call of duty 4 is what happes when a movie gets stuck inside a game. The story line sucks you and 
 keeps you at the edge of your seat. It's undeniable that you feel the heat of war as you play, 
 even though there are no real team commands. Alot of people complain about COD 4 being short well, 
 then beat it on veteran and try to pass the last mission lol. The game has the best sniper mission 
 I have ever seen, the mission could have been the whole game and it would stil give it a 10. For 
 all you game developer, learn from this sniper mission and make another sniper game, and plz let 
 it not be sniper elite 2. The AI in the game is great, if you play on hardened or above. the graphics 
 are top notch, the same in all systems pc holds the book by a bit though. The ability to shoot 
 through walls is great and its an element they should have added to gaming a long time ago. The 
 multiplayer is where the magic is great perks and gameplay keep the bar up for future FPS shooters. 
 Although, the magic ends once you reach level 58 since your rank is reset and you will be doing 
 everything all over again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azaam
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2007 6:23 am PT
Review:  This game is brilliant, it's story-line, it's graphics, it's sounds and AI.
  
  The graphics in the game are amazing, and the environments are well-made, whether your in Russia 
 or the middle east, its also very detailed in how you get kidnapped and put in a 1980's mercedes, 
 the interior of the car is bloody detailed it looked real, since my granddad owned it.
  
  The gameplay is responsive and AI are quite intelligent like your enemies throw grenades at you 
 if your in a concealed area (a corridor for example) to fish you out in the open, your allies actually 
 kill the enemies with you, other than other games where they just shoot and never hit anything. 
 
  
  The music in it is great, the sound effects are fantastic and realistic such as the flash bang 
 and grenade explosions.
  
  The multiplayer is also just as good.
  
  Overall this game is definitely worth getting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -BassO-
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 20, 2007 3:37 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty always had a pretty decent multiplayer mode, despite the impression that it never 
 quite got the attention the campaign had. This time, it's pretty much the other way around: multiplayer 
 seems thoroughly fleshed out and there's a rumor that long introduction actually was the campaign.
 
  
  The basic engine is still pretty much the same: lots of cubes and relatively low-res textures to 
 be found. AI is abysmal, with teammates running straight into a known line of fire or -even worse- 
 the enemy characters. The story still /feels/ highly scripted and features more mass-destruction 
 than the previous WWII incarnations. Seeing this many enemies just splattered across the scenery 
 through the use of helicopters or gunship airplanes actually enhances the feeling that the game 
 just seems to throw wave after wave of enemies at you. In all, the single player campaign has some 
 nice story-telling features but feels very familiar.
  
  Multiplayer, however, is another thing. Levels feature a lot of hiding places without resulting 
 in continual sniper wars and the feel of the game when in combat is downright brutal. There's a 
 refreshing XP system that unlocks features like weapons, skills and modes that binds the seperate 
 games together. There are some balancing issues with weapons and reinforcements, but those are 
 relatively minor.
  
  In all: a cool game if you dig multiplayer FPS without chainsaws or laser-swords. I wouldn't buy 
 it if I didn't have my Gold Live account, though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skuggan25
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 1:39 am PT
Review:  This game was one of the best follow ups iv ever seen,
  it just destroyed its earlier games, I just completed the game on Veteran level and that is quiet 
 a challenge, took me waaaaaay more then five hours too. the only thing this game dident have was 
 also the thing the made it miss out on a 10p full score was fact that it didnt have a multiplayer 
 coop mode in the storey mode. But it was a truley intense single player game non the less. So do 
 buy this game if you are interested at all in this genre of game. The on-line multiplayer is superb 
 as well with a similar system to rainbow six where you build your trooper and keep the stats. 
 
  best regards/ Rick 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DRyOrange_basic
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 7:28 pm PT
Review:  COD4 is a great game. It's going to be the Game/FPS of the year. It's stunning visual on Xbox 360 
 and incredible fast and absorbing gameplay is just heads above the rest that is on offer. It's 
 not an easy game either, sometime it can be a bit frustrating with the abundance of the noises 
 and explosions and grenade indicators, but this is war, get use to it! One of the strength (or 
 weakness depends on how frustrated it can gets to just keep dying without knowing what to do) is 
 the ways you can approach an objective, while it's not multi-path game, and I suspect some options 
 are just plain silly (ie. ran straight through an open field with enemy having a clear sights of 
 you or around the back of a house) , which eventually limits to just one path, it's the illusion 
 of having the options that is quite well presented. The presentation is just top notch and the 
 level "all gilled up" is just a good example of fantastic "railed" gaming level should be. This 
 game is a feast for the senses, it's like a interactive movies, well scripted and presented. My 
 only problem with it is just too short, it feels like there needs at least an other whole act to 
 go with it. Nevertheless, well done activision, you have officially taken over from MOH franchise 
 as the premier of war FPS. GO RENT IT!! (oh yes, I dont usually play multiplayer on xbox360 so 
 i know I missed out on a great part of the game... hence rent it if u r like me.. LOL) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LurkingAssasin
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 7:07 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Lots to find in the single player, breath-taking visuals, many "shock and awe" moments, 
 great story directing, lots of action, and multiplayer is very addicting.
  
  The Bad: No character customization (MP) , single-player's a little on the short side, AI tends 
 to run in front of you a lot.
  
  First off, the plot (tiny spoilers) . You play as two (maybe three) characters in the campaign. 
 A member of the SAS, call sign "Soap", and Sgt. Jackson of the Marine Force Recon team. A man named 
 Imran Zakhaev is a leader of an ultranationalist group in Russia. He revolts against the current 
 government and it sends Russia into a civil war. Doing so, Zakhaev forms a pact with a man named 
 Khaled Al-Asad. Al-Asad is the leader of a coup in the Middle East. Together, they form a small 
 axis. The United States, SAS, and Russians will not let this go unpunished, so they take action
 
  
  The single player plays out like the previous Call of Duty games. You use the traditional duck 
 and cover feature. No 3rd person cover system here. You have a whole assortment of modern high-tech 
 weapons at your disposal. G36C, M4A1, MP5, and Javelin Missile launcher just to name a few. I played 
 the single player on veteran on my first run and it took me a couple of days to complete. But going 
 back and doing it on normal, it only took around five to six hours. Fortunately, you unlock an 
 arcade mode once completing the campaign to add to its replay value. You can look up your score 
 on Xbox Live to see how your score levels up to the rest of the world. The AI tends to run in front 
 of you a lot sometimes. But AI's not always perfect.
  
  The graphics are breath taking. This game has some of the most stunning visuals I've seen on the 
 360 (I'm not even playing an HD television) . The game still uses scripted death animation but then 
 goes into rag doll once the animation is over. The frame rate is almost perfect and I have yet 
 to see any graphical flaws yet.
  
  The musical score is sometimes unnoticeable. Once you hear it though, it's great. Stephen Barton 
 and Harry Gregson-Williams composed the score. It gives the game suspense, desperation and lots 
 of emotion.
  
  The multiplayer is where the game gets addicting. It's a lot like the previous Call of Duty games 
 where as the enemy spawns at the opposite side of the map if you get into theirs. They added a 
 ton of new features to make the multiplayer feel like a campaign in itself. First, you have the 
 Create a Class feature. You can choose what role you want to be, weapons to use, grenades and abilities. 
 Unfortunately, there's no character customization. But the class avatars are done well. Second, 
 you now have what's called Perks. Perks are abilities that you can choose for each custom class. 
 Examples of these abilities are extra ammo, steadier aim, and higher explosive damage, ect. You 
 have 21 perks to choose from but can only pick three for each class. You start out with only a 
 handful of them until you unlock more. Third, there's a ranking system in which you can unlock 
 more equipment and abilities from gaining experience. Last, there's something called Prestige Mode 
 where if you reach max rank (5 star general) you have a choice to start all over again in the ranks. 
 You gain a new icon and go into Prestige Mode level 1. There are 10 Prestige levels. Which means 
 if you're at Prestige Mode level 10, Rank 55, you've reached maximum rank (605 promotions in all) . 
 I can't tell you everything that's in the multiplayer, but I can tell you it's a really fun online 
 experience and really addicting.
  
  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare's achievements are all solely in the single player. So that means 
 if you don't have Xbox Live, it's still possible to get them all. Some are very hard and some are 
 easy.
  
  Overall, CoD 4: MW is an extremely fun game and captures modern warfare undeniably well. This is 
 a FPS that everyone should have in his or her collection. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: skeeter1255
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 3:17 pm PT
Review:  So far this is the best Call of duty game in the series. Infinity ward took it to the next level 
 and delivered what we all asked for. First let's start with the single player. I have to say its 
 actually short. and on normal would only take 5-6 hours yet if you crank it up a notch on the difficulty 
 then you can double that time. The AI in the game is the best I've ever seen they know and study 
 your ever move and never just stand in one place. The graphics are amazing such as the environment. 
 Everything is life like. 
  
  Then we come to the multiplayer.... here is where the game shines. Including unlockables and different 
 features the player can add to their character it gives you a wide variety of customiblity. from 
 ranking up to getting new guns its sure to add months of enjoyment.
  
  For the cons I would have to say is the respawn system as it sometimes puts you in front of enemy 
 fire, yet other then that the game is perfect.!!!!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Soilworker1234
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 3:09 pm PT
Review:  This is an amazing overall game with a great campaign that takes you everywhere, the intensity 
 seems to be there when you play throughout the campaign with large masses of enemies. The multi 
 player is excellent offering plenty of online maps to decide between (16) . The only problem I felt 
 was the campaign could have been a little longer, and I wish there were online achievements giving 
 the online a little more meaning. Overall this game is great, giving me more to do on my 360 other 
 then Halo 3 lol, which I will say gets boring from time to time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ApplesAndCarmel
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2007 3:07 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 was everything is was cracked up to be. All the hype turned out great, and it was 
 even better than i expected, from not playing the beta. Call of Duty 4 brought life back to the 
 COD series. COD 2 was a great game, at the time, but the multiplayer wasn't anything spectacular 
 the graphics were not very good, and after beating it twice, on regular and hard, veteran just 
 was impossible especially the last 4 missions which i still have not beaten. Then COD 3 came which 
 looked much nicer, and i think the MP was better but there was nothing great about the game. It 
 was an all around average game, that was a nice break from the great games i was playing at the 
 time like Gears Of War. Then out came COD 4 the big daddy of the family. COD 4's graphics are top 
 notch in a COD game. It doesn't look like any Mass Effect or Gears Of War but it still a wonderful 
 looking game. Then playing wise, the campaign is a great mix of different battles from a stealth 
 sniping mission (All Ghillied Up) to a mission where you control a gun of an airship (Death From 
 Above) to the basic warfare commonly found in these games. The Multiplayer added every element 
 that was missing in COD3 and made everything better. Now they have a party system to play with 
 friends easily, a ranking system to show off how good you are, and unlockables with the ranking 
 system that just make it incredible. The challenges are also like mini achievements that get you 
 to play the game differently in order to rank up faster. COD 4 is a masterpiece and for sure the 
 best shooter out on the 360 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrco666
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 19, 2007 2:51 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is a solid game. The game made a good transition from WW era to 
 modern times. The acting for the characters was solid. The music fit the game as well. The controls 
 were simple to learn. COD4 is a solid FPS but not without its short comings. I found it annoying 
 that I had to earn specific ranks to unlock even modes play in. Also the lack of a medic in the 
 game in my opinion is weak. One of my biggest problems with the game arises when you increase the 
 difficulty of the game to veteran, because the realism of the game goes out the window. In order 
 to make certain you have a difficult time, the enemy get infinite ammo, grenades, and always know 
 exactly where you are. What exactly is realistic about that? The game has no two player CO-OP campaign 
 in any fashion, which is real weak considering the type of game it is. Something that is all too 
 common in games these days COD4 is short. Several other little things annoyed me for example the 
 fact that you can't breach, yet the npc do it constantly through out the game. COD4 is solid worth 
 buying if you like playing multiplayer online otherwise rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluearcs21
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 1:24 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty 4 is a very well presented game. On the Xbox 360 its graphics are very good but some 
 of the scenery is a little fake. It's lighting is great but its graphics look just like an updated 
 version of Call of Duty 2's graphics. A great thing about this game is the framerate. The framerate 
 most of the time is locked around 60-70 FPS. Only in extremely large battles will it bog down to 
 30 FPS. Multiplayer is so much better than the previous games. Infinity Ward is better than Treyarch 
 in Multiplayer. Overall Callo f duty 4 is a great game and is definitely a game to get. I just 
 wish it was in World War II again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sir_matamucho
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2007 1:07 pm PT
Review:  the story is not as short as many say its simply perfect in every aspect and offers enough varitey 
 in the campaign. It takes you from sniping missions, all out assault missions, heli missions, and 
 the flir system missions. The online multiplayer is the best out there, the shooting sounds and 
 maps are all perfect. Everything about the multiplayer and the ways the guns shoot is perfect. 
 I have played sooo many fps games in my life but none have ever set the bar this high. if u play 
 fps games this is a must and is not a dissapointment like halo 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gord_mose
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 19, 2007 11:49 am PT
Review:  I started Call of Duty 4 right about the time it released, played through the first mission or 
 two, then sold it and started playing Call of Duty 2. I played all the way through COD2, then bought 
 COD4 again and finished it! Why? The first time around I didn't like COD4's graphics (they almost 
 seemed too photo realistic but I got over that the second time around) and I felt the near-future 
 scenario was a little too creepy. Why did I return to COD4? Call of Duty 2 was so good I had to 
 give 4 another chance.
  
  Call of Duty 4 does not have the epic scope of Call of Duty 2. While COD2 is about a world war 
 COD4 is just about a terrorist plot. For me this makes COD2 have a little more oomph, and it definitely 
 makes COD4 a little less appealing. COD4 does make you feel like a bad ass though, since you are 
 an elite marine or SAS member and you have the weapons and gadgets that make you feel almost super 
 human.
  
  Unfortunately the Call of Duty series is so tightly scripted it's not like you get to use all these 
 gadgets and weapons anytime you want to in the single player campaign. The single player campaign 
 is so short it feels more like a joy ride and less like a real war. It's wonderfully fun and tense 
 and like I mention in my Review Desk, it feels like you are on an emotional roller coaster ride 
 the entire time, but I felt that COD2 was a little more balanced and enjoyable. 
  
  I wish I'd had a chance to play the MP portion but the one time I tried it it was taking forever 
 and I just gave up. I'll do that but in the mean time all I can say is if you loved Call of Duty 
 2, you'll also love 4. It is quite different but it's fun and has amazing graphics and some great 
 achievements. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadow9669
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2007 11:33 am PT
Review:  Here we go Call of Duty 4 the game everyone waited for and when it released almost every copy where 
 just flying off shelfs. now the single player is a blast to play and you need to play it to get 
 all the achievement since there are no achievements involved in multi player so if you want the 
 highest score you will be playing single player lot to get them all now play it on normal mode 
 then move right to veteran mode that what i say you should do...!! ok lets move on to multi-player 
 witch is the best art of the hole game the reason the game dont have mulit player its very fun 
 you start at rank on and as you kill people you get + like +1 +2+10 for killing people and when 
 you do a challenge you get big amount of point and as you rack up point you get new rank and new 
 gun camo and other things for your guns just endless fun and when you reach top rank you get to 
 go into presteach mode (warning when you do this you lose your rank your guns, perks everything 
 jsut to start over from rank 1 all you get is a new pistol and a emblam) id have to say that is 
 a waist. anyway besides that i say this game is a must buy and must play to all gamers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RobertArbez
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2007 9:56 am PT
Review:  Favirote mission was the sniper stealth one where it mix's stealth with the fast pace world of 
 call of duty was so perfect when i first saw the mission i was like god this is gonna suck like 
 splitter cell or something but no amazing.
  
  The overall gameplay is great the achviments are lacking on the online stuff wish they had some 
 for ranking up and such or like for kills sprees but mabby will come in a patch.
  
  Both single and Multiplayer are GODLY and Just freaking amazing. that 50cal sniper rifle jeez i 
 wish i could use it more often :D
  
  Veteran could have been harder though.... like only 3 of the missions really gave me any trouble 
 the difficulty could be higher. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ganman17
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 9:39 am PT
Review:  Let's be realistic here, all of the other Call of Duty's were decent at best. I don't even think 
 I bothered to rent the last one. But if you like first person shooters, or just killing things, 
 this game is absolutely brilliant. Every aspect of warfare in this game is great, from close quarters, 
 to sniping in an open warfield. Customizable guns adds a personal touch to your killing. And the 
 online multiplayer is astounding. I'm a die hard halo fan as well as rainbow 6... and if you like 
 war... i GUARANTEE you will LOVE this game. It's modern day setting in the middle east, and variability 
 between the USMC and SAS adds an even more interesting touch to the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skittlesman
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 8:14 am PT
Review:  Well I have to say this is the best Call of Duty in the series. I've played every Call of Duty 
 to date from Day 1 when Call of Duty for PC came out loved that, then the expansion came out, made 
 a great game even better.
  
  Then the PS2 version of Call of Duty came out and I have to say it killed it. But when my Brother 
 came home with Call of Duty 2 for PC a day early I saw the light again.
  
  After getting a serious amount of time on that Call of Duty 3 for 360 came along and thinking with 
 it being made by Treynach? It was gonna be pants but I was suprised it was pretty good and I don't 
 see why people bashed it so much.
  
  Now Call of Duty 4 is out, I think it was a good direction moving WWII to Modern Warfare. It had 
 brilliant campaign and the multiplayer WOW!!!!! I thought I was gonna be so addicted to Halo 3 
 but I have played so much this past week at level 31 and still climbing.
  
  I'm gonna be really dissapointed when I've unlocked everything and all the challenges will be completed 
 but hey what got 10 levels of prestige to hit so that will keep me occupied :D lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -lThe_Doctorl-
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 19, 2007 7:47 am PT
Review:  the single player is great but very short and i would recommend veteran difficulty for any one 
 who players fps this will prolong the time you will spend on the story mode and for people not 
 so fer miler with fps id still but the difficulty on hardened. I loved the intensity of the game 
 there is always something to shoot at like all the other cod games and this even surpasses the 
 other games because this even has a story that will have you biting you're nails. the graphics 
 are good but no so great on a SD TV the shadows look blocky and people can be difficult to spot. 
 The multilayer is the best part about this game you can create you're own special ability and mod 
 you're weapons to suite you're stlye of play. There are lots of different game modes and a whole 
 bunch of maps to keep you playing. Another thing about the game is it is difficult to get head 
 shots online with a SD TV and to prove to my self it was not just my aiming i get my friend in 
 a 1v1 and put my aimer defiantly on his head it it was not classed as a head shot so i rely think 
 to get the best out of the graphics and the game you need a HD TV . So overall a game that is defiantly 
 worth buying especially if you have live because the single player is so short and the multilayer 
 is so good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Russell55
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2007 7:23 am PT
Review:  This is a great multiplayer and single-player game. The story is very good, and there is always 
 action in the campaign. The only problem i have with the game is lack of variety in the classes 
 for multi-player and the little amount of maps that you could use on multi-player. Also, the only 
 way to play with your friends on this game is either split-screen or through Xbox Live, you can 
 system link the game with other 360's, but only one person is allowed on each system. Regardless 
 of all of those minor annoyances, this game truly shines Graphically, and everywhere else. Realistic 
 sounds, and the amount of damage you take is very realistic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeonCircus
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 5:52 am PT
Review:  Single Player:
  
  Call of Duty 4 delivers a unique gaming experience that is lacking in many modern combat games. 
 The game manages to transfer its atmospheric sense of pace from World War 2 to a modern theater, 
 without becoming too technology focused or derivative. The things that made the previous Call of 
 Duty's (possibly excluding 3) great are present in the fourth installment. Unlike many FPS war 
 games in which you feature as a superhuman, seemingly invincible lone wolf, COD 4 places you on 
 the front line, with a team who makes mistakes and will take bullets as badly as the enemy. The 
 sense of atmosphere as enemy fire whips through the air, occasionally hitting their mark is absolutely 
 breath-taking. The campaign itself is not a masterpiece, but manages to really capture the sense 
 of modern warfare - secretive and hidden from the public eyes and manages to capture the full gamut 
 of modern weaponry. It sweeps from covert sniping to dealing death and destruction from a giant 
 "Spooky" gunship sweeping high above the plains of Russia. Several times during the game there 
 are moments so intense it is fun to replay the whole level just to experience the same rush. If 
 anything however, it really makes you feel sorry for the poor, undeveloped nations whose have to 
 face the invisible death at the hands of Captain MacMillan or the tough Lt. Vasquez. Ultimately, 
 COD 4's campaign will keep you coming back for more, and while it is short, offerings such as Arcade 
 Mode, achievements (the tough Veteran difficulty levels) and cheats breath a sense of fun into 
 an otherwise short single player game.
  
  Multiplayer:
  COD 4 delivers a strong multiplayer selection which provides both instant, accessible action for 
 the uninitiated while giving more hardcore gamers rewards for the long haul. COD 4's 55 ranks provide 
 the average gamer with a set of rewards and incentive to stay in it for the long haul. Perks are 
 a fascinating addition to the mix, as, apart from choosing a traditional weapon loadout (derived 
 from the usual groups - Light Machine Guns, Sniper Rifles, SMGs etc.) , a player can also specify 
 two perks drawn from two separate families. Perks work really well, as players are forced to improvise 
 of adapt to the specifications of each game type and map. Of course, there are 5 savable custom 
 class slots to make adapting much easier. The brilliance in perks is that each manages to maintain 
 a difference (Stopping Power will make your bullets do more damage while Deep Impact will allow 
 them to travel further through surfaces) while not becoming too overpowered or popular. Although 
 many claim specific perks, such as Dead Silence (your character moves noiselessly) , are useless 
 in the face of perceived better perks, the generous selection of different game types and maps 
 will always force you to look for further means of countering your enemy. So while Dead Silence 
 is all but useless in Team Deathmatch, in Hardcore Search and Destroy that silence is invaluable 
 when approaching the enemy position. Aside from unlockable weapons (including a very cool Gold 
 Plate Desert Eagle and a Barrett 50. cal Sniper Rifle) the player can also unlock different scopes, 
 silencers, grips and sights for each gun as well as a camouflage to match. Lastly, each player 
 has one equipment slot, in which they can choose some equipment to compliment their particular 
 class. As such, it is always a pleasant surprise to stumble upon a class mix that works quite well 
 together, or give a shot at perks you would otherwise deem useless. As if the many unlockable aspects 
 of the multiplayer game weren't enough, the player is further rewarded with challenges - fascinating 
 little tasks undertaken in the quest for more exp (to allow you to gain rank and unlock more gear) . 
 As such, COD 4 multiplayer is a great mix of long term goals and short term fun. Leaderboards and 
 stats add a level of competition for the more hardcore gamer while the die hard can access a whole 
 ten levels of Prestige Mode (or "no life" mode as some have termed it) in which the player sacrifices 
 everything they have accomplished in the quest to become the highest ranked. Ultimately, COD 4 
 is an intriguing package that can be appreciated by both the die hard FPS fan and those in it for 
 the spectacle. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheRookieGB
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 1:46 am PT
Review:  Hi all,
  
  I'm glad COD4 is now set in the modern warfare zone. COD 2 was great and COD 3 got very repetitive 
 for me. The whole ww2 thing was starting to be cpompleted flooded. Although the COD series and 
 the MOH series completly overshadowed anything else out there. 'Their finest hour' shows this, 
 with its poor graphics and gameplay.
  
  So with all this experince we all knew that COD 4 would be good, but did we think it would be this 
 good. For me the graphics on the Sniper level in the single player game are out of this world. 
 They have certainly done their research into tatics and warfare movement as well.
  
  Currently I've played around 3 hours on single player and 10-15 hours online. Online is where it 
 is at. Starting off as a private, you can quickly get experince by shooting and winning games. 
 even if you are a bit poor compared to other onliners your experince will still rise if just a 
 bit slower.
  
  Experince and ranks give better guns and options. This rank stays with you and you are split into 
 even teams on this ranking. An excellent idea that works.
  
  COD4 suffers from some online issues which the designers and microsoft are fixing at present. Connection 
 lose, server timeouts, lag etc... BUT in most cases the game runs great.
  
  I've reviewed MOH airboure recently and thought this was a class game with excellemt graphics and 
 a 'real feel' to the game. If you have this game keep it as its a ww2 era game. All I will say 
 is though that once you have COD4 you won't play Airbourne online again.
  
  Is it better than Halo 3 online? Well for me yes! The single player feel and weapons are far better 
 than some stupid nailer weapon. Halo 3 still rocks online but COD4 feels better.
  
  My only concern is the lack of any Co-op online options. I love the Co-op terrroist hunt in Vegas 
 online and offline. I love to be able to fight against the computer splitscreen with my mates. 
 I love the fact in halo 3 you can do the story mode in co-op. All this is missing. Even the splitscreen 
 off line is just the players on the xbox and no bots (CPU palyers) .
  
  A big shame about the split screen and something alot of people have moaned about. Hopefully an 
 Xbox live update may change this.
  
  All in all a great game and in my top 3.
  
  Cheers all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rank_Reaper69
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 11:27 pm PT
Review:  Infinity Ward has left the battlefield's of WWII and gone on with a more modern setting and created 
 "Call Of Duty 4: Modern Warfare" This game will give you the taste of intense multi-player game 
 play or leave you sobbing with its surprisingly short Single Player campaign. With it's great multi-player 
 you will be able to unlock new weapons, perks and customizable options for your weapons & for all 
 you hardcore CoD lovers out there Infinity Ward has decided to put in a new feature calledPrestige 
 Mode" what it does is get rid of everything you've unlocked through multi-player and given you 
 a nasty looking emblem to add to your rank, you can fo this ten times and go through ten different 
 emblems on the way. You will also be able to call in a UAV to help you find enemys on the radar, 
 a air strike so you will be able to give your enemys a hot shower and a helicopter that scouts 
 around the map for enemy's and shoots them down once seen. There is one bad thing about its single 
 player... ITS TO SHORT! but you will see be given a great story-line the only thing is it will 
 only last you up about six hours. Infinity Ward has also brought back what seems to be Captain 
 Price or one of his relatives, through single player you will be able to play the English and American's 
 but the game will leave you with one of the best endings of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: temptation_91
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 3, 2008 7:12 pm PT
Review:  From the story to the multiplayer to the sound to the graphics... Call of Duty 4 is definitely one 
 of the greatest. Compared to all the other CoD nothing matches it (in my opinion)
  
  The story 
  -is very well-told even if it is very short, it just flows well, I just didn't like 
 that the Marine gets killed off but i think it helped the story. -----10/10
  
  The Graphics 
  -are superb from the detail to the amount of things that are shown, there are 
 no hick-ups, clipping or lowered frame-rates. EVER (Halo has nothing on this) ----- 10/10
  
  The Sound
  - is really impressive.... I found the voice acting to be spot on nothing sounds 
 off or sounds like it doesn't fit. The sounds of the weapons are very good, from the tiny Uzi to 
 the AC-130 cannons it is outstanding, no doubt about it -----10/10
  
  Now
  
  The Multiplayer 
  - is one of the deepest and funnest video game experiences I've ever had. Halo's 
 multiplayer is (in my opinion) weak compared to that in this game, my only complaints deal with 
 the weapons:
  -- I found the m16 to be overpowered
  -- I didn't like that the G3 is semi-auto while in the single-player it is full-auto
  --The sniper 
 rifles aren't as accurate as they probably should be
  --You can snipe with just about any weapon even the LMGs
  Other than those it's still very fun 
 to play and will keep you busy with enjoyment until FOREVER -----10/10
  
  Overall... it is like I said definitely one of the greatest, it's up there with Zelda, Goldeneye, 
 and Halo...... at least I like to think so
  
  The Good
  -Great Mulitplayer, sound, story, graphics
  -About 99.9 percent of the whole thing
  
  The 
 Bad
  -Short story but enjoyable
  - Weapons in Multiplayer feel too strong/ weak or too inaccurate even when standing still or prone 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hotflame56
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 18, 2007 4:53 pm PT
Review:  visuals are outstanding 10/10 every thing looks great best visuals on 360!
  game play same as call of duty 3 but in modern time with few upgrades 9/10
  replay value 10/10 
 single play short but sweet online = better than halo 3's
  sound10/10 sound great guns good every thing good.
  
  
  
  only thing is online some guns 
 over strong and some to weak and online lags
  at some points not much though 
  
  overall this is going to be game of the year or at lest best first person shooter of the year!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 so if you like or love first person shooters buy this game!!!!!!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: IBLEEDBLUE33
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 18, 2008 9:49 pm PT
Review:  This game was absolutely awesome when I first started playing. Infinity Ward gives you plenty of 
 stuff to unlock in the multiplayer such as new weapons and attachments, but I will come back to 
 the MP in just a minute.
  
  The campaign is great in spots and then there are other parts that just seem frustrating due to 
 all the bullet fire seemingly coming out of nowhere. The campaign is also very short about 5 to 
 8 hours but there are 4 different difficulty settings and the hours that it lasts are quite exciting. 
 Here is the thing though all the excitement seemed more like scripted events than actual war. There 
 are no drivable vehicles but you do get to shoot out of them which looks really cool but I never 
 really felt like I was accomplishing anything because I was being handled throughout. Overall if 
 you do not get online then COD 4 would make a good weekend rental. But like in Halo the real meat 
 of the game is in the multiplayer. The question is it the MP you are looking for. For most it probably 
 is for me it is fun but I have played better.
  
  In multiplayer you have a ranked system that goes up to level 55 and you always continue to go 
 up never down. As you rank up you unlock weapons as well as perks for your weapons. New challenges 
 and other things also open up as you increase your level. There is a lot of customizing in this 
 game which becomes addictive and makes the player want to keep pressing on for that next weapon, 
 etc. This is all great in theory but it doesn't match players according to their rank which seems 
 a little unfair. I am a level 45 right now so it doesn't effect me. But if I am playing someone 
 who is just starting the game then my arsenal is more superior. So when Christmas hits and people 
 just get the game then you are going to be way behind everyone else. I am not saying this is a 
 huge deal but something they should have addressed. The gameplay while good and tight with very 
 little lag online somehow doesn't quite feel like COD. This game really should be called Urban 
 Warfare. None of the stages feel nearly big enough and the sniper is almost taken out of the scenario. 
 You can still snipe but it is a lot harder because the action is so up in your face. I much prefer 
 the wide open levels of COD3 compared to this game. It seems that the strategy is lessened by the 
 level design. I also really miss the class system from COD3 as well. I feel now that I know all 
 the levels that I run to much of a pattern and that camping in certain spots is beneficial. I think 
 I have my best games when I sit and wait for the enemies to come around the corner. To me that 
 is not very much fun. The good about the game is the graphics and the use of modern day weapons. 
 It is very gratifying to come around the corner and mow down enemies with an M4, SAW, MP5, etc. 
 One more problem I have with the MP is the helicopter. Once you get 7 kills in a row a HC comes 
 in and starts destroying players. This sounds cool but a lot of times I will get 5 kills and call 
 in an airstrike get 2 with that and then call in my chopper and sit back and wait for the AI to 
 kill for me and by the time the chopper gets taken down I will usually be on a 10 to 12 kill streak 
 and haven't fired a shot since kill 5. Again that sounds like a good thing in theory but if you 
 want the best to be the best then you can't be giving out free kills from the computer. It would 
 be good if the player actually had to man the chopper himself. In COD3 you got to drive tanks yourself 
 and you called in ordinances through your binoculars. This in my opinion was a lot cooler. It just 
 seems the competitiveness is not in this game because you rank up no matter what. It rewards you 
 for longevity of play not skill of play. Overall COD4 is a great game and worthy of the series 
 but is not as revolutionary as everyone is saying. I will be playing this game probably until I 
 unlock everything but I don't see myself playing this a whole lot just for competition like I did 
 in Halo 2. Halo 2 could have no stat tracking whatsoever and I would still play that game I don't 
 really feel that way with COD4. I don't think Treyarch gets nearly enough credit for the job they 
 did in COD3. COD4 is still an awesome game though.
  
  Edited Review: After playing more and more of the mp there is no question this is the best mp game 
 availabe. Especially compared to the other games available. Rainbow Six 2 is a good game but after 
 playing you realize what a polished game COD4 really is. COD3 though is still way underrated. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: emm333
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 12:06 pm PT
Review:  Since I tend to be fairly bad at shooters, I'm not a huge shooter fan, but this game is a masterpiece 
 of fun, challenge, and feel. It made me want to play to get better at shooters. Captures the feel 
 of warfare so deeply I felt I was shell-shocked after playing the first three missions. In the 
 later missions ---well, let's just say what I had to do to the dogs made me whimper. The ending 
 of the single player campaign is so satisfying that I got chills from delivering the final blow 
 and I'm actually tempted to play through once or twice more which is something that rarely happens. 
 Tack on a mulitiplayer experience that rivals Halo 3 and Gears of War and this is one of the finest 
 games to come out since next gen hit. And the MP has its own engine! Brilliant!
  
  If you even remotely like shooters, pick this one up. Hell, if you're a fan of great games you 
 should own this. A terrific experience that puts you through the hell of war and leaves you feeling 
 dazed, amazed, and rip-roaringly ready for more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: resist1
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 18, 2007 10:11 am PT
Review:  This is a huge step forward for the Call of Duty franchise. I've been a fan of the WWII genre for 
 a long long time. And even know im still not tired of playing the WWII theme. But this blew me 
 away on many different degrees. First of the game is flawlessly told thru wonderful scenes and 
 excellent voice over work. Secondly the graphics are superb!!! along with Weapons details and sound 
 which is really top notch here. The AI especailly on harder difficulty is unrelenting and downright 
 viscious, The soldiers simply do not stop, and for once your comrades are not empty vessels of 
 lifeless brainless matter shooting into space next to you, only to get gunned down in 3 seconds. 
 (ALA: HALO 3) . There are some drawbacks but very few. The levels are so hyper realistic that its 
 impossible to find anytthing wrong but there are minor things. First of the campaign, though rich 
 and satisfying is very short and could have been lengthend a condsiderable amount. Also The weapons 
 though many, could have varied much more thru the game. I Felt as if i simply held the same 3 rifles 
 through out. And this is "Modern Combat" so it would be nice to take some Steam from Tom Clancy 
 and copy in his footsteps and add some more varying weapons to the equation. Other then that, its 
 near perfection. The multiplayer is where this game will outsell most. Its superb especially on 
 a high def, with friends on a local setup, or online battles, its just awsome!
  Cannot wait till call of duty 5!! This is a definate buy and own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spooner007
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 9:03 am PT
Review:  Can you say this is a great war time game? Everything in this game is great the difficulty level 
 on normal is just right. Easy is for wimps and Hard is for great challengers. The gun selection 
 is alright but hard to find some better guns along the way. If you try finding all the intel around 
 the game you will find some of the better guns to use. Sniping is the way I like to roll but not 
 all levels you can use. I most of the time drop your sidearm and grab a sniper it helps for those 
 pesky enemies that are bunkered down in a hole or around a building. Shooting through the walls 
 are key to some kills. Some parts of the game are hard to get around, it gets frustrating when 
 you team gets in front of you. Have some patients and kick some ass. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bperdue
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 8:21 am PT
Review:  Call of duty 4 is amazing. It excels in every area of gameplay except for length of campaign mode. 
 The AI rarely does anything stupid and your teammates react as they should. It is very different 
 from most other shooters in that you have almost no HUD and the pace of the game seems to be a 
 little faster than that of other shooters. The only complaint I have is that it only takes 6 hours 
 to complete on regular difficulty. Although I have not played Halo 3 yet, due to the lack of campaign 
 length I do not believe this game is a "Halo-Killer". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ArmedWolf001
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 7:36 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is by far the best modern day shooter I've ever played. The gameplay 
 is solid and fun, the graphics are indeed photo-realistic, and the sound effects and music fit 
 the environment very well. The singleplayer although short was a lot of fun and very challenging, 
 although a typical story for a shooter, it turned out pretty good. The multiplayer is where all 
 the depth is in this game. The weapon customization, perks, and create a class features really 
 make the multiplayer a quality experience. In my opinion this is the best multiplayer experience 
 to be had in the FPS genre this year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Demonic_Jin
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 2:33 am PT
Review:  Up until now, the Call of Duty series has only centred around the World War's, but its latest instalment, 
 Modern Warfare, as the title suggests, brings the series to modern times, creating a fictional 
 story for the game to work around. This new setting really breathes some fresh air into the series, 
 and the result is possibly one of the best first person shooters of the year.
  
  The games story is fairly standard for a war game, although it tells its story from two different 
 perspectives, one from a S. A. S. (Special Air Service) officer and a US marine. The story won't 
 exactly have you eager to finish the next level to see what happens, but its interesting enough, 
 and the single player gameplay and non-story related events that occur in the single player mode 
 definitely make up for any problems you may have with a story that isn't totally immersive.
  
  Its a shame then, that the single player mode is so short. Clocking in at about 6 hours, the 
 single player mode can be completed over a weekend or even an afternoon if you were trying to plough 
 through it as quickly as possible. But for a single player mode so short, its amazing how many 
 different things Infinity Ward have squeezed in for you to do. A big chunk of the single player 
 is of coarse the usual for a first person shooter - lots and lots of gun fighting. You clear out 
 and area, move forward, clear out another area, move forward, and so on and so forth. But luckily, 
 there is more variety to it than that, and thanks to the variety, you'll walk away from Call of 
 Duty 4 with some really memorable moments.
  
  The single player is great, but the multiplayer mode really gives the game some needed content 
 that will increase the game's length by a great deal. When you start out in Multiplayer, you can 
 choose out of a few weapon classes, but as you play on, and earn experience and rank up, you'll 
 be able to choose from 5 different weapon classes, and even create your own. This doesn't seem 
 like much on paper, but in practise, it adds a lot to the multiplayer. You'll be able to earn different 
 weapon upgrades by completing certain challenges (kill 'X' amount of people with a certain weapon, 
 kill 'X' amount of people with a head shot with a certain weapon and so on) , and you'll also unlock 
 'perks'. Perks are little upgrades, such as having more health, having better accuracy when shooting 
 from the hip, being able to sprint for longer and so on. When you start out, you'll only be able 
 to access a few of these perks, but you'll eventually unlock more, adding even more depth and length 
 to the game. 
  
  All these features add depth on to an already stellar multiplayer component. The online multiplayer 
 is extremely intense, not quite on the level of Gears of War or Halo 3, but its still one of the 
 best online first person shooter experiences on the Xbox 360.
  
  From a graphical standpoint, Call of Duty 4 is pretty good. There are a lot of great effects here, 
 explosions and character models look good, the environments look outstanding, textures look nice 
 as well. From an artistic standpoint the game isn't particularly inspired, but the game is technically 
 great. 
  
  The audio is good enough. Voice work is generally okay, and the soundtrack is good at complimenting 
 the action, though fairly forgettable. The highlight of the audio though, is without a doubt the 
 guns. They all sound very realistic which adds to the gameplay, seeing as how it makes it more 
 fun to shoot at stuff. One thing though, is that sometimes when playing online, you'll hear gunfire 
 in the distance, and you may not realise that its someone shooting you (and you'll probably be 
 dead by the time you do realise) . This is a mixed bag, because it means you'll die a lot more than 
 you may otherwise (although this is a problem for all players, not just yourself) , but it also 
 makes playing online and playing multiplayer a bit more intense.
  
  As a matter of fact, you'll probably find the whole game intense (the single player can get kind 
 of tricky in some spots, and when I say kind of tricky, I mean... really tricky) . This could be 
 the developers plan to try and increase the single player mode's length (to which they have succeeded 
 to a certain extent) , but regardless, this is a harder game than your average first person shooter.
 
  
  But then again, this game is by no means your average shooter. While its true the game can be frustratingly 
 difficult in some instances (especially on the harder difficulties) and some areas of the game 
 feel a bit rushed (I encountered a glitch or two in the single player mode) , but these are only 
 minor complaints. Call of Duty 4's single player mode is short, but its also very satisfying and 
 the online multiplayer more than makes up for the single player's lack of length. 
  
  Call of Duty 4 had some considerable hype before its release, no doubt thanks to its beta-multiplayer 
 testing a while back. And while it doesn't quite live up to that great amount of hype it has garnered, 
 that shouldn't stop you from playing it. The game is very intense and satisfying, and this is most 
 evident in its online component. Couple this with an impressive audiovisual presentation, and you've 
 got one memorable game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skittlez1212
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 18, 2007 2:16 am PT
Review:  I played through the campaign, which was amazingly fun especially the A-130 Aircraft part and the 
 sniping part, all very good add ons to the campaign. But i do have to admit, it could of been much 
 longer, but at the same time look at gears of war and look how fast that campaign was, and we still 
 gave it a 10. Why you ask, because the multiplayer was good which brings me to my next point. I 
 can't get off the Xbox Live Multiplayer, it is literally orgasmic and every time you level up and 
 get new weapons it's like a brand new achievement, i give this game a 10 because it's all around 
 amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dniq_gamespot
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 1, 2007 8:28 pm PT
Review:  I guess the title says it all: this is first game since Rainbow Six: Vegas, which is so much fun 
 to play online! Graphics engine is amazing: image quality is excellent, and yet the framerate is 
 exceptionally perfect! No matter what's happening in the game, how many effects are rendered on 
 the screen - framerate never drops down. I guess Infinity Ward guys have shown everyone how game 
 engines should be made!
  
  One thing that stands out is that this, to date, would probably be the only game that I've played 
 (and I've played pretty much every FPS released for 360 in the past year) which has no annoying 
 bugs or glitches that I could find.
  
  Can't wait for other releases from Infinity Ward! Keep up the great job!
  
  P. S. The episode, 
 where Sgt. Jackson dies, is really heart wrenching. I wish there were more games that find use 
 of these simple episodes, the sole purpose of which is just to pull some strings deep inside you... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fhorn
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 17, 2007 11:30 pm PT
Review:  Where should I start? I'll start with the bad... Now we head on to the good things. This game is 
 amazing, the lighting, textures, everything is sharp and vivid. Sound cannot be beat either. This 
 game gives you a warlike experience without going deaf from gunfire or dying from being pumped 
 with rounds and fragmentation. From a military perspective, this game is very realistic. Every 
 action is right down to the core with modern day applications to the battlefield, this is the first 
 game where I have actually seen an M4 or M16 been re-loaded right... I thought that was awesome. 
 Yes the campaign is a little short, but you will want to play it over and over again to get all 
 the achievements and cheats unlocked. It is sick, best FPS in my opinion and my game of the year 
 hands down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NYGamer164
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 10:11 pm PT
Review:  Infinity Ward brings the Call of Duty series into the modern era, while this has been done before 
 like games such as ghost recon and rainbow six vegas, its the first game to do it so good and or 
 so fun. The game's multiplayer portion of the game is one the best and fun and its only rival is 
 halo3. The single player is just as good, even though the single player is very short, it is very 
 intense and Infinity Ward took the quality approach over quantity. If u like shooters and like 
 playing online this is a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tlandry23
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 1, 2008 1:55 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty 4 has been long awaited by gamers, since it's first trailer aired a while back , everyone 
 was stoked that the game wasn't another WW2 title, and that it had moved to modern time. The question 
 is, does that make this game a Must- Buy?
  
  Gameplay-
  The Gameplay in Call of duty 4 is the exact same as in Call of duty 3. I mean, exactly, there might 
 be a few new tweaks, but anyone who played call of duty 3 will feel right at home here, and i am 
 personally glad that they kept the control scheme the same.
  
  Graphics-
  Okay, i will admit that these are some pretty slick graphics, but, i do not think that they are 
 as revolutionary as everyone has said. But, the character models and environments all look fantastic, 
 and the guns look great up close as well with a high level of detail.
  
  Story-
  Very, Very short, BUT, in that short amount of time, you play an amazing experience, its a good 
 thing too. I'd rather play a short, amazing story, than a long, boring story. I don't want to give 
 ANY spoilers so i won't even tell you the plot, you'll just have to wait and see.
  
  Online-
  As you would expect, the best part of the game. A Good amount of maps make for some 
 fun intense play, and it will keep you hooked for a very long time.
  Overall-
  Yeah this game's pretty much amazing, if you can only buy a few games this holiday, Get this over 
 most games, its better than assassins creed and Halo 3, so just get it, the single player campaign 
 is so amazing its worth picking up alone for that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TinyTizz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 9:05 pm PT
Review:  For all you doubtful gamers out there, prepare to be disapointed! This game is a surprising hit! 
 Very enjoyable play with a good storyline. The campaign mode is kind of short but you forget all 
 about that when you try to play it on veteran difficulty! Multi-player picks up with more goodies 
 and great game play. If you liked the other Call of Duty games this one WILL NOT disapoint! This 
 is easily one of the ten best games on the XBOX360 console. Overall it is a must play for gamer 
 buffs! Now get out there and get to killing some terrorists! It's lots of fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JDUB_x
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2007 7:36 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is amazing. The sights and sounds are some of the most realistic and engaging experiences 
 you will find by todays standards. CoD4 is pure modern day shooting action. Gone are the privative 
 weapons of WWII and replaced are high tech weapons that do massive damage to all who oppose you. 
 Destructible environments and shooting through walls also adds more realism to the game. 
  
  The single player campaign will last around 6 hours but in that six hours there is not one 
 single dull moment.
  
  After you re done with the Single player, there is an expansive online multiplayer that rivals 
 the depth of Halo 3.
  
  Call of Duty 4 is highly recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoeAsakura
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 3:10 pm PT
Review:  Infinity Ward finally worked out that it's time to move away from the World War II setting, with 
 Call of Duty 1 and 2, and move onto something a little different, with Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare. 
 By replacing Germany with the Middle East, and moving Russians over to the opposition, with the 
 obvious introduction of modern weaponry and such, Call of Duty 4 doesn't drive too far from it's 
 predecessors, and for all the right reasons. But this game is much more than a change from the 
 past. It's a fantastic multi-player shooter with a short but sweet single-player component, topped 
 off with some of the best visuals you will likely ever see in an Xbox 360 game.
  
  The Good:
  
  If you've played previous Call of Duty games, you'll recognise many of their attributes 
 in Call of Duty 4. Thankfully, this definately isn't a bad thing. The gameplay stays consistent 
 with the other games in the series, which will once again find you ducking in and out of cover, 
 while popping out to aim down your sights, and take down an enemy in a matter of seconds. You'll 
 also find yourself getting to know your fellow comrades, many of which have their own distinct 
 personalities, of whom you'll grow to admire. In fact, I don't think you'll find any dislikable 
 characters in Call of Duty 4 except for, you guessed it, the bad guys.
  
  As i've mentioned quite a few times already, Call of Duty 4's single-player story is short. As 
 short as it may be, it harbors one of the best storys in a first person shooter that i've ever 
 experienced. I say experience, because that's exactly what it is. An experience. You control two 
 characters, being Sergeant John "Soap" MacTavish of the 22nd British SAS Regiment, and Sergeant 
 Paul Jackson of the United States Marine Corps 1st Force Recon. In the first act of the game, you'll 
 be switching between the two characters, but without spoiling much of the game, you'll find that 
 by the second act, one of the characters dies, and that by no means makes it a lesser story to 
 play through. The bad guys I mentioned before, are definately bad. One good thing is that the story 
 actually makes you want to kill them. Imran Zakhaev, and Khaled Al Asad, are working together to 
 do what bad guys do best. Threaten people, then kill people, and you have to stop them. The story 
 is quite simple, and contains what you'd expect from a modern military shooter, and has, what I 
 think, is a fantastic ending, except for the fact that, well, it ends. Also, the difficulties send 
 the game to insultingly easy, to horrifically hard.
  
  The presentation of Call of Duty 4 is stellar, and as I said before, you won't find a better looking 
 game for the Xbox 360 on the market. The environments, though looking a little dull in places, 
 are great looking. They only add to the immersion that you get involved with when playing. Each 
 soldier that you come across has a different face and voice, except for the guys you'll be killing. 
 But if you're a good enough shot, that won't matter anyway. One of the real highlights in Call 
 of Duty 4's presentation is the sound. Bullets whizzing past your head, and the sound of them cracking 
 through the air and into someones skull really do heighten the combat, along with explosions and 
 screaming Russians are amazing, both alone and together. The animations in the game top it off, 
 too, with reloading being animated to perfection, making you really feel like you're sliding a 
 magazine into an M16A4. Voice acting perfects the sense of immersion, with your comrades calling 
 out 'Grenade!' and such, and your closer comrades giving you orders. This makes each and every 
 character in the game feel like an actual person.
  
  Sharp controls make this game easy to play, and fun to play. The ease of holding your left trigger 
 to aim, and the click of your bumbers to throw grenades make the combat swift. I never once found 
 myself complaining about the responsiveness of the controls when playing through the game, except 
 for the occasional hiccup with holding down the right bumper to pick and throw live grenades.
 
  
  Multiplayer gives you a good collection of maps, from tight indoor regions, to wide open sniper-havens. 
 The varied game modes won't make the game boring, especially since you'll most likely stick to 
 playing Team Deathmatch anyway. What really shines in Call of Duty 4's multiplayer is the rank 
 and 'Create A Class' system. As you rank up by winning games, killing opponents, and completing 
 Challenges, you'll unlock new weapons, perks, game modes and challenges. Challenges give you experience 
 for completing them, and they vary in their simplicity. An example would be to go from 'Call in 
 5 Air Strikes' to 'Kill an enemy, steal their weapon, then kill them with their own weapon'. Also, 
 each weapon has it's own challenges. 25, 75, and 150 kills with grant you new attachments, being 
 Red Dot Sights, Silencers, and ACOG Scopes, along with 25,75, and 150 headshots give you different 
 camouflage overlays to put on your weapon. Perks are what makes your class different to the rest. 
 You can choose a perk from each of three categories. Some perks will make you invisible to enemy 
 radar, give you increased bullet damage, and giving you an RPG to blow your enemies apart, or take 
 down helicopters. Yes, helicopters. If you get 7 kills without dying, you will be granted the ability 
 to call in a helicopter to take down your enemies, and all of it's kills will be in your name. 
 If we back track a little, 3 kills in a row grants you a UAV, so you can temporarily see the enemies 
 locations on radar, and 5 kills in a row will give you an airstrike, which brings up a larger map 
 and a crosshair to choose where you want to deploy the air strike. All of this put together makes 
 Call of Duty 4's multiplayer component an absolute joy to play. 
  
  Finally, Call of Duty 4 is simply a great sequel, and although it doesn't carry on with any storylines 
 like most sequels do, it certainly carries on with Call of Duty's tradition of being damn right 
 awesome.
  
  The Bad:
  
  There is only one aspect of this game that is disappointing, and as if I haven't mentioned it enough 
 already, here it is again. The single player is just too damn short. Luckily, you have a kick ass 
 multi-player component to move on to.
  
  Final Words:
  
  It seems that Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is more than capable of at least one Game of the Year 
 award, and if this next sentance helps you in your decision to buy this game, then so be it. 
 
  
  It is a whole lot better than Halo 3. Of course, that is a matter of opinion, but I don't see how 
 you could disagree.
  
  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is magnificent, and well worth your time and money.
  
  Truely 
 Magnificent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gator_Fan
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 17, 2007 3:01 pm PT
Review:  The single player campaign packs a lot of action, difficulty, and realism, but yet too short. You 
 will only squeeze about 5-7 hours out of it, but thats not where it ends. Call of Duty 4 has one 
 of the most realistic, intense, online modes on the Xbox 360 up to date. Calling in airstrikes 
 and helicopters is only some of the fun. My only problem with the online mode is that the levels 
 are'nt very big, and sometimes you think you have a guy in the perfect position show him some of 
 your slicing skills and your guy glitches and completely miss. Other than that the online is superb. 
 Definitely a game to purchase, but you can also rent it, beat it in one day, and go on with your 
 business if you don't have LIVE. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Juangf1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 2:38 pm PT
Review:  The campaign mode is short but in every mission looks better and better. 
  If you are a shooter payer this is the Game is short but in every mission looks better and better. 
 
  
  Every mission start looking better and the game change to different angles of the modern war. 
 
  If played all the series probably this could be the easiest but the more fun. 
  I someway remind me a lot Ghost Recon but in FPS. 
  Is a game that even though is short is must 
 buy. 
  The on line looks amazing I am enjoying a lot is very addictive as H3.
  I like the option to review who kill you; one because you can learn second you can go for them 
 
  Enjoy it to one very good contribution for the games in FY07. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZackerThe3rd
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 10:51 am PT
Review:  Pros
  Great gameplay/perfect difficulty/Large amount of weapons/classes make the game feel more balanced/Sound 
 is great/The game is Fun to play/Great story
  
  
  Cons
  Short story may leave you feel wanting more/bonus mission is not really fun nor is it challenging/Small 
 maps may have too many bullets flying and people everywhere, but this may be a good thing depending 
 on your play style
  
  Call of Duty 4 is one of the best games on the market right now, along with 
  Halo 3.
  From 
 the start, you notice how easy the game is to navigate and how beautiful the graphics are. You start 
 out on a training mission where you have shoot a bunch of targets and knife a watermelon, then you 
 have to go through a course in under 60 secs while shooting down targets and throwing flashbangs,30 
 seconds isn`t too hard but i couldn`t get less then 20 seconds. Then you are in a mission to get 
 a package from a cargo ship but you run out of time and you only have time to get a manifest. As 
 you escape back to the helicopter, the ship starts sinking, you get to the deck and barely make it 
 to the helicopter. The game then shows you a middle east leader being assassinated. From there on 
 out the SAS try to find the new leader in western Russia, while USMC look in the Middle east. Thats 
 the story in a spoiler free nutshell. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JamilAhmed1994
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 10:28 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3 was a good game - but not as good as Call of Duty 2. I think people were expecting 
 Call of Duty 3 to be a lot better than Call of Duty 2 and were disappointed when they got their 
 hands on it. But enough talk about this matter. I'm here to review Call of Duty 4! The 4th instalment 
 in the Call of Duty series. 
  
  You may notice something different about Call of Duty 4. And you're right. Instead of the standard 
 World War 2 game you would expect you receive a more modern game. Call of Duty 4 is set in present 
 time (2007) and you take the roles of two soldiers in a fictional war. You'll be playing as "Soap" 
 Mactavish in the SAS parts of single player and there is also Paul Jackson of the USMC.
  
  The core gameplay is still here: You just aim your gun at the enemy and fire away and maybe chuck 
 a few grenades too. All of this feels great and doesn't feel tired at all. There are many types 
 of weapons for you to try out ranging from SMG's to assault rifles to sniper rifles and many, many 
 more. There is also a new type of grenade: the flashbang! This is a really fun grenade to use.
 
  
  The storyline is very gripping. You will be sweating during intense firefights, clutching your 
 gun in fear while waiting for that perfect shot and more events for you to explore.
  
  Multiplayer is in this game and has a unique ranking system. I really like this system and they've 
 added a new feature called Perks. You can have three Perks from a different selection and they 
 are balanced. This calls for interesting gameplay instances and unique battles.
  
  Overall, this game gets a 9.5 for outstanding gameplay, tons of fun multiplayer and just being 
 a kickass game overall. There are a few graphical glitches here and there, but you won't spot them 
 so easily so it really doesn't matter.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PaulioRed
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 10:15 am PT
Review:  I have been tracking this game since it was announced and have always thought, could it be as good 
 as it looks? Well im happy to say it meets expectations in every single department.
  As soon as i started playing i knew i wouldn't be disappointed. I started off on the campaign on 
 veteran difficulty and found it a brilliant but challenging experience. 
  The graphics and sound are top notch with the most amazing explosion i have ever seen in a game 
 at the end of the first act, whilst the sound is consistently good with all the guns making the 
 right sounds and a very good soundtrack. 
  The game does a very good job of making you feel for the people you'll be spending your time fighting 
 with especially Captain Price, Gaz and Sergeant Griggs. Without releasing any spoilers you may 
 feel a slight bit of sadness at the ending of this short, but epic campaign. 
  Now on to the multiplayer where you'll be spending the bulk of your gaming time on. It is the most 
 amazing and deep online multi player for an FPS i have ever played. You have so many options to 
 choose from, like perks which effect your character in different ways (like deep impact for faster 
 bullet penetration through walls or extreme conditioning so you can sprint longer) which really 
 helps to make your individual characters unique. Also you can choose your starting weapons meaning 
 you can play to your strengths from the off which is very good than say if your good with the sniper, 
 having to run around the level trying to find the sniper.
  There are also plenty of maps and game types so no-one can complain of nothing new in the online 
 aspect.
  This leads me on to a brand new thing i have seen in an fps, Kill Cam. This means that when you 
 die you see a short replay clip of exactly how the enemy killed you. This is very good because 
 you know exactly where the guy that killed you is. This means a constant game of killing and moving, 
 or you will be hunted down. 
  All in all i consider this the biggest and deepest game of the year, the campaign may be short, 
 but is much better quality than other, longer games campaigns, whilst the multi player is the deepest 
 and best i have seen in a long time. I give COD: Modern Warfare a brilliant 9.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robbo_006
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 17, 2007 7:00 am PT
Review:  Ok, i read a lot of reviews b4 i bought the game, as it was always on loan in hire store. yes the 
 game isnt that long, it took me about 5 hours to complete , like most people. but its still a good 
 game, it left my mouth open the first time i played it. so realistic. i do sort of regret buying 
 the game, wouldnt mind it if it cost less.
  people are always expecting more, and this is more, its a lot of fun, but can be annoying, guys 
 respawing, so sometimes u just gotta run in like RAMBO.
  bad thing is, obvoisly its short game, but not that short. and people just keep coming. i love 
 COD games, i think there good, but i would recommend renting it out if possible, paying top money/dollar 
 for u yanks isnt really getting your moneys worth i dont think, but then again ive only played 
 single player and not multi, and i heard that is great. 
  it truly does look the nuts guys, you will end up buying it, coz it is a must have game, u start 
 to miss it after a few hours, and u go back playing it again, still just as good as first time 
 nearly. having it on harder difficulty is a bit better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daxterfactor
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 6:53 am PT
Review:  I have own 3 Call of Duty games, and none of them even touch this. The story, at first seemingly 
 average, becomes increasingly involving until you are literally on the edge of your seats in the 
 final mind blowing minutes. Be ready for twists-they will come aplenty for a story as short as 
 this. Yes, the story is short- It took me about a day to finish it. However, considering how involving 
 it is, this really isn't too big in the end, as any more missions, and it might have started to 
 verge on frustrating if it had gone on any longer. 
  
  Control-wise, the game does a pretty good job, and it comes easily, though for some reason I kept 
 getting the B and A buttons confused. I really have no complaint's there.
  
  Graphically, the game is absolutely amazing. Though at times there are glitches, though usually 
 unnoticeable unless found by accident or looked for (Example: Friendly AI has 1 foot on a porch, 
 and one foot on... midair) , the details are amazing, and it's unbelievable how well they did. Just 
 being able to see every single fold and stitch on your players glove will make you remember why 
 Next-gen is so cool.
  
  Unfortunately, I have yet to try out the multiplayer (I still have to get a network adapter....) , 
 but I'm sure it is excellent.
  
  Other than the glitches, I have only 2 other complaints. 1: The zip lines are a pain. While they 
 do provide some of the cooler sequences in the game, they are often hidden when you truly need 
 them, either because they are hidden in a corner or blend in with the environments, causing your 
 untimely death. 2: The "follow the leader sequences or you will die" can cause, while not controller 
 breaking anger, almost controller breaking anger. Again, while they do bring some excitement to 
 the game, it's very easy to get lost, causing you to start over again. And again. And again. This 
 gets especially bad when you have to go around a corner, and so the AIs can get lost in the scenery, 
 leaving you completely lost.
  
  So, there you have it. GET THIS GAME!!!! Oh, and don't put the controller down after the credits. 
 This game has one more trick up it's sleeve.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Morb
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 19, 2008 8:05 pm PT
Review:  A wonderful game, with a great story line that is simple enough to follow. Call of Duty:4 really 
 drops you into a frighteningly realistic universe, with undertones of what is occurring in Iraq 
 and Afghanistan now.
  
  The landscapes are beautiful and feel "dirty" and worn torn. You will be fighting for your life, 
 and will want to come back time and time again to do the campaign. Albeit way to short a campaign, 
 you will feel compelled to challenge yourself by playing on harder levels.
  
  The multi player is very cool, and you HAVE to use teamwork to achieve high scores. The promotion 
 and unlock able system is very cool, although weaker players may find themselves frustrated with 
 being forced into a position to playing with very very strong players. It would be nice to see 
 a ranking system where multi player games are created based on equal ranking, much like what Halo 
 3 does. 
  
  Buy COD:4 you will not be disappointed.
  
  2008 02 19 As I've played the game since first release I've seen it grow and grow with more users. 
 Hopefully the game will continue to grow and expand with new maps, and possibly new weapons.
  
  I find myself more and more addicted and in love with COD:4 MW the longer I play. This is a 
 MUST have game in your collection, and if you haven't had a chance to play this game, you will 
 not have enjoyed the true experiance of a wonderful game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Capone101b
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 16, 2007 9:51 pm PT
Review:  IT may be short but it is fun         the campaign is short but difficult and fun . Online is extremely 
 exciting will killcam and the new weapons are awesome, Is 1 of a kind. Wars change Weapons change 
 Soldiers don't.
  
  (just a reapeat to complete 100 words)
  IT may be short but it is fun         the campaign is short but difficult and fun . Online is extremely 
 exciting will killcam and the new weapons are awesome, Is 1 of a kind. Wars change Weapons change 
 Soldiers don't.
  
  IT may be short but it is fun         the campaign is short but difficult and fun . Online is extremely 
 exciting will killcam and the new weapons are awesome, Is 1 of a kind. Wars change Weapons change 
 Soldiers don't. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jasonfinger
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 6:36 pm PT
Review:  I am a big Call of Duty fan though I thought 3 was a step back. Call of Duty 4 is a 5 steps forward. 
 The Moment you get through the training you are Dumped in the middle of battle zone after battle 
 zone of NONSTOP action. No wandering around trying to figure where the heck to go next. You'll 
 definetly know. There is all stuff going on around you. Jets, Helicopters, and explosions galore. 
 The ist level is auesome when there is a bunch of machine gunners on the middle deck of a battle 
 when........ I'm not here to spoil things. ITS JUST FUN AS HECK!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! Needless 
 to say multiplayer is great too! 
  All I can say that auesome graphics, auesome sound, smooth game play + ALL THE ACTION YOU COULD 
 EVER HOPE FOR makes this one of the best 1st person shooters of all time! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TVR_Fan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 6:34 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is the next in the series of the Call of Duty games, which is set in modern day 
 this time. As well as being set in modern day, this is Infinity Wards third Call of Duty game. 
 
  
  Anyway, let us cut to the chase in Call of Duty 4 you play as two people in the game, first Soap 
 MacTavish of the 22 SAS Regiment and Paul Jackson United States Marine Corps 1st Force Recon.
 
  
  What is it like to play as Soap MacTavish?
  
  When you play as Soap, you play in either two types of close quarter's combat and open battles 
 in places, which is a bit rural.
  
  What is it like to play as Paul Jackson?
  
  Most of the time, you will play in open battle in the Middle East.
  
  What is the story line 
 like?
  
  In Call of Duty 4 the story line is made up, in which there is two evil people who work together 
 to try and bring the world to its knees with stuff like WMD's and other evil things. However, in 
 Call of Duty 4 it is up to you to stop them.
  
  What are the missions like?
  
  This is one of the strong suits for the game, because in the past Call of Duty 4, the missions 
 have always been great, which shows in the first couple of missions.
  
  Take the start of the game, which you are doing training at first through SAS's shooting range 
 and then the SAS kill house. After you have completed your training, you are next on your way by 
 helicopter at night to a ship, which is holding a nasty surprise.
  
  After you have completed this mission, you are next not in a mission but in fact a bit of a little 
 in-game movie, which is first person you will get something nasty happen to you.
  
  Once the movie finishes you back in the shoes of soap, where you are in a bit more of an open space 
 and you must head through a rural location battling enemies to save someone. Next, up you finally 
 start playing as Paul Jackson in the Middle East, and in the first mission, your team gets intel 
 where one of the evil villains may be.
  
  Moving on from some of these early missions on of the later missions, leads to a flash back for 
 Captain Price, where you play him 15 years ago in Chernobyl, and in this mission you try to take 
 out of the evil villains with a 50cal Sniper Rifle.
  
  Next, up after this mission you go back to current day and because of this, I do not want to talk 
 about any more of the missions.
  
  What is the multiplayer like?
  
  In multiplayer you have 12 modes to choose from, which includes the standard death match and team 
 death match to a challenging mode called Team Hardcore. However, before you think the first mode 
 I am playing is Team Hardcore you first have to unlock it by ranking up.
  
  Right since I brought up the ranking part up about Team Hardcore let me tell you a bit about ranking 
 up, when you rank up you earn more weapons, weapon upgrades and some other stuff.
  
  Another great thing in the multiplayer I would like to bring up is something called "perks", which 
 adds to the multiplayer a lot.
  
  What is the Sound like?
  
  Call of Duty 4 has many top-notch sound effects and music, which offers a lot to the experience, 
 one moment, which takes full use of the great sound effects and music, is that little first person 
 movie to stuff like the rain in the first mission.
  
  As well as those two things, there is other stuff in the game, which takes full use of the music 
 and sound events at the same time or not.
  
  What is the graphics engine like?
  
  The graphics in Call of Duty 4 is a great sight, even if there are some small little flaws like 
 the shadows on some levels, which sometimes make some of the shadows a bit blocky from some distances.
 
  
  However, this flaw does not affect every level, other then that the graphics engine can hide this, 
 when it has two great examples like the following:
  
  *Mix of levels at night
  *Thermonuclear warhead going off
  
  Final Thoughts
  
  Call of Duty 4 is a must have game 
 for any who loves first person shooters, mainly because of its story line, game play, control system 
 and the moments in the whole of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1Furious1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 6:08 pm PT
Review:  I would like to say that this could be the GOY!! This game is that good. It has epic single player, 
 which is a bit short, but it's quality over quantity. Every second of the single player campaign 
 you will be entertained and some of the levels are "out of this world" good. The multiplayer in 
 this game is even better. The ranking system is very well thought out and it gives you incentive 
 to get that extra kill or your team to win. Every level you get a certain upgrade to your weapon, 
 a new weapon, or a perk, or a new available challenge that you can complete (for example, for 150 
 head shots you get 1000xp points) . Even though people of different ranks (thus with different weapon 
 levels) can play on the same map it is not hard for the people with lower levels get promoted to 
 a higher one quickly. I bet developers have put a lot of time and effort into making multiplayer 
 as balanced as it is. A big THANKS goes to them for that. So many games nowadays come out half-baked 
 and it's great to see that COD4 is not one of those games. So pretty much if you are a person who 
 likes to play FPSs online-you must own this game. 
  The only bit of critique that I would like to give this game is that graphically it could have 
 looked better, the textures at least, but the game compensates for it with its extremely smooth 
 frame rate. It does not drop even when you play 12-12 games online. That's how good it is!
  So again, go ahead and get this game! That is if you can find it in stores :) ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bragkiller
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 16, 2007 5:32 pm PT
Review:  one of the best shooters ive ever played. once you turn it on you will be instantly blown away at 
 how good the graphics are. there incredible. i also like how they vary the missions. shooting missions, bombing 
 missins, sneaking missions, there all different!! one thing i would like to say is that the sinle 
 player is lacking. its really short. so dont buy it for the silngle player. there are alot of climatic 
 moments in the game to. but the graphics onl; y enhance the experience making it a very fun game 
 to play . the multiplayer is also superb.=only 1 problem it gets sorta laggy somtimes with sombody 
 with crappy internet 
::::::

::::::
UserName: curlyq101
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 16, 2007 4:55 pm PT
Review:  This game has an amazing story with a lot of emotion and ties to real world ordeals. This is definitely 
 on par or maybe better than Halo 3. Im a huge fan of both these series and call of duty 4 definitely 
 is just as well made. The graphical detail, Controls, lighting, story, and voice acting is superb. 
 Guns and damage is extremely realistic. The only complaint I have is that the end is a little anti 
 climatic because your whole squad dies then you get this weird epilogue. The story was not that 
 short as people say either and the multi-player is great. This is Still an amazing series and probably 
 the best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robthehomer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 4:19 pm PT
Review:  You have to wonder if Infinty Ward looked at Black on the original Xbox and thought it looked so 
 good on last generation technology imagine how good it would look on the new generation hardware.
 
  
  Whether or not Black was intentionally the inspiration behind this Call of Duty installement is 
 irrelvant, the similarities are strking but that is in no way a bad thing.
  
  Suffice to say COD4 is simply fantastic, there is so little to fault from almost every aspect. 
 The graphics are astonishing, blinking becomes secondary as you make your way through the campaign, 
 your eyes are simply gorging on the sumptous visuals - war has never looked this good and the attention 
 to detail is remarkable.
  
  As has become standard practice for the FPS the majority of the cutscenes are fully interactive 
 in the sense you can move around and view the environment - now take the second level for example. 
 This is in the game purely to advance the narrative and shows a deposed ruler being driven through 
 a war-torn city to meet his eventual demise. As you are being driven through the streets you see 
 all manner of incidents taking place - a dog chasing a young child over a fence, a firing squad 
 dishing out some lethal punishment, helicopters flying above. All these are almost redundant details 
 but because you can view a full 360 degrees Infitniy Ward had to fill this space to account for 
 this. Its this level of detail that results in a thoroughly immersive gameworld so rich in detail.
 
  
  The gamer is also well catered for in the aural stakes as well. The battles are a smorasboard of 
 gunfire, richochets, explosions and military chatter that is often drowned out (which only adds 
 to the realism) . Certainly if you have this hooked up to a half decent surround sound system you 
 might find some unwelcome attention should you play it too loud as it will certainly sound like 
 a veritable bedroom warzone.
  
  But of course this is all irrevant if the gameplay doesn't match up but thankfully it does, and 
 in spades. The gun mechanic is almost perfect (although I still think Black nudges it for the best 
 ever gunplay controlsin terms of the actual feel) . The trigger-snap lock on feature is a very welcome 
 addition and the sprint function is well worked. Whilst the controls are nothing revolutionary 
 they are prime examples of how to do them according to this genre. The only slight criticism is 
 that squadmates and enemies have the ability to blind fire and lean out of cover where as the player 
 does not and this is certainly one game that aches to have this included.
  
  Weapsons are again standard fare but superbly realised, I happen to think COD4 has maybe the best 
 ever sniper rifle in gaming history in the shape of the Dragonuv (sp??) but you also have your 
 usual variety of military riflles with laser sights, shotguns, pistols, AK47s, MP5s etc. 
  
  Again, its the little detils that raise this above the norm - the realistic way you are concussed 
 from a flash grenade, enemies firing their guns out of doors left slightly ajar, or worse opening 
 a door just to toss a grenade in your direction. Enemies stumble from hits to the sternum or crawl 
 away in agony, persistent ones will pull out a pistol and try to take you down with them. Suffice 
 to say headshots are the order of the day here.
  
  The AI is also some of the best encountered with enemies making good use of cover and strafing 
 your posiiton with annoying proficiency. Conversley your squamates do a good job of laying down 
 fire whilst you out manouver the opposition. Unlike other games where you find yourself almost 
 entirely responsible for despatching all foes your comrades certainly pull their weight.. On harder 
 difficulty settings expect enemies to actively hunt you down and finish you off should they get 
 a hit on you.
  
  The level design is also superb with every stage offering something different, there are no weak 
 moments and every one you will want to play through again. Yes the game is short and a few levels 
 are nothing more than interactive cut scenes but I would take this superior quality over average 
 quantity any day (ironically just like Black) . To give details would spoil the surprises and ruin 
 the story, which is surprisingly good. This isn't Shakespeare by any means but the fact the story 
 is enough to make you care about the playable characters is saying something considering this is 
 a pretty straight forward FPS war game.
  
  All in all this is a highly polished and almost definitive example of how to do justice to this 
 type of game, presentation, gameplay, replay ability are second to none - and I havn't even mentioned 
 the multiplayer yet.
  
  With good reason. I'm still not on X-Box live (disgraceful I know!) However from what I'm told 
 the multiplayer is as good as, if not better than the solo campaign and who am I to argue with 
 common opinion?
  
  If you like a good FPS (and to be honest, who doesn't?) you owe it to yourself to get this game, 
 I would honeslty rather play through this than Halo 3 and that surely is praise enough.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryde_rebel93
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 4:16 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty leaves its old World War II roots to be set in a modern time. You play as two characters. 
 A British S. A. S and an US Marine. 
  
  That gameplay is as the same as other Call of Duty games. Only the weapons change. Using new modern 
 technology, the weapons suit its gameplay leaving you to use all the weapons available.
  
  Multiplayer is the best by far. I can't say its better than Halo 3, only to say it RIVALS it. Its 
 highly addictive. With all your favourite game-types. Think of Call of Duty 4 as Counter-Strike 
 the upgraded version.
  
  I can't say much, but Call of Duty 4 rivals Halo 3 and is indeed worth the buy and kept as a collection. 
 One of the best games of the year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danishkhan
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 16, 2007 2:00 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is probably the best shooter if not the best game on the xbox 360 
 to date. I've been waiting nearly a year now for a game. This is by far the best COD I've played. 
 It's very entertaining, you don't want to put down the controller once you start playing. It's 
 that addicting.
  
  One of The Best and a very solid game that can take GAME OF THE YEAR easily.
  
  The graphics 
 are far superior with this title then its predecessors as they were able to add in a lot more detail 
 and the modern look won us all over from the first screenshot.
  
  The single player in Call of Duty 4 will, no doubt offer an intensive, exciting new experience 
 like we have ever played with before, it looks that good. Offering 10-15 hours, it'll keep you 
 busy and coming back for more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gaeren
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 16, 2007 11:21 am PT
Review:  Every great game has that one defining "whoa" moment. A feeling of a great idea coming together, 
 an evocation of gaming bliss, or emotional immersion, or graphical genius in design.
  
  COD4 had 8 of these moments for me in the first hour of gameplay. The feeling of realism is only 
 offset by the fact that you have a controller in your hands. It's amazing. There are environmental 
 sequences that i don't want to ruin for you that leave me speechless. They are just amazing. Tension 
 tension everywhere I say.
  
  Speaking of tension... let's get to a technical issue that some may love and others will definitely 
 hate: Infinite Respawn. Yeah, it's there, and yeah it'll tick you off. For those of you thinking 
 ahead, yes... it also means that there are inherent limitations and cycles to persitent damage in 
 the engine and game world. The basic skinny for those not familiar with the jargin is this:
  
  You enter a room. 5 baddies, okay take em out. The next checkpoint is at the end of the next 
 hall. You lolligag about (no one uses that term anymore. I'm tryin to bring it back) , and more 
 enemies come-a-runnin. You take them out too. Wash, rinse, repeat. Sensing a pattern? Unless you 
 cross the next checkpoint, endless baddies will keep coming. The idea is to keep the pressure on 
 you to keep moving, and mostly it works pretty well. However there are two major problems with 
 this mentality... the artistic, and the pragmatic.
  
  The artistic issue is that if you're thorough like me, like you like to clear the room and know 
 you're safe before proceeding... well that's right out the window.
  
  The pragmatic problem is that there can only be so much going on in any finite game engine, before 
 framerate and freeze finally become a fatal issue. i. e.- You won't be filling a room with 50 terrorist 
 bodies. The game would freeze, and we'd be awful angry. No instead, you'll eventually witness the 
 magic of dissappearing bodies. Most games are pretty subtle about this, when they have to do it, 
 and i pray when I run acrossed it here, it'll be the same.
  
  Anyway that aside, there's little to complain about. Yeah the campaign is short, but so intense 
 that when you beat it you'll need two weeks shore leave. Oye!
  
  The graphics are beautiful, we all knew they would be. The story is engaging, and the action is 
 top tier. So why are you wasting time reading this and not playing? Sheesh..... rookies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gryphor84
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 10:18 am PT
Review:  This is just a wonderful game and is amazing on Xbox live!! This is a MUST have for anyone who 
 remotely likes FPS's!! I am loving every minute of this game!! This game has a wonderful single 
 payer mode as well. This one just blows me away! I have been waiting for this baby! I love the 
 ranking system as well!! It would not be as cool without a good ranking system. This game is just 
 great fun for anyone and all there friends. I have a BLAST playing this game with all of my roomates. 
 This is a game that you could play on Xbox life for years! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Import2Ner
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 5, 2008 9:13 pm PT
Review:  A fresh and much needed break from World War II games, Infinity Ward has raised the bar in first-person 
 shooters and does it well. The moment you step foot into the SAS training facility, you know you 
 are in for one helluva ride with modern weapons, a feasible scenario, and teammates that actually 
 do something for you. I have finished the single player campaign on hardcore difficulty and my 
 jaw still hurts from it staying on the ground throughout the two days I took playing Call of Duty 
 4: Modern Warfare. This game is simply amazing!
  
  
  Graphics
  If I can put it into one word, it would be gorgeous! Graphics are truly next-gen in COD 4 and you'll 
 notice it. Dust particles float through the air, characters are realistic and move fluidly, and 
 the lighting in the game is just plain awesome. The weapons are just as beautiful if you can even 
 take note of them as you're fighting for your life in any one of the 17 missions of the game. Ghillie 
 suits are amazing and it's easy to lose track of your teammate if you're not too careful because 
 the developers did a superb job in recreating them.
  
  
  Gameplay
  COD 4 is easy to pick up and hard to put down. You have a nice mix of action and stealth that are 
 all equally intense for a player. Add to that four difficulty settings, it is easy for anyone, 
 whether new or familiar to first-person shooters, to pick up the game and play. The Artificial 
 Intelligence is not too bad at all and your teammates will actually help you out and kill the bad 
 guys for a change. There are some frustrating moments that I've encountered and times where I had 
 to stop playing for a little while to get refreshed but the added challenge and effort you take 
 to accomplish the mission is well worth the reward when you succeed. There's even a level where 
 you're in an AC-130 Spectre gunship covering allied troops, which is one of my personal favorite 
 missions. The detail in that mission alone is pretty much spot on and looks just like the real 
 thing from my experience serving in the military for five years.
  
  
  Sound
  From radio chatter to the zings of bullets flying past your ear, the sound department did a great 
 job. If you have a surround sound system, you have to use it for this game but it sounds pretty 
 good on a regular set-up as well. You'll be immersed in the environment in no time with the help 
 of all the great sound effects and music in the game.
  
  
  Multiplayer
  Multiplayer is one of the best the 360 has to offer and is one of the reasons I purchased this 
 game. You begin as a level one recruit with few options but once you gain rank (which is pretty 
 quick and easy) you can customize your soldier more to your liking. Skill is gained from kills, 
 assists, and successful missions. At rank four, you can create and save up to five different classes 
 for quick and easy selection on missions. In addition, you can select different perks for your 
 soldier that include anything from detecting explosive devices to making a last stand, a perk that 
 allows you to pull out your handgun as you're dying to try and avenge your impending doom. Level 
 five allows you to unlock challenges, where upon completion; you unlock more accessories for your 
 weapons like silencers, scopes, and different camouflage schemes. Multiplayer on Call of Duty 4 
 is just plain fun and this is coming from a guy who doesn't play online much. 
  
  
  Conclusion
  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare does a good job in the franchise's line of great games 
 and is a must buy for anyone owning a 360 console. The improvements Infinity Ward has done on the 
 game engine and everything else is phenomenal and I am definitely anticipating the next release 
 they are putting together. After many developers have overplayed the World War II era, COD 4 brings 
 a breath of fresh air to the military shooter genre that's pretty easy for a beginner to pick up. 
 The game is well worth the money spent whether you buy the regular version or the collectors edition, 
 which has some pretty interesting stories on the SAS, some developer videos as well as a hardcover 
 art book that is nice to look at. Be prepared for some tense, but fun moments during firefights 
 as well as some equally frustrating moments too. Don't give up when you do hit that barrier, though, 
 because the campaign is fun to play through its entirety. Also, please watch through all the credits 
 when you first beat the game, there's an extra bit of fun at the end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trapezanidis
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 8, 2008 3:26 am PT
Review:  Ok lets start with the singel player mode (Campaign Mode) . The game starts out with u being a 
 new SAS Recrut u start out in a freindley army bass u go though some tests like shooting targets
 
  getting to know the controls an stuff how to knife how to aim your gun ,etc ,etc, and after all 
 that
  u get called into your first taste of battel u are in a chopper with your team mates just about 
 to go green light u have to clear out some bad guys on a big tanker ship u rappel with a rope down 
 from the chopper on to ground as soon as u hit the ground theres 4 or more bad guys in a room u 
 catch them by superise and you and your team kill em without a hassel thats all im gonna say about 
 that level so i dont reck your gamepaly in this singel player mode u get to be two types of army 
 men
  u first start out as SAS then u get to be US MARINE CROP u take turns in the story so one time 
 u be SAS then next misson u might be US MARINE CROP one time u get to be a gun ship in the air 
 
  helping SAS move though a level shooting from above only once u get to be a gun ship in the whole 
 singel player mode the bad part is singel player is so short u can complete it in too or one day 
 if u get stuck to it i finshed singel player in too days myslef but yeh apart from that so little 
 singel player mode the game is a blast from the past best graphics awesome gameplay and what makes 
 it even better its modern war i strongley recamend u too buy this game its a must have 
  for any hardcore war game fan 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dippy88
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 4:40 am PT
Review:  Well, what can I say?
  
  This is probably the best game i've ever played, the graphics are insane and it is close to looking 
 completely real, the multiplayer is fantastic with all the "levels" and unlocks you can get to 
 improve your player (or not improve in some cases ;) )
  
  I also like the difficulty settings.
  
  I have played it on Recruit, Regular, Hard, and Veteren;
 
  Recruit is extremely easy, Regular is easy, Hard is just right in my opinion, and Veteren is insane. 
 I started the game on regular, then moved to hard and now i'm on Veteren which is like impossible 
 :P 
  
  There is only 1 flaw, and that is the length of the game, it's stupidly small, which is what only 
 stops it for getting a 10. I just wish they made it like another 10 hours longer atleast, because 
 it's so good you never want it to end... Like the mission as a sniper which will blow you away!
 
  
  The story on single player is fantastic and well thought out, I won't really say much about it 
 because I don't want to ruin it for anyone, but basically you play as two soliders, a English SAS 
 special forces solider called Soap and a USMC American solider called Jackson. I also like it that 
 the English soliders don't sound like the queen like most Americans seem to think the English sound 
 like... So maybe that will teach them something they don't learn in school :P They sound pretty 
 authentic which is cool :)
  
  Anyway to round it all off, this is a fantastic game which anyone will love and play, don't be 
 to put off with Single Player being so small, because Multiplayer is just as good.
  
  If you don't have Xbox Live I suggest renting it first would be a better option.
  
  Thanks 
 for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: canlase
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 3:30 am PT
Review:  This is by far the best COD I've played. It's very entertaining, you don't want to put down the 
 controller once you start playing. It's that addicting. 
  
  I just finished playing the single player campaign, and it took me 6 hours. It's a bit short but 
 I don't mind playing it again on a more difficult level.
  
  I wouldn't say this game blows all competition in the graphics department but there are parts of 
 the game that are really stunning, like the sniper mission. 
  
  I still haven't tried online multiplayer though, but I'm sure I won't be dissapointed.
  
  I'm 
 very impressed with this game. You won't regret purchasing this game if you decide to get one. 
 This game is a keeper.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sullie
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 16, 2007 2:28 am PT
Review:  Well I am writing from the perspective of someone that does not have access to xbox live. After 
 playing through the campaign all I can say is wow. Yes the campaign is pretty short, but it's still 
 long enough to not make it feel like you're being cut short. There is also a large variety of situations 
 the game puts you in, it isn't all running and gunning. The graphics in this game are off the chart, 
 far better than anything I've seen to date. Sound is also amazing, especially if you have a home 
 entertainment system to put it to good use. Full surround sound really kicks this game up a notch. 
 Controls are tight and aiming is easy. I would also say this game is more challenging than previous 
 COD games, which is a good thing. Any fan of shooters should pick this title up right away. Perfect. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS360Fanboy
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 16, 2007 12:12 am PT
Review:  Having owned the game for 7 days now, and played through the story twice and the multiplayer almost 
 constantly, I feel it's time to give a review! 
  
  It was an interesting move for the Call of Duty series to venture away from their WWII 'safety-zone' 
 but then again, we've seen the ending of WWII more times than we've had hot dinners, so the formula 
 was getting a little old. Needless to say, the 'modern' update is refreshing and new. 
  
  The story has you playing as both an S. A. S soldier (Soap MacTavish) and a few U. S. M. C soldiers 
 (depending on mission location) . Both styles are fundamentally different, with your S. A. S missions 
 focussing on stealth, and point-entry whilst the Marines missions focus on supporting, reclaiming 
 ground, and neutralising confilct zones. Absolutely needless to say, but both sides offer a rich 
 gaming experience and there's fantastic character building on the S. A. S missions; you really feel 
 like part of the team. 
  
  I won't go into too much detail on the story, because I don't want to give anything away, it's 
 hands down the best FPS story I've ever played (and yes, it beats Bioshock in my opinion) and it'll 
 give you many many hours enjoyment as you'll want to play it again and again! One technical thing 
 I thought I'd throw in is that the game is recorded at 60fps, so it's super smooth even on 1080i! 
 This is also true for multiplayer! 
  
  Moving on, I suppose Call of Duty's crowning glory has always been the multiplayer. Call of Duty 
 2 was incredible, and 3 was on par albeit slightly less fluid compared to its predecessor. It goes 
 without saying that Call of Duty 4 is hands-down the best multiplayer experience I've ever had! 
 Everything is brilliantly thought out and the levels are designed fantastically. There are so many 
 features I want to talk about! 
  
  Perks: Everyone knows about these from the beta, but there's some confusion to the levelling and 
 over-powering that perks give you... Basically, they don't. Perks are decent, and useful, but they 
 are not overpowering whatsoever. Yes, there's a perk to shoot through walls, but only if the walls 
 are pretty thin and made of a lighter material. So you can't shoot through thick building walls 
 or anything. 
  
  Another important aspect of the 'perks' is that you only get the very best ones when your rank 
 is very high, and that takes a long time to achieve. There's a ranks system in COD4s multiplayer 
 where you get promoted based on EXP gained from killing opponents, meeting challenge requirements 
 etc.. and it's well balanced to take people a long time before they get the best weapons. And by 
 best, I mean different. Fundamentally the weapons have similar stats, it's just having the prestige 
 of using fancy weapons over bog standard ones. 
  
  But yeah, as you can probably tell by now, I think the game is very good. I'm also 100% certain 
 that my thoughts are echoed across many of the thousands of current online players out there. Get 
 this game, you'll lose your life, but by God is this a worthwhile game to lose it to! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bentleylax2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 10:11 pm PT
Review:  If you are interested in a mix between the call of duty games and ghost recon series you will fall 
 in love with this game. It mixes the intensity of the call of duty, with some of the tactical and 
 progressive gameplay that the ghost recon has become synonmous with. As the WWII genre continues 
 to get played out by numerous developers, Call of Duty made the jump to modern warfare and it has 
 paid off.
  
  The gameplay is fabulous. The controls are tight, and the weapons are all unique. So unique that 
 my roomate and I have been playing non stop to get the latest upgrades (which are actually meaningful) 
 to augment our favorite weapons power. It is unbelievable how fun this is, because unlike halo 
 or the like, each person can play with their own style and make the game their own. Everything 
 is balanced.
  
  As for the single player, it is fast paced and exciting as always, but is pretty short. This may 
 be one of the only issues with the game, (aside from spawn killing, and some xbox live issues) 
 but its still worth the $60 you spend on it. Id pay $80 personally, for the sheer enjoyment i have 
 gotten out of it. So if you enjoy multyuplayer games, this is the one for you on this system hands 
 down. Matches are always intense and no map ever feels exactly the same. Everything has a counter 
 if you find it, and requires a lot of mental thought as well as skill with the game pad. Give it 
 a shot, and you may never play halo again! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lancealot325
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 7:45 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard of COD 4, my first thought was "Oh god, another WWII shooter? And after playing 
 the abysmal Hour Of Victory, I would need a really good WWII game to cheer me up." Then, I figured 
 out it would take place in today's world... Modern Warfare. Oh yeah, I couldn't wait for it to 
 come out. 
  
  The game takes a radical departure becuase for once in COD histroy, it doesn't take place in WWII 
 like I mentioned. Anyways, there is a civil war taking place in Russia. Somebody wants power, and 
 wants to literaily kill for it. You play as S. A. S commandos or the U. S Marines. Either way, even 
 during training, the weapons are awesome to use and awesome to fire, and to take the enmy down 
 with. The story is well thought out, and has clever twists mixed in. Hell, in the first mission, 
 when you're escaping, you'll have to make a "leap of faith". Don't worry, its all good. You'll 
 love the weapons and the gunfights mixed in. It all wraps up with such greatness, you'll be like 
 "I'm I even playing a Call of Duty game?" Seriously, its just that good. Though the campaign could've 
 been just a little longer. You'll love the ending. I gurantee it.
  
  In the end, COD 4 is the game that follows up Halo 3. If you've finished playing Halo 3 and have 
 some money to spare, go ahead and get this awesome piece of work. With an outstanding story and 
 outstanding gameplay, COD 4 won't dissapoint you.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cheese_Wow
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 6:45 pm PT
Review:  I haven't really had much of a time to play this game, becasue i do not own it, but those few hours 
 were the sweetest ones i had spend all month. 
  
  Graphics: 5/5 Great graphics. Nothing ever drops below 60 frames per second, meaning your get smooth 
 actions during gameplay so you can see every inch of your victims fall as they realize they no 
 longer have a working heart. Shots pass thorugh victims and emerge from the other side with a surprising 
 amount of blood, that splatters like in movies (Becasue i've never seen blood like that in Real 
 life) . You'll find yourself in the midst of battle staring at the tall grass as it flows in the 
 breeze, the suddle movement of the enemy in the shadows. All in all, just magnificent.
  
  Gameplay: 4/5 Though the gameplay is impressive, it feels as though you get killed way to fast 
 at sometimes. But other than that the gameplay is smooth. You really need to watch where you shoot:
 
  head - instant kill
  arm - enemy can't use weapon for a period of time and runs away 
  chest - they get hurt, but not downed (Last stand kicks in if you lose all your health from the 
 chest and not the head)
  leg - trips the character, making them try to crawl away.
  (note: this is stuff i noticed in single player, ecept for the chest part)
  The fact that you 
 can shoot through some walls, really adds a great stratigic aspect to this game. did you see them 
 run behind that sign? No worries, shoot at the spot you think they ar at. As well as the special 
 abilities in multiplayer (only 2 that i've witnessed)
  
  last stand - if you arn't shot in the head when you die, you character pulls out the secondary 
 pistol, and you are able to cap off a few rounds, unless your enemy shoots you again. I've killed 
 some people a few times using this, and it really helps in some situations. Unfortunanly you canont 
 be revived from it (unless you have a medic... idk, mabey not i'm just guressing at that) . pressing 
 X, or the "cowards way out", automatically kills you, so make sure you at least pop some rounds 
 into the air and yell out  before you run to the light.
 
  
  Grenade drop - ANTI T-BAGGAGE ANYONE?! seriously, this is useful against those who like to take 
 a congraduatory T-bag, or just decide to walk over your dead body. This ability allows you to drop 
 a grenade when you die so anyone near you is instantly killed... or injured.
  
  story mode: well i didn't play much of this but i can say one thing... The intro is amazing. The 
 sinking boat took me a few times to catch up to my squadron, but in the end it was all good, because 
 that idiot finally decided to help me on the chopper as i was slipping off. but all in all pretty 
 good so far. i'll update as i play more of it.
  
  well thats all the info i have right now, i'll update as i play so heads up.
  As of right now 
 we give Call of Duty 4... a 9.5/10
  
  [] === {} ======== Reviewed by the Sun Assassins 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wargammerzs
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 15, 2007 6:19 pm PT
Review:  Great game, Great graphics, Most realistic game I have played in a while.
  I would strongly recommend anyone to play this game!!!! Plot great, story pretty good. The live 
 really brings out the multiplayer option also. I play this game every day and look forward to it 
 at school. The difficulty is also pretty good once you get used to playing it but of course if 
 you have the 4th one you've probably played atleast one of the previous games. I love this game 
 also mainly because i love those WW2 1st person shooter games too. Overall this game is great, 
 good multiplayer, great to play with friends, good graphics, and gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tobiascra
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 28, 2008 9:42 am PT
Review:  We all know the Call Of Duty series as being one of the best series of games on the market and 
 this new installment is no exception from straight away as the campaign starts and your briefed 
 you can see that there has been a lot of work put into this game.
  The campaign is as I said in the title short and sweet every mission from start to finish is superb 
 this is a must buy title for the 360 it delivers every aspect of what Im sure real war would be 
 like from stealth sniping to tactically taking out enemies room by room, I few times in the game 
 you are required to use your night vision which has been designed perfectly as you can see a laser 
 from your gun and the various lasers from your team mates guns. 
  There are numerous little bits throughout the game where aspects of war really shine through for 
 example In one mission you are crossing a field at night and an enemy helicopter is patrolling 
 the area as you travel across this field the helicopter gets closer and closer, to dodge being 
 seen you and your squad must go prone and stay very still as the helicopter passes little bits 
 like this make the game feel like hard work has been put into it and its worth the wait and the 
 money.
  Whereas the only con about this game is the campaign is very short but the multiplayer just compensates 
 in every way possible !!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adamfields87
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 2:30 pm PT
Review:  First the bad news: I realize that the Call of Duty franchise has never used a cover system. In 
 fact, had it used a cover system, it would have basically been the big brother of the Brothers 
 in Arms series. And, you really don't have much time to duck behind cover in the CoD titles. I 
 just wish they could have included it with this new title because I personally really enjoy sticking 
 to cover, popping out and shooting in short bursts, and playing fairly tactically. Nobody's done 
 this better than Rainbow Six: Vegas. I digress.
  
  CoD4 is the best game to be released on the XBOX 360. The gameplay is frantic, yet satisfying. 
 Character models are absolutely spot on. Virtual Marines are the best they've ever looked. The 
 graphics, animations, textures and lighting are top notch. The audio is unbelievably depantsing. 
 If you scare easily, wear a diaper before filling that tray with the game disc.
  
  To put it simply, CoD4 is worth it's value in gold. It's a wonderful experience, and definitely 
 worth the challenge on Hardened or Veteran mode. The multiplayer component is Grade A, and you'll 
 be wholly content and overly satisfied with your purchase. Way to go Infinity Ward. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tyzwain
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 15, 2007 12:17 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is easily the most refreshing FPS in a VERY long time. My reasons? Well you can't 
 really tell simply by reading this review. Its an experience you'll never want to forget.
  
  Call of Duty has come a long way from it's original PC title. Back then Medal of Honor dominated 
 the market for WW2 FPS titles, but Call of Duty was something different. You actually felt part 
 of a squad, you felt like you meant nothing, and I loved every second of it. 
  
  So, with the fourth installment of Call of Duty they finally decided to drop the World War Two 
 act. Obviously some gaming ultra-conservatives will merely shun this game, but the new approach 
 seems to be working. The World War Two series has been swamped by games, Medal of Honor, Wolfenstein 
 (with a sci-fi edge) , Call of Duty, Brothers in Arms and countless RTS games. So a wise decision 
 (personal opinion again) to change to a modern scenario. And what is more chaotic then modern warfare?
 
  
  The Call of Duty series is all about feeling part of war. The impact of the first one, as explained 
 before, was amazing. But I felt that after numerous games trying to copy that feeling COD lost 
 its edge. Now with modern warfare, its faster, more deadly, more hectic, battlefields aren't numbered, 
 there is no blueprints for battle, the game takes a toll on your health.
  
  Try and understand. The game has you placed as a soldier, and you can watch your team-mates die, 
 they get shot through a door. Now replay that again and they don't die. See how these things change? 
 Its all about whats going to happen next. One of the best things of COD4 is the cover. With other 
 games you could hide behind a book and not be damaged. However COD4 has you wondering whether those 
 bullet holes were from your side or the enemies. Or simply shoot an enemy through the door and 
 open it to stare at a corpse.
  
  Not realistic enough? Try running out of a sinking ship after being knocked over by constant movement, 
 with the ship sinking at an angle. Or try walking around a nuclear holocaust, only to end up dying 
 anyway? These little parts make you FEEL part of the game. You forget about everything else, and 
 just focus on the game.
  
  The multiplayer is amazing as well. Not only does in incorporate everything above, but it also 
 adds a new element. With other online games such as Halo or Gears of War, your character differs. 
 Little things such as snipers dont appear on radar, heavy weaponary cuts through cover quicker 
 etc. All of these , plus the leveling up to acquire new game levels makes the multiplayer the main 
 reason for the game. Forget Warhawk, this game is everything you could want online.
  
  Now the only problem with the game is that it seems shorter then most modern games are. its approximately 
 (at hardest level) 8-10 hours worth of play. Trust me, play it on atleast normal difficulty otherwise 
 the game will be over in 4 hours.
  
  So, amazingly COD have done it again. This game has won me over again, and has turned the FPS genre 
 on its head. Well done Activison. Nice to see a game that focuses on British military more than 
 the US. That also makes it a rare and fine breed of game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: soupadewd
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 15, 2007 10:30 am PT
Review:  really shines. The only faults on multiplay are 
  
  -Trash Talkers
  -No teamwork everyone thinks hes rambo when he's clearly not. It just doesn't work like that you 
 end up losing that match for you and the rest of your team.
  -A lot of small counter strike sized maps.
  -No vehicles to use during battle which makes sense 
 since the publishers made death match type levels. It would be hard to ruin them through street 
 obstacles and debris.
  -Feels a little to much like COD 3.
  - No online achievement points... Why the hell they didn't include any is beyond me. If anything 
 it would give players more replay value so they keep coming back to it after the recent flood of 
 AAA titles recently
  
  Those are the only faults the game has from keeping it perfect 10.
  
  
  MUST BUY! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raven4d8
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2007 9:58 am PT
Review:  Call Of Duty 4 is probably the best shooter if not the best game on the xbox 360 to date. I finally 
 found my Socom fix on the 360 I've been waiting nearly a year now for a game that will kick some 
 A$$ online just like socom did for many many years and it looks like we have a winner.
  
  Everyone complaining about the story mode being to short. They are mostly the people who dont have 
 xbox live because the online truly makes up for the lenght of the single player. 
  
  The online is definitly where its at. WOW!!! you'll start off only using the basic weapon for each 
 class of weapons. In assault rifles for example you'll get the M16 to start off. Actually to this 
 date Im still kicking some butt with that gun its amazing.... just wait until you unlock a scope 
 for it then look out. I love all the unlockable contact make the game that much more exciting to 
 see what you will unlock next.
  
  Perks are awesome i still love being able to take a few last shots at the guy that just killed 
 me with the last stand perk... thats amazing... and if you have a fast shooting pistal then look 
 out... aim for the head. the melee is awesome as well... i've actually perfected my melee to where 
 as up close if someone doesnt kill me i will just slice them instead of shooting them and save 
 ammo for long distance fighting... 
  
  Sound is amazing, visually one of the best games on the xbox right up there with gears of war... 
 maybe better, controls are dead on... everything abotu this game is awesome...
  
  Drawbacks about this game is it will force you to get xbox live...
  
  i give this game a 10/10 
 easily 
::::::

::::::
UserName: da6t3
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 15, 2007 8:58 am PT
Review:  Very well done. I just wish the single player campaign would have been longer. Other than that, 
 I have no complaints. It was suggested that I play it on "Regular". In order to extend my own game 
 playing experience, I decided to play the single player campaign a level above the games recommendation, 
 on "Hardened". "I don't play games on "Normal!" I declared. Because I allowed my ego to be involved 
 in my decision making process I soon realized that what I had done, could not be undone. Needless 
 to say, I was killed repeatedly. So much in fact, that I would become quite frustrated attempting 
 to complete a certain level or two. I would restart the entire level (after an hour or two of grueling 
 self-humiliation) and search for a better solution to the same problem. That helped. Sometimes. 
 Now it's time for the multi-player sessions. Hoo-rah! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lil_zelda_dude
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 15, 2007 7:35 am PT
Review:  COD4, I was so suprised really, I knew the game was hyped at E3 and now I finally know why, COD4 
 never gets old, from the sniper missions (hiding in the freakin grass is awesome) to dressing up 
 like your enemies this game will continue to throw out varied missions, that is until you beat 
 it in about two days. Knowing that these guys come from a back ground of World War II games these 
 guys brought more guns and gadgets than series that have been making modern warfare games. You 
 can shoot through thin walls use night vision, where the enemies arent magically enhanced with 
 nightvision eyes, and kill them stealthily. 
  The battles are continue to suprise, and the Multiplayer is also very strong. Multiplayer is somewhat 
 like Halo 3's multiplayer in that you level up, but if you lose you dont have to worrry about getting 
 marked down for it, you actually always gain points no matter what, this is great and makes it 
 seem like the game is always moving on. Although this game is pretty short the multiplayer will 
 more than ever make up for it all, and the single player game is just a great treat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: J_Fernandez
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 6:56 am PT
Review:  Only one complaint about COD4, no online Co-Op. Other than that this game absolutely blew me away. 
 I bought COD4 as a game to hold me over until Assassins Creed, and it ended up being just so much 
 more. Infinity Ward really upped the bar on the typical war shooter with this game. This game experience 
 is more similar to Rainbow 6 Vegas (also awesome) than the previous COD's (minus the cover system) . 
 I'm playing the MP a lot right now, and like it a lot, but the single player was probably the best 
 i've ever played. The graphics and sound on a nice system is amazing. The SP isn't very long, but 
 i don't feel it was short either. If keeping the game shorter is what they needed to do to make 
 the game as intense as it is, then i'm all for it. I'd much rather have 5 hours of bliss than 10 
 hours of boring sameness. This game is an absolute must buy. I'm a previous Halo fan, and enjoyed 
 H3. It doesn't excite me to say that i liked this game a lot better than H3, but i did. The single 
 player story is gripping and just so well done.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ternimator07
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 15, 2007 6:52 am PT
Review:  Single Player:
  The single player has you up against Russian Super-nationalists and Middle-eastern armies, you 
 play as both a US Marine and a SAS recruit. The story is interesting and you care about the games 
 characters more than you did in the WW2 counterparts. If you've read any reviews of the game you 
 will understand that it is a short one, and truly it is, you can easily finish it in 6 hours on 
 Regular difficulty, however when played on Veteran the length increases dramatically. Overall the 
 single Player rates: 8/10
  
  Multi-player:
  This is were the game truly shines, the multiplayer in Modern Warfare is addicting and loads of 
 fun. All ranked matches follow an advanced ranking system which goes from private (lvl1) to Commander 
 (lvl55) , and you unlock weapons and perks (skills) on the way up. The Gameplay is just made for 
 multi-player, the controls are perfect and you never blame the game if you die. Overall multi-player 
 rates: 9,5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warlord20
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 5:44 am PT
Review:  I've played all the Call Of Dutys' and i really enjoyed part 2 but not part 3 as much so i wasn't 
 sure how part 4 would turn out but i must confess, this game turned out to be great. 
  
  The graphics are very improved (one of the best jin most games out now) and it feels like you are 
 playing a movie instead of a game. Its so easy to get totally wrapped up in this game. The sound 
 effects are great. All the explosions and gun fire together with the controller vibrations give 
 the feeling you are actually there. 
  
  The game has a great story line. I would have to say that the game is fairly short but where the 
 game lacks in that aspect it really compensates but making the game totally action packed. There 
 is never a dull moment and the replay value is good also. Some parts can be frustrating but when 
 you finally get passed it you feel great. 
  
  Another addition to the Call Of Duty game are the dogs. This was an interesting addition too. However 
 small an addition this may be i think it really improved the reality aspect of the game. These 
 dogs are demons from hell... lol. 
  
  This is definantly a game for your collection. Go Get It. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: titanic100
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 1:49 am PT
Review:  Call of duty 4 modern warfare review 
  
  Graphics. 
  
  The graphics in this game are a lot better than call of duty 2 and 3 and the night vision, well 
 it makes you feel like you are really their in the game. 
  
  And when you are shot at the controller shakes to tell you that you have been shot at, blood on 
 the screen and it also tells you where you have been shot from. And when you die it comes up with 
 a saying from a book I think. 
  
  Well when you are being attacked by a dog the dog rips you apart and you have to get him off of 
 you and when he does bite you a lot of blood is on the screen. 
  
  Sound. 
  
  The sound in the game is very good and even better when you are firing a gun, the helicopters when 
 the are in flight are very good and when they are firing at you, and when you are using a rocket 
 launcher and it locks on to the target it beeps and then it will tell you that it has locked on 
 to the target then you fire and when you destroy the target the explosions are fantastic. 
  
  And when you are firing a gun from a gunship helicopter and you switch to the different types 
 of weapons and you choose the cannon and it fires and hits the ground if is fantastic. 
  
  Game play
  
  The game play is very good but it is a shame that the campaign missions are short 
 but they are really fun and funny to play. And the quotes are very funny one that I remember is 
 
  
  When the pin is pulled Mr Grenade is not your friend. 
  
  So I would say get this game it is very good.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MavrikAZ
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 15, 2007 12:10 am PT
Review:  The game overall is very impressive both graphically as well as playability. My biggest complaint 
 & dissappointment about the game was in it's multiplayer arena. While it is very well done and 
 better than virtually all other online shooters except for Halo3. While getting into multiplayer 
 and playing it I found areas in this game that were missing that many other online games do have. 
 First off my brother & I were hoping to be able to both go online & play against others from the 
 same Xbox console (I was visiting) . However that's not an option. No guests or split screen online 
 play. Why not? & why not online co-op play? Other great games have it! Halo 3, Gears of War, Ghost 
 Recon, Rainbow 6: Las Vegas. You can only play against others on the same console via spit-screen 
 or system link.
  The other thing I found myself doing after playing multiplayer for a little bit was going back 
 to CALL OF DUTY 3 to play some good old tanks. Where's the vehicles? I understand the developers 
 last CoD was actually #2 which didn't have vehicles either but our modern forces uses vehicles: 
 copters, tanks, humvees, etc.. Not to beat a dead horse but. . . Halo 3 has vehicles. It would 
 have put another variation into the fps type game instead of just run and shoot.
  Don't get me wrong. This is a great game & I do give it a 9 for graphics, playability, sound effects, 
 replay value & the multiplayer is alot of fun and they've done alot w/ the different classes you 
 can pick and custom design and upgrade. Just with all the hype of this game I expected it too have 
 all the bells and whistles of other games and more. 
  Oh...& p. s. For those developers out there: some of us are NOT tired of the WWII genre. If they 
 could make another WWII game as good as COD: Modern Warfare or Halo3 & not cheaply made as some 
 other games, it will sell & be bought. It's still an extremely fun and attractive time period with 
 many areas and scenarios (theatres) that could be explored: the Pacific theater w/ the Japanese, 
 the tank battles in Africa w/ Rommel, snow battles w/ vehicles, bridge battles, etc. But spend 
 the money & take time to make it well thru out: campaign, controls, fps, multiplayer, no glitches 
 etc. & people would buy it. thx. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JupMan321
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 14, 2007 9:54 pm PT
Review:  The short single player game is the only real let down of COD 4. With the advanced graphics, weapons 
 realism, and playability, there's not much else wrong with this game. I do wish involvement with 
 more vehicles was an option, but it's not an issue. Besides, who hasn't wanted to work the weapons 
 systems of a AC 130 Gunship??!! :-)
  
  Options on the game were also a big help. After you complete the game's main story line, you're 
 able to pick and choose what level you'd like to play. The Multi-player is a bit difficult to figure 
 out when configuring it, but once you get past that the multi-player maps are wonderful and refreshing! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vidbusters
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 14, 2007 9:44 pm PT
Review:  The online play is outstanding. Especially in terms of gameplay organization. No sitting around 
 waiting for people to join, like a lot of games recently, such as Rainbow Six Vegas, which is a 
 great online game, but you spend half of your online gaming time waiting in lobbies. COD4 organizes 
 the gameplay and you wait at most less than 5% of your time in lobbies. The gameplay is relentless. 
 Also, online "rewards" are generous and keep on coming, giving you lots of motivation to play every 
 hour. You get constant weapon upgrades, both functional upgrades, i. e. attachments, new weapons 
 and selection of cammos. Also, lots of different game types to choose from as well. Team Deathmatch 
 and Free For All tend to attract the Halo types, who are continuously earning a bad reputation 
 for poor sportsmanship, but you have a good balance with the "good guys" who are online gamers 
 who have reflected the generally more mature, encouraging and cooperative online gaming culture 
 that seems to more generally follow the military sims and Star Wars games. You'll see more of these 
 types in game modes like Search and Destroy, which doesn't reward the "halo types," since you can't 
 respawn and need to coordinate with your team.
  The single player is great from the standpoint of contant achievements - again, constant encouragement 
 to keep you wanting to play nonstop, which I think is great.
  
  The visual effects are fantastic, although I can see a need for a map pack or two pretty quick. 
 There are only a few maps, and while all very great in their own respect, I think you'll find yourself 
 wanting more, especially snow environments and places other than those in Iraq that will take you 
 back to the environments you liked from the old CODs.
  
  My only complaint is on sound. Games like Lost Planet have been amazing on surround sound and great 
 bass with explosions. COD4 sounds like 2.1 at best, so don't expect much here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kiri90
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 14, 2007 9:09 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is one of the best games to be released this year. From the onset of the campaign, 
 the player is dazzled by the stunning visuals, as well as the superior gameplay. This newest installment 
 brings forth the best experience of any Call of Duty, since the player is able to associate himself 
 with the weapons, dialogue, and situations. 
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is very well done, along with the great AI of your teammates. You will find 
 yourself being saved several times throughout the game by squad. The guns function just right, 
 and provide the player with ample chance to do what he/she wishes.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are amazing! The details in the game can be clearly seen, especially with 
 and HD ty. The other awesome thing is that the graphics maintain their quality online, unlike some 
 games.
  
  Sound: The sound is great. When explosions occur near you, it will really make you feel as if you're 
 in the action.
  
  Multiplayer: Not enough can be said about the multiplayer. Players are given plenty of options 
 to customize their weapons, as well as given challenges to complete throughout, the allow the player 
 to continue to want to play. Lag is not an issue most times, and the competition online is intense, 
 and provides something for everyone to love with many game types available. The singleplayer is 
 very good, however, online is where this game really excels.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: marlow875
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 7:05 pm PT
Review:  I think it is a very good game but it would have been cool if we could have played coop off line 
 and online but overall its a very good game and i highly suggest it. Its the best of all 4 games 
 it is the latest in x box live game and is one of the best right next to halo3. A hard core modern 
 shooter that shows the reality of a real life shooter. You can just keep playing and playing the 
 online multi player until you drop. Has a well based story line that will grind it down to the 
 bone until its nothing but pure awesomeness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DanStepanik66
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 6:45 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is without a doubt one of the best shooters to date. The single player campaign 
 is short and lacking co op but it makes up for it in challenge and sheer replay value will probably 
 last you 12-20 hours. Playing through on normal might seem like a decent challenge but once you 
 take a step into hardened and veteran it takes the game in a whole different direction. Dying in 
 2-4 hits makes this game an insane challenge to get all the gamer points. Now the multi-player 
 on the other hand is possibly the best Xbox Live has to offer. The amount of customization and 
 possible class structures is insane. It rewards players for being good and doesn't deny worse players 
 form the same equipment. Even with all the 50+ ranked guys starting with basic weapons will not 
 hinder your chances of winning. Now to the negatives. While the single player has a decent length 
 and story some might be turned off at playing through on a higher difficulty due to challenge and 
 no co op which would have been nice. Multi-player is outstanding but due to spawn camping and the 
 annoying people on Xbox Live it might make you stray from playing it very long. Bottom line if 
 you even have the slightest interest in a good shooter or war game buy this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: onemileperhour
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 6:22 pm PT
Review:  the first thing i did was beat it on hardened difficulty, which whooped my butt up and down Chernobyl. 
 i hated it. and loved every moment. the story is the best i've seen from a shooter in quite some 
 time. after every amazing set piece i was swearing up a storm about how good it was. multiplayer 
 is awesome. lately it's had some connection problems but that should be fixed soon. in many ways 
 the best multiplayer shooter on the market because of the continuous stream of weapons and "power 
 ups" that are unlocked. it really makes me want to max out my character because you keep getting 
 crap until the very end 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrokenDreams13
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 14, 2007 5:41 pm PT
Review:  Storyline: 8/10
  Gameplay: 9/10
  Controls: 9/10
  Graphics: 10/10
  Sound: 10/10
  Value: 9.5/10
  Overall: 9.3/10
  
  
  The word on the street is that World War II is old, 
 boring, and played out in the realm of videogames, and this simple notion propelled Infinity Ward 
 onto their most ambitious project yet, Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare. The team actually began 
 working on this title right after the release of their last game, Call of Duty 2, hence the lack 
 of Infinity Ward's logo on the cover of Call of Duty 3. So while they were away on their two year 
 hiatus a few things were worked on, and what it became is, essentially, the greatest game in the 
 Call of Duty series. The core COD elements remain the same and this isn't the most unique of first-person 
 shooters, but the execution is spot-on, and the intensity the series is known for remains.
  
  Since this is the first venture out of the history books, and because modern is in the subtitle, 
 COD4 contains a completely original story with fictitious characters, battles, and conflicts. Just 
 like in past games of the series you'll be playing as multiple characters, one from the U. S. Marines 
 and the other from the British S. A. S. But unlike past games, these characters intertwine with each 
 other and revolve around the same battles with a common goal in mind. U. S. and British forces are 
 sent in to stop a radical terrorist known as Kahled Al-Asad on suspicion of nuclear activity. Although 
 the story isn't entirely original, the execution of said story and the way it is laid out in front 
 of you is done in a phenomenal fashion. Sometimes watching a great movie is just as good if not 
 better than making your own. And that is why this straight-forward, action-packed, in-your-face 
 type of gameplay is still just an amazing experience. The only negative there is on the single-player 
 would have to be how short it is. It should only take around five or six hours to complete, depending 
 on the difficulty setting. But the action that takes place in that short time is nothing to whine 
 about. There is even a new element of stealth here in a game known for it's white-knuckle action. 
 One mission will have you decked out in a guille suit with a silenced sniper rifle hand. Most of 
 the mission is based on your ability to stay out of the sight of your enemy. It's really an edge-of-your-seat 
 type experience that brings some new experiences to a storied franchise.
  
  The most striking thing about this game would be its audio and visual presentation; it has always 
 been the saving grace for the series, and this just takes it to the next level. These are without 
 a doubt some of the best looking graphics seen this year. The environments are huge and luscious 
 looking, and the character models are outstanding. When you combine that with the stellar sound 
 that the series is known for, the end product is always something special, especially when you 
 equip a nice HDTV along with some fantastic surround sound; that's just magical. Just like in past 
 games the immersion is amazing and you feel like you're right out there on the battlefield fighting 
 to stop total destruction. The new smoke and lighting effects that Infinity Ward have been working 
 on are very well implemented, and it really adds a lot to the experience as a whole. There are 
 also times when the wind plays a key factor as it will blow smoke, debris, and sand all over the 
 place. This really looks nice and just helps create a life-like atmosphere.
  
  Multiplayer has always been one of the key components in the COD series, and that is no different 
 here because this rendition is fantastic. There is some incredible depth here, with nineteen maps 
 and thirteen game types right out of the box. There is a whole new rank and class system that reminds 
 one of an RPG of sorts. You gain experience by doing things like killing or getting assists, and 
 that unlocks new weapons, attachments, challenges, and perks as well as rank you up. The challenges 
 are small tasks that you complete while playing multiplayer. Half of them go by the different weapon 
 classes, while the other half are just random tasks. Getting seventy-five kills with the assault 
 rifle would be an example of one. Completing each challenge rewards you with some experience and 
 either a new weapon or attachment. Now perks are something pretty unique in the genre, and completely 
 new to the series. Perks are exactly that, small bonuses that help strengthen your character and 
 improve the over-all excitement of the game. Some of these perks include; extra ammo, faster reload 
 times, extended sprint, and faster bullets. Your character is allowed three slots, and the perks 
 are divided into those slots according to the actual ability. For instance if you choose extra 
 ammo, the game will not let you also pick faster reloads, so that is how they plan an balancing 
 out these different sets of perks. You can customize these perks according to your play style, 
 or according to what game type you're playing. Say you're about to start a capture the flag match, 
 you would probably want to take extended sprint and endurance just to give yourself enough time 
 to get away once you take the flag. Other perks of note are Last Stand and Martyrdom. Last stand 
 gives you the ability to get one last shot at your adversary. If you just so happen to get shot 
 and go down, you still have a little bit of time to pull off a shot, one last stand if you will. 
 Martyrdom is an interesting one; it really is like anti-tea bagging technology. This one drops 
 a grenade at your feet after you die, so if your killer tries to be cocky you blow that jerk to 
 kingdom come. This perk system is a great addition to an already stellar online component, and 
 the deep experience and rank system is the best in recent memory. Although the single-player is 
 quite short, the multiplayer is good enough to warrant a purchase as long as you like this kind 
 of stuff.
  
  Simply put, Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is a must have for any fan of the FPS genre. It looks 
 great, plays great, and sounds even better. This is without a doubt the best game in the series, 
 no questions asked. The single-player is not quite as long as one would hope, but the action that's 
 packed into it is phenomenal. The new stealth elements are a nice addition, and you can never get 
 tired of the in-your-face action the series is known for. The multiplayer is by far the best part 
 of this package. From the immense depth to the various maps and game types, this is truly one of 
 the best online shooters of the year. Needless to say, this is a fantastic title that shouldn't 
 be missed. It doesn't revolutionize the genre, but then again it doesn't have to. What it does 
 do is give the player and exciting ride through what modern warfare is like. In the end the game 
 is just fun plain and simple, and that's all that really matters.
  
  ~Mike Pelletier 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azhar85
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 14, 2007 4:37 pm PT
Review:  You know, i'll never played Call of Duty games before, and this is my first time. Before this, 
 i'll try to played Call of Duty at my friend PC but i'll not interested so i'll passed. But when 
 i'll try this one, mann what an interesting game. I'll feel like i am in the middle of the modern 
 war. The graphic of this game is marvelous, but most importantly the gameplay look realistic and 
 the environment feel like i'm played a game inside movie. Although the game is short in campaign 
 mode but it worth to played. You know, I'm not a fan of FPS but honestly, i'll think this game 
 is 10 times better than Halo 3. Comment from me, buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CCyberDDemon
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 21, 2007 3:06 pm PT
Review:  PRO = The quality that you already know about COD series. The feeling of pure havok with a dose 
 of dispair in the heat of battle, that your already know too. And the story-line hollywood style. 
 And many other things, packed in the best fps war game who makes that precious Halo be ashamed 
 sometimes and all. Perfect multyplayer VERY cool to play for HOURS (the last time i played something 
 like that, was on n64's perfect dark multy player)
  
  CONS = Short
  
  So, there is the problem. These games of todays... Almost perfect on every detail but all weak 
 on the intensity. (i blame ID for it.. dont ask why) What can we do? Simple, just play it 30 minutes 
 per day and extend the experience (if you're patience enough)
  
  Buy it but be warned 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sick_honkey
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 14, 2007 2:20 pm PT
Review:  Dont get me wrong, the CoD series have played a leading roll in the FPS field of gaming, and in 
 my life (dedicating many, many hours fighting in online battles back in the first CoD days) but 
 only to get almost the exact (but great) gameplay over the years. It is nice to see that the series 
 have moved away from the WWII setting it basicly created, but in turn jumped on the modern combat 
 bandwagon. I would love to see something new to the CoD series, maybe something a little bit more 
 original. Saying this, the online play has always been fast-pasted and solid, keeping the player 
 on the edge of there seat the whole time. So in conclusion nothing really new to the series but 
 same excellent and explosive gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jscottfulton
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 2:03 pm PT
Review:  I love this game! I love this game! The multi-player is so fast and realistic. The modern weapons 
 are awesome and so are the extras you can unlock. I find that it is possible to be more accurate 
 with these weapons and kills are more satisfying! This game corrects some of the problems faced 
 in COD3 by allowing you to choose both large games ala COD3 with tons of people, and smaller games 
 with more of a COD2 feel. I am also impressed with the experience points system because I find 
 it making me want to play the game more and more. Superb job, go infinity ward!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: orangeonxbox
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 14, 2007 2:03 pm PT
Review:  This game deserves a place in any 360 owners game library. It is the kind of title you just don't 
 trade in. The single player game has a pace to it I have not seen outside a Hollywood movie. Yes 
 it is only 5 hours long, but such is the games ability to suck you in, that you feel part of a 
 5 hour long war flick. Some of the old COD gremlins are still there; AI from opposing sides trading 
 shots from 9 inches away, but on the whole the experience is a joy. The atmosphere when you crawl 
 through the radiation soaked town surrounding Chernobyl is simply stunning. You spend some of the 
 game as a U. S. marine, and some as an S. A. S. soldier from British special forces. To be honest 
 the S. A. S. sections pretty much steal the show in terms of length, atmosphere and humor for that 
 matter, but the U. S. Marine sections counter this with sheer scale, as you take part in assaults 
 on desert towns from within a cloud of gunships. My father was an S. A. S. soldier for several years 
 and some of the comments in this game could have come straight out of his mouth, it was very amusing 
 even if the positions the troopers took up was suicidal compared to RL. The multi player is OK 
 but not groundbreaking. There are no new suprises and the weapons are without doubt unbalanced. 
 The hardware you start with, a sniper rifle and a machine gun, seem to be less lethal than assault 
 rifles gained later on, a situation that is absurd compared to RL. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stanleycup98
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 14, 2007 1:49 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty has left its roots in the World War II era. The next installment in the series, Call 
 of Duty 4, is set in modern times. No longer will you be gunning down German's on the beaches on 
 D'Day. Now you will be fighting terrorists trying to destroy the world. We will get to that later. 
 Now onto my review!
  
  Overview:
  Infinity Ward, the original developer of Call of Duty, is responsible for CoD4. The publisher is 
 Activision. Infinity Ward decided to leave its roots in WWII and have decided to set this next 
 game in modern times. There are lots of great improvements from Call of Duty 2. These show and 
 make the game a whole lot better. There are changes in game play, multiplayer, single player, graphics, 
 and more. Story (9/10) :
  I'm sure many people were sad when they saw they were not gunning down Nazi's anymore. The main 
 villain in CoD4 is Zakhaev, a nefarious Russian warlord with links to the mob and old oil money. 
 He plans to consolidate his powers in Russia in the hopes of taking over the Russian government 
 and gaining control of the country's nuclear arsenal. However, he knows the Western countries will 
 respond if he attempts anything in Russia. Therefore, he gets his friend Al-Asad and his army to 
 attempt a coup in an unnamed Middle-Eastern country (it is unnamed to avoid any political issues) . 
 This action works, and the U. S. A. sends its Marine Force Recon to help this "unnamed Middle-Eastern 
 country's" government fight the coup. However, the British SAS aren't fooled as easy. They had 
 been keeping their eye on Zakhaev and know what he is doing. You will play as two main characters 
 throughout the game (you will play as another character for a mission) . As 'Soap' MacTavish, a 
 recruit in the 22nd SAS Regiment, you will fight in Russia attempting to stop Zakhaev. As Paul 
 Jackson, a sergeant in the 1st Marine Force Recon, you will fight in the Middle-Eastern country. 
 Later in the game, Zakhaev gains control of some nukes and fires them. Unlike the other Call of 
 Duty games, not all the characters you play as will survive. I don't want to ruin it for you, but 
 one of the characters will die. This is a huge turning point in the story. After this turning point, 
 the Marines and SAS join forces to attempt to stop Zakhaev once and for all. Single-Player (9/10) :
 
  The single-player, unlike the other CoD games, now has "Acts". There are three (or five, if you 
 count the prologue and epilogue) acts, rightfully named "Act 1", "Act 2", and "Act 3". The first 
 act has 7 missions in it, with the turning point at the end. Act 2 contains 5 missions, and Act 
 3 has 4 missions. If you add the missions in the prologue (2 of them) and epilogue (1 of them) , 
 you will end up with the total of 19 missions. You will never find yourself doing the same thing 
 long enough so you get bored. You will always be doing different things in each mission. Each mission 
 is amazing and intense. That leads us into the game play element of the game.
  
  Game play (7.5/10) :
  "The most photo-realistic video game we have ever seen!"  Game Informer
 
  "One of the deepest online shooters of all time."  IGN. com
  "The most intense first-person shooter we have ever seen."  Game Informer
  These three quotes 
 pretty much sum up what people thing of this game; intense, realistic, and deep. They are correct. 
 This game is extremely intense. I can't think of a way to describe it in words. You will feel it 
 when you are in game, with 5.1 Surround Sound blasting; with gunfire zipping everywhere you look; 
 with endless amounts of enemies pouring at you, all seemingly trying to shoot your brains out; 
 with explosions going off all around you; with squad leaders yelling commands. I don't want to 
 type too much, but the intensity in this game is amazing. When I was typing that out, my fingers 
 were about to spas out with excitement. Yea... I'm serious. Yes, I know that is weird. Hold on...*flaps 
 arms around crazily*... OK, I'm fine now. Pretty much, if you have ever played a single Call of 
 Duty game, multiply the intensity of that by 10. That is Call of Duty 4.
  The only problem I have found with the game play is the same issue that was in the other Call of 
 Duty games. It is too linear. Messages are continuously coming up on your screen saying "FIND THE 
 JAVELIN". You look on your compass and find the direction the Javelin is in. And woe and behold, 
 there is a flashing, yellow, hologram over there. Hmm... I wonder if that is what I need to go to. 
 So, you take the only way over there. Through the alley way, shoot a few guys and you pick it up. 
 Then you die. You respawn at where you get your objective. You go to the Javelin again. The enemies 
 are in the exact same place, expecting you. You have only one path to take. Once you get past this, 
 however, it is very fun.
  
  Multiplayer (9/10) :
  There are huge changes to the multiplayer in Call of Duty 4. The main differences are the ranks, 
 unlocks, challenges, and class creation. Before we get to describing that, let me overview the 
 multiplayer a bit. The max amount of players on consoles is 16, and the max on the PC is 32. However, 
 the setting can be changes to anything. Don't be surprised to see servers with 64. Now, that is 
 intense! There are also many of the basic Call of Duty game modes, as well as some additional ones. 
 The most basic one, Free-for-All, aka Deathmatch, is what the name says; every man for himself. 
 Team Deathmatch is basically the same thing, except there are two teams. Of course, you try to 
 kill the players on the other team. Then there is Search and Destroy, where two teams fight to 
 either plant a bomb or to defend. CoD vets should now about this. Also returning is headquarters, 
 where the two teams battle to control the radio. Missing in CoD2 was domination, but it is back. 
 The two teams fight to control different positions around the map. Think Battlefield conquest. 
 Those are the only games returning from previous games. Oh... what did you say? Yes, there is no 
 CTF at the time of this writing. IW has said that it is not ready yet. Hopefully it will be about 
 for *free* download later. One of the new game modes is sabotage. A neutral bomb is at the center 
 of the map, and each team fights to destroy the other team's objective. There are also some 'rules' 
 that you can apply to the game modes. Hardcore makes the game realistic; removing the HUD, increasing 
 bullet damage, etc. Old School makes you have to pick-up weapons and perks. Also, health is increased 
 and jumps are higher. Oldcore combines Hardcore and Old School modes. All of these game modes, 
 as well as variations of them you can play, will be sure to keep you busy. Like I have said before, 
 there are ranks, unlocks, challenges, and class creations. You will earn ranks as you play. To 
 rank-up, you must gain experience (XP) . You can get XP by doing most things in the game, including 
 killing or planting the bomb in S&D. When you reach level 4, you unlock the ability to create-a-class. 
 You can change things such as your primary weapon, side arm, perks, special grenades, camouflage 
 patterns and attachments. You unlock attachments/camouflage patterns for your primary weapon by 
 completing challenges, which basically are challenges that you have to complete. You gain XP from 
 these too. Your side arm would be your pistol. I mentioned you can choose 'perks'. Perks are special 
 abilities you can add to your character. For example, Stopping Power adds bullet damage. The special 
 grenade would be a flash bang, smoke grenade, etc. You can then name your class and use it in game. 
 As you rank up, you will unlock new weapons. Once you reach the level cap of 55, you will also 
 get the option to go through prestige mode. You will get your stats reset, but you will get a symbol 
 next to your name that says, "Hey, I'm awesome!" You can do this 10 times. This will be sure to 
 keep you going. There are also 16 multiplayer maps, each with a different play style. Each play 
 style will cause you to want to change your perks for each class to suit the game. Perks are the 
 key to being successful. The popular party system from Halo 2 has been implemented in Call of Duty 
 4. You will be able to join the same lobby as your friends and will be put on the same team as 
 them. This will help you coordinate your tactics and play successfully. Just one note: there are 
 no drivable vehicles in MP. If you are one of those people who enjoy speeding around the map in 
 a jeep doing hit and runs with your friends, then this is not the game for you.
  
  Graphics (9/10) : The graphic engine is AMAZING. The shadows are amazing. The effects are stunning. 
 There isn't really much I can say about graphics. If you have seen any clips of the game, you can 
 see that it is stunning visually. You will be blown away.
  
  Sound (8/10) : The sound is just as stunning as the graphics. If you have surround sound, you will 
 be impressed. The sound definitely adds to the intensity of the game. You have explosions going 
 off over him, machine gun fire the other direction, a tank rolling in behind you, helicopters flying 
 overhead with rockets shooting, and enemies/allies yelling. All these things will blow you away 
 while playing. The sound will immerse you into the game so much, you will feel you like you are 
 actually there fighting the war.
  
  Overall Rating: I have rated each section I have talked about. The ratings are as follows... Story 
 (9.5/10) , Single-Player (9/10) , Game play (8/10) , Multiplayer (9/10) , Graphics (9/10) , Sound (8/10) . 
 Averaging that up... and I get a...8.75/10... rounding up to a 9.0. That is my final rating for Call 
 of Duty 4. I recommend you get this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sleakend1
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 14, 2007 1:21 pm PT
Review:  Definitely buy this game 100%, yes the singleplayer is short but is the most thrilling , exciting 
 single player i have ever seen... Not to mention the Online Multiplayer, one word sums it up... 
 Outstanding! Lets all hope that the guys at Infinty Ward keep up the hard work, hopefully there 
 will be a CoD 5... If there is i will definitely be getting it after the excellence of CoD 4: Modern 
 Warfare. Now i am just trying to make this review at leats 100 words so erm, yeh go buy this game 
 don't think about it just do it, go down to your local game shop / store and buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Meto_360
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 14, 2007 1:03 pm PT
Review:  alright... the call of duty series has been a great series. but Modern WArfare changes that... its 
 makes it better
  The Story is there is a partenership between the Middle East and Russis. 4 tha Middle East the 
 guys name is Al-Ashad or however u spell his name. and he is starting trouble in tha Middle East. 
 He kills tha president and is making an uprising. and in Russis a guy name Iram Zahrkea or however 
 u spell it. Is trying 2 bring Russis back 2 communism. They r in a partners and they have lackies 
 and together there known as the four horsemen. And Iram is using Al-Ashad 2 difract tha U. S. and 
 Britian. 
  Now u play as 2 characters. U play as a U. S. Marine in the Marine Force Recon named SSGT. Pual 
 Jackson. And u play as a British SAS named SGT. Soap MacTavvish. And yes his named is Soap. The 
 Marines r in the Middle East trying 2 capture Al-Ashad. And the BSAS 4 in Russia trying 2 kill 
 Iram. A big twist happens in tha story after tha mission Shock and Awe. *SPOILERS* SSGT. Jackson 
 dyes. i don't wanna say how cuz i don't wanna ruin it. And then u play as Soap throughout tha rest 
 of tha game. Also tha game has alot of dramatic moments. There r alot and i don't wanna give em' 
 away.
  Now tha gameplay... the controls 4 tha same with new tweeks. Like u use tha D-Pad 2 which 2 tha 
 grenade launcher, nightvision, claymores, and etc. And tha melee has changed. U don't hit them 
 with ur gun. u stab them. Whic is cool and somethinn' u usally don't see. 1 get kills u have 2 
 aim through ur using ur sight. Or u can run and gun... but thats actually a risk since ur enemies 
 r in numbers and u get fired at from every direction. so paly it safe and u'll live. Ur allies have 
 a alright AI. But u'll see them getting killed over and over again. But 2 make up 4 it they'll 
 get plenty of kills 2. Ur enemies aren't so smart. They'll run take cover pop up and shoot. The 
 only challenge is they r in large numbers. And it gets intense. Also be careful they love throwing 
 grenades. 
  The sound effects r great and sound affentic. The vioce acting is superb. So its hard 2 miss anything 
 that sounds bad.
  Now tha graphics... r amazing. U'll Sh_t ur pants cuz sometimes tha game looks so real u fee like 
 ur wacthing a movie. Tha graphics r literally tha best and show off what an xbox 360 can do.
  So Call of Duty 4 Modern Wafare is an amazing game. And it is perfect. Its better than Gears of 
 War and a couple of my friends say its better than Halo 3.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Romayo83
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 12:48 pm PT
Review:  Well first of all this game blows away Halo3 for me!
  
  Campaign is definately the weakest link of COD4. Im not a big fan of infinite respawning enemies 
 unless you reach a certain checkpoint mark with sometimes 3 to 5 nades begin thrown at you all 
 at once! The difficulty settings (im playing on Veteran now) definately lies in the enemies numbers 
 and there NFL quarterback grenade throws. there hit accuracy is insanely low as well.
  But once you get farther into the game there are some really cool sniping and vehicle weapons u 
 operate that makes it well worth playing.
  
  Multiplayer is where its at. This game is got some slick online action. I love the perks, guns, 
 add-ons, maps, u name it this game has it all. 
  It doesnt have vehicles though or split-screen online which kinda sucks but no big deal.
  
 
  Graphics are sound are stunning. one of the best shooters to date in this department. I tried 
 it for the PC as well and its dead on to the 360's visuals.
  
  All in all this game hold its value and im hoping they add new Multiplayer maps in the future on 
 the marketplace. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ck2005
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 14, 2007 11:43 am PT
Review:  I do not care what anyone says, COD4 is NOT short. It may not have loads and loads of missions, 
 but there is alot to do in each mission. And each mission is great fun with loads of realistic 
 tasks and highly advanced weaponry. It wil be very hard for other game makers to compete with the 
 superiority of Call of Duty 4!
  
  Im sure most player of this game will agree that the mission 'All Ghillied Up' is probably th best 
 mission in the game. You start off sneaking around an abandoned city and the tension really gets 
 to you when you have to lay on the ground and try manouveure around loads of enemy soldiers and 
 tanks. in this mission you have t asassinate some Russian guy, which is quite hard because the 
 sniper rifle is so far away. 
  
  To sum up, GET THIS GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anamani
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 14, 2007 9:10 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is a game that should really only be played on veteran difficulty. Though the difficulty 
 of the game only comes from the never ending respawning of enemies not the intelligence of their 
 programming
  
  Enemies everywhere! Yes EVERYWHERE.. which is fun! But none of them seem to have a brain They 
 jump out of cover.. they shower endless amounts of bullets Helicopters fly around in circles 
 Enemies throw grenades in endless supply and your soldiers done seem to know where to stay to 
 be safe
  
  There are times when you are in cover and a teammate wants to be where you are and will simply 
 push you out of the way they will block doorways when you are trying to spring out of the way 
 of fire even stand two inches from a grenade and not even attempt to throw it back
  
  I watched squadmates shoot at buildings non-stop until I went to the next checkpoint seen them 
 stand up.. run out of cover.. run in a circle.. duck down, stand up.. run out of cover.. over and 
 over again
  
  Though it is just a videogame
  
  And it is a really fun one at that..
  
  Enemies die as easy as you can die.. which is a great 
 feeling after playing countless FPS's that you empty clip after clip into its enemies waiting for 
 them to die
  
  The game can make you jump.. it can frustrate you.. but you always feel like you can move on
 
  
  Graphically there are nice lighting effects but other than that.. it really seems to be pretty 
 average.. tanks and other stationary objects almost look last generation at times (playing on a 
 42" LCD HDTV) .. Though performance-wise it runs amazing.. few times was there even slight drop 
 in framerate pop-up is moderate and does not get in the way of fighting the war at hand
  
  Overall CoD4 is a fun game but not an amazing one
  
  The single player game may be short.. 
 but provides enough challenge through the veteran difficulty and achievements to make you want 
 to get to the end and possible play through it again
  
  I recommend it to anyone who likes other CoD games and to fans of shooters where patience is truly 
 rewarded
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Bezerker
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 14, 2007 8:37 am PT
Review:  I found this hard because it is the only XBOX 360 game ive ever played, cos i played it at my friends, 
 i dont have an XBOX 360. I found it hard to get used to the controls myself being a PC kinda guy, 
 but i loved watching my friend and his bro trash up guys on multiplayer, and i even got a kill 
 myself!
  
  Ive seen the medal of honour: airborne demo played by my bro and i dont which is better, but i 
 definatly loved this game, great graphics, fun to play and worth a lot more than 10 hours play 
 (i put 10 hours or less because thats how much I'D played it)
  
  I know my friends brother will be on it until another one comes out (if it does, *fingers crossed*) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: returnofjakyll
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 5:47 am PT
Review:  this is a very excellent game. it has its moments of shine and its faults but mainly shining is 
 what you will get out of this game. the most amazing graphics anyone can ask for. just overall 
 one of the best fps i have played in a long time. the multiplayer is just plain awesome to. there 
 is a small problem finding a game at times but other than that its just a game worth the $60. recommend 
 this game to everyone and anyone who likes first person shooters. a game that has been hyped up 
 and lived up to the hype. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tibisay
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 5:41 am PT
Review:  Hello Friends, Hi Everyone, well There are many Things that i have to say about this Incredible 
 Game, Honestly at the firts minutes playing this game i did bored a little, but Later i started 
 to Loved.
  
  1.-Graphic
  the graphics and textures is excelent too the smooth of the objects, the Guns, the shooters are 
 designed with care
  
  2.-Sound
  Excelent too but it could be better, you can note the gunshot are not real at 100 % but its not 
 bad, if you see games like Airbone medal of honor the sound of gun are 99 % real
  
  3.-The Gameplay
  Uffff excelent this is my better part, the sniper Team in the infiltration mission 
 was AMAZING excelent into a moment i did feel really into the game
  that part was addictive, the nighvision is excelent too, the action in many enviroments of the 
 game make you move like a real shooter.
  the difficult is just right to me i am used to hard games
  
  Conclusion
  i recommend this 
 Game at 100% you will not lose any money and time
  enjoy this excelent Game 
  good sound
  Excelent Gameplay
  Excelent Graphics
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: funstuff
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 3:22 am PT
Review:  This game isn't worth the 9.0 that the reviewer gave it due to the fact of its shortcomings unfortunately. 
 The graphics are top notch, the multi-player aspects are awesome. The biggest problem is the shortness 
 of the single player. If you pay for xbox live then its a 10, if you don't pay then rent it. In 
 my opinion if at any time in the future you intend to get xbox live then buy the game and keep 
 it on the back burner until then. I thnkfully have been dying online on a too regular basis and 
 on-line its as good if not better than counter strike on the pc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 5nake3yes
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 12:40 am PT
Review:  Im not going to bother with the single player because to be quite frank other than the shortness 
 of it I can't find a fault at all. I finished it on hardcore and as with all CoD games theres a 
 couple of levels in there that will take you ages to beat given the amount of troops that get thrown 
 at you. The "Death from above" level is something to behold and I also especially enjoyed the Sniper 
 only level in the Gilly suit.
  
  Onto the multiplayer. Its fast, frantic and fun! Some of the urban levels are absolutely superb 
 with buildings everywhere to hide in, some of the other levels are just a bit too small and this 
 leads to frantic and fast deaths which can get a bit tiresome. The unlocks are all acheivable and 
 fun to do and this is really the key, you need to play a lot to get the weapons and upgrades that 
 make your character the best. This can be especially frustrating for newer players who are up against 
 fully armoured and fully powered up players.
  
  Perks im still not too sure about. Having an MP5 shoot through a brick wall at the same range as 
 a sniper rifle is highly annoying and unrealistic and I think they need to balance the weapon powers 
 a bit more. Things like last stand and martyrdom are a nice touch however and have netted me lots 
 of extra kills on unsuspecting enemies!
  
  The single biggest complaint i have with the multiplayer though is the lack of spawn protection. 
 You can spawn and die all within a second and having never even seen who killed you. A 10 second 
 if you dont move protection would add a lot more to the game and at least give people a chance 
 on the smaller deathmatch maps.
  
  Finally Id like to see a new map pack for S&D and Headquarters modes with less open maps and a 
 few more bottlenecks and choke points to enhance the tatical aspects of those gametypes. Overall 
 though this game is one of the must buys for this year! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrFeelgoodsTwin
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 13, 2007 11:26 pm PT
Review:  This single player is just so amazing its so great. It just hard to explain with out taking it 
 away form you. But . . . . . you will fall in love with it. All the Achievements are in the Single 
 Player so if you don't play online you still can get all of the achievements. Online is great and 
 they have it where more you play more you unlock so more you do that the higher you go up and you 
 get cool gun and make that game last alot longer. This is the best game of the year in so many 
 ways. I thought Halo 3 was the best until i played this. Dont get me wrong Halo 3 is a great game 
 on a unrealistic side. But this is great and gives you the Military point of view. You will not 
 be3 disappointed but. The graphics are amazing and teh Sound is perfect even better with HDMI. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xRownan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 10:11 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare combines a compelling single player campaign with an intense, addictive 
 multiplayer, the perfect combination in my book.
  COD4's single player campaign is nothing short of amazing. I actually feel like im there in the 
 fight with comrades all around whether I am playing as a British soldier or an American Force Recon 
 Marine. The weapons are well done and actually look like what they are meant to look like in real 
 life. The one thing that I do not like about single player is on Vetaran some of the parts were 
 near impossible such as in the third mission when you came to a room filled with computers and 
 cubicles. It wouldn't be nearly as hard if the enemies eventually ceased to come at you. There 
 should have been a limit instead of an endless stream of bad guys throwing grenades and shooting 
 you if you even so much as poke your head out. Other than that, an excellent single player.
  The multiplayer is where it's all at. The guns are pretty much all evenly balanced, all of the 
 maps are nicely done, the perks you can equip make the game a lot more interesting. I can play 
 for hours without getting bored one bit. Another thing I like about multiplayer is the challenges 
 for each weapon that allow you to unlock different camos and scopes and such for that weapon.
 
  All in all, the game is a must have for all you XBOX360 owners out there. Have fun with the game 
 and maybe I'll see ya on there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FaBronxbombers7
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 8:48 pm PT
Review:  This is by far the best war game i have ever played. The on-line is great (although sometimes it 
 messes up and you have to wait a few min.) . The Single player is pretty much the same as the other 
 call of duty. The on-line has great new fetures like the challenges, where you unlock guns and 
 other upgrades. If you can only get 2 games, GET CALL OF DUTY 4, and Halo 3. The best 2 games out 
 right now no question.............. ...... .. . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . .. . . .. 
 . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vance_009
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 8:13 pm PT
Review:  If you have ever played a first person shooter you have played a WWII shooter. The King of the 
 WWII first person shootes is now going in to modderen day with Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare.
 
  
  First of all I must say this game is worth $60. Everything is good; video, sound, gameplay, story, 
 and online.
  
  Video: Runing at 60 FPS with cuting action with everything looking like it belongs in a warzone. 
 
  
  Sound: With Infinity Ward in the past games haveing a mic. to the real thing is the game one with 
 this. If you hear the gun most of the time you can tell what gun that is in use.
  
  Gameplay: eveything is fun, This game is fast pace, but it is even better to take it slow. That 
 is trun in single player with you great AI teammates takeing point. and In online with makeing 
 Kill even better.
  
  Story: Free of The Histoy books IW have open up to a great story. 
  
  Online: The strong point of the game. the online is easy to learn but hard to master. With 
 an RPG style to leving up the action is all ways new.
  
  Overall this game is a rent for the story, but a buy for the online.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Clinton015
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 13, 2007 7:42 pm PT
Review:  Yes, Call of Duty 4 is the greatest game I have ever played, and I've played most everything the 
 past several generations have had to offer. I know I will be hated on by the Halo and Gears of 
 War fans who refuse to believe any other game could ever trump theirs. Well, this isn't a Halo 
 review, and this isn't a Gears review, scroll into my review history if you are interested in those. 
 Call of Duty really has nothing wrong with it, which is why it was dealt the first ten I have ever 
 gave out in my review section. When you buy this game, and I mean WHEN, because there is no question 
 that everyone who has a 360, and even a PS3, has to own this game.
  
  First off, its online is a vast imrpovement over COD3, and COD2. Mainly because WWII is slower 
 combat and it became repetitive faster. However, the advancement to modern times gave them a lot 
 to work with technology wise to vary the experience. COD4 is the deepest online experience since 
 Halo 2, level up to gain more weapons and master your weapons to earn upgrades for them. There 
 is more than a dozen unique maps, and teh majority of them are really fun to play, the others are 
 good, just not as good as their counterparts.
  
  Now for the constant, the incredible campaign experience that every COD game has produced. COD 
 2 was said to kick it up a notch to 10, COD3 went to 11, going on those estimations of intensity 
 Call of Duty 4 is somewhere in the area of a 56. It isn't a story driven game like Bioshock, but 
 its fictional Mid Eastern War works well enough and it is full of those in your face, HOLY **** 
 moments that make you wet your pants. You feel like you are playing Black Hawk Down, or in the 
 SAS missions, Tears of the Sun. It is an adrenaline soaked cinematic feel taht no other game has 
 ever achieved. The gameplay is perfect and there are so many moments that bring you back to your 
 favorite movie scenes. Fight off an onslaught of attackers in a nuclear wasteland, or a city teeming 
 with insurgents in a war ravaged Middle East city.
  
  Now COD has always been hard, and if you want the achievements you will need to be able to tackle 
 veteran, and I would have it no other way. I write this after becoming one of teh first people 
 to earn 1000/1000 Gamerpoints in COD4, no easy task by any regards. Its worth it though, for the 
 multiplayer experience and the chance to liev out your favorite movies. You can't miss Call of 
 Duty 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kazona
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 13, 2007 6:52 pm PT
Review:  Wars change. Weapons change. Soldiers don't. Those are the three lines of the TV commercial for 
 Call of Duty 4. And for once, the words in a commercial actually ring true, because a lot has changed 
 with the 4th installment in the Call of Duty series, yet many things have also stayed the same. 
 The biggest change, of course, is that Infinity Ward has stepped away from the WWII setting of 
 previous games, and has instead opted to go with a fictional, modern setting. The nice thing is 
 that even though it's fictional, it still feels real because it fits with the events of current 
 day life.
  
  It's just too bad that the single-player story is so short. Anyone with a reasonable amount of 
 experience in first person shooters will probably blow through the entire game in about five to 
 6 hours, and the hardcore players are likely to finish it in less than five hours. But what a five 
 hours those are. Whereas other, longer, games often have stories that feel kind of stretched out 
 as you progress, Call of Duty 4 will almost constantly have you sitting on the edge of your seat.
 
  
  The single-player campaign is also pretty familiar in terms of the objectives you have to do. Most 
 of the objectives are simple things in theory, but definitely more challenging in practice. Each 
 mission you're given particular objectives, and your compass simply points you in the general direction, 
 allowing you to -- mostly -- pick your own method of approach. That's not with all objectives, though, 
 as some objectives can only be reached by ways of a set path. But even then, it never feels like 
 you're on a rails. As you progress in a mission your objectives are often updated, so you're pretty 
 much always kept plenty busy.
  
  Obviously, a new setting, and a new time line, means there will be new weapons as well. And there 
 are plenty of them to go around, each one behaving how one might expect. Each one has it's own 
 distinct characteristics, as well as advantages and disadvantages. And without the exception of 
 perhaps the shotgun, none of them feel like it's more powerful than the other, making the whole 
 for a nicely balanced experience. Despite those new weapons, though, they all feel familiar in 
 their use. Anyone who's played one of the previous Call of Duty games will instantly feel at home 
 with these weapons. There are definitely some changes to how the weapons handle, but not so much 
 that they will feel alien to those used to the WWII weapons of the previous games.
  
  Perhaps the biggest change is the new multi-player experience. The game still offers the familiar 
 multi-player modes, but with a new twist that encourages you to keep playing, and to work on improving 
 your skills. By participating in matches and killing people, you earn experience. As you gain experience, 
 you'll gain new levels and unlock new weapons, weapon attachments, and special perks. Weapon attachments 
 range from silencers to grenade launchers, or special scopes. 
  
  Perks are basically character traits that can grant you such things as the ability to carry more 
 stun grenades, aim better from the hip, do more damage with bullets, and more. You begin with a 
 couple of standard classes, with each of them having their own set weapons and perks, but after 
 a gaining a few levels, you'll be able to create your own custom class and decide for yourself 
 which combination you prefer. And as you gain experience and levels, you earn more stuff for you 
 to choose from when creating your classes.
  
  Earning experience is more than just a matter of shooting people and throwing grenades in their 
 faces, though. The game rewards tactical and daring gameplay by giving you various challenges which 
 are entirely up to you whether you wish to do them or not. Completing them is definitely worth 
 your effort, however, as you earn big chunks of experience from them. What's nice about these challenges 
 is that it encourages you to improve your skills, but it doesn't force you to do so as there's 
 more than likely going to be a good number of challenges that will fit with your particular skills.
 
  
  Call of Duty 4 is so enjoyable partly due to its amazing presentation. The cities and other locales 
 you'll visit along the way all have a gritty, war torn look to them, and the whole feels real enough 
 to really give you sell that idea that you're in the middle of a big war. And the beautiful effects 
 and great sound effects add to the experience even more. There's nothing like seeing the bullets 
 impacting the wall inches away from your head, or better yet, when they you think you're safe behind 
 a wall, only to have it riddled with bullets. 
  
  Explosions look similarly awesome. Throw a grenade into a pool of mud, and as it explodes, the 
 a combination of dirt and smoke will fly up in the air. Get hit by a stun grenade, and the visual 
 and sound effects are so good that you'll feel more than just a little disoriented while you frantically 
 shoot in whatever general direction you think it came from, desperately hoping to hit at least 
 something.
  
  The game runs very smoothly, and doesn't appear to hitch at any given time, not even when there's 
 an incredible amount of things going on on screen at once. And thanks to a very solid draw distance, 
 you'll have no trouble spotting someone in the distance. That doesn't mean you're just a sitting 
 duck because there are always plenty of spots to seek cover or hide behind. It's really a rewarding 
 experience when you're so well hidden in tall grass that your opponents walk right past you, or 
 even stop inches away from you, allowing you the opportunity for a quick, yet incredibly satisfying 
 knife kill. But it's probably even more thrilling to suddenly have the bullets flying at you and 
 ducking behind cover just in time.
  
  The decision from Infinity Ward to step away from the WWII setting was probably one of the best 
 moves they've ever made. Despite the short length, the single-player campaign is probably the most 
 exciting in the series yet. Pair that with an outstanding multi-player package and you've got a 
 game that no fan of the series should miss, and anyone who hasn't played an entry in the Call of 
 Duty series will probably not find a better reason to give it a try for a long time to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomjd1979
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 13, 2007 5:46 pm PT
Review:  The Call of Duty series stretches back for some years now, offering a top notch fps shooter that 
 showcases the promise of what can be done, with every addition to the series offering something 
 that others simply lack Whether it be the stellar single-player experience that puts the player 
 smack-dab in the middle of a large, surging war, to its rock-solid multiplayer side that players 
 to this day swear by from the days of Call of Duty 1. Call of Duty 2 made the next-gen Xbox 360 
 shine on and offline, and its successor was no exception with its noticeable facelift and class-based 
 24 player combat. Yet one thing has remained constant, and that is the setting: The last great 
 war.
  
  Now Infinity Ward has returned once again with the next chapter in the Call of Duty franchise: 
 CoD 4 Modern Warfare. Having left history in the history books, Call of Duty 4 takes place in a 
 modern day setting marked with turmoil and conflict that stretches from middle-east settings to 
 the former USSR.
  
  Infinity Ward has been at work on CoD 4 since Call of Duty 2 if not even further back, with CoD 
 3 being produced by an out of house group. The attention to detail shown in level design is phenomenal. 
 Everything has a polish that is at times poetic. From night time rescue operations deep in enemy 
 territory, to full-blown battles in sandy desert urban zones the action never lets up and leaves 
 the player with an experience unmatched in the genre. Check it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BloodreaverSlut
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 13, 2007 5:01 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty's 4th installment could be it's best so far. The graphics are stunning, the gameplay 
 is balanced and varied and multiplayer is a blast. Welcome to the future of CoD!
  
  Graphics: 10
  Everyone has seen trailers and screenshots for this game and it looked awesome 
 back then and it still looks awesome today. As written on the back of the DVD-case: "The most photorealistic 
 game ever". I havent got Crysis yet, so i dont know how it fairs against that. But on it's own, 
 it looks amazing and the framerate is pretty solid overall.
  
  Gameplay: 9
  Obviously this is a FPS and with a FPS come the basic FPS elements, like prone, crouch, jumping, 
 aiming, shooting, the works. The only way to make a "next-gen" FPS, is by implementing something 
 that makes the gameplay stand out. For a FPS to do that, it can be very hard. But CoD4 nailed it. 
 It shifts between "run and gun" to "snipe people" to "blow everything up with a bomber aircraft" 
 to "let's not kill anyone but just walk by". Every mission has something unique added to it and 
 the fact that you are always in the midst of things, makes it a great game. However, on easier 
 settings, it's simply too easy and on the 2 harder settings there are a couple of places where 
 the game feels imbalanced. These imbalances can only be overcome by trial and error, which might 
 agitate you, but they also add replay value - sort off.
  
  Replayability: 10
  The game features the usual story mode that is heavily scripted as we know well from the previous 
 installments of CoD. This formula however still works like a charm. Some moments are WOW!!! the 
 first time and are still WOW!!! the second time around. With 4 different difficulty settings, it's 
 easy to play it again, especially if you go for hardened or veteran because those WILL be challanging. 
 
  On completing the game once, you unlock the "arcade mode", which let's you play through the storymode 
 again, except that you get points for killing (and combo's for consecutive kills in a time period) , 
 a limited amount of time for a level and lives. Once you complete a mission, you get to see your 
 score. For those speed runners among us, this is the place you want to go to... "is it better to 
 shoot these 5 guys or run passed them and get the 20 second time bonus of it, or will i die and 
 lose a life...". Though fun and challanging, most people will just play the first couple of missions 
 and then go "it's an ok addition for those that want more out of the storymode".
  The multiplayer aspect of the game is just awesome. There are many different gamemodes and they 
 also feature a "hardcore"-mode, which basicly removes your HUD, making it even more realistic (and 
 hard) . The modes and varied and all of them are fun. By completing challenges, killing people and 
 finishing matches, you gain experience. By gaining experience, you raise your level and you get 
 more options for your account, like new weapons, grenades and perks. Perks are the "little thing 
 that makes CoD4 stand out from the rest of the croud". Perks allow you to make your character the 
 way you want it to be... faster reloading, possible... drop a grenade when you die, possible... 
 carry multiple grenades, possible. However, your character is only allowed 3 perks and they are 
 divided in 3 categories, forcing you to take one each (unless you take the grenade launcher, which 
 disables 1 of the perks) . The multiplayer is a blast, though at the time or writing this, connecting 
 to servers can sometimes be an issue.
  
  Tilt: 9
  Great game overall, but in some points it couldve been better. If you like FPSes then this is ATLEAST 
 a must rent, if you are a fan of CoD, this game is simply a must. Infact, im going as far as calling 
 this game "INSTANT CLASSIC", because in my opinion, this is a landmark in the CoD series and for 
 me, the best one so far. A job well done by Infinity Ward! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonjonsilver
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 3:26 pm PT
Review:  When I first got on Call of Duty 4 I was expecting a hell of a lot. And well I got just that. Although 
 the campaign was over in a flash it was still one of the best shooter campaigns of the year. It's 
 multiplayer is right up there with Halo 3. What makes the multiplayer so fantastic isn't the environments 
 but it is sense of feeling you get when you kill someone. Now, why is the campaign so awesome? 
 Part of it is the graphics it has. It looks almost like real life especially when you kill a guy 
 because it looks so awesome when he falls to the ground. It'll have you saying burn it hell b#!@&. 
 So ya I would just go out and buy instead of sitting on your a$$ looking at my review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: koinek
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 13, 2007 2:48 pm PT
Review:  Forget WWII, modern combat is where it's at. The guns and combat are perfectly balanced the new 
 feel is extremely immersing.
  
  The graphics just make you gape the first time you play. It's easy to see why the middle eastern 
 missions are fictionalized. I can see the realistic firefights giving Iraq vets shellshock. Combat 
 feels just right. Even the training mission is a load of fun.
  
  The lack of a cover system in unforgivable and the squad mechanics are too contrived. However these 
 flaws don't detract too much for the great experience.
  
  XBOX Live multiplayer is unbelievable but the lack of class creation in split screen play is annoying. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nedical
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 2:41 pm PT
Review:  The Call of Duty franchise does it once again with their latest addition to the collection, Call 
 of Duty 4. The game packs some serious punch with nonstop hardcore action! The single player campaign 
 is outstanding with amazing special effects, but the real beauty is in the multiplayer online mode. 
 With up to 18 people online in one game, the action ceases to stop and the action is jaw-dropping. 
 The major improvement of this game over Call of Duty 3 is that you can unlock weapons as you progress 
 through killing people in multiplayer. The "Create-a-Class" System is similar to that of Rainbow 
 Six: Vegas, and really adds to the replay value of the game. Even if you don't exactly like the 
 older Call of Duty games, this one should definitely be checked out, as it is made by the original 
 developers and is modern warfare (unlike the previous games that were WWII shooters) . Basically, 
 this is my favorite game yet for 2007 and in my opinion is the most addicting shooter, even beating 
 Halo 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beaglesniffer
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 13, 2007 2:33 pm PT
Review:  WOW just wow.
  
  The single player campaign is awesome it is so involving, immersive and movie like amazing, wont 
 get bored of single player.
  
  Mulitplayer is just addicitive and also amazing, so many levels, i still have only played on 15 
 out of 16 of them lol.
  
  and wow someone has actually decided to add the realism of shooting through walls well done!!!
 
  
  Best bits of single player :prologue, nuke going off, chernyobol sniper level, and ending oooo perfect!!!
 
  
  best of multiplayer: 17 kill streak with a dragunov on bog map with a airstrike an heli :P
  
 
  also clan tag is a nice feature as i know many people that have spent ridiculous amounts changing 
 names of their XBL acc 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smoothshocker
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 13, 2007 2:13 pm PT
Review:  Halo 3 was great... COD4 is better. In fact much, much better. From the photo realistic graphics 
 to the 60 rpm frame rate... to the superb controller layout and usage, this game should and probably 
 will be the game of the year. Best in series, best in shoe, the best game I have played so far. 
 Sure the campaign is a little bit short, but it makes up for it in the richness of the plot, characters, 
 and the cinematics are stellar!!! Highly recommend it!!! Best FPS ever!!! I mightr even have to 
 put Mass Effect on the back burner until I get my fill of this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wezz_dk
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 1:57 pm PT
Review:  To me it's a mystery hearing from just about everyone how short this game is. I myself took these 
 words as truth and started playing the game on the "veteran" difficulty. One thing I noticed after 
 playing was: "This campaign aint short at all? "
  
  It was actually really perfect variated. No time throughout the game you felt like you did the 
 same over and over again. The game is divided in to 3 acts and a prolouge and a epilouge. If choosing 
 the right difficulty (right definetly means hardened) , this game will take you from 7-10 hours 
 to win.
  
  As I said, I choose the "veteran" difficulty. Now, I want you to know, that this is NOT the way 
 to complete the game the first time, and neither it is the right difficulty for gameplay. The game 
 is build up that way, that they want you to go back and play the single player levels over and 
 over again for hidden gadgets such as hidden equipment that unlocks cheats, and points in the arcade 
 mode. Furthermore, It's build up that way, that you can go back and try to win the levels at the 
 really, REALLY hard veteran difficulty. So, when people say it's too hard, I say: "no it isn't, 
 its just meant to be THE Call of Duty challenge".
  So, choose to play this game at Hardened as that is the real "hard" difficulty. 
  
  Instead 
 of preaching about the storyline of the game, I'd like to tell you some of its strengths instead. 
 It's the first game I've played that tries to hit the cinematic feeling one-hundred-percent. After 
 each mission, there will be an absolutely stunningly well-done visual presentation of some of the 
 storyline. It really works splendid. There's also really short loading times, so it all works very 
 dynamically.
  
  Also, throughout the gameplay, there will be a lot of cinematic moments, as the developers has 
 made a LOT of very cool scripting, making this the most realistic game of all time.
  Your skills will be tested to the limit as you fight your way to the end of the game. 
  
  But 
 is there any end to this game? No, there actually really isn't. When you are done, not only there 
 will still be the hidden equipment, cheats, and arcade mode to succeed, there's a whole new (and 
 maybe more awaited) aspect to the game, the multiplayer mode. This is for sure the thing that has 
 had the most focus. And it works just as good, no, better than the single player campaign. 
  
  It's more stable, and is very, very, very little laggy, with fluid gameplay. As mentioned earlier, 
 this game is build up being a game that wants you to go back playing for something. There's all 
 the time an answer to the: "why should i Keep playing this game?" question. They've invented a 
 whole ranking system where FPS meet RPG. In short, you can raise levels with experience points, 
 which will allow you to get better equipment, and as you raise in levels you can get new strengths, 
 such as faster reloading or being undetectable on radars etc. You will also keep raising in ranks 
 as "sergeant" or "captain" and so on. It really works well, and the system is very well balanced. 
 You can even choose to create your own classes making the RPG element even stronger.
  
  There's a lot of levels to choose from in the multiplayer mode. And the game seems to be build 
 up modding friendly.
  
  Now, to the graphics element. It really is a mixed experience. Some of this will be the most beatiful 
 graphics you have ever seen in a video game, and some of this will not stun you at all, it will 
 actually make you feel like you are playing some 2003-game. But overall, the graphics work really 
 really well, and really fluid.
  
  So what is it that takes the last few points from the 10? Even though this game really is the best 
 game of all times in my point of view (it really is man) , there's still something missing. That 
 thing that makes you think of how fantastic this game is/was for months. But the way this game 
 is build up, making everything just begging you to turn back playing, is a fantastic job. With 
 georgious visuals, a perfect single player, a even more perfect multiplayer, and an even, even 
 better cinematic presentation, I can only say one thing with this.
  
  This game T. R. U. L. Y. is the game of the year. Actually, the best game of all times. Go play it, 
 now. Really, I'm serious, its worth every penny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MEANMACHINE15
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2007 5:37 am PT
Review:  The good: EVERYTHING apart from the short campaign
  The bad: well you can pretty much say that the campaign is a bit too short
  
  Call of duty 
 4 is a new type of call of duty with it leaving its well known battlefields of WW2 and eventually 
 moves into the more modern warfare hence the name of the title, With modern weapons such as the 
 m16,50 calibre sniper rifle and the mp5 to defeat the modern day baddies.
  
  Fight through the middle east and eastern europe as the sas or the u. s marine core to try and save 
 the world from a nuclear explosion in the us which could of killed 42 million people, so how will 
 u save the world when it is at risk,
  USE THE BIG GUNS
  maybe snipe
  OR JUST GO IN WITH UR RIFLES.
  
  However the multiplayer online is sooooo good with loads of 
 maps and game modes as you play as the U. S. M. C, SAS, RUSSIANS OR THE TERRORISTS in immense battles, 
 plus new features like challenges to unlock new weapons perks plus on all weapons you can customise 
 by adding perks camoflauge and scopes to create the ultimate weapon of death.
  
  
  CALL OF DUTY 4 is probably the best game ever made in the series of call of duty because it is 
 soooooooooooooooooooooooo good
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: madmoose7
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 1:11 pm PT
Review:  Who cares if the campaign is shorter then most its still very intense and action packed. The multi-player 
 is absolutely the best iv ever seen, there's almost no lag. Even new guys can fight pretty well after 
 few matches. The class making is another great aspect. Its great that infinity is giving its players 
 more control over there gaming by putting in the class maker. So to me this game will be easily 
 1 of the best ever made. No one can change my mind either. One more thing I strongly urge any self 
 respecting 360 owner to get it, you don't know what your missing. 
  
  This article isn't 100 words so im adding in some extra for filler. Who wants to really read a long 
 generic review that won't change how they view a certain game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: link7lp
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 13, 2007 12:23 pm PT
Review:  I'm sorry but this game is a lot funner then Halo 3.. Halo 2 great.. Halo 3 the same thing. Call 
 of Duty 2 awesome WWII and Call of Duty 4 Masterpiece. Wait Short campaign.. Look at Halo 3, i 
 finished that faster then Call of Duty 4. All I'm saying is that Call of Duty 4 should have received 
 a better rating, i would actually give it a 9.9.. but its rounded to 10.. cause it featured everything 
 you wanted. Halo 3 and Call of Duty 4 are both great games. I just think that Gamespot is exaggerating 
 on the campaign length, unless they played it on Easy and just ran through it. Cause i recall Halo 
 3 being pretty short and they didn't make a big deal about it.. Plus isn't Halo 3 the exact same 
 as Halo 2, i mean what was really new about it. Updated graphics, it had too.. There were no big 
 changes... I mean they didn't even put the sprint feature in the game, they added little features, 
 that wasn't like oh s**t.. Call of Duty 4 did just that.. All I'm worried about now.. is how any 
 Tom Clancy franchise will do now, come on Ghost Recon and Rainbow Six....
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RetailGamer
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 13, 2007 11:52 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 will not disappoint the COD fan by any means. This one is going into the books as 
 a game that I will remember for quite some time to come. The story keeps you going and the game 
 play keeps you wanting more. You play as both a SAS soldier (Soap) and a marine (mctavish) . The 
 game will throw you for a couple of twists as you get to see all sides of the story in interacive 
 cut-scenes. The weapon sounds and ambiance of game are very well done. I did not want to put the 
 controller down throughout the whole game. 
  Buy this one and keep it for yourself and let no one else have it. The only thing that COD 4 is 
 missing is an online Co-op. The Multi-player death-match and objective games are great, and the 
 added weapon upgrades and promotions make it that much more enjoyable. Halo 3 watch out theres 
 a contender out there that will give you a run for your money. Play enjoy and play it again! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Augm3ntal
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 11:31 am PT
Review:  Single Player is very immersive and yes over pretty quickly but i feel offers plenty of replay. 
 Veteran is very challenging. [ MILE HIGH CLUB! ]
  ALL of the Achievements are in single player. Love it or Hate it. I think this was a wise decision 
 to retain gameplay online. Gears was the worst. kids starting achievement rooms to noob their way 
 to 100 kills 3 at a time... LAME. 
  
  I played the Beta for over 40 hours and i have about 40 on the retail. my biggest complaint with 
 the game is the multiplayer sniper rifles. all that work for the .50 cal and its inaccurate?. meanwhile 
 my assualt rifles are dead on for a mile with no breath restrictions. Ive plucked alot of headshots 
 that have been rite on and not killed. wich is frustrating considering the work it takes to get 
 lined up for that shot.. thats being very picky tho.. multiplayer is simply awesome. 
  
  10 times over for some ppl with no achievements might be to much time 'for nothing' but for FPS 
 fans this takes me back to counter strike. i could easily put 120 days on this.. lol. move out.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GadsDad
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 13, 2007 10:33 am PT
Review:  Like many, I followed the development of CoD4 with high hopes. And while I wasn't a huge fan of 
 the Call of Duty series, I did play and enjoy them. 
  
  I have to say Call of Duty 4 exceeded my expectations in almost every area. The story was enjoyable, 
 especially for the FPS genre. But even more so, the single player campaign and gameplay is what 
 impressed me the most. As soon as I played the demo, I started looking into the game in earnest, 
 only being daunted by the "strong language" warning on the ESRB rating, but even that wasn't as 
 bad as allot of games sporting the same moniker. 
  
  My only significant disappointment being the multiplayer through system link. I've grown so accustomed 
 to Halo's awesome multiplayer modes through system link, I had hoped CoD4 would be equal to or 
 expand on that experience, but alas, for the best multiplayer experience it has to be on Xbox Live, 
 which we don't have.
  
  Nonetheless, this is a great game, with an engaging story. I hope Infinity Ward has more in mind 
 for us, continuing the high-watermark quality that I have found in Call of Duty 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silentlord833
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 13, 2007 10:27 am PT
Review:  So, yeah, the campaign is short, REALLY short, but it is intense pretty much from start to end. 
 Makes you feel extremely immersed into a real world conflict, and it's good.
  
  There, that said, I think I speak for a fair share of 360 owners when I say that since COD2 the 
 big draw has been the multiplayer, I mean that is the reason I bought this game, and I have definately 
 gotten my moneys worth thus far.
  PROS: Beautiful looking enviroments, character designs, and gameplay modes. The intensity of the 
 single player mode is compounded in the multiplayer. Weapons upgrades and xp challenges make you 
 want to use different weapons, and of course win. 
  CONS: If your team is not how do I put this nicely...... Good, then you are not either, (Of course 
 this is simply a part of XBL, so it isn't really any different then any other team shooters) . Some 
 problems with servers, I am not a IT guy so I may not know why, but it seems that the host connection 
 REALLY affects the players in the match. Not that I am a points player, but I find it a bit odd 
 that with all the challenges in the multiplayer, there is no achievements in them, personally I 
 don't think its that big of a deal, but I am sure some people will, as I stated before this game 
 is really a multiplayer with a story mode built in, so for the people trying to get up the points 
 this may be a bit frustrating. Oh and to all the big COD3 fans, not really any tea bagging.
  
  OVERALL: If you like video games, you should already own this one, I mean it's been out for 
 a week. So basically If you are reading this, and you don't own this game yet, you should just 
 stop reading and go get it. 
  
  I honestly think this is the best Multiplayer shooter I have played on console. If you remember 
 Halo 2 and how it really got people into the console online play, I feel this game, and not Halo 
 3 has really pushed the concept to the next level. 
  
  REPLAY: 10 out of 10
  CAMPAIGN: 8 out of 10 (simply for length)
  MULTIPLAYER: 9.99 out of 10 (cause sometimes it does 
 make you want to kill your controller.)
  AUDIO: 9.5 out of 10
  GRAPHICS: 10 out of 10
  
  IF YOU LIKE: Rainbow Six, Halo, COD, Counter-Strike, and I guess even MOH. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GARETH004
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 10:08 am PT
Review:  At first i thought the COD series was on it's way steeply down hill after COD 3 tried to make a 
 good game but man i was in for a suprise.
  
  Single player:
  COD 4 may have a short single player but it is truely amazing and realistic. There is never a mission 
 where it feels like you are just repeating the last as each is packed with explosive action and 
 an alive atmosphere. Unlike other recent FPS's this has a story line what shows the true reality 
 of war fare and not some Bond-style approach.
  
  Multiplayer:
  In my opinion the multiplayer seems one of the best around and maybe better than Halo 3. Instead 
 of just having the ability to do any mode or weapon you have to earn it by moving up a rank and 
 even more things become unlocked. IW has taken a smart move in ignoring multiplayer achievs (COD3 
 multi achievments were horrible) so there is no boosting matches but there is still challenges to 
 unlock additions to your weapon giving the multiplayer a long life expectancy
  
  In overall this game is one of the best warfare games out on the 360 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PostwarEMINEM
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 13, 2007 8:49 am PT
Review:  i dont know about the rest of you, but in my opinion, call of duty 4 is awesome. the gameplay (minus 
 the occasional bug in the server) the graphics are friggin awesome, the multiplayer is good. there 
 are plenty of maps to start on and play types to do also. the ranking system is pretty cool too. 
 the guns that they award you as you rank up is a great perk. especially if you want a certain weapon. 
 the only downfall is how they put different ranks together. but other than that (and the server) 
 the game is definitely a must get in my book. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EightBitWarrior
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 5:20 am PT
Review:  Fun: 9.5
  
  An absolute BLAST to play online, which for the most part feels quite balanced (grenade launchers 
 feel incredibly cheap) . There are a few glitches with the partying and lobbying system that can 
 be quite annoying, such as your party (all or some) not coming with if when you host, and not being 
 able to join a person's lobby period until multiple invites are accepted. They aren't game breaking 
 or of too much annoyance however, as my 12 hour play marathons can tell you. 
  
  The single player campaign is short but also of very high quality. The difficulty can be pretty 
 intense at some parts, and can be quite frustrating and somewhat monotonous at times, but overall 
 it excels at top notch standards and has a very gripping and interesting storyline.
  
  Graphics: 9.5
  
  Some of the best graphics around for sure. For the most part it's not visually 
 eye exploding (don't get me wrong it looks great) , but considering the amount of stuff happening 
 on screen, and that the game runs at 60 frames per second, it is quite the technical achievement. 
 It loses some points as I just said for not being completely mindblowing by the naked eye, but 
 also for a few frame dips in the single player campaign.
  
  Sound: 9.0
  
  Not really anything out of the ordinary here, but it's hard for me to really fault the game for 
 that. All the guns sound great (about how you'd expect) , and the voice acting, what there is, is 
 fairly top notch. It's all quality here, but still nothing you'd write home about.
  
  Replayability: 10
  
  Man oh man is there a lot of replay value in this sucker. The single player 
 not so much (because it's very short; about 4-6 hours on normal) , but you can definitely tell that 
 Infinity Ward put a TON of time into making their multiplayer component the best that they possible 
 could. On top of the 16 multiplayer maps and a dozen or so game types, the thing that really gives 
 this game legs is the ranking and challenge system. Every match you play you get experience points 
 depending on how you as an individual (and as a team) did during the match. As you raise your military 
 ranks up higher and higher, you'll unlock new weapons, perks, and challenges.
  
  Challenges allow you to complete little missions within your matches that net you experience and 
 items such as customizations for your weapons. It's not as simple as just unlocking say an M4 and 
 having all the fixings right away; you must EARN your sights and camouflages for each by doing 
 things such as "get 100 kills" or "get 50 headshots", etc.
  
  As for the perk system, you are allowed to have three of these enabled at all times on your character, 
 grouped into different categories (for balance) , and they do things for you such as let you do 
 extra damage with your weapon, let you carry an extra primary weapon (instead of a pistol) , let 
 you hear the enemy team voice chat in proximity, allow you to carry an RPG launcher, and more. 
 
  
  There is a ton of customization for your soldier, coupled with the fact that this in of itself 
 becomes EXTREMELY addicting, and adding the fact that the multiplayer is also EXTREMELY addicting 
 and fun, you'll be playing it for a very, very long time.
  
  The single player is very short as previously mentioned, and probably won't have you coming back 
 very much, but what is there is very good and let's face it folks, where it's at with this game 
 is the multiplayer. If you aren't into online gaming, this could be the game that changes your 
 mind.
  
  Overall Average: 9.5
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Soilfusion
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 3:07 am PT
Review:  I bought this game as soon as it came out over here in the UK (which was around 5 days ago) and 
 I have not been disappointed with it for one moment. 
  
  You start out on your basic tutorial course where you're taught to shoot and what buttons do what 
 then you have the option to run the course again and try and beat the games (and on the 360 at 
 least, the developers) personal best. 
  
  For me it was challenging but not ridiculous to such an extent that it made me stop playing or 
 give up entirely. That's how the entire game feels to me personally. I completed the game on Regular 
 (Normal) Difficulty and there were times where I was shouting at the TV because a rogue grenade 
 took me out (you will encounter this a lot) but it didn't feel as I was being cheated, it was true 
 to life and realistic. If you stand near a grenade and it goes off you're not going to be able 
 to shrug it off and carry on shooting at the nearest bad guy, you'll be seriously wounded if not 
 dead. 
  
  The SAS missions are more about espionage and silent approach early on whilst the Marine missions 
 throw you in to the thick of it a lot quicker, the sheer amount of enemies that come flying at 
 you at certain choke points in some missions is jaw dropping but whilst it does make it a bit more 
 tricky it makes it all more worthwhile when you take them down and complete the mission.
  
  The controls have had a little re-think and the crouch button for the xbox 360 controller is B 
 instead of the generic left/right stick "button" (R3/L3 if you like) the L3 is used to sprint now 
 which is very handy when you need it. You've still got options to throw grenades back and alike 
 but the B button as crouch is certainly a turn for the better.
  
  The level design of COD 4 is superb with graphics being crisp, subttle and true to life. The mission 
 "All Ghillied up" where you have to play a sniper in Ceynoble is abosutely amazing, the entire 
 time I played that mission I was in awe of everything around me, the surroundings, the atmosphere 
 and the story development it was truly entertaining. 
  
  As soon as I received this I played this game for about 8 hours straight then finished the game 
 on the day after. It is a bit short but with the levels and story that you are presented with, 
 it'd be practically impossible to feel hard done by. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silent_riku
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 12, 2007 11:28 pm PT
Review:  All in all the game is definitely one of the best FPS games out there right now. sending you straight 
 into modern warfare and giving you some really awesome arsenal to boot. the controls are superb 
 and enemy AI is intelligent enough to keep you running for cover. But I won't be giving it anymore 
 praises cuz I can see that by doing that I'd just be repeating what everyone else is saying about 
 this really awesome game in their reviews.
  
  NOW. this is what I'll be reviewing...
  
  The game's bad side...
  
  seeing as Bungie and it's wonderful Halo figured out a way to actually 
 let you see your legs as you run and put you in the surrounding you are in you'd think that maybe 
 CoD would've done the same thing... WRONG. from the get go once you step out of the hangar and 
 into the light you'll notice that you don't have a what? yes a SHADOW. while every other NPC in 
 the game seems to have one it's like you're a ghost because you don't have a shadow. I could've 
 done without being able to see my legs but not being able to see my shadow? and walking on a puddle 
 of water never felt more saddening than in this game... was I floating over it? come on... there 
 wasn't a single ripple as I kept running on it back and forth...
  
  Another thing is whenever you're on a helicopter... on some instances you'll be able look around 
 the chopper and what bothered me was that I could see the seat I was sitting on! what am I sitting 
 on then? or should I say where is my butt sitting if I can see the seat I'm supposedly sitting 
 on? these apparent flaws in the game left me feeling like I was just a floating camera.
  
  Oh yeah... hiding behind a pile of boxes never felt more safe than in this game... while the cars 
 explode and kill you when you're too close... the boxes don't ever get destroyed. you could hide 
 behind a pile of boxes and be just as safe as hiding behind a wall.
  
  AI though mostly amazing to fight against in this game sometimes becomes too smart... It was a 
 hectic fight and I found a way to get behind an enemy that was busy firing at my team mates (note 
 busy) and just as I was about to knife him... he shot me! how did he find out? I was moving so 
 quietly and the opposing noise was loud enough to cover me but he still found out. what the heck 
 was that?
  
  Here's another one... after killing an enemy... I was expecting to be able to come up to this dead 
 body and shove in more bullets but when I started firing it just went through the body and onto 
 the floor. you couldn't even knife the body... although grenades did somehow manage to make the 
 body fly a bit...
  
  For fans of the CoD series you might think that I'm an anti-FPS person but actually I love the 
 CoD series and I treasure all my CoD games... but this game felt so unfinished because I was half 
 expecting to be so immersed in the game that I would skip work for a week but nothing like that 
 happened... while the tremendous gun fights got me feeling like I was in the game... once all those 
 barrage of bullets coming back and forth had ended it lead me back to the same thought I had at 
 the start of this game... "Where's my shadow?" so Single Player mode only garnered 4/5 for me.
 
  
  The multiplayer mode did of course made me smile from ear to ear. I've never been more happy to 
 shoot other players than in this game. hahaha... I mean coming from behind and knifing the other 
 player never felt more satisfying than in this game. so all in all it's a 5/5 for multiplayer mode...
 
  
  Well that was my review for this game... so my rating for this game will be 9/10 but I would've 
 given it a ten if only Activision and Infinity Ward had polished it better... here's hoping that 
 all these flaws I mentioned will be taken into account and fixed when the next CoD installment 
 comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: white_sox
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 12, 2007 10:44 pm PT
Review:  Starting in 2003 the Call of Duty series has been one of the top notch WWII shooters available. 
 Having over 5 different games spanned across several platforms in these 4 years might have just 
 been the wake up call the series has needed. Let's face it, WWII has been done and we've seen the 
 ins and outs of it. We can only storm the beaches or stop the African front in the battle of El 
 Alamein so many times until we feel we've seen it all. Infinity Ward brings the series in the right 
 direction with a very exciting single player and an all around killer multiplayer.
  
  CoD4 really makes you feel like you've actually entered into a new 21st century, futuristic war. 
 The weapons are all accurately based on modern day, and you'll see plenty of variety in there as 
 well. From assault rifles like the G36C, to submachine guns like the MP5, you'll find almost anything 
 to suit your playing style. The night vision is also fully revamped and it's actually one of the 
 smallest yet coolest features that the game has to offer. Take all these things and mix them with 
 amazing graphics, a new campaign, and a the much needed M rating make this Call of Duty completely 
 revolutionary from the last.
  
  The first thing that's going to jump out at you when you play CoD4 is it's stellar graphical appeal. 
 The games engine brings out some stellar features, especially in the lighting and texture department. 
 All of the character models look real good, as well as their animations. There's also some really 
 nice effects that it uses, especially while in the first person view. Infinity Ward pulls out all 
 the stops for Call of Duty 4, and it's arguably the best looking game on the 360. The audio is 
 no slouch either. All of the guns and explosives sound exactly how they should, and they're really 
 varied and accurate. Also, the voice acting is really impressive from top to bottom.
  
  Call of Duty 4 follows two main characters, "Soap" Mactavish who works under the 22nd SAS and marine 
 sergeant Paul Jackson. You really don't get to know anything about the characters, and the back 
 story of the two is nonexistent. The setting takes place in both Russia and the Middle East and 
 the plot consists of a somewhat by the books revolt in Russia. CoD4 presents its story in a dark 
 and deep way. It's something that might really hit home, and it's kind of scary to think about 
 the possibilities that new technology has brought. It's certainly not a very in depth story, but 
 it can keep you on the edge of your seat and the climax may just send a chill up your spine.
  
  There are 4 different difficulties in the game, and they're all available at the beginning. 
 The hardened difficulty is probably what feels best most of the time and it gives you a pretty 
 good frustration while still being beatable. As the CoD series has been known for in the past, 
 the final difficulty is referred to as "Veteran" and it's no walk in the park. It's one of the 
 most challenging difficulties for FPS out there. It's certainly not for anyone without patience 
 or time. The bad thing is that the veteran difficulty feels cheap at times and it's based a lot 
 on patterns and shear luck at times. You'll spend about 7 or so hours if you start the game on 
 veteran or about 5 on regular settings. This is unfortunately the game's main fault but the game 
 doesn't ware out it's welcome and there are plenty of different missions that keep it fresh. It's 
 hard to complete this paragraph without mentioning the game's greatest level, "All Ghillied Up". 
 It's a sniper mission, like I've never seen before. The way it's executed is amazing, and it's 
 certainly one you'll never forget. 
  
  CoD4 comes with a full featured multiplayer that's packed to the brim with the same addictive gameplay 
 found in the single player. There's over ten different game modes and 20 different maps. What really 
 makes it not only extremely addictive but really worth the value of buying the game is the unlockable 
 system. The game uses a ranking system that you take your character and build upon him. It uses 
 a similar system found in Rainbow Six, except it takes it a step further. You start off with basic 
 guns and basic game modes, and then everything from then on has to be achieved. Clan tags, game 
 modes, maps, guns, perks, and scopes aren't something you should take for granted because CoD4 
 really makes you work for them. 
  
  There are also specific challenges for each weapon as you go along, and you will unlock new attachments 
 for each challenge you reach for that specific gun. Perks are also unlocked as you go along, these 
 range from extra health to explosives, and steadier aiming. Air strikes are really the final thing 
 that makes Call of Duty's 4 multiplayer so great. After you get certain kill streaks you can call 
 in Radars and Air strikes and then helicopters that just mow your enemy down. Everything about 
 the multiplayer just makes you want to get more and more and it becomes an extremely addicting 
 mix. This deep multiplayer aspects make it easier to swallow the short campaign in the game. 
 
  
  All in all, Call of Duty's 4 highly suspenseful and variety filled single player mixed with an 
 extremely deep and addicting multiplayer make this game a must own. IW makes the right choice to 
 bring the series into the modern day and it really sets a standard for not only graphics but just 
 overall quality. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BK-Sleeper
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 12, 2007 9:58 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty was always groundbreaking in it's feats, starting with the stormy beaches of Normandy. 
 If that was groundbreaking, this is ground-annihilating.
  
  Fast forward more than fifty years into the future from World War 2, and into the boats of an S. A. S. 
 operative named 'Soap' MacTavish, a newcomer to the ranks. It would be wise to take note that Captain 
 Price is a reoccurring character archetype used in the series, appearing in the first two installments 
 from Infinity Ward. You begin training, running through an obstacle course to determine what your 
 recommended difficulty is, and once you're done, you're ready to deploy. The first mission starts 
 on a barge during a stormy night in the middle of the ocean, and before you know it, you're on 
 the edge of your seat, heart pounding, eyes wide open. The story takes so many twists, turns, loops, 
 and "Oh Snap" moments than any game encountered in recent memory.
  
  The first thing that you can note is graphics. They blow anything that Halo has out of the water, 
 in a heartbeat. All of the character models, weapons, vehicles, environments, and special effects 
 are incredibly detailed, especially the explosions, gunfire, and smoke effects, which are trademarks 
 of the series. The game stays at 60 FPS the whole game, even with explosions sounding off, countless 
 pieces of animated grass swaying in the wind, and raging firefights tearing cities and streets 
 apart. It's eye candy. It's good eye candy.
  
  The game play remains perfectly intact, taking out the meaningless and irritating 'button mini 
 games' from Call of Duty 3, and instead relying on the X button to perform actions like 'Carry 
 Ally' or 'Plant C4.' The left trigger is used for iron sights, another trademark of the series, 
 and the bumper buttons are used for grenades. Instead of using the butt of your gun for melee attacks, 
 your knife is used, and it's deadly effective when used with precision and finesse. The health 
 system has remained true to the predecessors, where if you're hit a certain amount of times, the 
 outer area of the screen goes red, you can see the veins of your eyes around the screen, and you 
 can hear your heart pounding and your heavy breathing. This is usually the time when you hide and 
 wait for it all to go away. 
  
  And staying true to the series, if a grenade is close enough, you can toss it back to where it 
 came from, but you have to be wary. The grenade's fuse is still active and can go off in the air 
 in front of you if you wait too long to grab it. Another nifty feature is the ability to shoot 
 through thin materials like wood or sheet metal to hit an enemy on the other side. The difficulties, 
 though, highly differ from regular to hardened, so unless you can play Halo 3 on Legendary and 
 score head shots like a pro, stick with regular. Hardened or Veteran will have you throwing your 
 controller, like I have so many times.
  
  The sound. Oh the sound. The gunshots, rocket launchers, explosions, and sniper rounds pinging 
 off everything. Every weapon has it's own distinct sound, every grenade blast isn't the same, and 
 the music only sets the tone for amazement or suspense. The voice acting is top notch as well, 
 with each character having their own distinct personality, such as Captain Price, Gaz, and Staff 
 Sergeant Griggs. The musical score is done by the same composer who did Metal Gear Solid 3, and 
 movies such as Man on Fire and the Shrek series.
  
  This game may not be the first to transit from World War 2 to Modern day (Battlefield 2) , but it 
 certainly is the best one to do so. Seeing as Call of Duty and Medal of Honor stack up toe to toe, 
 with Call of Duty continuously emerging victorious, it wouldn't be surprising to see a modern day 
 incarnate of the Medal of Honor series anytime soon. This is a must buy for any gamer, casual, 
 hardcore, or just someone who is getting into games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KrAzY_Croat
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 16, 2009 10:12 pm PT
Review:  It took a while, but Infinity Ward finally decided to step off the World War II band wagon. With 
 the modern times, becoming more interesting, and with the success' of games like Battlefield 2, 
 perhaps that's why the change was made. And what a decision it was.
  Besides the change in era, Call of Duty also had something major to think about. With the World 
 War II series, everyone knew what was going to happen, and perhaps that's why it became redundant. 
 Modern Warfare offers a completely new story, full of surprises and "Holy Crap" moments. 
  The only complaint on this game is that the campaign is shorter than your run of the mill first 
 person shooter. But what you do get, is uncompromising quality in the quantity. The story is told 
 through mutiple perspectives, as you play as a US Marine, and the deadly British SAS. War games 
 are always entertaining, but rarely do they leave an effect on you. Modern Warfare's plot twists, 
 sights and sounds can be affecting, reminding you that even though its a game, the very real thing 
 is a terrible sight to behold. 
  Throughout the campaign, you will be fighting an evil tyrant in the Middle-East. You also get to 
 take on arguably the most deadly soldiers in the world in the form of Russian Spetznaz. One mission 
 you will be struggling to escape a cargo ship, another you will be in a ghillie suit snipping the 
 enemies to get to a vantage point. The campaign's levels are so well designed that you wish there 
 was more.
  Of course, what would a Call of Duty game be without good graphics. In this category, it surpasses, 
 far and beyond. Not a single detail is over looked. To the photo-etched weapons, to the incredible 
 faces, and the brilliant environments. It is without a doubt, that Modern Warfare is the greatest 
 looking realistic shooter ever.
  The longevity that the campaign lacked is made up for in the stellar multiplayer. Up to 18 players 
 can slaughter each other on a very large number of maps, 16. To complement the excellent maps is 
 a good number of play modes, from simple team deathmatches, and free-for-all. The other modes are 
 all objective unlocked, through several hours of play and character advancement. Besides the new 
 play modes, like hardcore settings, the character advancement offers enhanced gaming items. You 
 can upgrade to recieve a scope on your weapon, or you can even make yourself invisible to radar, 
 making you much more difficult to spot. 
  Another intriguing feature of the multiplayer is the killing spree system. Kill three for example, 
 and you can radar scan. Kill a few more, and you can unlock a helicopter aid that pelts at you 
 enemies, giving you a significant advantage.
  When you bottle it down, the brief but top-notch quality of the campaign and the best multiplayer 
 on any console makes Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare a truly incredible package.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: raymanlo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 12, 2007 8:26 pm PT
Review:  All I have to say is this is a Beautiful game. Visually it's incredible. And one of my favorite 
 missions is the one with the two man team. You have to play to expierince for you self. My only 
 complaint is the network. It still needs some work I hope the fix that problem. When they fix the 
 network problem that multi player is pretty soiid the rank system is good. And the reward system 
 where you have to do certain things to earn improvements to your arsenel is pretty intresting. 
 And the add on's give you a little bit of an edge over other players but not over the top to the 
 point it's cheating. Just fix the network problem and this a solid multiplayer. 
  The campian mode is very challening. With the typincal call of duty fasion where enemy soliders 
 just keep coming which cause you to die many times over just to get through the stage. In all honesty 
 this is a must have in you video game library. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phaethon66
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 12, 2007 7:47 pm PT
Review:  I was very skeptical about purchasing this game... I really did not enjoy COD2 for the Xbox and 
 always thought it was kind of lame, but I heard so many good things about this iteration of the 
 series I thought I had better check it out.
  
  I was completely blown away from start to finish.
  
  The single player everyone keeps calling 
 short. I'd like to think of it in a different way by making explicit comparisons on single player 
 length.
  This campaign is perhaps slightly longer than the Halo 3 campaign. It is significantly shorter 
 than the single player from Orange Box, or Oblivion of course, and has held my attention much longer 
 than single player has for really any sports title.
  
  I make these comparisons because in my specific and strange opinion, single player is and has not 
 ever really been to important to me in a game like this. All the single player games I've ever 
 loved were RPGs. For a game like this, an entertaining single player is the icing on the cake.
 
  
  It is very entertaining, full of moments and missions that will blow your mind. It contains some 
 extremely dramatic moments I've not seen before in a game like this. I was emotionally invested 
 in alot of the action. 
  
  That, I consider, is quite a feat of gaming.
  
  Now in my opinion the part that really shines is the top shelf multiplayer implementation. Tacticalish 
 action. No eating a full clip in the face here and surviving. Multiplayer has great little extras 
 like the "soft" walls and the "Last Stand" perk, which allows you upon recieving fatal damage to 
 lay down on your back and pull out your pistol before the coup de grace is administered to you.
 
  
  Something my friends that play Halo all the time were worried about is the much discussed leveling 
 and how it provides acess to different and perhaps more powerful weapons. While this is partially 
 true (the difference between having and not having claymores is palpable) it is not an overarching 
 concern of mine. I have more kills with an AK (a starting weapon) than anything else and routinly 
 win games using only my AK.
  
  I think it goes without saying by simply looking at the screenies that it is a fabulously beatiful 
 game. Something maybe not so readily apparent about the presentation is the sound. Guns sound loud. 
 They make big, powerful bangs. When they are nearby being shot at you, you can tell. When they 
 are far away being shot at others you can tell. Coming off of alot of time in Halo where most of 
 the guns sound like .22's I was really impressed by this.
  
  
  In short, you should totally check this out. I would recommend it to anyone who likes any iteration 
 of FPS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aragornjer
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 12, 2007 7:15 pm PT
Review:  This was a fantastic game. It had a lot of shooting and pretty good campaign. I loved the idea 
 of making bullets go through walls and making your own classes. There are plenty of guns, way more 
 than COD 3. It also good multi-player matches. One thing I don't like is that the maps are too 
 close quartered. You have to use close range weapons. You can hardly use the sniper rifle. Also 
 to change your class you have to go to start and do it all in there and sometimes you have to wait 
 till you die again after you died to change your class. I thought the campaign was a little short 
 like HALO 3 but it was good non the less. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arthas242000
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 12, 2007 7:12 pm PT
Review:  When I originally saw all the different games at last years E3 I wasn't really that excited about 
 Assassins Creed or Call of Duty 4. Especially call of duty 4, I remember Infinity Ward showing 
 what can be considered the "sniper" mission during E3 and honestly I wasn't impressed. Yet, after 
 playing through the entire game and clocking in over 20 hours on multiplayer I can easily say that 
 this game is truly amazing. 
  
  story: The story behind Call of Duty 4 is based in a modern setting. Basically, The Russian nationalist, 
 lead by Imran Zakhaev, is set on returning his homeland to the times of the Soviet Union by revolting 
 against the current government and seizing a nuclear weapons stockpile. Zakhaev has the support 
 of several rogue divisions of the Russian army, but he knows the United States would never allow 
 this to happen and so funds a coup in the Middle East, organized by his ally Kahled Al-Asad, to 
 draw attention away from Russia. Zakhaev, Al-Asad, and their seconds-in-command, one of which is 
 Zakhaev's son, soon become known as The Four Horsemen. The British and U. S. governments discover 
 the plot while monitoring Zakhaev's recent activities, and quickly initiate a police-action to 
 quell the uprisings in both regions. Revealing more information would ruin the game but simply 
 put the story feels like an A-list movie that doesn't have tons of twist and turns but feels good 
 to complete. 
  
  Presentation: The presentation in COD4 is definitely top notch with plenty of flare and glamor. 
 The menu system is slick and fluent, the multiplayer consist of different challenges to encourage 
 specific play with different weapons. Overall, the presentation feels great and shows how much 
 care infinity ward has placed into COD4.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are impressive and really go to show that the 360 and ps3 really can go 
 next gen.
  
  gameplay: The gameplay in COD 4 isn't anything revolutionary but what it lacks in evolution it 
 makes up in substance and mechanically sound fundamentals. The main gimmick of COD 4 is just like 
 every COD game, looking down the sight and just pounding away at tons of enemy soldiers. The other 
 main gimmick in call of duty games is the scripted events; just as its predecessor before the scripted 
 events are unique and challenging enough to overlook the fact that the enemy AI isn't as intelligent 
 as other FPSs. On regular difficulty the pacing is perfect and presents a great blend of fun action 
 with some tactical scheming. The same can't be said about higher difficulties which pin the player 
 against former quarterbacks and professional marksman. I'm not exaggerating when I say that on 
 Hardened or Veteran difficulty enemies will throw grenades inches away and pop you in the face 
 with only a few shots. This isn't necessarily a negative aspect its just really annoying. The single 
 player and multiplayer handle exactly the same in terms of mechanics; the difference comes in multiplayer 
 were the ability to customize classes with perks and the modification of weapons. I can safely 
 say after playing Halo 3, COD 4 and Team Fortress that COD 4 is easily the most indepth multiplayer 
 game ever created. That burning sensation to unlock achievements was used for the challenge operations 
 in multiplayer. Depending on the level of the user, specific challenges are unlocked such as: get 
 a specific amount of kills, sprinting for 26 miles, shooting down an enemy helicopter, etcetera. 
 COD 4 also implements a Rainbow Six Vegas style ranking system were after a specific amount of 
 experience points the user ranks: for example, you start as a recruit and make your way to staff 
 sergeant and even higher positions like lieutenant colonel. Overall, the gameplay itself is fun 
 enough to give users and incentive to engage this products online mode but the added content is 
 just icing on the cake. 
  
  conclusion: What do you get when you purchase COD 4: a 4-6 hour single player game that doesn't 
 have a lot of substance but the material that is there is of the utmost of quality. After completing 
 the single player, an arcade mode is unlocked which allows for more replayability: by timing and 
 scoring each individual level by accuracy, kills and time. Aside from the single player, the multiplayer 
 will take up the bulk of your time with an insanely indepth amount of content, modes and weapons. 
 This is the perfect blend of fun and strategic gameplay. If you though halo 3 was pretty fun but 
 too unrealistic and Rainbow Six Vegas was way to realistic, Call of Duty 4 will be the perfect 
 medium. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: martinsabran
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 12, 2007 5:17 pm PT
Review:  A must in today modern warfare game... visually so incredible and sooooo real. The only thing I 
 would have wish for it to be a perfect game is two things. 1) hava a coop mode to play with friend, 
 and 2) just to have the game a little less linear. But beside these 2 comments, this is a perfect 
 game. But still I say again, this remain a must for all FPS into today simulation warfare. Shooting 
 through wall is just amazing and so much more immersive. Cant think of future game and how its 
 going to be after this... this really going to be perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MightyJosh
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 13, 2008 5:57 am PT
Review:  Having played ever COD game besides "The Big Red One" I can clearly say that this is the best installment 
 of the Call of Duty Series. 
  
  COD 4 has made a good push forward by taking the title to another era and opened up a whole other 
 world for this game to explore and for the series to continue. As good as the WW2 scene was it 
 was starting to get repetitive and with MOH there was nothing special.
  
  When I first heard that the series was moving to the modern era and moving away form the WW2 scene 
 I was a little worried that the game was heading down the same path that the Medal of Honour series 
 did, but COD4 Modern Warfare is a OUTSTANDING FPS and one game that has earnt its place as a COD 
 title
  
  come see more at www. mightyjosh. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NitaraPwnzU
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 12, 2007 4:29 pm PT
Review:  Single player is a lil bit short, but wow is it intense. Probably some of the best missions I have 
 ever played in any game. Graphics are better then Gears of War, which was the graphics king. If 
 you don't have it yet, go pick it up. Well worth it. Multiplayer is on par with Halo 3. Sound effects 
 are dead on and are awesome in surround sound. HD quality at 720 native is superior to any game 
 currently out for any console. This is a must own game. I cannot say enough good things about call 
 of duty 4 modern warfare. Truley an epic game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sony_vaio
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 12, 2007 3:42 pm PT
Review:  This game is simply amazing. It really is hard to put into words how real the game feels as you 
 shoot and get shot at by enemies. The graphics are the best ever on the 360 and the best ever as 
 far as the PS3 goes as well. The online play is great. You rank uo and can unlock classes which 
 give your better weapons, ammo, and perks. The gameplay online is fluid. No slow down what so ever. 
 The maps are superb. I have only played the 1st mission on the single player mode but it was awesome 
 as well. The true teeth of this game though lies in the online multiplayer. You must have LIVE 
 to play this game the way it was meant to be played. You really feel as if you are in a warzone. 
 This game is the best FPS the 360 has to offer to date. PICK THIS GAME UP! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: clopey15
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 12, 2007 3:10 pm PT
Review:  Single Player Only Review. Have not stepped into the Live experience as of yet.
  
  The Call of Duty franchise has always been just another FPS set in the past. WWII has been the 
 most over played war in the history of video games. Its time for a change, and damn it couldn't 
 be any sweeter. 
  
  Tom Clansy games have always had a place in my heart. I like the gritty feel of the powerful weapons 
 and the team based firefights. Sorry Tom (Ubisoft) you have been replaced by Call of Duty 4: Modern 
 Warfare. 
  
  Never have I been more engaged into a FPS than I have been the past two days. Yeah, its short. 
 Complaints? Not really. Every second of this game was extremely enjoyable. Heart rate increasing 
 during every firefight. Eyes wide open trying not to blink during the on screen action. Yelling 
 out loud at the fictitious enemy as they try and cut me down. Every second was well worth it. 
 
  
  The graphics are some of the best, if not the best, that I have seen so far on any console. The 
 animations are really well done. You can tell they Infinity Ward did their homework. 
  
  Sound... nothing sweeter than hearing hundreds of live fire zipping past your head, cars and trucks 
 exploding with massive earth shaking effects, and the shouting of your target or your teammates. 
 
  
  Controls could not be any tighter. Precession to the highest.
  
  I sat thought this game all the way to the last level... need I say more. The game itself took six 
 hours to beat. Thats six hours playing a FPS straight. Its pretty damn good like that. 
  
  If you like the Call of Duty franchise, but always wanted something set in a different place, time, 
 war, than this IS for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sasukedevil
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 12, 2007 2:55 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 was the best Call of Duty in my opinion, to date. CoD 4 however, could very well 
 change that!
  
  Gameplay -
  
  Everything about this game has changed, as in story and in time. If you haven't noticed already, 
 this game is practically in present day, and not WWII anymore. The gameplay has changed dramatically, 
 as the weapons are different yet feel more awesome then ever and it doesn't feel sluggish at all. 
 
  
  There are a few weapons that you'll need to get used too. For me, the sniper is a bit different 
 than before from previous installments, but you won't find yourself struggling with it after a 
 few rounds or so.
  
  There is a lot of variety of weapons in the game, ranging from shotguns to assault rifles to light 
 machine guns, etc. Each are all fun to use. 
  
  In multiplayer you won't be playing with the best guns yet. Your going to have to wait until you 
 level up higher to use better gadgets. In Single Player you'll automatically get to use the best 
 guns right from the start, and will continue doing so throughout the campaign.
  
  Each level is gained from getting a certain amount of EXP. You will only gain exp through multiplayer 
 games. Also, you will earn new modes to play, weapons, perks, and challenges while playing Multiplayer. 
 
  
  Perks are really enjoyable to have, and will help with certain guns, etc. One example could be 
 extra grenades, C4s, or not being detectable on enemy radar. Those are only few out of 15+.
  
  Single Player is practically the same as multiplayer, except that you won't find yourself going 
 back to it to much.
  
  The single player campaign is still awesome, as there is so much craziness happening, even on the 
 first level. You will enjoy the different settings, and won't feel like your doing the same thing 
 everytime.
  
  Sound and Graphics -
  
  The sound is very great, and what to expect from a CoD game. There isn't anything wrong with the 
 sound, and you'll definitely enjoy it!
  
  Graphics wise, this game looks f-ing awesome. One of those great looking games on the consoles 
 so far. Crysis graphics no, but it's up there!
  
  Value -
  
  Single Player is about 3 to 5 hours long on Recruit or Regular. Depends on skill. Hardened about 
 4 to 6, and Veteran will be about 5+. 
  
  Veteran won't be easy the first time and it's better for you to do Veteran on your second playthrough 
 so you know where to go and where everything is at.
  
  Multiplayer will last you a long time, unless you do Prestige Mode multiple times. Prestige Mode 
 is practically... restart on Level 1 with absolutely nothing but a new emblem. That's what it means. 
 You can only do Prestige Mode once you hit level 56 and after only if you want to. 
  
  Multiplayer this time around is much deeper and much more spread out. You can try completing challenges, 
 just leveling up, or whatever. It's possibly the best multiplayer game out, or at least one of 
 the top five most deepest! 
  
  Bottomline -
  
  This game is awesome, no matter what. It's a good idea to buy this game, even if you won't have 
 online. You can play with friends on Split Screen Multiplayer, or try beating Single Player mode 
 on Arcade Mode. This is definitely a GOTY Contender, and possibly better than Halo 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JamieMc
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 12, 2007 2:40 pm PT
Review:  The single player experience is riveting. You are thrown from one gorgeous eye-candy situation 
 to the next. The realism is incredible. I actually felt sick to my stomach blowing-up scrambling 
 terrorists on the radar screen of my bombing run.
  
  But the single player is pure warm-up.
  
  The multi-player is XBOX Live crack. The game starts 
 balanced yet you feel at a slight disadvantage to some of the other players. The level-up system 
 consists of a series of challenges (head shots, blowing up cars) that earn new features for your 
 warrior AND new game types. 
  
  I recently bought Halo 3 and The Orange Box and they are currently collecting dust. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ozzdog123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 12, 2007 2:07 pm PT
Review:  Sound-Great sound, especially with an HDTV. All guns have there own unique sound. Great enviromental 
 sounds. Makes you feel like your actually there.
  Sound-9/10
  
  Graphics-Some of the best on Xbox 360. Looks better than all previous Call of Duty's. Each level 
 has its own look and feel
  Graphics-9/10
  
  Gameplay-Wow. Thats what I said after the 1st level. Gameplay and controls just feel solid and it 
 just flows to your fingertips. The stort just immerses you and will make you want to keep playing 
 to find out whats next.
  Gameplay-9.5/10
  Controls-9.0/10
  Value-10/10
  
  Bottom line- (The +) Great graphics, Great sound, Great controls, Great Story, Great Gameplay, Great 
 Multiplayer too keep you playing for a long time
  (The -) Over fairly quickly, but thats what achievements are for.
  Verdict-9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: klusps
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 12, 2007 2:02 pm PT
Review:  Time to move on from Call of Duty 3 and Treyarch because Call of Duty 4 is here! Call of Duty 4 
 is developed by Infinity Ward, the same developers who made Call of Duty for the PC and Call of 
 Duty 2 for the PC and 360. The Call of Duty series as always been known for its chaotic battles, 
 cinematic sequences, and the time period taking place in World War II. Well Infinity Wards has 
 strive away from the WWII era and set its game in modern day. This is might be a dramatic change 
 to the series but that still doesn't change the fact that it is a Call of Duty game. The gameplay 
 isn't slow pace like GRAW or Rainbow Six, it is the same old Call of Duty gameplay with explosions 
 everywhere, soldiers screaming orders, and many allies fighting along side with you. 
  The first thing I have to say about the single player campaign is that they did the introduction 
 and the cinematic sequences really well like they always did. There are some epic moments in the 
 campaign that it is just beautiful to look at. Seeing a destroyed city looming in the distance 
 and many helicopters allies flying to war is a something worth seeing. 
  In the past Call of Duty games your character is a random soldier mostly in the Russian, British, 
 and American army. In Call of Duty 4 you're only a British S. A. S and American soldier who are characters 
 who is actually important the storyline, yes I said it storyline, to Call of Duty 4. You're fighting 
 with the Russians who has took over the Middle East and is planning to use nuclear warheads. This 
 game doesn't have the best storyline in the world but it does ,in my opinion, has a better plot 
 then the previous Call of Duty games. There also more variety in terms of gameplay then the previous 
 Call of Duty games. There are levels where you're bombing people from a AC-130 gunship or quietly 
 sniping patrol soldiers in the bushes while trying to blend in with the environment. The only bad 
 thing about the single player is that it is very short and should take you about 5 hours to complete.
 
  With the change of setting there is of course the same in weapons. Moving on from M1Garand to 
 modern new high-tech military gun is a refreshing feel to the Call of Duty series. Some weapons 
 are like the M16A4, semi automatic sniper rifles, and heat seeking rocket launchers. 
  The multiplayer in this game will keep you busy and is in my opinion one of the top Xbox Live games 
 on the 360. The game supports 1-4 player split-screen, 2-24 system link, and 2-18 in Xbox Live. 
 Sadly you can't bring a guest along on Xbox Live and it doesn't have any vehicles of any kind but 
 it makes up for it with the really cool create your class system which adds some depths to the 
 multiplayer. When creating your class you can decide which weapons, side arms, special grenade, 
 special abilities which is called Perks, and of course the name, to customize. 
  You can customize your weapons by deciding what attachments like scope or grenade launcher you 
 want for your weapon. Each weapons has attributes like how far it can shoot, how much damage it 
 does, and the accuracy of the weapon. The attachments can have a positive effect or a negative 
 effect on your weapon depending on which attachment you put on your weapon.
  The other thing I mention was Perks which are special abilities you can pick for your classes you 
 make. Each class can have up to 3 perks and this is another thing that makes the multiplayer really 
 depth. A cool perk I have to mention is the Last Stand which lets you pull out a pistol and shoot 
 down your enemies before dying if you're severely injured. Some others are Juggernaut which increases 
 your health or Deep Impact which lets you shoot through wall depending on your distance and what 
 type of gun you're using. There are many more abilities to choose from and many more to unlock 
 through ranked matchmaking. The matchmaking system uses the same system as Halo 2 & 3 which randomly 
 chooses the matches but what is different is that the party who is playing in your previous games 
 stays with you to the next match, until you quit. 
  Besides upgrading and all the action in multiplayer is intense and chaotic, especially in 9 vs 
 9 battles. Sense there is no vehicles in the game you can call down for air support like an airstrike 
 or a gunship to help your team out by getting a certain number of kills before dying. There are 
 16 maps to choose from which are mixed with indoors and outdoor areas. Also there are 6 gametypes 
 like the regular death-match and team death match, and some interesting ones like Search and Destory, 
 Sabotage, Domination, and Headquarters. 
  The graphics in this game is one of the best 360 graphics I ever seen. The character detail is 
 the most impressive thing I've seen and some environments are pretty to look at too. The shadows 
 and the lighting is one of the best I've seen in gaming and I like the blur effects when you aim 
 down sight on your gun. The game runs in a full 60 frames per second and I encountered no framerate 
 problems at all in the game.
  The audio is top notch and is flawless. The gun sounds has a real punch in them and has that satisfying 
 feeling when you're shooting. The voice acting is really well done and there is nothing wrong with 
 it. The thing I loved about the audio is the soldiers yelling out orders in a chaotic battle and 
 the loud gun noises going off everywhere.
  There are is a good amount of replay value in Call of Duty 4. Even though the campaign is short 
 you can play through it again in Arcade modes which lets you earn points for each enemies you kill 
 or the way you killed them. Also if you're looking for achievements there are plenty of achievements 
 here. The achievements racks up to 1000 points and is only in the single player campaign. Well 
 if you did get all of the achievements there is still the multiplayers and there should be plenty 
 things to unlock there. 
  Overall this game is worth a buy for any first-person shooter fans or if you're a Call of Duty 
 fan. Even though I would of like to play with my friend on XBL and co-op would of been decent the 
 overall game is worth the $60. The change to modern warfare is refreshing, the single player is 
 worth experiencing, and the multiplayer is one of the best out there! Now that you're done with 
 my review stop reading and go get it now!!!!
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crey93
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 12, 2007 1:30 pm PT
Review:  So my brother bought the game on friday so i played through those few hour's, that should say about 
 the lenght of the game but those few hour's i played it was amazing good graphics and sound. I 
 loved that they moved the series from ww2 to modern day i most say i find this game is one of the 
 best fps i ever played atleast in the Call of duty series. It's over fast but then there is Multiplayer 
 i dident get to much time to play it that day, but i played the beta and with more perks and weapons 
 the Mp will be awesome. It's a great story and the new weapons are alot more fun to use then the 
 ww2 weapons were. all i cant say about this game is AWESOME! AWESOME! AWESOME!! i would recommend 
 to all who play fps shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hunter410
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 22, 2008 9:22 am PT
Review:  WOW excellent game, one of the ' must buy collection ', you remember Halo1 when it first came out 
 on PC, yea its a great game. Firstly i think i'; ll get the bad bits out the way.... like the campaign 
 is too short, and i think that's it.... If you want a multiplayer type game, then this is the game 
 for you, if you just wanted to play the campaign, well.... this is still the game for you. Multiplayer 
 has alot of new features such as the 'Create a class', this is probably the best part for the multiplayer, 
 its absolutely amazing you get change weapons up to 5 or 6 custom classes, there are different 
 perks (like different powers or whatever) , these included things such as 'faster reload', grenade 
 drop when you die, last stand which is pulling out your pistol at last minute, deeper penetration, 
 C4, extra ammo/grenades...... and much much more, the weapons are amazing and in multiplayer you 
 can put scopes on it, silencers, different camoflages, grenade lauchers. If you thought HALO 3 
 was a good game, its nothing compared to this.
  
  *****if u want to contact me on XBOX live, then my name and rank is...*****
  
  
  
  *****ST34LTHSN1P3R 
 and my rank for now, but not for long is MAJOR RANK 34******
  
  
  GOOD LUCK GAMING..... YOU'LL need it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ilija_True_Game
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 12, 2007 12:24 pm PT
Review:  This is the latest installement in the Call of Duty series, made by infinity ward the original 
 Call of Duty 2 game creators. I am personally impressed with this game. I expected a good game from 
 Infinity Ward and they delivered. Considering the first great action first person shooter Call 
 of Duty 2 was a huge success. The online didn't do well but they really did something amazing in 
 this package.
  
  To begin, this game is set in moder times with a huge library of different weapons. This game also 
 has great graphics with a really great story and to top it off, a really great online feature to 
 back it up.
  
  This games single-player has something interesting. When I first saw it I was shocked by the amazing 
 graphics. The campaign isn't the longest game but it is made up for the amazing squad based action 
 and the great AI the enemy really gives us a challenge.
  
  The campaign is also full of twists and turns, it's pretty shocking to see all the features, the 
 good level design and the great voice acting the team made up for us. I'd have to say briefly that 
 the campaign is really good compared to most other shooters. The campaign is short but incredibly 
 fun.
  
  
  The online is also something really exciting. I've found it very nice to see the weapon evolution 
 with levels, the challenges inspire you to use weapons, and I've not seen any pre-pubescent kids 
 playing online yet so it's really incredible.
  
  The online features many different game types and many different class possiblities and classes. 
 You can create your class and customize to an almost full extent. You can customize your weapons 
 and give them camouflage, a cool feature. Also picking a pistol, for last stand is fabulous, and 
 grenades and perks are the piece de resistance.
  
  The perks are not limited and do a big part in this game. Perks give you demolitions and upgrades. 
 Last stand, rpg, and other give you a huge advantage in the battle field. You gain perks with levels 
 and experience is gained rather easy online, considering if you're actually trying.
  
  So I gave a sort of brief review but to sum it up, it's a great package with just enough squad 
 based action, graphics to the max, and great gameplay in general to really give us a sence on a 
 perfect first person shooter game for the next gen.
  
  Thanks.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SNAKE8153
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 12, 2007 12:10 pm PT
Review:  There are so many elements in this game that make it fun (AKA violently satisfying.) My favorite 
 part had to be when you control the weapons platform on the AC-130 Gunship. I know almost every 
 human who goes to this site has seen the video postings of these fantastic killing machines. I 
 got such wood listening to the observer that I had to start smoking. There are a few parts that 
 can be frustrating due to the fact if you make the slightest wrong move you will die... over and 
 over again. The Sniper levels are also quite innovative. The only thing I miss about a ghillie 
 suit is the smell. If you enjoy a fast paced FPS that chages up a little bit than the normal shooter, 
 this is your beast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EXxile
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 12, 2007 12:05 pm PT
Review:  COD4 is a game to relish and praise. Not only did Infinity Ward step it up by leaving the WWII 
 setting behind, but they also crafted an intense, immersive experience, one of which can only be 
 found within this very game.
  
  This is easily the most intense war game ever crafted, and one that makes you feel as if you really 
 are a part of this war. I felt that way with COD2. COD3? Not so much. They make you feel as if 
 you make a difference in this war, and I have never seen a better told story in a war game. At 
 times you question; "did they hire actual movie scripts?" Now, the flaw in this lies with the length 
 of the campaign itself. It last only a few hours but it leaves an extremely satisfied after taste. 
 You crave more. But luckily you can return to any mission you want and try it on Veteran, which 
 proves to be some of the most challenging difficulites around. The A. I is brilliant as with your 
 allies and enemies. Infinity Ward also brought real Marine tactics into the game. The way the Marines 
 act and execute is almost an exact replica of their real-life counterparts. COD4 also exceeds in 
 the graphical department. The lighting effects are simply stunning along with the facial experessions 
 on the characters. Captain Price's expressions should be proof enough. Now even when you complete 
 the campaign, you still have a load to do in multiplayer. You customize your weapons as well as 
 your perks, and you take it to the battlefield with you. The multiplayer is deep, and with the 
 promotion system it keeps you wanting to come back for more. The Sound is phenominal. From the 
 voices to the explosions, they all sound genuine. COD4 is another masterpiece added to this year's 
 collection. And with this much action, there is never a reason to complain. From the stunning visuals, 
 to the non stop action and sound, there is no reason not to give this game a 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rechargable
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 12, 2007 11:55 am PT
Review:  Only 1 Sentence : The Best Modern Action Game Ever.
  Greatest Animations , Jaw Dropping Graphics & Visuals , Very Very Good Sound Effects , Out standing 
 Game play , Lovely Dogs , Awesome A. I. , Night Vision , Nice Multi Player Mode , ... ! But Very 
 Very Short.
  When I Remember Chernobyl Mission .... !!! Its The Best Mission Ever.
  After Playing The Game On Hardened I Will Play It On Veteran Tomorrow To Give Achievements That 
 Very Easy To Earn In This Game.
  I Want COD5 From Infinity Ward Nooooooooooooow ! Please dont give it to Treyarch Activision !!!
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: NikokingNL
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 12, 2007 11:17 am PT
Review:  Explain:
  So they say its short. But its so good it keeps me still bussy after 5 days playing long i mean 
 the singel player first finished on hardend en now almos done veteran. If you do it like this and 
 do mile high club and other achievements the singel player should keep you bussy 1 to 1.5 week. 
 Then you have the multyplayer for months i only played 4 mathes yet and its great!
  
  Story:
  So your a soldier for the british force and american. The Russians have gone crazy mad!!!!!!!! 
 So you stop them from destroying our civilisation. And its amezing watch some of the gamespot trailers 
 to see a little part of the cool singel player.
  
  Why should you buy:
  Because its so cool and so much action this is for sure a great game and not buying it is kind 
 of a waste of a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slavin33
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 12, 2007 11:29 am PT
Review:  Although a little disappointed with the 5 hour campaign it's still the best game i've ever played. 
 Halo 3 depresses me compared to this game. The multiplayer will keep you hooked for months. I haven't 
 played a game this much since Gears of War. I highly recommend getting this game while it's still 
 in stores. I love the fact that you can customize your weapons with silencers, red dot sights, 
 and grenade launchers among others. Also the color of the gun can be customized. If you don't get 
 this game or don't stop playing Halo 3, then you will be missing out big time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: quader_ac400
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 24, 2007 4:21 pm PT
Review:  + Amazing graphics
  +Hours of single player action and many more hours of multiplayer action
  +Fire Fights are crazy 
 intense 
  +A. I is awsome there sure aint stupid
  +Great new weaponary
  +No more Nazis
  +Night Vision
  +Knife is awsome
  -The harder difficulties are near impossible
  -You get hooked 
 on things easy
  -Running button is wierd
  
  
  Probaly the best shooter this year. Its a must own for 07 and is definatly a contender for Game 
 Of The Year.
  
  
  The campain has a little bit of everything Stealth, Run and Gun, and much more. The A. I is great 
 theyll flank you every chance they get. Also they love tossing grenades with the ocassional flashbang 
 blinding you for a few seconds but thats all they need to get the upper hand on you. 
  
  
  
  Multiplayer has 4-6 different modes all in witch youve probly seen before. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jac494
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 12, 2007 9:48 am PT
Review:  Pffft what does Gamespot know about game reviewing anyway? 9.0 NO! I would go 9.5 or 10. What's 
 good? Multiplayer! It has a far better and more involved multiplayer than Halo 3. Perks allow you 
 to customize your player experience. I can't even begin to do this game justice. What sucks about 
 it it? Well oddly perks by this I mean some of the perks would have been better off left out of 
 the game because it just makes the game stupid. Namely Martyrdom and Juggernaut, both perks are 
 trash. Especially Martyrdom! This allows the person who has just been killed to drop a grenade. 
 This is complete BS! No one should be rewarded for sucking at a game; the grenade often kills people 
 just entering a room or people who stab the crappy player. Under no circumstances should someone 
 ever be rewarded in a game for sucking at that game. Aside from these two perks best game since 
 RB6: Vegas. Go buy it, you will thank me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chaos04
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 12, 2007 9:11 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is everything a FPS ought to be.. Having been the first title in the franchise that 
 i've actally played, I must say that this is one of the best shooters on the market today. The 
 storyline is gripping and really does a good job of pulling you into the game. There was not one 
 point in the game where I found myself bored, or feeling like I was doing the same thing over again. 
 The AI does a good job of keeping you on your toes, while your friendlies do a good job of giving 
 assistance. Every moment on the battlefied was intense. Gunfire, explosions, grenades... if not 
 taken carefully, your next step could very well be your last. Sufice it to say that the intensitiy 
 of this game is one of its stronger points. 
  
  As far as the multiplayer is concerned, I couldn't be more satisffied. The competition is fierce 
 but unlike some games, real player skill is shown, recognized, and rewarded. Hardly ever do you 
 find yourself surrounded by the sounds of prepubescent voices, which is a breath of fresh air from 
 other types of games. Each weapon in my opinion is very well balanced, and even though some people 
 prefer not to be on the business end of a shotgun, the situations typically remains the same when 
 the roles are reversed.
  
  Overally CoD4 provides a very fun experience with a story that is more than satisfying, and a muti-player 
 mode which is most certain to clock in endless hours of playtime for people across the globe 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Torgue21
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 12, 2007 8:48 am PT
Review:  Call Of Duty 4 has alot of great features that will keep you playing for many hours, even after 
 you have beaten the campaign. But there are several issues that really took away from the experience 
 and just left me pissed off.
  The good is that the graphics, lighting, and sound are all top notch and everything you would expect 
 from a Call Of Duty game. The game is fun to play and the story is surprisingly better than in 
 the previous CODs where you just went from point A to point B killing everything in sight. You 
 take the role of a SAS soldier, A US Marine, and a gunner on a AC-130. Your goal is to stop Russian 
 and Middle Eastern bad guys from doing bad things.
  The bad part of COD4 is that the campaign is very short. You will probably beat it in five hours 
 or so. My personal issues with the game stem from the many parts throughout the levels that you 
 will encounter "choke points" which means you have a infinite number of enemies spawning forever 
 and the only way to stop them is to rush their position and take out the guys (usually in a building) . 
 This is not so much of a big deal except that it happens often (very often) and gets very annoying. 
 The other problem with the campaign is the grenades. Your enemies will throw them A LOT!
  By a lot I mean every few seconds you have grenades at your feet or near you. Combined with a very 
 subtle indicator you will die 90% of the time from grenades.
  But after the campaign is over the multiplayer is where the game becomes worth it's price tag. 
 There are many maps which are suited differently to different classes and it really mixes up the 
 gameplay. You can level up and unlock new weapons and attachments to those weapons. Most of your 
 time playing COD 4 will be spent playing multiplayer.
  Overall this is a good game but certain issues with the singleplayer took away from the experience 
 but it still comes out on top. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adrwdarcy
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 12, 2007 8:24 am PT
Review:  Firstly, was it worth the wait? Absolutely. Without doubt this will be the FPS of the year. Just 
 go onto your frineds list on XBOX Live. I would be surprised if I saw gamers playing any other 
 FPS for the next few months. If you don't like FPS games, you will love them now. A game for all 
 gamers!
  
  
  It was disappointing to see how short the campaign was. However, the developers made up for this 
 in the multiplayer aspect of the game. Excellent graphics and sound will blow you away. Halo 3 is 
 yestedays news, step aside, COD 4 is the one to beat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigC43
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 12, 2007 8:12 am PT
Review:  The Good: The most photo-realistic graphics I've ever seen in a game, extreme intensity and conflict 
 immerses you during the campaign. Very dramatic real world storyline, extreme attention to detail 
 adds a ton to the gameplay, fantastic multiplayer modes.
  
  The Bad: The single player is kinda short, no online co-op.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  The Call of Duty series may be fairly young, but it has already become the best of it's class. 
 Begining in 2003 exclusively on the PC, developer Infinity Ward did their best to make a WWII first 
 person shooter that was more intense and dramatic than anything before it, and that's just what 
 they did. 2002's Call of Duty 2 for the Xbox 360 was by far the best launch title for the system 
 and is still the best WWII shooter to date. After 2006's Call of Duty 3, developed by Spider-Man 
 3 developer Treyarch, disappointed longtime fans, Infinity Ward promised that all would be better 
 in the next installment. They were 100% correct. During the Super Bowl in early 2007, Infinity 
 Ward dropped a major bomb that would change the face of the series forever: Call of Duty was going 
 modern. Goodbye World War 2, we won't miss you too much. The teaser trailer for the game was one 
 of the most impressive things you could have seen. Luckily, it was no fluke. After what seemed 
 like an eternity of waiting, Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is finally here and it's everything 
 we've wanted it to be.
  
  Call of Duty 4 takes place in Europe in modern times. You play as both a US marine and a Brittish 
 Sniper and must stop a terrorist plot to destroy America and it's allies. Sound familiar? Well, 
 it's no secret that this fake war is inspired by the real life war on terror that's going on right 
 now. Infinity Ward used many of the issues involving the real war on terror for the game, having 
 terrorists hiding in destroyed buildings and committing suiside instead of going quietly. The game 
 may not be as graphic as many other shooters, but because of the realism and intensity of the subject 
 matter as well as the gameplay, it handily deserves it's Mature rating. 
  
  You begin the game by going through a basic tutorial, followed by a test situation. Your preformance 
 on this test situation actually let's you know what difficulty level you should be playing on. 
 If you can rush through with high accuracy, you should be playing on Veteran, but if you struggle 
 getting from one point to another, you might want to play on easy.
  
  The opening level of the game involves you and your team attacking terrorists on a tanker ship 
 in the middle of a raging storm. Right from the get go, the game shows off it's amazing graphics 
 and intensity. The water looks ultra realistic, although not quite as impressive by itself as Bioshock's 
 water is. The weather effects really add a lot to ratchet up the intesity and in several points 
 during that level, I was afraid for my life. After that stunning opening level, it just keeps getting 
 better and more intense with each passing section. There are several segments, including during 
 the opening credits, that are so realistic in their approach, that it's eery how what happens in 
 the game could actually happen or is happening in real life. Granted, the ability to heal just 
 by ducking around cover is a bit of a stretch, but it is a game after all.
  
  The backlash of Call of Duty 3 caused Infinity Ward to basically treat that game like it didn't 
 exist. Gone are the stupid driving sequences and button mashing tustles with charging enemies. 
 Back is the killcam for multiplayer and the much more polished feel of firing weapons in game. 
 The sound effects and music are simply outstanding and some of the best, if not the best, of the 
 year. It's the best of Call of Duty 2's gameplay, but taken to another level. New to the gameplay 
 is the inclusion of dogs. Now, you have angry pooches charging at you and the only way to get rid 
 of them is to either shoot them, or snap their necks after they jump on you by clicking the thumb 
 stick at a certain point. You are also able to call in air strikes and use modern weaponry, all 
 of which handles extremely well. There is also a stealth level that feels perfect for the gameplay 
 and is amazingly intense. 
  
  The multiplayer aspect of Call of Duty 2 was extremely appealing and turned to to be the best online 
 game of 2005. Call of Duty 4 has Halo 3 to deal with this year, but it is extremely close, if not 
 slightly better, in it's approach to multiplayer. Borrrowing from Rainbow Six: Vegas, the game 
 now feature military style rankings. The more you play the game, the more guns and outfitting types 
 you can unlock. You also get to select perks that are used to give your character special abilities 
 such as a RPG or improved accuracy. This added customization as well as the amazing graphics and 
 sheer intensity of the gameplay make the multiplayer of Call of Duty 4 a force to be reckened with. 
 
  
  The fact is, if you are a fan of the series, you need to play this game. If you are a shooter fan, 
 you need to play this game. If you have Xbox Live, you need to play this game. This is simply one 
 of the best, if not the best games of the year and deserves at least a nomination for Game of the 
 Year 2007, if not winning the award outright. Infinity Ward definately delivered on it's promise, 
 and it looks like the Call of Duty franchise has an extremely promising future after this amazing 
 game.
  
  Gameplay: The sheer intensity of the game is outstanding, but the real world situations and the 
 war on terror are delivered in a stunning way in Call of Duty 4.
  
  Graphics: This may be the best looking game ever on the 360. No, I'm not kidding.
  
  Sound: 
 Flowing musical score and superb voice acting add even more realism to this fantastic game.
  
  Value: It's worth every penny you'll spend on it. Fanatical fans should look for the Collector's 
 Edition, which comes with an artbook and bonus DVD.
  
  Final Thoughts: The world is not alright.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Coopdeville69
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 12, 2007 7:41 am PT
Review:  This is one of the best first person shooters on the planet. Gear of War and Halo 3 cant come close. 
 Call of Duty 4 has incredible graphics. The fact the game does not slow down when the action heats 
 up is much appreciated. The single player campaign is difficult and challenging. The story line 
 is great. I love the fact the franchise got away from WWII games and focused on current events. 
 Being able to blow away terrorist is just what everyone wants to do. The thing that separates this 
 game from all others is in it's multiplayer game play. You start out as a level 1 peon, but after 
 a few levels the game allows you to modify any weapon and it makes a difference in the game. Excellent 
 concept!!! I hope this game continues to break open new ideas. Thank you for a great game. Finally!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tonixjade
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 12, 2007 3:26 am PT
Review:  I was one of lucky ones to play the Beta and had been looking forward to the game ever since.
 
  I was not disappointed. The single player part of the game is excellent, every level is full of 
 quality and in my opinion has a lot of replay value especially with arcade mode which opens once 
 the campaign has been completed.
  All i can say about the multiplayer is WOW. It is Awesome. It has an excellent ranking system and 
 brilliant unlockables that just want you wanting more. Most of the 16 multiplayer maps are excellent 
 with only one or 2 that arn't as good though even they are playable. I just cannot get enough of 
 the multiplayer it really is that good!
  Graphics, sound, playability...... all superb!
  This is by far the best FPS i have played bar none!
  
  Move over Halo this is modern warfare 
 at its best! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Snozzeltoff
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 12, 2007 2:30 am PT
Review:  Ok I got this on release day, I knew I loved it online; I was playing the Beta and was totally 
 blown away. I've been a big fan of the CoD series and infinity ward make it clear what they were 
 doing instead of CoD3. 
  It's moved out of the WW2 setting and blown straight into modern warfare. The controls and shooting 
 system is the same as before if not a little more refined, it rewards the player for aiming down 
 the gun and also online has an arcade points style system to it notably seen in Battlefield 2: 
 Modern Combat.
  
  The single player has totally left me speechless. The CoD series has always had a great opening 
 level to it, CoD3 did this incredibly well and from a different developer, this one however opens 
 as you assaulting a ship as an S. A. S. trooper. I won't spoil it with details but it's a shooter, 
 a cinematic experience and totally involving, simple great. The intro credits are quite a thing 
 too. The more you play the better it gets, its still rock hard on veteran difficulty and as satisfying 
 as ever to do, maybe not as hard as CoD 2 on veteran difficulty. I remember 'hill 440' I think 
 it was being so, so hard in that, anyway.
  
  If you played the Beta you'll know what I mean when I say its mind blowing, way better than halo 
 in so many ways. Ok Halo is good online, it's good in that easy to play sci-fi shooter way, you 
 can have a lot of fun and customisation; however CoD4 is just something else. 
  Essentially its CoD2 multiplayer, bigger maps, more people, more guns and more customisation. That 
 alone is enough to show how good it is if you played CoD2.
  The lobby system and searching for games is pretty much a direct copy of halo, it's a great system 
 so why not. It also has a ranking system based on EXP earned in each game you play, the better 
 your performance the more points you get.
  For each kill you get +10 points, for each assist you get +2 points. Getting killing streaks also 
 benefit the player; 3 kills in a row grants you a UAV which shows enemy positions on radar for 
 a short period. 5 kills in a row grants the ability to call in an air strike to a desired location 
 on the map, this combined with a team mates UAV can be deadly accurate. If you reach 7 kills in 
 a row then you can call in a friendly attack helicopter, this is a deadly ability and if you're 
 caught outside it will eat you alive! 
  Calling in any of these three grants you a further +10 points, the same goes for each kill the 
 air strike or attack helicopter gets you get +10 points. 
  These points are converted into EXP at the end of the game, you also get bonus EXP for being on 
 the winning side and by how much you win by. The further you rank up the more weapons you can unlock 
 eventually special challenges and weapon add-ons. Completing any of these challenges grants you 
 quite a hefty amount of experience. Also the more you use a specific weapon the more you unlock 
 for it. For example, using the M16 and getting 50kills with it will give you an accessory for the 
 weapon, like a scope or silencer, these will be in tiers, the next being 75 kills and the 100 kills 
 etc.
  
  There is a lot to this game; all achievements are offline which is a good thing in my view. You 
 can personalise your player in weapons and accessories but not visually, not that this is a problem. 
 
  If you love the CoD series then you probably already own this, if you're a FPS kind of person then 
 you SHOULD have this, if you're a halo fan boy then you got to widen the horizons and try this 
 out, it's something else.
  Simply put:
  Fantastic single player even though its not co-op.
  Mind blowing multiplayer
  Plays great, 
 looks great, and is great!
  
  Enjoi people!
  Snozzeltoff
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: delta3074
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 12, 2007 2:21 am PT
Review:  I know i'm going to upset a lot of people by saying this ,but this game beats halo 3 by a mile, 
 the graphics on this game are AWESOME, the action is FAST and i have never seen so many enemys 
 to kill. Call of duty 4 is one of the best games i have ever played in my life, it has more guns 
 than you can shake a stick at, the sniper missions are the most realistic i have ever seen and 
 the action is so intense i found myself having to pause quite often to catch my breath. The campaign 
 is short (a bit longer than GOW) but you get more bang than in the whole of the halo 3 campaign, 
 this game is definitely about quality and not quantity. The graphics are mind blowing with realistic 
 bullet physics and the best particle effects i have seen to date and the teammate and enemy AI 
 is top notch, you will feel like you are in a real war complete with some shocking moments thrown 
 in for good measure. nows the part where i talk about the bad or in this case i don; t because i 
 cant find a single thing wrong with this game the frame rate doesn't hitch (if it does i haven't 
 noticed it) even when theres a billion things going on, the controls are perfect. This game sets 
 a new standard in war games and first person shooters and anyone with a 360, PS3or PC would be 
 stark raving mad. GET THIS GAME IT'S BRILLIANT, nuff said. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: S_a_r_g_e
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 12, 2007 1:37 am PT
Review:  Ive played all COD series but never seen this kind of awesome graphics sound and environmental 
 effects in any one of them. simple Brilliant but i wish if the campaign mode was a bit longer than 
 it is now. The game starts with a brilliant startup mission on some ship, the lightning, storm, 
 water everything i must say i enjoyed and so others players must have when they first played it.
 
  night mode is simple good after Splinter Cell and Rainbow SIX. another good aspect that you can 
 carry any weapon for an exchange of your current weapon.
  you play as an agent for SAS and USAS of america. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSJDemos
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 11, 2007 11:06 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare immerses you into the realm of combat and doesn't let go at all- 
 not even till the end. Call of Duty was a franchise that seemed to be on the path of standard FPS 
 shooters that revolved around the World War era. After Call of Duty 3, I guess infinity Ward had 
 a change of heart that the over played out World War era was becoming a bore to most gamers. This 
 game takes you into our modern society and the time that we live in and add's in a slew of "what 
 if?" scenario's. 
  The game is split up into two different military units, The SAS and the USMC. These groups are 
 collaborating to try and stop a renegade terrorist group that has nuclear warhead capability, which 
 obviously they want to use these warheads to destroy the United States and practically try and 
 create the next World War 3. Your mission is to capture and kill this terrorist groups leader before 
 all of humanity is lost to war and death once again.
  On another note, the game looks great and plays like a dream. The reality based physics that were 
 added to the game allow's the player to feel powerful when he/she games a grenade launcher and 
 fires at the enemy. Imagine, your pinned down behind a cyinder block, and enemy units are taking 
 cover behind a perfectly good van or car. You throw down some suppressing fire before launching 
 a grenade into the car and watching the car explode taking out 4 or 5 enemy units-This and more 
 is what you can expect from Call of Duty 4 and this isn't just empty hype.
  The overall presentation of this game is spectacular to say the least. This game puts you right 
 into the story of a SAS soldier Soap and a USMC Paul Jackson. I mean you get so immersed in the 
 game that you actually feel as if your taking a part in this dire epic struggle to defeat tyranny 
 yet again. So you still get that classic Call of Duty feel, however, under modern terms.
  One thing is for sure, I recommend playing this game on "hardened" because you actually have to 
 accomplish a lot more, meaning the enemies are more relentless than on the "regular". You get a 
 true sense of the game and its just the difficulty that is required to provide the new feel of 
 this new type of Call of Duty.
  I noticed that many people noted that Call of Duty is short, however, It makes up for this issue 
 with its compelling and exciting presentation of the world that surrounds your character within 
 the game. I got through this game in about 7 or 7 and a half hours. One thing for sure- this call 
 of duty isn't like any FPS game that you ever play. This game shows you in true detail that not 
 in all cases are the good guys victorious. This game definitely kept to reality when it came to 
 the story and how in reality- nothing go as it may typically seem.
  I think that this game definitely deserves a 9.0 for its efforts in creating a totalling different 
 experience that is truly exciting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gifteddie
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 11, 2007 8:48 pm PT
Review:  Wow where to start? Let's start with the Single-Player, You play as British SAS commando "Soap" 
 Mactavish and US ary Sgt. Paul Jackson I will try not to spoil anything for people who haven't 
 played it because in any level there's a major twist or part (DOH!!! my bad) . It has breath-taking 
 visuals that pwn Halo 3's (which weren't that good for a 360 game) . The levels are action packed 
 and a stealth mission which is the best level I have ever played in history and the most creative 
 stealth mission too. Too bad though that with it's amazing story and missions it isn't that long, 
 just like all the other Call of Duty games as they seem to get shorter by each one. But no fear 
 there is a ton of replay value in this game as each headshot and twist will bring you back to watch 
 it again.
  Now onto the multiplayer. Let me first say that Call of duty 4s multiplayer is the most creative 
 and fun in history. With each kill and challenge you complete you rank up and get new weapons and 
 upgrades wich will make you come back for more (I have only had the game since it's release date 
 and I am already on lvl 36 yeah I play it a little too much) 
  Call of Duty 4 is the best in the series as Infinity Ward proves to us again why they can make 
 the best shooter games ever made. What are you waiting for? GO GET IT!!!!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Likefire
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 11, 2007 6:38 pm PT
Review:  I was seriously disappointed with Call of Duty 3 and almost vowed to boycott the next possible 
 installment. I am glad I didn't do so. I love FINALLY how they moved away from WW2. Was starting 
 to pull my hair out with that. The modern warfare aspect is awesome. The controls are relatively 
 easy to learn and strategize with. The game itself could have been a tad longer though. For me 
 that was the only downside to this title. Other than that aspect COD4 is a must get for any fan 
 of the shooter genre. For those gamers that are pretty good in this genre don't start the game 
 any lower than Hardened Mode. It will be too easy. Replayability for me was 3 times through to 
 gain all achievements, due to the 30 intel achievement. Some people may take much longer or even 
 less. Multiplayer alone though makes this game worth the buy. So if you don't have XBL, you are 
 missing out. I know all of the die-hard halo fans might dislike this comment but too bad, "COD4 
 makes Halo 3 multiplayer look shame." And you can quote me on that too. Halo is fun but severely 
 overrated. So to end this BUY the game. It is one of the musts of the many games coming out this 
 November. Well see you on the battlefield. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghrecon02
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 11, 2007 5:05 pm PT
Review:  The Good:
  Singleplayer: Call of Duty's singleplayer has never felt so epic. It is like a James Bond movie, 
 but in a good way. It features several unique and exciting moments, never seen before in the call 
 of duty series. The game doesnt actually really focus on any one main character. I eventually switches 
 between four characters, giving the player a full few of the conflict.
  Multiplayer: The addictive multiplayer will keep you coming back time and again. It features 16 
 maps and a plithera of modes, ranging from planting bombs to typical deathmatches. The best feature 
 is the ranking system. It keeps you motivated to keep playing, because every rank you unlock you 
 get more swag. Swag may include new weapons or perks.
  The Bad:
  Singleplayer: Really short
  Borders on impossible on the harder difficulties. You may laugh now 
 at my willingness to give up on Veteran mode, but once you try it you will be forced to agree with 
 me.
  Multiplayer: Lag is hidden, but is definitly existent. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: uberpwner93
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 11, 2007 4:44 pm PT
Review:  The Call of Duty games never really appealed to me, even though I love everything about WWII. But 
 when COD 4 was announced, I wanted to get my hands on it. The main thing I wanted to find out was 
 if there was a long range of weapons to choose from, since I missed out on the beta..... I missed 
 out. 
  
  The story mode was very short, but was very satisfying. Now the multiplayer is a different story, 
 AWESOME!!!! I've played a lot, but am still a low level. But still it's the best multiplayer experience 
 on the 360.
  
  The absolute best in the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blink14
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 11, 2007 4:08 pm PT
Review:  this is a very good shotter game, the game is made to be like are in a movie so u dont always thing 
 you are in the game all the time, this game takes u over russia and basra with necular bombs which 
 makes the game very exciting. well recomded and if you see the game you should buy it. the game 
 also gives u times to do some certion bits and you may only have eight mins to get through a part 
 of a level, well recomended, a must buy and if you do buy you will enjoy this game on single player 
 and even on online play 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dr_mcguire
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 11, 2007 3:49 pm PT
Review:  "Oh. Shnap!" Those are the exact words that I said when I finished Call of Duty 4's single player 
 campaign. I was blown away by the amount of action that the developer could cram into such a short 
 story mode (the only truly bad thing about htis game) . Missions like Crew Expendable and Ultimatum 
 are simply brilliant. The other missions are superb. Oh, and there's the two greatest missions 
 in any game of all time: All Ghillied Up and One Shot One Kill. In an attempt to not give away 
 the story, i'll just put it this way: you are playing a character that is almost completely camoflouged. 
 You're behind enemy lines. You have a sniper rifle and a pistol. Oh yeah, and your surronded by 
 a CRAP load of enemies. The atmosphere in these two mission is mind blowing, and the action is 
 perfect. I've never played a mission that was so tense and exciting all at once. I honestly wanted 
 to wet my pants. The gunplay and mechanics in single player are near perfection, making the isngle 
 player perfect, aside from its over0to0soon feel. 
  
  Then there's the multiplayer. It's so amazing, I want to take my Halo 3 disc and throw it out the 
 window. The basic gameplay of online is better than any game I have ever played. I coudl probably 
 play this game for months upon months. The Create-A-Class system is surprisingly deep and works 
 extremly well. A high level character is balanced amazingly well with a n00b. My personal favorite 
 part of online is the Challenge system. For everything you can do (or don't intend to do) there 
 is probably a Challange to complete. The addiction factor on these is so high I think they should 
 be made a controlled substance. I just can't sotp going for Challanges. And to top off the multiplayer 
 dish that is awesomeness is the great level up system that rewards you for every little action 
 you do. 
  
  The single player mixed with the multiplayer make Call of Duty 4 a game that should be missed by 
 no one, and held among the all time greats of gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JKX8
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 11, 2007 3:08 pm PT
Review:  I abhorred Call of Duty and its sequels, but when this fourth installment came along and people 
 wouldn't compare it to its predecessors, I thought "why not, hopefully it'll be worth my rental." 
 It was, by far. Being a gamer without Xbox Live, renting a game with a reportedly short campaign 
 is the best choice. As for the replay value, now, I'm not so sure -- but I've beaten it and cannot 
 seem to resist.
  
  Call of Duty 4 is superior in practically every quality -- gameplay, graphics, sound, music, plot, 
 characters, and cinematic intensity. Also, everything isn't just straightforward and Doom-ish, 
 although I do personally love Doom3. Instead, though, it offers choices with a wide range of weaponry 
 and the Epilogue [after the credits] mission's hostage coverage was incredible. The chase scenes, 
 chopper crashes, and extraordinary firefights were all wonderful.
  
  My only plaints are two levels: the 'Death from Above' level in which you slaughter bad guys -- who 
 are extremely difficult to discern against your allies -- using three high-caliber helicopter weapons 
 in a B&W screen; the level in which you are pursuing the son of the Russian guy (cannot remember 
 his name) , after-which {spoiler!} he kills himself -- thence the whole mission was basically a 
 whole waste.
  
  That and the campaign is considerably short; I beat it in about 4 hours.
  
  Nonetheless, for offline play CoD4 is well worth an $8 rental and undoubtedly worth a pre-played 
 cost.. perhaps. But for a gamer without Live, the 60 bucks is indeed a waste. Online and multiplayer 
 play, though, is supposed to be remarkable and I'll go ahead and factor that into my ratings, but 
 even without that this is nearly a perfect 10.
  
  And by my standards, excluding Halo's profound plot, CoD4 defeats both Ghost Recon: Advanced Warfighter 
 2 and the critically acclaimed Halo 2 & Halo 3 in the categorical FPS genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chewygun
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 11, 2007 2:16 pm PT
Review:  Yay! Its the game most of you may have been looking foward to! Well, first off, if you love single 
 player games, reconsider buying this one. It's short, wait actually very short. You can probably 
 run through this within 4-6 hours on regular. Maybe an extra few hours on veteran cause you die 
 so fast its not funny. The story is cool to play through, with you filling the roles of various 
 people, such as some dude who gets assasinated, the point of view of a spy trying to get through 
 enemy territory, and various others. The multiplayer is what ruined me actually. Yeah, most of 
 you may have seen "the multiplayer is real good". It's good, but there is a little thing that bothers 
 me. This is the health system. You live for about two seconds. Literally. You won't live if you 
 take fire for two seconds. If you can live with dieing extremely fast, then its the game for you, 
 since the rest is pretty cool. There are tons of classes to choose from, good customization options, 
 and cool "perks" that you can use in battle to spice things up. If the health system was a little 
 better this game would get a perfect 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LudaToke
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 11, 2007 1:56 pm PT
Review:  COD4 starts off with some jaw dropping graphics and action and doesn't look back from there. The 
 intensity of the action in COD4 is unlike any other on the 360 today. It could be said that the 
 single player story is a bit short but the campaign doesn't waste a second in stringing together 
 the plot. The wide range of weapons and perks in the MP is sure to keep people playing for a long 
 time in order to "unlock just one more rank". 16 different maps and a wide variety of game modes 
 rivals the different possible game combinations on Halo 3. COD4 is also fortunate enough to have 
 a party system for the MP that allows the action to be continuous and flow. One negative aspect 
 to the MP is that it seems to run into some connection issues from time to time that end game prematurely. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Red_Flag
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 11, 2007 1:12 pm PT
Review:  Arguably the best of the Call of Duty series, this game is packed with some amazing stuff. Campaign 
 is short but that's no reason to be weary. It's probably one of the most incredible story-lines 
 to a video game I've ever played. Some intense moments and a almost real story really pull it together. 
 Not to mention some sweet mustaches. Multilayer is more than enough of a reason to pick this game 
 up. I'm a huge Halo fan but I've stopped playing it just for this game's multi-player. It's class 
 based to there's some variety but if you really want to be diverse you can create your own. And 
 to add on to that you can take off or add on to your weapon, if you can unlock all the parts through 
 challenges. Even without all that, the multi-player is a marvel. I highly suggest you buy this 
 game. It's worth every penny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rcarr99
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 11, 2007 1:00 pm PT
Review:  This is the most fun I have had playing a game in a long time. COD4 works on so many levels. First, 
 the visuals are incredible. It is the first near photo realistic game I have played, and it is 
 silky smooth, even online. The audio quality is top notch too. The sense of immersion is awesome. 
 One of the things I like best about the game is the control system. The controls are really easy 
 to master. 
  
  Another thing that I like about COD4 is I don't feel the frustration of being killed all the time 
 online. When I played Halo 3 online, it was a bunny hopping kill fest. I got very frustrated playing 
 online. COD4 is very different. There is a fun factor to the online game portion that I rarely 
 find in a shooter. It is really well balanced, and everyone gets to have a lot of fun. You really 
 cannot beat the gaming experience. 
  
  The single player portion of the game is really incredible. It is short, but you will love every 
 single minute of it. I finished it in 5.5 hours, but it was an incredible 5.5 hours! When you aren't 
 fighting for your life (which is most of the time) you will be in awe at the quality of the single 
 player part. It is worth the price alone, but when you throw in the multiplayer part, this is truly 
 a special game.
  
  COD4 is the perfect game IMO. 
  
  Even if you do not like shooters, I would at least rent this game. After a few minutes of playing 
 you will definitely want to buy it. It's that good.
  
  Halo 3 will probably be anointed the "game of the year" but COD4 is a much better game IMO. No 
 comparison. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cnesbitt1811
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 11, 2007 12:31 pm PT
Review:  well what to start with. call of duty has been a world war game from the very begining, so i guess 
 they decided to get with the times and jump forward 50 years or so.
  COD 4 is based in 2007 and takes place in various places such as afgahastan etc. when i first heard 
 they were doing a modern version i thought this i going to be crap because i personally don't like 
 tom clanceys ghost recon and i hate war games were you control squads and i thought COD 4 was going 
 to be the same. but it isn't, in fact the complete oppisite. you control a man and you go around 
 doing objectives like the previous games only different settings and weapons.
  now the weapons these are great. you start off with some basic weapons such as a few assult rifles, 
 snipers, handguns etc ( all real weapons by the way) and you can equip them with different perks 
 such as new scopes or silencers etc as well as changing there camoflauge. but as you go through 
 the game getting achivements and killing you get expericence points and the more experience points 
 you get the more perks and weapons etc you gain. by the way perk 3 is a class feature they are, 
 well they are hard to describe. for example when you start on of the perk 3 are exploding body 
 which is when you die online or story your body drops a grenade and kills anyone near enough and 
 this is a way of gaining more experience points after you die and before you respawn. another one 
 is were when you should die you fall to the ground and draw your pistol and you can shoot away 
 but not move and once shot again then you respwn. more perk 3 can be unlocked with more experience 
 points.
  there is also the added feature of creating your own class with a set primary weapon and secondary 
 as well as your other perks which makes the game more personal.
  COD 4 also lets you call in things from base. if you get 6 kills in a row i tink it is you gain 
 a radar which when activated revels the enemies postions to you. 10 gets you an air strike and 
 15 gets you a helicopter which mows down all of your enemies. ( you cannont die in between kills 
 or you start again.
  although the story is quite short only 5 hours or so the multiplayer online makes up for it all. 
 this is unbelievable and not to be missed. alll features of story are in multiplayer and something 
 like 16 guys can go about the maps at once and unlike COD 2 and 3 were a machine gun was hard to 
 get a kill with this games main weapons are automatic snipers are good and all but the way the 
 automatic weapons have been put into this game is unreal. the maps are better they're not to big 
 and not to small and laid out in such a way that the main battle areas are in easy sniping points 
 like previous games in fact the way the map is laid out there isn't main battle area this is a 
 must buy thanks for reading.
  
  christopher nesbitt 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sportsman_12
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 11, 2007 11:05 am PT
Review:  This is the best game in its series. but the only thing that needs just a little work people think 
 is the story but thats about all thats wrong with it. the wepons theirs tons of wepons. Graphics 
 are awesome i didn't think the game would acctually be as good as it is. The multiplayer is great. 
 i dont know about any new games coming out this year but this game in my opinion is the best 1st 
 person shooter of the year. Just try it rent it and i really think you will love this game. And 
 my last thing i got to say is ive never gave a game a 10 before lol = ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nattcharles
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 11, 2007 11:02 am PT
Review:  I bought this game on Saturday afternoon, started playing about 6pm and had finished by midnight. 
 Booo! Its a great game but why do developers insist on making them so short these days? I feel 
 cheated considering the cost of the game to buy. What happened to games that used to take several 
 weeks to finish? Its great that they have included a great online game play package and I love 
 playing on Xbox live but I also love playing one player games on my own and nothing seems to last 
 more than eight to ten hours anymore. Come on developers sort it out please. Having said that the 
 intensity of the game is great with a really good story line and the game itself forces you to 
 play hard and fast without you really noticing it if you get what I mean. Even though it is quite 
 linear you never rewally notice because you are so involved. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Questlove711
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 11, 2007 10:39 am PT
Review:  The Call of Duty name has been associated with great first person shooters, mainly those of the 
 World War 2 variety, though. Call of Duty 4 is the next game in the series made by Infinity Ward 
 who made Call Of Duty 1 and 2. This time, they've decided to go modern, which is shown right in 
 the name; Modern Warfare. I'll first say that the game lives up to the standard of the great Call 
 of Duty games. The move to modern times hasn't hurt them one bit. 
  
  The game puts you in the role of an American Marine and British Special Forces. The main conflict 
 takes place in Russia and the Middle East. You jump between the 2 people you play as the story 
 progresses. I don't want to give away too much, but the story is really well told even though the 
 single player part of the game is pretty short (about 5-6 hours) . The game does a really good job 
 of easing you in with a training camp, much like Call Of Duty 1 and 2 did. Then things take right 
 off into the movie-like single player. 
  
  The game's presentation is absolutely top notch. The detail is really stunning in the world. The 
 animations run smooth like butter. The lighting effects are beautiful as well. You never really 
 experience a hitch in the frame rate, which is nice considering the amount of action going on. 
 The characters also have great detail in their clothes and weapons. You can tell these guys worked 
 hard to make the game look the best it could. 
  
  The Call of Duty games have always had spectacular audio and Call of Duty 4 is no exception. The 
 guns have a crack to them up close that'll shake you. You'll hear bullets whiz by your head and 
 explosions all around. The voices are all done extremely well, especially the main people like 
 Captain Price. The music matches all the moods right and is done really well, damn near movie quality, 
 if not at that level. 
  
  The gameplay in Call of Duty 4 is no slouch either. All the guns feel perfect in this game; they 
 all have the appropriate kick to them. The shooting is just so solid, which really helps the game 
 feel intense. This especially comes through in the multiplayer. Since the single player is so short, 
 you'd hope that the multiplayer was awesome, and indeed it is. It has an addictive leveling up 
 system where you get extra weapons as you level up, but you never feel like it's unbalanced even 
 if they're a level 30 and you're a level 10.
  
  Even though the single player is shorter than the average first person shooter, the multiplayer 
 really helps to give this game some legs. That said, if you're not big into multiplayer shooting, 
 you should probably just rent this game. That said, this game has absolutely top notch production 
 values in both its single player and multiplayer. If you're a fan of first person shooters at all, 
 you should definitely pick this game up.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pomps709
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 11, 2007 10:37 am PT
Review:  The shooter, call of duty 4 modern warfare is definitley one of the best shooters i have ever played. 
 The multiplayer is also one of the most immersive and deep experiences ever devised. You'll definitley 
 find yourself playing this for hours and hours straight because of all the unlockables available. 
 
  
  First of all i'd like to clear a couple things up that i saw with some other reviews. Yes, the 
 campaign is short but it will blow you away with the intensity of war and replay value is very 
 high because as you raise the difficulty it becomes more and more realisic. Second, someone mentioned 
 that your players dont have names. Let me clerify this, as a marine you will be Sgt. Jackson and 
 as SAS you will be "Soap" MacTavish. Finally during the nuclear impact seen "which was one of the 
 best explosions ever scene on a game" it confirms that Jackson is dead before you go to the next 
 map.
  
  Alright now i feel better, anyway if you dont already have call of duty 4, buy it, you will not 
 regret it. The only problem I saw with this game was the length of the campaign, however the intensity 
 of it definitley made up for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spunkymulvagh
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 11, 2007 7:19 pm PT
Review:  This is what I bought my 360 for
  A gritty Realistic war game!!
  This is by far the best Looking 360 game I have seen so far sorry gears of war.
  I am a big fan 
 of the Call of Duty Franchise so it comes as no surprise I love this game.
  It has all the cool trade marks of the previous games like the great intensity of a combat zone.
 
  Great sound and fairy good Voice acting.
  And Visuals that put you right there in the Combat zone 
  The smkoe is some of the best i have 
 ever seen in a game.
  And once again if or when you die you get the Quotes that i so much love to read.
  
  Multi 
 player rocks now i do not play multi player much but I do love this so If you see me out there 
 and we are on the same team pleas hlpe me out.. :)
  Over all This is the best 360 game so far this Season keep them comming!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kelinnator
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 11, 2007 10:17 am PT
Review:  This is one of those games that is truly amazing. This game lives up to the hype. Unlike the mediocre 
 Halo 3, very dissiponting. Back to Call of Duty 4. The gameplay is fun... very fun. The settings 
 the areas you visit are amazing. You get pumped just looking at some of them. Not a dull moment 
 in the game. What I have noticed about some games is the first mission can be dull not as fun as 
 the rest of the game. Not the case in this game the first mission is amazing. I know the game is 
 short but still give the game a perfect ten. Because of the terrific multiplayer. It great fun 
 even when its not live. The made shooting a the same person with the same gun at the same setting 
 fun for atleast an hour. BUY THIS GAME IT'S AMAZING!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JDC92
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 11, 2007 9:57 am PT
Review:  This game has a great story and great multiplayer. I love all the challenges and unlockables you 
 can get from ranking up. And i dont know what Gamespot is talking about about a short story. I 
 think its one of most intense and best campaigns ive ever played. I dont know which game is gonna 
 get the best game of the year. Assassins Creed, or Call of Duty 4? I thought the story was pretty 
 long and was non stop intense action. Ive beaten the story and now playing arcade mode and definately 
 going to beat the campaign a couple more times. But now the multiplayer is friggen the best. Ive 
 been playing like 24/7. Its sooooooo damn fun. My goal for multiplayer is beat every challenge 
 in it. Theres soooo much to do. This game is definately one of the best FPS's ive ever played. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UnkinkedPaper
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 11, 2007 9:25 am PT
Review:  Don't skip over this one because of the ridiculous hype. I'm not going to say this game is revolutionary 
 because it is far from it but then again it is revolutionary when it comes to bringing all of the 
 great FPS elements into one game. The Call of Duty series has always had a nag for making good 
 games and this is by far their best one. The graphics are so stunning, that you will instantly 
 fall in love with the game. If anyone feels that the campaign is too short... try it on veteran, 
 you won't beat it for days. The knew melee is great because it makes the game more realistic. Instead 
 of doing a rifle butt, which I believe won't kill someone with one hit, the player pulls out a 
 knife and slashes sideways like a throat cut. It may sound like it takes too long but trust me, 
 its quicker than you think. 
  
  On to the multiplayer. Amazing, and pure genius. Very addicting gametypes that they had in the 
 other Call of Duties then with some added ones. The ranking system goes by typical military ranks, 
 private to general. 55 is the highest rank and each time you level up you get a knew weapon to 
 unlock. You also get cool perks to go with your kits such as stronger bullets, more health, 3 grenades, 
 an RPG, carry two primary weapons and great stuff like that. Having a good kit is vital to your 
 success in the game. I recommend this game highly to everyone. Stop playing Halo 3 for now and 
 pick up this addicting game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: g3noc1d3r
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 11, 2007 9:11 am PT
Review:  infinity ward just hit the shores with call of duty 4 which delivers you out of world war 2 and 
 into modern war, Quote not in real history you fight Russians in the middle east. It delivers all 
 you want out of a infinity ward game like great graphics great sound and great weapons like the 
 m4, but also you have great gameplay. But then multiplayer with great maps and a great new experience/ 
 fun and a great package with terrific ai and amazing over all it is a satisfying buy . Infinity 
 ward has truly made a great way of gaming and fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skirbie
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 11, 2007 8:08 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4's single player campaign is an unfortunately very short playing experience the first 
 time through, taking not much more than 5 or so hours to complete. This however is made up for 
 in the sheer quality that this game brings to the table in game variety, visuals and sound.
  
  Graphically this game is amazing; with some of the best photo realistic visuals arguably over 
 any other game to date. Inifiniti Ward certainly pulled out all the stops in this area to bring 
 real quality to both consoles and PC. Smoke effects are great as ever, explosions are awesome, 
 and the fire fights are visceral and intense.
  
  Sound is complemented by decent voice acting, along with satisfying firearm and explosive audio 
 to make the playing experience immersive. The battle chatter throughout the game is fitting on 
 each level, adding a sense of authenticity while playing through the game.
  
  Replay value while not being excessively long in the single playing campaing, the added options 
 of the Arcade mode, and the impressive multiplayer makes it easy to continue enjoying this game 
 well beyond the main campaign. Anyone who has enjoyed the Call of Duty series throughout the past 
 few years, or anyone who simply enjoys first person shooters is sure to enjoy this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tben2004
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 11, 2007 8:06 am PT
Review:  This is a great game and has a great story line. I love the new feature in it and i love where 
 the wind affect the way the bullets move. It has a great landscape and it lots alot like this days. 
 Great picture and i hope they bring out call of duty 5. This is much better than ghost recon and 
 is easyier to control. Like the feature where you are in the helicopter and you can shoot but they 
 should make it so you control where it goes not where you can shoot. Downside is there need to 
 be more action becuase it don't take that long to complete the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mangler
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 11, 2007 8:04 am PT
Review:  Besides the awesome graphics, I was amazed by the short load times and seamless action. 
  
  My wife is not really a fan of 3d shooters, but she was at my side screaming and was completely 
 pulled into the action. My wife actually supported my splaying this game!?? Usually she crabs lightly 
 at me when I take time to play my games and I finally found a game that she loves.
  
  Single player is a 10 (even if it's not as long as some the critics nag about)
  Multiplayer is 
 a 10
  
  Although Crysis may get all the rave for the Best Graphics this year, this game will beat it in 
 terms of intensity and game play. 
  
  Make sure your playing in 1080P. The 360 can and does go toe-to-toe with the best of the PC systems. 
 (I have a 8800 GT with FX60 CPU) . Nothing will ever truly beat the PC, but it's nice to see a console 
 as powerful as the 360. 
  
  Again, as the 360 is powerful, it takes a team like the Infinity Ward to show all, what this machine 
 is capable of. Even besting Bungie, who also is awesome. 
  
  Buy this game!!
  
  Congrats Infinity Ward, Now reap your numerous awards!!!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: webproserv
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 11, 2007 7:45 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 goes far and beyond what anyone thought the 360 had left in it. Me personally? I 
 thought the 360 maxed out when Gears of War hit the scene. After Halo 3 arrived I thought that 
 the 360 again maxed out as far as features go. Now that Call of Duty 4 is in the hands of trigger 
 happy 360iets, I must say that the 360 has proven me wrong again.
  
  Graphics: Call of Duty puts you in the middle of a war with excellent graphics so real, so photorealistic 
 it actually makes this game a HUGE contender for Game of the Year on graphics alone. Everything 
 has a shadow, the dynamic lighting, the animations are all abosolutly amazing. 
  
  Sounds: Top notch sound puts the sound of war right in your living room. The sound of bullets to 
 helicopters makes you want to soil yourself with the fear of war. 
  
  Fun Factor: The games short story is told in great cinimatic form that you will easily forget how 
 short it is. The Mulitplayer will have you addicted to your tv set for hours if not days. You will 
 not want to put your controller down after getting your first couple of promotions in the Multiplayer. 
 
  
  My suggestion is if you like war games, if you like FPS's in generall you would be very wise to 
 pick this up right away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DEWMAN08
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 11, 2007 7:32 am PT
Review:  Well, the Call of Duty franchise brings out its fourth game in the series, and also brings it into 
 the modern world. So how does this transformation work, well, lets just say its amazing. The game's 
 single player is relatively short, but in that time its packed with Call of Duty goodness. The 
 basic elements of COD is there, but there is a new and unique feel to the game. The AI seems about 
 the same, although instead of screaming at you in German its Arabic or something. The modern setting 
 feels very real, and the story line is easy to get into and keeps you on the edge until the end. 
 One thing the COD franchise has always done is having atleast one mission of you shooting from 
 an airplane, bombing things and generally going nuts on a heavy gun. Well, there is one part in 
 the game where you take on the role of bombing the crap out of the enemies advancing on your comrades 
 position. It is only one of the spectacular parts of this game. The graphics are good, the sound 
 is amazing, and the characters seem customized, atleast on the allies side. 
  Now for the multiplayer, its deep, similar to Halo 3 in its ranking system but also much better. 
 Your first games you choose a class to go with, either Assault, Sniper, Shotgun, Heavy Gunner, 
 and Light guns. Once you reach a rank of level 4 you get to customize your weapons. The more you 
 use a specific weapon the more things you unlock for it, such as a scope, silencer, grenade launcher 
 and more. As you get more experience points from playing, you unlock more game modes as well. So 
 by playing the game online you get more in return. Its really a neat system. The pacing is fast, 
 there are a ton of different game modes, but most of my time has been spent on Team Deathmatch. 
 There are a variety of maps as well, and hopefully more to come by download. 
  So if you are a fan of the COD franchise, but don't know if the time transition worked, it did. 
 And its time for you to move forward.
  And for people you think this Call of Duty is just like the rest, you are a 100% wrong. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: juggleJUGGLER
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 11, 2007 7:14 am PT
Review:  call of duty got the hint that gamers are tired of ww2 and Nazis. so they are now letting you kill 
 terrorists as Americans and British. the games action surpasses that of halo and pretty much everything 
 else. bullets go through walls and your constantly fighting. the bullets going through wall is 
 done really nice this isn't one of those things you will rarely use, you'll use this in every fight 
 almost. the guns are awesome to sum it up. the sniper rifle is probably the funnest weapon to use. 
 also there is no almighty weapon they are all balanced out. this means multi-player won't get frustrating. 
 the ai is surprising at times like when i was sniping in a building that i had just cleared 2 enemies 
 made it their job to take me out and they came up behind me and executed me. how is this surprising 
 you might say? well they had to go through a line of marines and past me. i say thats amazing seeing 
 that i was playing on normal. the levels are always fun and have plenty of enemies. the game like 
 said in the gamespot review has a pretty grim out look on the world. everything you do does make 
 it worse like setting off nuclear war heads because you couldn't stop something from happening. 
 all in all its short, fun, and has plenty of guns. this game is just plain fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: G4B4
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 11, 2007 7:06 am PT
Review:  This game is amazing, the SP is very nice (if u select veteran difficulty it's a good challenge) 
 and the MP is the best of all MP that u can find on XBOX live!!!! If u choose to play the SP on 
 normal, the game will be too easy and it will end too fast. On veteran difficulty u will die a 
 couple times especialy with the grenades and 2or 3 hits by the enemy. The MP is awesome, it's a 
 lot of fun u can find games anytime and it doesn't lag that much. 
  I think this game is great, for me it's the best game on the 360 right now!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DS-man
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 11, 2007 3:24 am PT
Review:  GOOD- Brilliant looking visuals / great voice acting n sound effects / awesome story / brilliant 
 online mode / Easy to use controls which are very sharp / Lots of action
  
  BAD- Too short for a casual shooter
  
  This is by the best FPS game i've ever been on, i thought 
 CoD3 was awesome, but this is superb, the graphics are great with brilliant lighting effects, smoke 
 effects and special effects. the action is non stopping but there are some slow parts which helps 
 you rest, you play as either a British SAS or a U. S Special Forces in which could be possible the 
 best Story in any FPS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LegendXhunter
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 11, 2007 2:19 am PT
Review:  To start off with this review let me tell you the Campaign is short,
  obviously you read this from other reviews. Here Is a list of pros and cons
  Pros: Great Multiplayer, 
 Very Good Graphics, Online Challenges that will keep you addicted, Weapon Upgrades to customize 
 your weapon.
  Cons: (sometimes) Bad Spawns Lead To Outrageous Spawn Kills, Short Campaign, Not Enough Content If 
 You Do Not Have XBL.
  Online multiplayer is great, leveling your rank means more challenges, weapons and special abilities 
 example: when you make you custom class you can choose to add extra damage or stronger penetration 
 which means your bullets can go through thin walls or solid concrete..... weird but true.
  Another feature is customize your weapons with Scopes, Grenade Launchers and even give your weapon 
 paint jobs.
  One of the features that will keep you playing is Challenges these "Challenges" ask you to do a 
 certain task during Online Gameplay
  Example: One challenge requires you to kill enemys while crouching.
  There are also Weapon challenges, 
 like kill someone with a certain weapon, beating these challenges unlock more weapon customization 
 options.
  Now onto the singleplayer side.
  Single player is short but there are missions that are fun and fun acheivements, fortunately for 
 people without XBL the acheivements can only be unlocked in campaign.
  Overall worth the buy if you have XBL. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hellcanwait
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 11, 2007 1:16 am PT
Review:  
  this is a great looking game, with some intense gameplay.
  the campaign is a bit too short for my taste and the story is wafer thin.
  
  Its about catching 
 this terrorist and.... well thats it, youll be thrown from one end of the world to the other with 
 no explanation and your guy doesnt even have a name.
  ****** possible spoiler ******
  after the nuclear explosion, I wasnt even sure if my guy survived or not... no explanation whatsoever, 
 just on to the next map.
  
  
  They could and should have fleshed it out a lot more.
  
  
  
  The mp on the other hand seems 
 amazing so far ( only spend a couple of hours on the mp )
  The killstreak opening up bonuses, such as airstrikes is a great idea.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: robwdevore
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 11, 2007 1:05 am PT
Review:  First of all, the in-game graphics are the most realistic looking I have ever seen in a game. You 
 really have to play it to see for yourself. But don't think that just because it looks pretty that 
 it's all show, no substance. The game controls like butter. In fact, I much prefer the control 
 scheme in this game than that found in Halo 3 (And I love me some Halo 3!) The single player is 
 a little short, but packs a big punch. There are a lot of "Oh, S__t!" moments in the game. Furthermore, 
 the multiplayer is ,unquestionably, some of the best out there. It's fast, furious, and intense. 
 The perks add a whole layer of depth that you just won't find in other games, making the online 
 experience truly unique. There do seem to be some problems with people getting dropped from games, 
 but nothing the ruins the experience. All in all, this is one of the best games to debut in 2007, 
 and definitely a must buy for anyone who owns a 360 and enjoys shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: onlywhispers
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 11, 2007 12:48 am PT
Review:  This is the greatest first person shooter I have ever played. Thats all I really need to say, but 
 I will go into details.
  
  Gameplay: Incredible. This is by far the greatest FPS ever made. The gameplay is so intense, yet 
 the mechanics are easy to use. The cinamatic style of this game is incredible and your always on 
 the edge of your seat. The story is great, even though it is short. I have played the game 3 times 
 already and its still fun. For being such a simple game, it has SO much to offer. Incredible. I 
 am speechless. The multiplayer is amazingly fun too. I am not one to play online much, but this 
 game will have me playing on LIVE for a while. Its just overall a great game. Amazing, stunning. 
 Just WOW.
  10/10
  
  Graphics: The graphics are stunning. The animation is fluid. This game is just beautiful to look 
 at. Every explosion, every character model, every tree, or tank. Its just a great looking game, 
 and very realistic. 10/10
  
  Sound: Bullets fly from from right front speaker to left back speaker, the explosions blow up behind 
 you and your Captain yells comands from the center. The sound is what brings the tension even more! 
 Just great! The music is good, when I hear it, I am too involved in playing to even care, but what 
 I hear just sounds great. 10/10
  
  Overall: Just buy it. OR atleast rent it. Its really amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jompadoddle
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 10, 2007 11:07 pm PT
Review:  I was in the beta for this game and having spent a good deal of time on that I decided to get the 
 full game. My expectations were really high and Infinity ward managed to live up to just about 
 every aspect.
  If we start with the single player part of the game it's great, but it could be better so it's 
 in no way a perfect 10. Some of the levels could have used a bit more work. Now don't get me wrong 
 they are great, but I feel that perhaps something is missing, although I can't put my finger on 
 it.
  On to the multiplayer, if you get CoD4, then make sure that you have a gold membership, since this 
 is where CoD4 takes just about every other game to the knives edge. I've never played anything 
 that's even been close to being this much fun online on the Xbox360 before. The fights are really 
 intense and the satisfaction when leveling up your character and managing that great kill is incredible.
 
  So in short; If you just want to play through the SP and then spend a massive amount of time on 
 MP, get this game, you won't be disappointed! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: assbubbles
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 10, 2007 9:38 pm PT
Review:  I've been a fan of the COD series since I since the first XBOX. When I got my 360, I couldn't stop 
 playing COD2. COD3 was good but there weren't as many WOW moments as there was in COD2. COD4 is 
 the king of them all in my opinion. From the first mission where you are on a boat in the middle 
 of storm taking out tangos to the mission where in an all out firefight in a television studio, 
 this games rocks. I've played about 3 hours of the single player and I've been more impressed as 
 each mission goes by. The developers have done an excellent job of simulating how chaotic battle 
 is. Every few minutes, I would say to myself, there are people doing this in real life. God Bless 
 them and the sacrifice they make for this country. 
  
  The graphics and sound are superb. The computer AI is terrific. I've found myself watching my allies 
 stacking at a door, kick the door in and taking out tangos with little effort. The enemy AI is 
 good as well. They flank, fire RPG's and throw grenades better than any other FPS I've played before. 
 
  
  The ranking system in the multiplayer is stellar. The create a class and perks is a nice touch 
 which doesn't throw the game off balance. In the end, if you liked the previous COD games or you 
 like First Person shooters, play this game. It's worth the money and time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 09231991
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 10, 2007 9:29 pm PT
Review:  I love this game a lot. The intensity is just really up there I couldn't even believe it. The only 
 thing wrong with the game is the short story but the very deep and compelling multiplayer will 
 make up for it. The games array of weapons is very well developed along with excellent sound effects 
 and voice acting. The story elements can get boring at times to but the best parts are playing 
 as the US marine because those are the most intense levels. The story is very well developed and 
 fleshed out for a 5 hour story and very impressively done and told well. A must buy for FPS fans 
 or COD Fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AGamerDiet
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 10, 2007 8:15 pm PT
Review:  COD4 was an excellent game. It really lives up to its hype. The game has great graphics, great 
 sound (both environmental and voice acting) , great control, great AI and its fun to play. 
  
  It can get a little frantic but that's how one would imagine war is. There was one story twist 
 I wasn't too happy about .but again this is war. The cut scenes were kept to a minimum unlike 
 COD3 and really added to the game instead of taking away from it.
  
  Infinity Ward really deserves all the credit they get for making the best COD games. No one else 
 can compare. COD2 was excellent and this one beats it (and just about every other game out there) 
 in every way. 
  
  Is the game perfectnothe first couple of missions felt like you were tagging along for the ride 
 and weren't really needed. But that's only because the AI was that good, and that may have been 
 scripted since you are a rookie at that point. Hmm what elseum it was short. Ok so I am really 
 not getting the negative vibe right nowbut I know it's not perfect, just nearly so.
  
  Great game I would definitely recommend at full price. Of course if you can get it cheaper, do 
 so, and you will be getting a real bargain. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonofares
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 10, 2007 7:29 pm PT
Review:  If there's one single thing wrong with Call of Duty 4 Modern Warfare, I don't know what it is and 
 I haven't found it. I thought with games like Gears of War and Halo 3 and other recent releases, 
 I thought I had seen the pinnacle of what can be done graphically on the next-gen consoles. Boy 
 was I wrong. Call of Duty 4 zooms in like a 1500 meter sniper and shoots right between the eyes.
 
  Hands down, COD4 has the most photo-realistic graphics of any war/shooter game to date. They did 
 the right thing by taking this series to the modern era. It was the best thing they could have 
 done. And you think you've seen all there is to see in a war game? Forget about it. You've never 
 been on a sniper mission like the one in this game where you have to watch flags blowing in the 
 wind to judge which way your bullet will travel and time it just right to hit the target. You've 
 never dropped bombs from an aircraft through infrared imaging like this game has. You've never 
 been in firefights this ferocious and gutwrenching. 
  I've heard others say this game seemed short in the single player but I must say I haven't found 
 that to be the case. Those people must've been playing on the easiest level. Cause I've been playing 
 for days now and have had so much fun. Play it on either the hardest or next to the hardest. There's 
 some spots you may think you'll never get past but there's always a way if you keep at it... it 
 may take you 20 or 30 or more tries in some places but you'll make it eventually. 
  There's one mission where your sniper friend is hurt and you have to carry him to the evac point 
 for pickup. But it's not easy because you will be attacked along the way but you can put your hurt 
 friend down and he can shoot well he just can't move. And the two of you get attacked by about 
 5 or 6 helicopters full of soldiers who repel down to hunt you. Good luck.... you will need it.
 
  Anyone who is even the slightest fan of shooters or war games ABSOLUTELY MUST HAVE THIS GAME! 
 And if you've never been a fan of shooters ( I can't imagine such a person even exists.... but if 
 you do) you will be a fan after you play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: igotoda
Rating: 10
Date: May 18, 2008 5:48 pm PT
Review:  Here's why it's the best:
  
  1. It's realistic: but not so realistic that it's just a pain in the you-know-what to stay alive. 
 The guns feel and look realistic, your health is ... as realistic as you'd want it considering 
 what you're going after. The landscapes also are modeled after and could be (given the story line) 
 plausible.
  
  2. Online: offers any normal person a life time's worth of playing, and improvement. The prestige 
 mode is a lot of fun, and the challenges are great. The colors of your guns, and add ons are a 
 lot of fun, and are also very useful. There are some games where you work super hard for something 
 and you get it in a trophy case, but here you actually get to use it. The create a class is also 
 just epic. The modes are also fantastic.
  
  3. The single player campaign: The single story campaign is one of the most diverse and engaging 
 due to both it's engaging story as well as all of the different types of missions you are sent 
 on. There are sniper levels where you hide and take out targets, then evac, as well as the good 
 old fashioned army on army gun fights. SPOILER ALERT: The part where the nuke goes off and you 
 get hit by it is also one of the most epic clips I think there is.
  
  SPOILERS DONE
  
  4. New Stuff: The halmark of a good game is how it stands against the test of time. There are some 
 games that just kinda give you a great push, but never give you any more after the push. Activision 
 historically has put out almost 10 new maps per game, and there are rumors that some of the kick 
 ass guns featured in the campaign will be available for use on the multiplayer.
  
  
  I would say that if you had 65 bucks, you've got to buy this game.
  
  Bad parts:
  1. In the 
 campaign, if you don't move forward, THE GUYS DON'T STOP COMING! This is the only thing i REALLY 
 had a problem with. Because they sink you into this great world of reality, where everything is 
 so realistic, then all of a sudden there's a billion terrorists coming out of a room the size of 
 a closet, and it just kinda takes away from the excellence of the game.
  
  2. Online matching & teams: First of all, they don't put you with people of your rank which just 
 makes NO SENSE, because it really wouldn't be that hard. there are so many people on, there's sure 
 to be enough people to at least offer a 10 rank differential between what rank you are, and who 
 you're fighting. SECOND of all, the teams are rigged. if you're good, you get put with the other 
 good players, vice versa for the bad team, which, again, just makes NO SENSE. 
  
  2. b. fortunately Call of Duty has made it so that if you can get just one decent shot of a M16 
 in (your burst rifle you're given from the get go) , you can down anybody (as long as they don't 
 have juggernaught on) . Still though, there are some players who know exactly where to go to get 
 the advantage on the map, and are also epic with a gun, so odds are if you come accross someone 
 really good face to face, you're dead.
  
  That's really it, the good stuff outweighs the bad stuff by a mile. And the bad stuff is really 
 stuff that, as long as you look at it with some kind of a "this will get better" attitude, is nothing 
 too serious. (as long as you're not talking about the veteran difficulty being ridiculous, because 
 that won't get better) . 
  
  All in all, I'd say this game is best game is the best first person shooter as of May 18th, 2008, 
 and probably will be until at least November of 2008 when Call of Duty 5 and Gears of War 2 come 
 out. Halo 3 is pretty good too come to think of it, but it's not better than this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rooster703
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 10, 2007 5:41 pm PT
Review:  Just recently i purchased COD4. If you have a Xbox 360 or PC and you are toying with the idea to 
 get, then Get up and go buy it. I believe that it is one of the greatest games to come out this 
 year. If you still are a little iffy then hear are a few suggestions to clear your thoughts. First, 
 if you love or enjoy the COD franchise then buy it. Second if you enjoy in your face, brutal, action 
 packed multi-player and Campaign then buy it. If you like the ability to customize weapons and 
 your character with perks then buy it. Sure the campaign is a little short but hell it is still 
 fun and interesting to play, and it has a very high replay value. If you are into any of the stuff 
 i just mentioned then get up and buy it. Trust me, It's worth it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: m1lkshakes
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 10, 2007 5:02 pm PT
Review:  You're walking through a grassy field in an xbox live ranked battle. You keep walking, and bullets 
 fly past your head. you duck, then continue walking, You throw a grenade in retaliation of the 
 snipers, only to have an enemy sneak up behind you and stab you. I could not tell you how many 
 times I have been killed by an enemy sniper lying on the ground directly in front of me, how many 
 times I've been hiding behind cover, only to have the enemy spray the wall I'm hiding behind with 
 a chain gun, killing me in the process, or even how many times I've heard a loud rumbling noise, 
 then looked up to see an F-22 drop a carpet bomb directly over me. This game has freaking amazing 
 graphics, topping off Oblivion or Gears of War. The campaign is amazing, in which you fight by 
 your British spec op teammates or your fellow U. S. army soldiers. The multiplayer even surpasses 
 Halo 3, with a truly revolutionary ranking system, as well as a large and diverse selection of 
 game types and maps. I truly hated the earlier CoD games, but Call of Duty 4 is easily the best 
 game ever created by man, and I will be playing this game for years to come. Infinity ward is truly 
 skilled at what they do, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Saar54
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 10, 2007 4:25 pm PT
Review:  Here's what I saw + felt/feel about call of duty 4. A quick review to give you guys the general 
 idea of how great this game is. Campaign: amazing. things you'll never see in any other game. Incredible 
 graphics, amazing scenes that suck you in. the game is flat out real. they show you the dark side 
 of terrorism and it really does make you think. Only down side, it's short. that's where it ends. 
 
  Multiplayer: ..............................
  Wow? this game has one of the best multiplayers i've ever played in my entire life. If there's 
 one word i had to describe it i'd use: Intense. But there's alot more words i could use. It gets 
 very intense but it does depend on what game type you pick. my personal favorite type is big team 
 battle. there are many game types online, it's VERY smooth, graphics are awesome, just plain fun. 
 best part about online? you have to earn your way to the top. when you play online you're playing 
 for something. ranks are endless and with each rank you gain new weapons, attachments, grenades, 
 w/e. they also have challeneges where you're supposed to do a certain number of things per game 
 or in the long run which eventually earns you new things. i'm gonna make this short. 
  
  This game is awesome. The campaign is amazing, the online is just... it's so much better than what 
 i've played so far [including halo] . You have to at least try this game. Please, try it. I'm serious, 
 it's worth the money. Do yourself a favor, you owe yourself one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IcEeMan69
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 9, 2007 10:00 am PT
Review:  The beta was great and when i heard that it was comin out on november 5 i just had to get it. The 
 starting was just great ecspecially the storyline. Ya the multiplayer is great and the graphics 
 and just the gameplay is great. The competetive multiplayer is fun even tho im only a lev 20 prestige 
 lol but still its awesome i love this game, and the guns.... too good ive always wanted that mini 
 ak and finnnaly they have it with a good game. the selcetion is great and the things you can have 
 on the gun is awsome even tho ya cant have 2 on, like a silencer and a red dot sight. This game 
 is the best modern warfare game ever adn the best fps ever!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davecampmen
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 10, 2007 3:27 pm PT
Review:  I have to agree on just about everything game spot said but I don't agree on the score. How can 
 you rate COD 4 9.0 just because of a short single player???? COD 4 is much different from most 
 shooters thats what makes it so special. Halo 3 had a 9.5 (also had a weird and short single player) 
 but COD 4 also deserves a 9.5. You can't compare the 2 games (HALO AND COD4) because they are entirely 
 different games. I'm not saying COD4 is better then Halo but I just don't agree with this score. 
 Bad review GameSpot you need to get the act together. Mario received a 9.5, Halo 3 9.5, and again 
 you can't compare these games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smiley451
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 10, 2007 3:17 pm PT
Review:  I didn't spend much time waiting for COD 4. I rented it, then played it until 2:00 AM. Yeah, its 
 that good. I played it the next morning too. It's wicked sweet. However, that entire time, I was 
 pulsing with rage. Dying over and over, the annoying near-death red screen, grenade markers covering 
 my screen all the time! And the part when you wait for a helicopter and hold out against an army 
 of Russians. That was so cool! But I just got so pissed!!! I nearly tore off my own skin. The good 
 thing is, I didn't punch another hole in the wall =) . But then again, I had put it on Hardened, 
 and I hardly ever play console games, so its too be expected. 
  I haven't played multiplayer yet, but it's no doubt as awesome and as frustrating as the singleplayer. 
 By all means get this game, just be prepared to get pissed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wwest305
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 10, 2007 2:46 pm PT
Review:  Single player:
  
  This game feels like the a playable war movie. Not only is the gamepley solid, intense, and immersive, 
 but there are also many sequnces that are mind blowing. As I don't want to ruin any of the games 
 surprises I won't reveal any of them, but I can assure you there are plenty of "Holy s****, I can't 
 believe that just happened" moments. The firefights can get pretty intense with dozens of units 
 involved in combat at some points. 
  
  If you are looking for a tactical shoot live R6 Vegas, this isn't it. This game is about intense 
 and thrilling, balls to the wall action. And believe me it delivers on this promise.
  
  My only gripe is that the game is too short and I feel they could have added more to the Middle 
 East section of the game. But besides that I have no other complaint about the sngle player.
  
  The Multiplayer:
  
  Surprisingly enough this is even better than the single player. Almost 
 all the maps are well designed, and many of them will require various tactics. The game also launches 
 with 16 diffrent maps. There is a strong array of gameplay modes including two complelty diffrent 
 ways of playing, old school and realistic. The game plays up to 18 players, and has maps for all 
 diffrent sizes of games.
  
  The rank system is also welll implemented. As you rise in rank you gain acess to a variety of perks 
 and weapons, that allow a wide range of possiblities. You will be constantly working towards that 
 next weapon or next perk. 
  
  The sounds and graphics are also among the best around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: minty_123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 15, 2008 9:08 am PT
Review:  MY VIEW BEFORE I HAD THE GAME (PLAYED ON IT AT A FRIENDS)
  i don't mean to sound like the grumpy guy who complains about everything wrong with a game but 
 this is truly so short its stupid. yeah, the graphics are the best Ive ever seen and the missions 
 are well thought out... but there is a huge lack of missions. i even thought halo 3 and gears of 
 war were short but call of duty 4 is the ultimate short game. The multi player is brilliant but 
 even with 2 xbox live enabled profiles, you cannot play on-line on one xbox. However, i like the 
 RPG based multi player where you can change weapons, skins and even attachments to your weapons. 
 i also liked the leveling system but the campaign was the main big let down and since the campaign 
 is the main part of the game and there is a big lack of it i give this game a 6.
  
  MY VIEW WHEN I GOT THE GAME (FOR A BIRTHDAY)
  amazing, the storyline was just right on veteran 
 but it could still be updated as there is still quite a few glitches. online is 200x better than 
 storyline and it is my style of gameplay, fast paced shooter game with a hint of role playing by 
 being able to add perks and custom classes etc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SHPUDY
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 10, 2007 1:42 pm PT
Review:  ill be the first to admit that the singleplayer is way to short but at the same time it has the 
 felling that is thay tried to stretch it out it would have felt waterd down but it is still amazing 
 . wen it comes to the multyplayer it is the beat iv ever seen the insanity the hecktic fast past 
 feeling is like nothing iv ever ecsperienced all in all the length of the singleplayer is what 
 makes me not whant to give it a 10/10 but the way the multiplayer is and the unlockocable arcade 
 mode well makes up for it so im gunna ignore myself and give it a perfect, P. S. im to lazy to care 
 about my spelling srry :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jbul
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 10, 2007 1:14 pm PT
Review:  This isn't going to be a 5-page review, because this game doesn't need it. 
  If you've played Call Of Duty 2, you know what to expect here, gameplay-wise. There are scenarios, 
 an interesting story told, and plenty of highly-polished shooting action. The engine for this game 
 has been tweaked to near perfection. The weapons actually feel powerful and deadly. When you run 
 up behind an enemy and put a knife in his back, you feel it. When you take down a series of tanks 
 with a Javelin missile launcher behind heavy cover, you get a thrill of satisfaction. Simply put, 
 the gameplay rocks.
  
  The presentation is on par with the gameplay. Impressive visuals await you on nearly every front. 
 From the highly detailed weaponry, to the fur on a guard dog's back, almost everything here was 
 rendered painstaikingly. There is also visual variety. Some levels take place in a swamp. Some 
 levels take place at night. Some levels take place in a war-torn farmtown. There's even a level 
 in the middle of a rainstorm. The audio follows suit. 
  
  The Mutliplayer. Let's talk about multiplayer. Incredible what Infinity Ward has done to breathe 
 life into what has become a ho-hum aspect of military shooters. Included is an incredible leveling 
 system that rewards players of ALL SKILL LEVELS. Every time you play, you gain experience. These 
 experience points are used to rank you up, open up new weapons and abilities (such as faster reloading 
 times, ability to withstand more damage, etc) , as well as new play modes. One of the most impressive 
 aspects of multiplayer is that I never saw a moment of graphical sputter. Not even with a full 
 on 16 player melee. 60 FPS, and it feels so good, baby. Oh, did I mention there are 16 great maps 
 out of the box?
  
  Call Of Duty 4 confidently achieves FPS greatness is every area possible. The only flaw I could 
 see is the campaign's length. But you won't care because it's so fun and playable, you'll want 
 to beat it at least 2 times. And then we have one of the very, very best multiplayer packages on 
 the market. 
  
  If you've ever enjoyed shooters, get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jimzee
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 10, 2007 1:03 pm PT
Review:  For me this is the greatest FPS around. Halo and GoW are fine with me, but ultimately don't hold 
 my interest for some reason. I think it is the cartoony nature of Halo and all the jumping around 
 makes me a bit dizzy. 
  
  This game picks up where the other CoD games left off in terms of gameplay but with the added bonus 
 of modern weaponry. This is as good as a shooter gets for me. 
  
  The campaign is probably short by some standards, but took me much longer than the 5-6 hours quoted 
 by many reviews. This may be because I am not an expert at FPS games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killiasxxx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 10, 2007 12:14 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: 10- The best Ive seen.
  Sound: 9- Every gun and footstep is good.
  GamePlay: 10- This game is highly adictive online and off.
  
  The Good: Ok this game is super 
 fun. The story is realistic and graphic. The story is a little short but theres intel to find and 
 after you beat it you can enable cheats. In the multiplayer theres tons of ranks weapons and atachments 
 to those guns. You can get perks where you play diffrent and it set you apart from everyone else. 
 Theres 16 maps that are fun, and the multiplayer will have you hooked for a good bit of time. The 
 game feels like your in a real war and is the best Call Of Duty so far. And FPS on 360.
  
  The Bad: The only bad thing is No driveable Tanks or humves. Like in the 3rd but thats not much. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KrazzedHobbit
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 10, 2007 11:48 am PT
Review:  I haven't played a Good FPS in a long time until Call Of Duty 4. I had my doubts about buying this 
 game but i read alot of reviews and decided why not. The single player portion of the game is intense. 
 I was jumping, ducking and sometimes hitting pause and going to get someone else to come see how 
 amazing some of the parts in this game are. I have yet to sign on to the multi-player but i know 
 i will enjoy it. Overall this game is well worth the money spent and the learning curve is almost 
 not there if you have played any other FPS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: esplinmanor
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 10, 2007 11:40 am PT
Review:  it is hard to say what makes COD 4 such a superb game. the AI is clever. the weapons are well baalnced. 
 the story is immersive. every graphical detail is perfectly rendered. But that is just the surface. 
 i bought the game and brought home with a friend. we played through the entire singleplayer portion 
 on Normal in about six hours. some people have cited that brevity as a detractor from the game, 
 but i disagree. the production value of every second is at a premium only rivalled by Halo 3, and 
 even Halo 3 cant compare. Despite its brecity COD 4 encompasses every type of gameplay. Action, 
 stealth, night raids, day time assaults, even a level in the turret of an AC-130. Every moment 
 of the COD 4 singleplayer is a unique and impressive joy. as for the multiplayer, it is simply 
 the best online multuplayer in gaming today. If the Halo 3 Multiplayer had one fault, it was too 
 much like Halo 2s multiplayer. Halo 2 had a fantastic multiplayer, but that was a while ago. Games 
 are improving exponentially, and a new coat of paint just doesnt cut it anymore. COD 4's multiplayer 
 is as fun as it is deep. i played the multiplayer beta back in september, but i still love the 
 multiplayer to this day. each perk, each weapon breathes new life into the game. For these reasons 
 and more, COD 4 is a perfect truly next gen game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DChevySSNova21
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 10, 2007 11:37 am PT
Review:  I have played many of the Call of Duty's up to date and this game right here just blows them all 
 away. It is said that the online multiplayer aspect of the game is even greater than that of Halo 
 3. I have yet to play this online but I am anticipating a great game at that as far as the online 
 play is concerned. When I first played this game the realistic graphics and gameplay just blew 
 me away. I now see why this game stole the show at this years E3. This game is absolutly amazing 
 and what I consider a great buy for anyone who likes a war like tactical shooter. This game easily 
 gets a 5 star out of 5 star rating from me! This is a kick ass game which sould be enjoyed by anyone 
 who picks it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chandler_UK
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 10, 2007 11:21 am PT
Review:  I actually had second thoughts about buying COD4, ah the innocence of youth.
  
  Having bought it on release day to help me through a bout of the man-flu I figured it would be 
 just as enjoyable but not more so than the earlier interpretations of COD's lifespan. I was wrong, 
 COD4 has one of the greatest single player elements of the last 10 years and is in my opinion finally 
 a piece of gaming that belongs on the shelf of popular culture.
  
  The writing is fantastic to say the least, I don't wish to give away the story for obvious reasons, 
 however I am bursting to discuss it with someone who has also finished this masterpiece. Gone are 
 the days when one could blast their way through a game without feeling an ounce of sympathy or 
 guilt, COD4 literally plasters you with doubt as to whether what you are doing is for 'the greater 
 good.' I applaud all those at Infinity Ward for doing so, to actually doubt yourself is human, 
 and yet this factor is something lacking in most of todays action games. The way the single player 
 is directed is reminiscent of an Hollywood movie, however as you are actually playing through the 
 story the amount of immersion in unprecedented and in the final hour or so of the game I was questioning 
 almost everything I was doing. Aside from the brilliant story the rest of the package is equally 
 well sculpted.
  
  The graphics in this game are superb: animation, textures, sound, physics, explosions, lighting, 
 everything is arranged in such a way that you never question the events around you. The voice acting 
 is top notch, the chaos of the moment is never dulled and as the bullet fly you will find yourself 
 darting for cover in your head.
  
  Once you finish the very brief but exhausting single player element the real meat of the adventure 
 begins, multiplayer.
  
  You will begin with a level 1 soldier with little unlocked and only a few weapons and game modes 
 available. However once you begin your term of service you will find yourself quickly rising up 
 the ranks unlocking weapons, modes and perks (buffs to your character such as quicker re-loading 
 of extra health.) The lifespan of the multiplayer seems immense. I have been playing it allot since 
 finishing the single player and feel like there is a whole lot more for me to discover. Rising 
 all the way to rank 55 (currently 21) will be quite a challenge, but oddly enough once that I'm 
 expecting to not feel like a grid. With currently 16 maps, and a good mix of online community the 
 multiplayer will keep you amused for a long time.
  
  One gripe I have is that allot of people online hadn't even bothered with the single player, this 
 is a missed opportunity as it really gives allot of context to what you are doing instead of making 
 it one big frag-fest. This is vital as some of that second-guessing your intentions creeps into 
 the multiplayer adding another layer of immersion. Therefore my advice would be play the single 
 player first before venturing online, you will enjoy it all the more for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kike29
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 10, 2007 10:32 am PT
Review:  And yesterday after finishing the game .. i feel that i played the BEST mission of all of my gamer 
 years.. the one that you play as a sniper... MY GOD WHAT A GREAT GAME!!!!!!! I just cant' believed. 
 I want to play sequels of this franchise for the rest of my life. They raise the bar .. now someone 
 got to try to equalize that.. Peolpe YOU must buy this game. Graphically the game looks amazing. 
 Sound effects awesome!!!! The emotion that gives you the situations ive been trought its something 
 i just cant' describe in words. You got to give this game a try NOWWWWWWW!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _ad_
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 10, 2007 8:12 am PT
Review:  ever. Just complete it. Currently listening to the rap over the credits and the rapper is right, 
 this belongs in a movie. The game is amazing. Its got evertying. So many mind blowing scenes. before 
 the game was released i though it would loose the CoD feel but its still there. Even the classic 
 car chase is back.
  There were so many points in the game where i was left speachless. The only downside has to be 
 how short it is. I got the game yesterday and i could of easily beat it last night but i wanted 
 to save some for today. Cant wait to get online. Buy CoD 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragon904
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 10, 2007 8:11 am PT
Review:  Read the gamestop review cause it is dead on. If you dont have this game yet your missing out. 
 The short campaign is offset with the earned arcade mode once you finish it. You then can enjoy 
 your favorite levels again trying new things and you performance is graded each time. The graphics 
 are just flat out jaw dropping. You want to just stop the level and look around. I thought nothing 
 would top Gears of War graphics but I was wrong. The Multiplayer is so addictive with its rank 
 and earn upgrades system that you just dont want to stop playing. If you like shooters dont delay 
 on getting this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roxyg
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 10, 2007 5:51 am PT
Review:  Like I said, "Best Call of Duty!" The graphics are amazing! The online downside in my opinion is 
 no co-op. Other than that it's the best game I've played all year (also best multiplayer which is 
 better than Halo 3.) Buy it!
  That's all I have to say, so to fill up space this game is good good good good good good good good 
 good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good 
 good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good 
 good good good good good good good good good good! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: partytimekegs
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 10, 2007 3:24 am PT
Review:  Let me first off and say this is one of the only Call of Duty games that has actually captured 
 my attention. This game, from the get go, is the most addictive game I've played in my life. From 
 the immersing and brilliant story, to the gritty and competitive multiplayer. 
  
  Although, not all is amazing in Call of Duty Four. Even though it has so much going for itself, 
 it also has flaws of course. The only serious things I've come across is the downright frustrating 
 and brain crushing Veteran mode and some poor level designs, some moments when you wish you could 
 control the A. I., the lack of a good cover system, and some levels feeling as if they were just 
 thrown together. (You'll know this in No Fighting in the War Room.) Also, the lacking of a Co-op 
 experience is somewhat disappointing yet I can't see anyway possible of it fitting into the storyline 
 at all.
  
  Such things can be easily overlooked if you take into account the extremely addictive multiplayer 
 and ranks you can achieve. Or the cinematic single player mode.
  
  All in all, this game is a definitely a win for anyone who enjoys First Person Shooters or Modern 
 Military Warfare. 
  
  Oorah Marine. Or SAS. Lol. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zim000
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 10, 2007 2:54 am PT
Review:  Alright First Things First. The Single Player is Short like 5 too 6 hours. So As Sum of Your Have 
 Noticed This Call of Duty is Rated M and theres a good Reason for it. When Your Get a Head Shot 
 Theres Going to Be Blood LOTS of Blood. And There's Sum Part's In The Game You Don't Want to See 
 If Your Under 18. Becouse When They Mean Modern Warfare They Mean Modern Warfare. Now Onto The Multiplayer 
 Now It Seems They Made this Ranking System Where You Got to Rank up To Get New Weapons and Perks 
 now for sum people The Leveling Up System Can Be Anoying But For Me I Love It. It Keeps Me Playing 
 And Playing LoL i Still havent got that Dame Desert Egl. Now To The Graphics The Graphics Are Out 
 of This World . It Looks Real It Feels Real And The Lighting is The Big Thing i Noticed I Mean 
 The Lighting Is So Good . So i Guess My Review Sumed it Up On My Thoats . Thanks For Reading This 
 And Have A Good Day oh and also This is a BUY IT is i loved Call of Duty 2 and 3 or you Just love 
 a Good First person Shooter  :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coxy234
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 10, 2007 2:40 am PT
Review:  From the first call of duty on the PC i have followed every incarnation on the PC and 360. After 
 the dissapointing 3 game, i hoped that Infinity Ward could dig themselves out of the hole that 
 Teryrach dug. They did, and in explosive style.
  
  The basic context of the game is naughty Terrorists are doing naughty things, and you being in 
 the military are used to stop them. You play as "Soap" or the "FNG" ( i like soap though) who is 
 the SAS, and SGT Jackson of the US Marines. The missions you play as the 2 characters are different. 
 From attack son cargo ships to all out ground assualts on TV stations, the variety is large. Altough 
 this is nothing new in COD, the intensity is turned up a notch. With choppers flying overhead, 
 bombs dropping, F-15s screaming over and mini guns spewing death in all directions. This is what 
 stands it out from other shooters, the sheer scale of the conflicts your involved with. 
  
  Anyway gameplay, the same. Shooting things run foward dive to cover, maybe die, go argh at RPG 
 terrorist and start again and again till the early hours. The baddies actually know how to used 
 enviroments effectivly. They move to different cover if their previous cover was destroyed, they 
 shoot through doors and talk to eachother. 
  
  The sound of COD has always been amazing and its the same here. For once the weapons actually sound 
 right. They sound like whats coming out of them is actually going to hurt something on the other 
 end. The soundtack, is just right not to distract you from orders but loud enough to get your heart 
 pumping.
  
  Right, online is were its at, no questions a Halo 3 beater, need i say more
  
  Anyway, this is gonna be in my disc tray perminantly until ace combat 6. If you havnt already 
 bought this, why are you still reading go forth and purchase 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RMorris101
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 10, 2007 1:21 am PT
Review:  OK, it's like this Call of Duty 4 is a great game!
  The graphics, sound, and game play are all solid and on the money.
  Top gun shooters like Halo 
 should hold their heads in shame when they look upon the beauty and all out fun that Call of Duty 
 4 is. There is a problem though a major problem!
  The single player game is WAY too short. I completed the regular setting in less than 5 hours. 
 This is simply unacceptable in this type of game. Especially as it is a full priced game. I did 
 enjoy the story line but I found myself on many occasions in the game wishing they had fleshed 
 out certain missions.
  
  If you have xbox live then this game will keep you going until the next big thing.
  
  If you 
 don't have xbox live you need to ask yourself an important question Do I want to pay top dollar 
 for a game that will take me less than 5 hours to complete?
  
  I would have to recommend that you rent the game, enjoy it, then send it back completed.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RoughryderGT
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 10, 2007 12:51 am PT
Review:  Ever since I purchased Call of Duty 2 for the Xbox 360. I said to myself, they need to bring this 
 series into modern time. They did and its here. Everything about this game is an achievement on 
 its own. The single player campaign, maybe short to some, just right to me, because I played on 
 Veteran and it took longer than 5 hrs. Yes sometimes I wish they added another chapter to it. But 
 if you really think about, Infinity Ward had a story to tell. And dammit it was a story to remember. 
 If they would've added another chapter to it because they knew it was too short, it would've felt 
 a little tacked on. It would've felt like that chapter didn't belong there. So to me every chapter 
 had meaning to it and every chapter had me on the edge of my seat. Also the ending was a nice finish, 
 I thought it was the best ending I've seen in awhile. The muliplayer aspect of the game has so 
 much to it, it brings the jaw dropping, nail biting action that the single player campaign had. 
 But adding more too it like perks, calling in air support and customized classes. Theres so much 
 I could say about this game but even then it won't be enough. If you are into FPS, military action, 
 multiplayer fan or even a fan of action, buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ricmasmor
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 11:38 pm PT
Review:  Its not a secret that almost every great game jet for the xbox 360 its a first person triger shooter... 
 I have a lot of games for these console and i think 50% of them are these kind of game. If nintendo 
 does games for kids.. xbox does war... and inmerse in every single batle world war 2 can offer.. 
 these game brigs you an entire different situation with awesome graphics and thrilling storyline 
 that gets you amazed, sadly, for not so long time... because these game its not really long. Its 
 really cool anyways and I recomend it . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andysabeast
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 11:34 pm PT
Review:  I have never bothered to do a gae review before because I thought to do my own would be superfuous. 
 The first level is easily the most intense of any game I have played in a long time. The comabt 
 is flawless, with the quick aim feature being one of the best new additions to the shooter genre. 
 Your buddies are smart, and AMAZING, for pretty much the first time ever. It has the feel and the 
 intensity of the old COD games, with modern day tactics added. The plot is entirely plausible, 
 and interactive FMVs are jaw dropping, with a s sort of "no way" feel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sogsifu
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 11:28 pm PT
Review:  Their are so many goods that just get the game. Great job in every respects. My only complaint 
 would be on the Multiplayer. With all the perks and juggernaut settings you can achieve gives you 
 a truly unfair and unrealistic gameplay. However, the more you play you tend can earn these advantages 
 but it still takes away from getting the drop on your peers. It would have been better to make 
 the perks only relate to your weapons and attachments rather than the personal terminator abilities. 
 The single player is awesome with a great story plot that flows into one story. I did feel at times 
 however, that I was being directed to where they wanted me to go rather than allowing me to wander. 
 Nevertheless, buy the game you won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlawlessSeasons
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 9:06 pm PT
Review:  The jump from WWII was going to happen sometime, whether you liked it or not, but with that jump, 
 Infinity Ward has taken their classic WWII shooter and adapted it near perfectly to modern day 
 settings, with an eerily possible story line.
  
  Not much needs to be said about this title, Its amazing, and you can't say that many different 
 times. The one bad thing about the game is the story's length, it's pretty short. But COD4 does 
 a great job of immersing you into the story and if you sit down and play it for a while, you completely 
 forget about your surroundings and the hours fly by. 
  
  Like all Call of Duty games, the fights are INTENSE. And in Call of Duty 4, they are quite possibly 
 the most intense they've ever been. With tons of enemies surrounding you, you are constantly struggling 
 to get to a new area of cover where you aren't exposed. The fights are very fast paced and there 
 are lots of them. Though short, this is the best single player CoD yet.
  
  Multiplayer is AMAZING. Near every game I've played I've heard "Halo 3 sucks, I'm never going back 
 to again" or some other variation of that statement, and quite honestly I'm starting to believe 
 it. It is just a lot funner than the same Halo you've been playing for years. There are even a 
 little bit of RPG elements in there. Every kill you get gives you XP and with more and more XP 
 you will unlock new weapons, new camo, new skills, and the ability to create your own class. You'll 
 probably never find someone equipped the exact same way you are in any game.
  
  Over all, Call of Duty 4 is amazing. It's about time that WWII was left behind, and the intense 
 modern warfare was adapted. Hopefully Treyarch won't screw up a good thing on Call of Duty 5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: super805
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 9, 2007 8:26 pm PT
Review:  I was truly amazed at how well this game was made. The best first-person shooter that I have ever 
 played. This is a game that puts you on the edge of your seat and doesn't let you go until the 
 very end. It is a game that I have to say is better than Halo and Gears of War. Infinity Ward did 
 an excellent job. It was intense, smooth, in your face real time military action. I loved it and 
 I can guarantee everyoner that picks up this game will be happy also. Get this game I guarantee 
 you won'y regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Twilight_King85
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 7:40 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazingly fun! The guns in the game are cool its sooo realictic. the graphics is the 
 best i ever seen in any game! And there is sweet music at some parts!!! The multiplayer is soooo 
 fun especaly cause of online The enemys are really hard in the game but overal its so fun to play 
 and the story line is really good!!!! i would definately get this if you are a shooter fan or a 
 call of duty fan or if u have a ps3 or xbox 360!!!! i give this game a 9.5 cause its awsome and 
 fun!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: J-SPECTRE
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 7:07 pm PT
Review:  The greatest game to date. Excellent story, nice flow. A. I is smart and effective at times. Enemy 
 A. I can be very smart at times and deadly accurate with any weapon. Veteren difficulty was a little 
 easier than Cod3 but not by much. I wish it had more levels than it did, especially ghillied up 
 and AC-130. I like that there wasn't any achievements for multiplayer although, I hope they are 
 added later on. Multiplayer maps are great and the ranking is great. Unlocking certain weapons, 
 classes and other items makes the multiplayer worth playing over and over again. I would suggest 
 buying this game as soon as possible. This is definately worth every penny spent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmweekes
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 4:39 pm PT
Review:  This is the most fun I have had with my Xbox since Guitar Hero 2. After the yawnfest that is Halo 
 3 soured my faith in next gen FPS games, I think i could be forgiven for having been a touch scepticle 
 about this one. But I put up my cash launch day anyway after completing Call of Duty 2 for the 
 Nth time. So anyway, the good. The game is very pretty. And on top of this the game does a very 
 good job of making you appreciate the gravity of the situation the game revolves around. It does 
 this by letting you see through the eyes of a hostage being held captive in some unnamed middle 
 eastern country. The terrorists quickly shove you in the back of a car to drive you to their headquarters 
 where moments after arriving they point a video camera at you and a man in a red beret shoots you 
 in the face, this combined with the many civilians I saw taken down by firing squads on the car 
 journey there did well to give me the impression that they are not a very hospitable bunch these 
 terrorists so I shouldn't feel bad about shooting them in the face. Hooray for alleviating my guilt 
 first......... 
  The guns feel suitabely powerful. Especially the sniper which I had immense fun using. The knife 
 is fairly useful as well, giving you the quick finish up close kill you will require now and then. 
 I hope at this point I have SUFFICIENTLY EXPRESSED HOW MUCH I ENJOYED THIS GAME because it really 
 is very good.
  Now for the bad. Thankfully a short list, the campaign is fairly short and the attack dogs occasionally 
 annoy the hell out of me, if you have a sniper rifle out and a dog is but a few yards away from 
 chomping you up....... it's gonna get you........
  The multiplayer is supposedly great but being a grumpy anti-social fool like I am a games multiplayer 
 options aren't a selling point for me. But I can see myself going through the campaign a few times 
 before I stick it on the shelf to gather dust. If you are the type who really loves being all friendly 
 with other people you haven't met in a super violent killfest then this game has unmeasurable playing 
 hours for you....... congrats. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DooshBIGELOW
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 4:18 pm PT
Review:  Alright first off I have got to say gamespot was kind of unfiar with the the 9.0 they gave this 
 game ya I know its a FPS and theres sooo many out there but this was probably one of the best Ive 
 ever seen by far graphics UNREAL especially in the multiplayer which kind of frusterated me since 
 it was so hard to get into the game when your in awe at all the little details it still give me 
 chills. yet halo got a 9.5 which is rediculous since its pretty much the same as the previous Halo's 
 ya the online community is quite vast but still unbareble to play for more than an hour or to.. ANYWAYS 
 let break this down into to parts shall me.
  
  Lets start with the story and ya I know its kind of short but seriously I still needed to take 
 breaks after some of those levels so intense. Vouce acting top notch and just the presentation 
 all together made it so much more than just a FPS Id have to say this game has more production 
 value than any of the movies ive seen to date for example my brother was watching me play and he 
 felt apart of it as well this is one of those games that are equally entertaining to watch and 
 play. so im giving the story AT LEAST a 9.5
  
  Now lets talk online OK first off still amazing visuals and HUGE amount of unlockables yet no achievments 
 which is ok in my books since im not an achievment whore but if you really wanted to unlock all 
 the guns and equipment you could be doing it for awhile and its anoyingly addictive I havnt put 
 this game down since I started playing it Yet there is a learning curve here if your a late buyer 
 or player you WILL have a tough time easing into things because it is REALLY fast paced but once 
 you get the levels down and or find a group of people willing to show you some tricks but all in 
 all it is an amazing mulitplayer expireince.
  
  SO if you havnt played or bought this game yet... WHAT ARE YOU WAITING FOR!!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: switchzz
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 2:30 pm PT
Review:  Great Shooter Great graphics Great story and the multiplayer is fun also. Too bad the single player 
 game ends before you even know it. That is what saddened me. Multiplayer is a different experience 
 that is just the icing on the cake of a great game; However it is the single player game that puts 
 you into the atmosphere and the intensity of the story and the game. We have all seen them, movies 
 that start out spectacular however just end too quickly and not right. The single player game falls 
 into this same category of story telling. Just wished they had added a few more levels, a few more 
 doors to stack, a few more rooms to breach, and a few more hills to conquer. Leaving the shortness 
 of the story behind, I would like to mention that I am a huge fan of the COD franchise and that 
 COD4 provided a rock solid stunning game that I was looking forward too playing. The story presentation 
 in the single player game was amazing and makes one feel as if one is a character in one of these 
 big hit movies. The graphics are stunning and get the player right into the atmosphere quickly. 
 The cut scenes are a work of art as are the loading screens, over all the single player game is 
 one of those great games. The multiplayer is also very addictive and the weapon and character customization 
 make the multiplayer one of, if not the best in the market on the XBOX. I am very excited to see 
 what sequels we will see from this great franchise now that it has a new setting, the possibilities 
 are endless. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yandor
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 17, 2007 4:43 am PT
Review:  Having trouble deciding whether this is one for the weekend or one for your collection? Here is 
 a guide to the pros and cons.
  
  Graphics
  Pro: If you have the set-up, this game is startling good-looking. Character models are hands-down 
 the finest in this type of game yet. Every soldier is identifiable and has a unique look. Gun models 
 practically seem photo-realistic. Environments are stellar, with glorious lighting and atmosphere. 
 The depth-of-field mechanic is brilliant. There are too many subtle touches here to list, but the 
 details are something the developers should get an award for (and probably will) . 
  
  Con: Despite how beautiful the buildings, trees, people, cars, tanks, etc, look, it's jarring to 
 walk through a house and be completely stopped by an immovable chair. Objects that should move, 
 don't, and it sucks you right out of the realism. Lights do not go dark when you shoot them, and 
 smoke trails from RPGs are oddly jagged with little or no particle effects. Some backgrounds are 
 obviously painted and seem as if you are playing in front of a painted postcard. Most of the water 
 effects seem unfinished, especially when compared to recent games such as Bioshock. 
  
  Story
  Pro: Yes, the single player game is short, but if one chooses to play in the harder difficulty 
 (which is necessary for the realism) then this could easily be stretched out to 8 or 9 hours if 
 you stayed in the battles longer before advancing. Playing as different soldiers is a great touch, 
 and the side-by-side story-line is excellent . There are some truly remarkable things happening 
 here, and the the flash-back level is genius. You will feel compelled to learn more, and you soon 
 feel as though it is not just a matter of how fast you an get through one level to the next, you 
 feel as if you are truly part of the story, and that your actions matter. There are at least three 
 "oh-snap" moments that are handled brilliantly.
  
  Con: The single player game is too short. I know this seems senseless after my pro, but once you've 
 finished, you'll wish that there could have been three of four more levels. The story is seamless 
 and it truly doesn't feel as if there is room for more, but you will feel as if there should be.
 
  
  Weapons
  Pro: Every gun you handle, though there are not many, absolutely rocks. Complaints about Halo 3 
 (all justified) and the lack of punch from the weapons are taken care of here. Sound and gun-kick 
 are perfect. You'll have trouble deciding which one to use. Even the knife is killer (forgive the 
 pun.)
  
  Con: Only one con here. It would have been nice to be able to have a rate-of-fire like Rainbow 
 Six. Not that you should run out of bullets, but if you are not a run and gunner, you'll miss the 
 one-shot accuracy.
  
  Movement
  Pro: Excellent physics throughout the game. Vehicles and helicopters all look great. Characters 
 also run smoothly and appear mostly lifelike as they run, sneak, take cover and shoot. 
  
  Con: Where is the cover system? This seems an absolute crime. For those honing their skills on 
 Rainbow Six: Vegas and Gears of War, not having a cover mechanic hurts bad. You will miss it terribly 
 here. And it's downright frustrating since you see all your squad-mates performing beautiful moves 
 to take cover, peering out from behind boxes and cars and doorways. At times, it pulls you out 
 of the realism as you have nothing but your gun barrel leading the way and you can't hide or even 
 lean. This one blemish is huge and is almost unforgivable nowadays, especially since so much of 
 this game takes place in murderous firefights where ducking behind some cover just makes sense. 
 Also, there are a lot of odd clips between you and the AI, especially at doorways. Forget being 
 the first one through, you're a grunt and left to get whatever is left standing after your team 
 rushes in first. And too many times, my squad-mates ran in front of me while I was shooting, or 
 simply stopped in my line of fire. Picky I know, but worth pointing out.
  
  Sound
  Pro: Fantastic, as with any Call of Duty. With surround sound, you'll feel like you're in a war. 
 Everything clicks perfectly here, even dialog. At last, no corny one-liners and silly, random orders. 
 The dialog shines, and adds a very powerful depth to the game play. This must be heard to believe.
 
  
  Con: The soundtrack is lush and cinematic, but you can't turn it off. After one play-through, it's 
 nice to have the music, but after that, I would have liked to be able to go without it.
  
  Multiplayer
  Pro: Deep and addictive. Tons of fun with great variety and kick-butt game-modes. 
 Perks are awesome. Sick of Halo? Pick up an A-K 47.
  
  Con: No co-op. This needs to be fixed already. 
  
  
  
  Top Ten Reason you should buy:
 
  Death from above 
  Ghillie suits
  Javelins
  Coriolis effect
  Throwing back a grenade (call of duty classic!)
  Nukes
  No driving
  Perks
  Intel
  Epilogue
 
  
  
  Hope this helps 
::::::

::::::
UserName: papamidnight03
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 9, 2007 1:12 pm PT
Review:  This really a cool game better than call of duty 3 the best sequel for the call of duty francise 
 and has great multiplayer that can actually fight for and updated ranks makes it feel realistic 
 not like rainbow six and their some made up ranks and call of duty is 1-4 players and great for 
 people that are into army, Fps, military shooter, and tatics games and dont worry about that its 
 short we are still in war with iraq gosh you peolpe cant rush them to makeup stuff its called Modern 
 warfare for a reason! it has all the guns that are actullay real and sound real and the graphics 
 are amazing and i dont have HD gosh 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SGreen15LA
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 1:00 pm PT
Review:  Amazing. Call Of Duty 4 is simply amazing. Gammeplay is solid, easy enough for a pick up and play 
 gamer, but with enough depth for someone looking for a challenge. 
  
  Visually, Call Of Duty 4 is lightyears past stunning. Environments ar e so realistic down to even 
 minute things such as dust in the wind. Sound from the staccato of weapons fire to simple dialogue 
 feels so real that you might get the shakes after playing just a few minutes.
  
  Even when you die, the game is so much fun that you don't even care that you were capped by a Tango 
 or blown up by a grenade.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: grimybrit
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 12:59 pm PT
Review:  Well this game was brutally amazing.... I will do a review on the main things that make a game 
 good.
  
  GRAPHICS - 10 - The graphics in this game were the best I have seen in a long, long time. The graphics 
 were perfect on PC, XBOX 360, and the PS3.
  
  SOUND - 9.5 - Totally awesome sound effects mixed with a really wicked soundtrack make the sound 
 in this game truly great.
  
  GAMEPLAY -9.4 - This game plays well on all three systems. The control scheme is near perfect and 
 in story Mode and multiplayer the game works really great.
  
  STORY - 9.0 - There was only one problem with the story... It was so short. You could probally 
 beat the game in 5 or 6 hours if you're skilled at gaming.
  The thing about it is how much the story grows on you. The quality of everything in the story was 
 awesome and wonderful.
  
  MULTIPLAYER - 9.7 - The thing that made up for the extremely short story mode was the multiplayer. 
 Over 10 maps and tons of customization options make multiplayer great.
  
  SCORE - 9.5 - Overall this game is near perfect. ( That means you should buy it.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: generic_411
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 6:41 pm PT
Review:  So this game is amazing. I mean like Chuck Norris back-flipping off the roof of a flaming tour 
 bus filled with undead ninjas onto a speeding motorcycle and crashing it into a dozen katana wielding 
 Steven Segal cloned super soldiers at a million miles an hour with a smile on his face amazing. 
 Or maybe better. For those of you not fully satisfied by the previous description, let me break 
 it down for you.
  
  Graphics: They are great. Even if you end up hating the game for whatever unfounded reason, you 
 will love the way it looks. Blind, thumbless midgets will still appreciate how great the game looks 
 when it's played. The particle effects are one of the more notable graphical aspects. When a grenade 
 goes off, when you fire a round through a plaster wall, when you blow up a helicopter with an RPG, 
 or any other scenario you can think of where there should be little pieces of debris and smoke 
 in there air, there is. And it looks good. RALLY good. Also the animations and texture are superb. 
 One major improvement worth mentioning is the animations of your enemies as they take fire and 
 are wounded or die. They are varied and quite accurate to what you would expect. If you take a 
 guy's knee out, he falls and hobbles to cover. If you get a head shot, the body goes limp in a 
 bloody mess. There is a fair bit of improvement in COD 4 over the previous installments in the 
 animation department, and it goes a long way to draw you into the battles.
  
  Sound: The sound design is excellent. Everything sounds impressive. From the blast of an explosion, 
 down to the smallest ping of an empty casing falling to the ground, everything simply sounds 'right'. 
 Probably the best aspect of the sound design is that it is full and complete without being over-the-top. 
 So many games seem to go out of their way to come up with a surreal audio presentation, only to 
 feel thin and inaccurate. Here you see the way sound should be used in a game. The sound track 
 is also worth mentioning. It is there when needed, and absent when it should be. When you expect 
 music, you get music. When all you need is the blast of your gun and the thud of bodies, that's 
 what you get. The selection of music is well made. It is appropriate with the visuals that it accompanies, 
 without taking away from the overall presentation. 
  
  Control: GREAT control. Everything control wise is tight. It all works and you never feel like 
 anything is missing. When you need to hop a fence or barrier, the controls become context sensitive. 
 When you aim you have the choice of aim assists being on or off. Each of the 360's buttons are 
 put to good, appropriate use. If you don't like the regular layout though, you can of course change 
 things up a bit to your own preference. One great feature is the sensitivity customization. You 
 have several degrees to choose from and you will find one that suites your style. But the best 
 part of the game's control is an intangible aspect. It just 'feels' right. When you fire a weapon 
 you feel the recoil in the rumble of the controller. When you sprint to cover or reload a weapon, 
 the controls feel like they should and they never get too complicated for any game play situation. 
 
  
  A. I.: This game really shows off what can be done with A. I. When you are in squad-based missions, 
 you will feel like you are part of a well trained, thinking, military unit the entire time. Each 
 member of the team acts as part of the group, without seeming robotic or scripted. Where you will 
 be most impressed however, will be the adaptation of both friendly, and enemy, soldiers. They are 
 quick and smart. If you charge around the wrong corner, they will be there to take you out. If 
 you leave a blind spot open, they will attack (as well as defend if you have friendlies around) . 
 If you try to flank, they will do their best to out maneuver you. You will be hard pressed to find 
 a weakness on regular difficulty and it will be almost impossible to exploit enemy weak points 
 on the veteran setting. They simply won't have any. The one minor complaint here is that on very 
 rare occasions you will have a squad member cross your line of fire and at times inadvertently 
 take some friendly fire. This is rare, but it has happened to me a few time. though it has never 
 caused any major issues, it is something to be noted, and stands in the way of a perfect 10.
  
  Game play: Without a doubt this is the best part of the game. The overall game play and mechanics 
 are so, SO very good. There are a million little things about how the game plays and how everything 
 works together that will make you love this game. One small thing that really brings a lot of extra 
 depth and fun to the game is being able to shoot through certain materials. This may seem insignificant, 
 but it is not. It quickly becomes a major part of the game's mechanics, without you realizing it. 
 Plaster, tin, sheet metal, wood; all of these can easily be penetrated by your rounds. This works 
 on both sides however, and that is where the real depth comes in. In the middle of a firefight 
 in most games a stack of wooden crates makes great cover. Not here. You will soon find yourself, 
 and the crates, full of holes if you stay there for more than a moment. Is the machine gun turret 
 in the window giving you a hard time? Take the guy out with a few rounds through the wall. there 
 are lots of moments in the game where you, and your enemies will use this to great success, and 
 it is fun. Also we see the return-to-sender grenade mechanic which seems to be a staple of this 
 series. We also see the use of cover being a more integral part of the game play. Gone are the 
 simple days of rushing in and cleaning house. This is the first game of the series that will really 
 make you desperate for cover. And now it has to be 'quality' cover with bullets being able to penetrate 
 thiner materials. One small complaint here would be the length of the game. This is not a huge 
 issue sue to the addictive and deep multiplayer aspect that backs up the single player mode, but 
 it is short. four to six hours for most players. It could be shorter on easier difficulties. Though 
 the game on it's surface has a short story, it can be lengthened with play throughs to find all 
 the hidden intel locations; and kicking it up to veteran difficulty (i highly recommend this if 
 you fly through on lower difficulties. It is a true challenge) .
  
  Multilayer: Superb. Deep. Addictive. Sure, these are all accurate descriptions of the multiplayer 
 modes in COD4. But the most important description is varied. The online play here doesn't make 
 you just want to hop online to shoot a few rounds and maybe capture a flag or two. You will find 
 yourself wanting to further your overall progress. It has everything online shooters need now, 
 but raises the bar with some new additions. You have a class to choose. You can earn rewards to 
 further your own skills and abilities. You can earn new modes of play and options. It really goes 
 beyond just out scoring everyone. Now you want to 'outplay' everyone and you have more incentive 
 to do so. Top notch online and local play all around.
  
  Misc: Now to the part that is hard to rate. This is where you see the difference between a good 
 game and a great game. Sure the graphics may be great, and the sound might be awesome, and the 
 controls are tight and responsive. But if none of these things work together, then the game will 
 feel a little empty. Fortunately, that's not the case here. Everything about the game works well 
 together. There really isn't much missing and you won't find a spot where you will say 'i wish 
 that they had made this more...'. Nope. Forget it, it's already good. Thought some people will 
 pick it apart and see flaws that may or may not be there, but for 99% of gamers, this is as close 
 to perfect as you get without a draft card. 
  
  In all this game is going to be one of the years best, and will likely be one of the best for some 
 time to come. It's really the whole package. It is worth a buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordSpam
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 12:03 pm PT
Review:  When the first Call of Duty came out it set a standard in WWII shooters. Instantly you were living 
 scenarios right out of Band of Brothers and Saving Private Ryan. It was a standout in a sea of 
 other similarly themed games. Then the sequel came out and added even more of the same. Then the 
 other numerous sequels came out only this time without the polish due mostly to the lack of Infinity 
 Ward. The series was becoming stale and WWII games had oversaturated the market.
  
  Now IW is back in the game and moved the time period up to modern times... and it just works. Better 
 then that it works, gets promoted and retires (mostly all your free time) . The single player experience 
 is quite solid and despite many reviews is extremely substantial. The normal difficulty is quite 
 honestly far too easy for an experienced FPS player. Hard is what I'd call normal on a decent game 
 and Veteran is a death fest. They're all challenging but far from impossible due to the numerous 
 checkpoints. It's a solid story with twists and turns and many genuine shock moments. Unlike the 
 previous entires in the series the events in the game are 100% fictional instead of based around 
 actual battles. It still works and everything still feels plausible and immersive.
  
  So that's the single player. It's fun, but not the driving force behind the high reviews for this 
 game. The multiplayer is an absolute blast. It features an almost RPG like leveling system wherein 
 you can gain ranks and unlock new features. New weapons, skins for said weapons and perks can be 
 unlocked as you play. Perks are by far the nicest addition to an FPS I've seen in a multiplayer 
 realm. They won't necessarily change the tides of war, but they can be darn fun. Just wait till 
 you get your first kill with Last Stand if you don't believe me (or multiple ones which will have 
 you giggling with glee) . You can also work on challenges which when completed give you a hefty 
 experience bonus. These range from the crazy (jumping 30 feet to your death) to the standard (get 
 X number of kills with X weapon) . Custom classes are also unlocked early on which is the bread 
 and butter of the experience. Here you can trick out your play style with a nice array of weapons, 
 perks and explosives. It keeps you sucked in and itching to play like any good MMO and doesn't 
 come off as twitchy as something like a Counter Strike. Don't get me wrong, the action has a fast 
 pace, but it just feels right. It's like a perfect melding of Battlefield 2 and Counter Strike 
 with decent sized maps that don't feel too large or too confined. The nicest part is the sense 
 of balance. Playing a team that camps? Well then there's plenty of routes to sneak around them. 
 Want to camp as a sniper? Set up some claymores to take out approaching back stabbers. Give it 
 a while and you're soon be asking people what's a Halo? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spartan-1657
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 9, 2007 11:37 am PT
Review:  There is no word that can explain the greatness that is Call of Duty 4. It is beyond words. This 
 game earned its perfect rating.
  
  The single player may be a bit short, but I think they did a good job in making it short. It makes 
 you want to play through again because of the brilliance that is in it. It has all the features, 
 plus more, in it.
  
  They have aspects of every FPS or shooter that anyone will love. From sniping missions, to machine 
 gunning, from vehicular combat, to going in the sky and wrecking the enemies, from calling in air 
 support, to blowing up places and people, to.. anything, this game has everything a real FPS should 
 have, plus more.
  
  Once this game ended, I wanted more. Not because it was too short, but because it was so intense 
 and action-packed.... There are SO MANY scenes and points in this game where you are like "Oh.... 
 holy..... sh! t..." It is so heart-pounding too. I am not going to say any of these moments, because 
 I want everyone to experience it themselves, but it was perfect, and the ending scene, before the 
 credits, was an amazing way to finish the game.
  
  Sometimes, it felt as if I was actually in the battlefield, just by the way the soldiers were talking, 
 giving orders, and acting. The first level, on the boat, the way they act, it feels like you're 
 actually with a group of soldiers, they did a remarkable job.
  
  Graphics are superb, sound is amazing, gameplay is perfect. You cannot get much better than this.
 
  
  This game gets a perfect score because it does so much at once and sucks you in right away.
  
 
  I am not even an avid fan of Call of Duty, but I got into the beta (Thanks to Gamespot) and really 
 enjoyed it, which lead me to buy it, and I must say this is in the top 2 of entertainment purchases 
 I have bought this year.
  
  If you love action-packed, heart-pounding gaming, then this game is for you. It will not be a waste 
 of money by any stretch of the imagination. I would spend the 60 bucks for the campaign alone. 
 
  
  Masterpiece... absolute masterpiece.
  
  Thank you, Infinity Ward.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DonMorris
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 11:23 am PT
Review:  What can I say that hasn't been said. Excellent graphics, gameplay, multi-player, etc. The only 
 minus is the length of the single campaign. The campaign is quite good though. I really enjoyed 
 dealing out pain from the AC 130. 
  
  I like the way the multi-player allows you to build up your skills and weapons. I've always liked 
 this about Battlefield. Some have said that the earned add ons don't give much of an advantage. 
 I have to disagree with that. For example, the red dot sight will greatly increase your kill rate. 
 So will the deep penetration bullets. How can anyone say that having a grenade drop when you are 
 killed is not an advantage? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nfur33
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 10:42 am PT
Review:  I love first person shooters. I have Halo 3, Gears, Rainbow Six Vegas, GRAW, Orange Box, BioShock, 
 etc. All are fun, but I'd have to say this one tops them all. Spend about 20 min getting used to 
 the game play and you will love it. Graphics are sweet!! Not as gory as Gears : ( , but plenty 
 of bullets and blood. I beat the campaign the first day and have played again a couple of time 
 since. It is very short : ( , but very very fun. If you like the hectic battles in Call of Duty 
 3, or the crazy multiplayer Halo battles, you will enjoy this game. The sound is amazing - music, 
 bullets, explosions, voice work, etc. The multiplayer is cool, neat maps, tons of great guns, grenades, 
 C4, the works. The game plays so smoothly - never a glitch. The controls work very well. The graphics 
 are great. Sound is great. Multiplayer is great. What else can I say - the game is GREAT! 9.5/10 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uklegendkiller
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 9, 2007 9:34 am PT
Review:  Having nailed World War II action with Call Of Duty's chaotic clashes and archaic weaponry, shifting 
 focus to the contemporary theatre of war is a brave move for developer Infinity Ward. But even 
 though Modern Warfare is based around the edgy weapons and gadgets that rattle Middle Eastern battlefields 
 on a daily basis, what's most notable about the game is what hasn't changed.
  
  Like its predecessors, Modern Warfare's action is unflinching and remorseless, hurling players 
 into front-line combat where gunfire roars relentlessly, stray bullets criss-cross the path in 
 front of you, and Kalashnikov-wielding lunatics lurk around every corner. And, like in previous 
 CODs, the uncompromising action is brought to life by stunning graphics and twisting levels seeped 
 in detail, making even the smallest skirmish a heart-pounding experience.
  
  Newfangled elements such as night-vision goggles and helicopter gunships also help to make COD4 
 the most gripping instalment in Activision's perennial series, and the electrifying multiplayer 
 - where you can create a warrior and endow them with hand-picked skills - is guaranteed to keep 
 players yomping back for more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamesgearing
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 8:40 am PT
Review:  Let start by saying that I don't agree with biggest critisim of this game. I keep seeing people 
 saying its to short . I believe its a trade off, rather then giving you 12 hours of repetitive 
 tasks, skipping lots of small details, (this is the model of most game designs) . This game puts 
 quality first. Instead you get 5-6 hours of highly detailed gameplay and a story that dosnt drone 
 on until the 12 hour quota is met. Im glad developers are starting to make games this way. I would 
 say Gears campaign is another short but better game. In short I'll take 6 hours of GREAT over 12 
 hours of GOOD any day. This campaign is truley great.
  
  They desive a medal for the sniper level on its own.
  
  I thought the AC-130 gunship level, 
 was pretty original and scarey real . Go watch a real gunship clip on youtube and you can see how 
 much it looks like the real thing.
  
  As far as multiplayer goes, I have only played about 10 hours so far, it was done well. Im sure 
 ill log lots of hours playing multi over the course of the winter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: venom146
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 8:35 am PT
Review:  I have played all of the Shooters and this game takes the cake. I have GRAW 2 and Rainbow six vegas 
 and I have to say this game is way better than the both of them. I cant believe it got a lower 
 score than rainbow six. Thats just wrong! The only game that can even compare to this is Halo 3, 
 and I prefer realistic shooters myself so right now halo is on standby. This is the best shooter 
 out on any system hands down! have played all of the Shooters and this game takes the cake. I have 
 GRAW 2 and Rainbow six vegas and I have to say this game is way better than the both of them. I 
 cant believe it got a lower score than rainbow six. Thats just wrong! The only game that can even 
 compare to this is Halo 3, and I prefer realistic shooters myself so right now halo is on standby. 
 This is the best shooter out on any system hands down! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: knetworx
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 9, 2007 8:30 am PT
Review:  Over the last month or so, I've been addicted to Halo 3. I've been playing for usually at least 
 a few hours a day (every day) . From the very beginning, I've said that it wasn't that great of 
 a game, and it really isn't, but there's just something viral about it (probably because I'm a 
 stat-whore) . But my addiction has been cured. I picked up Call of Duty 4 earlier this week, and 
 I haven't even thought about touching Halo 3 since then. Of course, now I have a new addiction: 
 CoD4. After playing it all night last night, I realized this morning that I haven't hardly slept 
 since I picked it up. The thing is, it's not just viral , it's just that good . This game is incredibly 
 beautiful. It runs smoothly, the gameplay is something to die for, and it's just an overall fun 
 experience. I love the whole online multiplayer setup, which includes the ability to unlock new 
 weapons and perks, as well as view your stats compared to your friends (or the whole world if you 
 so desire) . I have only two complaints about it: you can't do online matchmaking when playing splitscreen 
 with your friends; and as of yet, there is no advanced online stat-tracking. The latter of these 
 two complaints only exists because of Bungie. net, and the former isn't really that big of a deal. 
 Overall, those two shortcomings are only enough to bring the game down to a 9.9/10 in my mind. 
 I don't remember what I gave Halo 3, but using the same scale as CoD4, Halo 3 drops down to an 
 8.5 at best. There's really no comparison in my mind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JackofDeath82
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 9, 2007 7:38 am PT
Review:  I really like this game. But its no Halo Killer. In fact I think you shouldn't compare the two. 
 COD4 is more like a realistic war game that takes place in our present day while Halo is a sci-fi 
 shooter that takes place in the future. One thing I love is how the enemies react when you shoot 
 them, its freakin awesome. The only weak point was I beat the game in 5 hours, besides that there 
 are many features that make up for being such a short game like multi-player and arcade mode ( which 
 is available once you beat the game) . Definitely buy this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: plentykash
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 9, 2007 7:20 am PT
Review:  SINGLEPLAYER:
  After playing the first three levels and some multiplayer (+ the beta) I am blown away by this 
 game. Graphics 5/5, Sound 5/5, Fun factor 5/5 and the story is engaging and really makes you feel 
 what war might be like. The locations are realistic and there is some great voice acting.
  
  MULTIPLAYER
  Awesome. Controls feel good, connection is stable (no lag) and lots of mini 
 'goals' to unlock. Can be frustrating when you have crap players on your team or no body is covering 
 your back. The game definitely requires teamwork, and if you are a pure run and gunner, you are 
 gonna get pee'd off because its about going into cover when necessary, creeping around not firing 
 will nilly and talking to your team mates. Anyway have fun. Peace. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackson84
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 6:26 am PT
Review:  Okay this is the Best FPS Ive played thus far.. Ill say better than Halo. Maybe because Im not 
 into the whole alien shooting type of thing.. COD 4 is a really great game to play. I thought the 
 campaign mode was long enoughbut it was really challenging though. Until COD 4 came out I thought 
 Tom Clancy Vegas was the best out but this game . Well I dont want to say ten times better but 
 it has a leg up on Vegas. Graphics are great. story line is great... weapons are off the hook. and 
 your team mates actually kill peopleyou dont have to do all the work, which is always a plus. 
 I kind of have a mix feeling on how your team mates die at the end but its a good change though.......... its 
 real......... Not everyone survives in a battle like that. So I guess its good for the most 
 part because that is what happens in the real world not everyone makes it out aliveAll in all 
 this is a must buy game. my $62 was well spent. but now I got to hurry up and beat it one more 
 time before next week. by then Im going to have too many games to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tokshen
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 5:12 am PT
Review:  When I first heard that a new Call of Duty (CoD) game was being made my first reaction was eh. Even 
 though I knew this new game would not be about WWII (finally) I still was not very excited. I have 
 played CoD in the past but I was never really impressed with the games. This may be because I had 
 played D-day and all the other various battles to death and so I was just jaded with the whole 
 WWII thing and any company who would try to capture the war in a video game yet again. Well my 
 first reaction turned to more of a hmmmm, okay. Interesting as I learned more about this upcoming 
 title. And now that I actually picked it up and have played it through my reaction from start to 
 finish was GOOOOOOOOOAL!!! Now although I did not actually yet this out the whole time I played, 
 similar feelings were going off in my head. From the start you play as a British SAS newcomer. 
 You do a quick little training simulation to get you used to the controls, and then you are on 
 the team. Your first mission is not some boring introduction mission where you may kill a guy here, 
 or a guy there. Your team and you land on a cargo ship and deck by deck, waste the crew. Now at 
 this point in the game your team does do a lot of killing, which is nice because you are probably 
 still getting used to the controls. As you are on this ship your character is swaying back and 
 forth as if he was on a real ship in an ocean. This litle effect just really pulls you into the 
 game. These little things are throughout the entire game.
  
  The missions for the SAS tend to follow the steath, small engagement variety. But don't worry, 
 because after the SAS mission you are thrown into a soilder in the US marine corp. These missions 
 have you droped in the middle of a war torn city. The sounds of gun fire are all around you as 
 you traverse the city streets and buildings. There is nothing stealthy about these missions. It 
 is you, your gun, and your marine allies trying to break through line and line of enemy troops. 
 They really give you the feeling that you are in a warzone, watching your own guns running into 
 a hail of gunfire, RPG's smoking past you, grenades littering the ground with explosions. One of 
 the best things about this game is that it just looks so good. The lighting effects, the flashbangs 
 when they go of, the walls that you just loaded a clip into to the guy on the other side is now 
 filled with holes. The enviroments look real, and by real I do not just mean because of the good 
 graphics but it is also because it looks like what we would think a war torn city would look like 
 with debris everywhere. Or what an underground bunker would be if we were to visit one. You can 
 just tell that the developers really took their time to make sure everything was right about this.
 
  
  The only thing bad I can say about the single player game is that it is so short. It will take 
 an average played 5-6 hours to complete the game. Even though this game is short, what time there 
 is spent with it is filled to the brim with action, great dialog between your characters, and just 
 great content, so even this isn't really a huge downside.
  
  Now the one component of this game that will make you play over and over is the multiplayer over 
 Xbox live. The game was released with sixteen maps, which is more than most FPS out these these 
 days, and every map is really worth playing. There ins't a map that I come to and go aw man... not 
 this one. They are all well designed and perfect for multiplayer. A very cool thing that I have 
 noticed is that (at least for the team deathmatch) when your team pushes the other team back, and 
 are swarming over the spawn area, the game automatically spawns the enemy team on your side. This 
 prevents spawn camping and it just makes the game that much more fun. All the time you spent pushing 
 them back to their area, you now have to turn around and fight back towards yours. It just really 
 makes the matches full of action. Another great thing about this multiplayer is that you start 
 off as a private with a limited array of weapons to start out with. But this is a very cool thing. 
 You actually level up your character, all the while unlocking new weapons to use against your enemies 
 as well as new perks. What are perks you might ask? Awsome, thats what perks are. Never before 
 have I personally seen this kind of thing in a FPS. Perks are abilities that you unlock as your 
 level up. For example there is a perk that allows you to automatically pull out your pistol, and 
 fall on your back when you are close to death to hopefully take out the guy who shot you. There 
 are others like an increased accuracy when firing from the hip, or increased health. You can have 
 up to 3 perks assigned to your character and there is a wide variety so you can really make the 
 character play the way you want to play.
  
  Call of Duty 4 is a game that noone can pass up this holiday season. Even if you are just a casual 
 gamer who enjoys the occasional first person shooter, or if you arn't really into the genre and 
 are thinking about getting into it, this is the game for you. To the guys at Infinity Ward, I salute 
 you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raikoh_
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 8, 2007 11:13 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare pulls us out of the tenches of WWII and puts us into the boots of 
 the toughest modern day soldiers. You play as a British SAS soldier and an American Marine.
  
  The graphics for this game are just stunning by all accounts. The level designs are beautiful. 
 It actually feels and looks like you're in a war torn city or country side. When it comes to audio 
 it seems like you're watching a movie. It is does quite nicely.
  
  Enemy and ally A. I. is excellcent. Your enemies will run for cover, bombarde you with explosives, 
 cover each other and they'll try to swarm you from all sides. It's even better on the harder difficulties. 
 Your allies can take care of things on their own. They'll take cover, let you know where enemies 
 are, they'll call out when a friendly is killed and they'll point out grenades and RPG's.
  
  The gameplay is easy to figure out. You can sprint from cover to cover and away from other 
 dangers, making death alot easier to escape. You can pick up a thrown grenade with the push of 
 a button, which may or may not be a good idea and really adds onto the excitement of battle. You 
 can run up to an unsuspecting enemy and knife him with a click of the Right analog stick. You can 
 also climb over objects and shoot through walls. It has a very simple controller layout so anyone 
 can jump into it.... Just not into the harder difficulties.
  
  The campaign is just jaw dropping. It has an excellent story but the only problem is it's very 
 short. I'm glad I played it on Hardened first. I found the capaign to flawless even with it's short 
 play time.
  
  The multiplayer is the best I've played so far. It has everything the campaign has to offer and 
 a little more with being able to call in UAV recon, Airstrikes and Helicopters. Ranking up brings 
 bragging rights, perks, toys and challenges. Challenges give you more exp to ranking up and ranking 
 up gets you more weapons and perks. Perks are like traits, with them you can cause more damages, 
 shoot through more walls, see nearby explosives, and use special things like C4 or Claymores. It 
 has quite a few game types like team deathmatch, free for all, search and destroy and a few others.
 
  
  Call of Duty 4 brings nothing new to the first person shooter franchise but it damn well perfects 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agirlyman
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 21, 2008 8:20 am PT
Review:  I am simply blown away, this is not just "Call of Duty" with some new models and paint. COD4 is 
 a masterpiece, graphics, physics, gameplay, you name it. Multi-player is flawless, and immerses 
 you into the game like few others. Fantastic level designs really keep you on your toes, because 
 there is a bullet with your name on it around every turn. Ranking up is constant, the better you 
 are, the faster you rank up. Unlocking all the weapons, and perks is fun as well. With all the 
 different combinations of perks, you can set your player up however you want to play, whether you 
 like "Steal", or my preferred "Knock yer balls off" class, deep impact, and stopping power baby! 
 With multiple classes to choose from, you can have a different setup, for all the different style 
 maps, now that is just cool as hell! Not many games go the extra yard, and are as spit and polished 
 as "Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare. Singleplayer is short, but is a great, amazing ride you won't 
 regret. If you don't own this game, well son, you are missing out, truly a "Must own" game if ever 
 there was one. HERE COME DA PAIN!!! TEE HEE 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hammer242
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 8, 2007 8:32 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is one of the best games that I've played in awhile. Everything about it is fun and 
 super realistic. The graphics themselves make this game great. The single player in this game is 
 great with a good storyline and tons of action. But the reason I bought this game was for the online 
 play. It is awesome with great guns and upgrades. I love the create a class where you pick everything 
 you think is going to help you get more kills or get killed less. I recommend this game to anyone 
 who loves guns , graphics , and a little competition. The single player goes by quick but the multiplayer 
 is fun enough to play forever. This game is awesome and you need to stop reading this and go buy 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CRIPPL312
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 8, 2007 8:30 pm PT
Review:  This has to be the best modern shooter out on the market on any platform. The game reminds me of 
 RB6 Vegas but better in most aspects. The only downfall i could see is the inability to comand 
 your squads actions. The single player is incredible. The audio has to take a lot of credit for 
 why the game is as great as it is. Spitfire coming from all angles really delves you into COD and 
 then its the graphics department that kicks in. Visually, this game is outstanding, but its not 
 as some say to be the best. The AI and controls are what make everything come together flawlessly. 
 The multiplayer is icing on the cake. COD's XBL takes the great customizing of Rainbow and blends 
 it with the flow that rivals Halo. All in all this is the best FPS to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mayhays
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 8, 2007 7:25 pm PT
Review:  The single player campiagn is simply amazing. The designers went out of there way to enhance every 
 detail, ine very level there are things that are just jaw dropping. For instance when you assassinate 
 two leaders, you must account for wind speed ect. It's perfect
  
  earb aeg aewg ae gae gae ga eg aewg aewg awe gae g aeg ae gaew g aeg ae ga ewg aeg ae g a gaew 
 gaeg ae ga e eag aegaega weg awe gae g aeg aew ga ewg aewg aew g aweg aew aew awe we gaew gawe 
 ga eg aeg ae ga eg awe gaw eg awe ga 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pazzy6
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 6:54 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game two days after it was released because the store didn't have it out until then. 
 This is the best modern shooter i have ever played. I'm a huge fan of the call of duty series and 
 this one is amazing just because its the intense action from the others but put into modern combat. 
 The battles are chaotic and the situations are probably as close to real combat as possible.
  
  Infinity Ward did an amazing job with this game, the graphics are amazing and gameplay is intense. 
 The fact that you can shoot through thin walls makes it feel real. The blowing dust and paper on 
 the streets gives it a real world effect.
  
  The campaign follows an intense story line which has you completeing missions that seem to be like 
 real missions that marines would be completing. The only non-realistic thing i noticed in this 
 game is that there are no civilians to be found. Not like it affects the game at all.
  
  I wish i had xbox live to play the multiplayer because i heard it is amazing. But even the splitscreen 
 against friends is fun and the levels have tons of variaty. Must buy game if you love shooters. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pharmd2000
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 8, 2007 6:07 pm PT
Review:  This is hands down the best XBOX 360 game I have purchased thus far. The graphics are outstanding, 
 and even with smoke grenades and lots of action I haven't noticed any performance issues. I actually 
 think that the graphics are better than Halo 3, but then again it could simply be because the environments 
 are more contemporary.
  
  The single player game is awesome. Nuff said.
  
  The multi-player game is phenomenal. I played the beta like crazy and couldn't wait for the full 
 version to come out. I think the reward system is rather innovative and keeps you coming back for 
 more and more... I can't wait to play through all the maps. Haven't noticed any lag so far and they 
 did a great job with a quick game set-up.
  
  I know, I know.....$60 is a lot of money for games. BUT.... this one is actually worth it!
  
 
  Hightower06 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djsundowner
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 8, 2007 4:01 pm PT
Review:  I want to respond to Gamespot's irresponsible scoring of this game compared to Halo 3. The only 
 weakness GS mentions is the short campaign. In my experience, the COD4 campaign was, oh, about 
 a half hour shorter than Halo 3's. Stacking up the rest of the package: Graphics: Edge to COD4 
 and it's not even close. Gameplay: Edge COD4 because you can customize your character's inventory, 
 not just make them look like different variations of stormtroopers. Controls are wash: both games 
 have excellent control schemes. Innovation: Edge to COD4 because of the perks. Being able to customize 
 your multi-player character's attributes is a nice touch that Halo 3 just doesn't offer. So where 
 does Halo 3 shine over COD4? Hmmm... looks like NOWHERE. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swiney50
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 6:13 am PT
Review:  Not sure why Gamespot gave this a 9.0. Most other rating sites of any consequence gave COD 4 between 
 a 9.5 to a 9.7 rating. Simply put this is a supreme achievement and what the FPS genre is all about. 
 Intense battle action with great battle settings. I was particularly struck by the level of realism. 
 The single player campaign is exciting and challenging. The arsenal of weapons are very well done. 
 It is really one of the most fun FPS games that I have ever played and yet it is fairly straight 
 forward. The Multiplayer really seals the deal though. Rarely have I played a multiplayer game 
 that is more engaging. Nothing fancy but a game that everyone can play, enjoy and win. Thundering 
 action in the streets of the middle east and in Russia. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Woolywoo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 2:26 pm PT
Review:  Here we are in 2007, a year which is already the greatest game release year in history. Just think 
 of the lineup for the year: Halo3, Mass Effect, Assassin's Creed, Orange Box, Super Mario Galaxy, 
 Smash Bros. Brawl, Bioshock, Kane and Lynch, Rock Band, Guitar Hero 3, Crysis and many others. 
 Into the midst of this comes Call of Duty 4, Modern Warfare. A game that hasnt recieved from the 
 same hype and marketing blitz as others and in my case was an impulse buy rather than something 
 long anticipated. Story: The story is neither exceptionally compelling nor is it lacking but it 
 is driven by your interactions with other members of your squad and their interactions with each 
 other. This creates an odd attachment to some of your squadmates and I found myself wincing when 
 the inevitable happened. A few moments within the game also took the storyline to new levels, a 
 flash-back mission where stealth and assassination are key, escaping a sinking ship, witnessing 
 the aftermath of a nuclear explosion, and acting as a gunner on a heavy c-130 transport. The only 
 complaint is the one you will read everywhere else, its short. Most shooters which are only vehicles 
 for multiplayer are of a similar length anyway, a few hours of training so that you arent fishbait 
 in multiplayer. The quality makes up for the length however and I would definately replay it on 
 varying difficulties.
  
  Controls: This has always been COD's bread and butter. A slick, intuitive interface which has seen 
 some improvements from past volumes including secondary items like C-4, airstrikes, Claymores, 
 night-vision, etc controlled by the d-pad. The click-stick melee is still somewhat annoying, however 
 the controls are excellent overall. The aim down sights and movement is smooth and crisp, returning 
 grenades with the RB is the same as it was in COD3. Graphics: Spectacular graphics. Period. The 
 first 360 game I ever saw was a demo of COD 2 and based entirely on the capabilities of the 360 
 viewed in that game I bought a 360. These graphics are even more superior. Also given that we have 
 finally gotten away from bombed out European cities theres just plain more to look at. Lush greenery 
 is well rendered. Weather and sky are amazing.
  
  Multiplayer: This makes the game. I must explain so this is understood, I have played Counterstrike 
 for years, Halo2, Halo 3, Orange Box, Battlefront, Battlefield 2, so I have been through the shooter 
 mill and have seen it all. Never in any of those games have I been so engrossed in the experience 
 as with COD4. The class unlockables and rank benefits are always enough to make you say I have 
 time for another match . To say nothing of the experience itself. The benefits of kill streaks 
 earn you a UAV which reveals all enemy locations, Airstrikes or even a helicopter gunship which 
 flies over head until destroyed, racking up kills which you get full credit for.
  The custom class selection is also a spectacular feature allowing full customization of your multiplaying 
 experience. You design your class based on weapon loadout and perks which you find most preferable, 
 though a few defaults exist for you when you are starting out. As you progress in rank you accrue 
 new perks and weapons and gain access to some of the more premier functions like clan tags. The 
 game is well balanced and no map benefits one side more than another. Though you start out as a 
 group and when you die you spawn adjacent to a teammate you often find yourself alone or in pairs 
 as the combat sprawls into groups of small gun-battles scattered across the map. Occaisionally 
 leading to massive shootouts as one team fortifies and the other roots it out.
  
  If the rest of the game was only average then the game would still be a spectacular success bases 
 wholly on the multiplayer experience. If you are buying it for the campaign you will still find 
 it worth the time and money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pino4545
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 8, 2007 2:03 pm PT
Review:  They gave an old played out game like Half Life 2 a 9.5 and Halo wich is ok, a 9.5. But they give 
 this game, which looks better than both of those games put together a 9.0, ' that is truly Funny 
 with a capitol F. I have played every shooting game there is from americas army from the pc to 
 battle firld and all rainbow sixes to this and thi game is the owner of them all. The single player 
 in this game is a bit short but a hell of alot of fun. Creative and It makes you feel like your 
 actually some special forces guy or part of the Marines taking part in this war. Sniping is sweet! 
 The multiplayer is out of this world, if you like war games you should get this game. The Marines 
 and all charecters all have the real digital camo uniforms, bullet proof vests and all the details 
 are exactly on point. The online multiplayer is deep and there are over 14 maps, and alll of them 
 Kick Assss. I am a hard critic when it comes to games, but this game deserves a 10. if your looking 
 for a challenge, try to beat the game in its hardest difficulty, 'veteran'. I did and it was extreemely 
 dificult but rewarding. !!!! Get Some!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tferritto55
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 8, 2007 1:44 pm PT
Review:  COD4 Online play &gt; Halo 2&amp;3 online play. IMO
  
  Great game. love the 'All Ghillied Up' and 'One Shot, One Kill.'
  Online play makes you never 
 want to stop.
  Great ranking system. prefer over halo 3
  Can't get enough of the campaign on veteran.
  Also, Great graphics and sounds. Great Gameplay 
 (clear and easy to stay on track.) Never get lost. Great range of multi-player maps. All maps are 
 great for all choices of weapons. Great weapons. Most real looking weapons I've seen.
  Cant get a 100 words so I'll just type this. =P over and over and over and over again.
  I give 
 it a 10.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: M_Kroll
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 26, 2007 9:13 pm PT
Review:  I was a little surprised and taken aback when I finished the single player campaign overnight. 
 I'm not the fastest FPS player in the world, so when I can finish a game in less than 10 hours 
 of game play, that's pretty darn short.
  
  Still, the amazingly immersive storyline that had me almost drying my eyes at the campaign's grand 
 finale, superior production values, the addition of a nice easter egg level/mini-mission after 
 the credits roll, a number of cool achievement ideas, and a very enjoyable multi-player component 
 that adds a nice RPG-light touch to the experience makes this game one of the best shooters on 
 the Xbox 360.
  
  If you don't like multi-player, however, I would recommend you rent it, as it's just too short 
 for a $60 single player title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aleperez75
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 26, 2007 12:28 pm PT
Review:  Very realistic game. Hard to spot your enemy which add to the realism. Very tactical and you have 
 a lot of amo different from other kind of fps. Very good sound and dialogs in different language 
 that makes you feel you are fighting against other living beings instead of cartoons. Any Problem? 
 yes very short.
  
  The default control setting is very comfortable and easy to learn.
  
  I like the idea that you can also gain ranks in multi player game and that you need to have 
 certain rank to access some of the game modes because it gives you an additional incentive to keep 
 playing. I also like the point system in multi player where the points are function of your performance, 
 i. e. depending in how you kill the enemy, and that you experiences increases by your performance 
 and not only if your team wins the battle.
  
  The campaign makes you want to play it, which in my experience is different from other fps games 
 with multi player that use to pull me from the campaign every time I started the campaign game. 
 I highly recommend it. Very well job done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xbxjetraider
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 10:50 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is the first Call of Duty game to take place in a modern setting. 
 This is a fresh installment to the series which revives the genre, and is overwhelming with solid 
 gameplay.
  
  The game isn't based on a current conflict or past war. Developer Infiniti Ward goes out of its 
 way to create a new conflict for this great game. Russia, the Middle East, the United States, and 
 England are all involved in this conflict, and the end result is something that could possibly 
 happen in the real world. You play as a United States Marine and a British S. A. S officer. The game 
 takes you through many battles, each having memorable moments.
  
  You start off as an S. A. S soldier infiltrating a cargo ship. You'll rappel from helicopters, protect 
 tanks, and even provide cover from a helicopter with a flak gun carrying three different types 
 of ammo. The gameplay through out the single player portion of the game is so varied you'll replay 
 it just so you can truly enjoy those moments.
  
  Call of Duty 4's presentation is amazing. The games graphical presentation just makes the gamer 
 want to drool. Battles truly capture the epic scale of war here, and truly nothing is pretty. The 
 modern day ways make the game even better, as you'll be cycling through a variety of them with 
 different attachments. You'll have claymores, and C4, but one of the better parts is that you'll 
 have the ability to call in Air Strikes during later battles.
  
  The gun play in this game is amazing. Sniping is an art, and the game takes in effect wind, and 
 shot angles. Bullets will move in the wind, and drop if your shooting upwards. Getting kills is 
 certainly satisfying. Another great aspect of the gun play is the cover mechanics. Taking cover 
 behind certain items doesn't mean your safe. Not everything is bullet proof.
  
  The games story, while short, has some of the most memorable moments of any game. You will be saying 
 Oh. My. God. on more than one ocasion here as you switch between the UNSM and the SAS soldier. 
 One of the missions even place you in the role of a scout tasked with sniping a marked man. This 
 mission, is the highlight of the game as your heart will be beating from start to finish.
  
  The games multiplayer is rather deep. You have 3 different avatar classes to choose from, and 
 even more custom classes to create. You can add features to your avatar such as, last stand which 
 lets you pull out a pistol if you're shot down to shoot from a stationary position until your clock 
 ticks its last tick.
  
  Overall COD4 is a giant leap forward for Infitiy Ward. The game feels fresh, and it's a lot of 
 fun, both online and off. If you don't play multiplayer, then atleast rent the game for the amazing 
 story elements it has. COD4 is possibly one of the best games released this year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pantherpepper
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 9:29 am PT
Review:  Don; t get me wrong this game is good and all but the campaign mood is way too Short! I think that 
 the campaign mood is sol of every game. This game weapons are very realstic. The graphics are amazing 
 and unreal!!! The sound during the game is very cool. I think so far that this is the best Call 
 Of Duty game so far by a long shot. I would definitly suggest everybody to play this game. The 
 multiplayer part of the game is real neat too. Nothing really different than the other multiplayer 
 parts from the past Call Of Duty games but it still pretty fun. I would even suggest payibg sixty 
 dollars for this game. But thats just my opinion. Because I am a big war game fan. Hope everyone 
 enjoys the new addition of Call Of Duty!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tijuanaelite
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 8, 2007 8:18 am PT
Review:  terriblemente enfermo  
 es lo mejor de lo mejor, es la nueva generacion dentro de la nueva generecion es algo indescriptoble 
 de maciada agonia las armar son mortiferan al 1000%, no tengo ningun pero
  
  call of duty 4 el juego del a&ntilde; o sin duda
  
  ya creo que llegaron a la cima no se, que 
 puedan hacer para el call 5 felicidades acaban de hacer una obra de arte incleible, no entiendo 
 porque todos les dan 10 y esta paguina le dio 9 a de ser porque son halo maniaticos hahhaahhahahha, 
 yo ya lo puse con el resto a dejado de ser halo 
::::::

::::::
UserName: try122583
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 5:52 am PT
Review:  First of all, I am doing this review based on the multiplayer, because I haven't tried the campaign 
 yet (but I will) . Everything that I was wanting an online FPS to be has come true with this game. 
 Not only does the game run smoothly, there so many ways to build up a character keep you playing. 
 The ability to build up specific guns with scope or gernade add ons is a brilliant idea. Also, 
 the ability after you have played for a while to customize your own soldier is outstanding. You 
 aren't stuck with specific kits like if other games, you can create up to 5 different kits that 
 satisfy your style of play, or even a specific game, like C4 for search and destroy, or gernades 
 for deathmatch (whatever combination you like) . Also, the 16 maps are great, and the fact they 
 rotate is nice too. I played a lot of battlefield, and I got sick and tired of playing backstab 
 over and over again. Here, the maps automatically rotate, and if a map is skipped based on the 
 voting, it just skips to the next on, that way it is something different each game. And finally, 
 you will never have a hard time finding a game, and I think this is a game people will be playing 
 for a very very very long time. A must buy for fans of online FPS's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CRUSHER88
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 5:51 am PT
Review:  Gameplay
  
  The SP in this game is very solid. There is a great story and plenty going on within each level 
 (Three acts and many levels within each act) . The ability to pick up grenades that are about to 
 blow up and throw them back is real sick. The fact that there are both ground missions and air 
 missions also make the game enjoyable. The missions seem difficult as it is on Normal, so I assume 
 the veteran difficulty will stump players for a long time.
  
  Music/Sound/etc
  
  You can hear just about any sound in this damn game. The bullets flying in every direction, your 
 teammates screaming where the enemy is located, the rockets zoom by your face, the attack dogs 
 hunting you down. I think they audio in this game really brings you inside the game and make you 
 feel like your there. I love hearing bullets hit the walls that I am taking cover at or the grenade 
 that lands on your feet while your trying to get your life back. I couldn't picture myself playing 
 this game without having the volume on full blast.
  
  Multiplayer
  
  I'd say this game has the most enjoyable multiplayer on the Xbox 360 so far (yes even better then 
 Halo 3) . There are an endless amount of things to unlock in this game which will keep people playing 
 all day and night. There are also Challenges in the game that when completed, unlock new scopes 
 for your gun or even camo. You can continue to unlock new gametypes as your level increases, though 
 you start off with Team Deathmatch and FFA already unlocked which are still tons of fun.
  
  There is also something in the game called perks . These are like little bonuses you can unlock 
 for your player to give you the upper hand. Things like increased health, the ability to sprint 
 longer distances, more bullet damage, and dropping a grenade when you die all really help. You 
 can only have 3 perks active throughout a match so the game will still be balanced. There are also 
 clan tags and leader boards in the game so people can showoff whenever they feel the need to.
 
  
  In the end, this game is a must own for any shooter or multiplayer fan! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeanCorleone
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 8, 2007 12:09 am PT
Review:  At first I was going to ignore Call of Duty 4, as I have the past installments of them - WOW am 
 I happy I didn't.
  
  Pros - A profressional level storyline, a immersive mutliplayer ranking system, weapon upgrades, 
 perk upgrades (special abilities, such as run fast for longer, take more hits, deal more damage, 
 last-stand) , the ability to kill people while they are taking cover behind concealment (NOT COVER) 
 - because now bullets will rip right through that house you're hiding it! General realizem with 
 weapon functions, and sight-alignment for aiming. And lastly, but not least - the want, and need 
 to STAY ALIVE rather then run in carelessly - will give big rewards, UAV call ins with 3 kills 
 in a row without dying, 5 kills gets you a air-strike YOU can call in, and 7 gives you chopper 
 support...
  
  Cons - A short storyline, subjective and rude comments on multiplayer (as with any multiplayer 
 game) , no co-op (but that doesn't mean its bad.) , abit laggy since it seems that a console hosts 
 the game rather then they interconnect and communicate as such in Halo 3 - can make for a more 
 laggy, unconsistant connection in game.
  
  Over all the game is highly enjoyable, I've played it for over 20 hours, and its highly addicitive. 
 Sad the story was so short, but you'll quickly leave that behind once you go online. Remember this 
 key concept while playing - its very important... Slow and Low . Call of Duty 4 wants you to treat 
 the game as if you're death matters - which is hard to do but I'd say this game almost is a success 
 at it.
  
  Worth buying - you'll invest alot of time into it IF your a multiplayer guy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pourya_ahmadian
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 8, 2007 12:07 am PT
Review:  when you start the game you notice the effects and awhole great design! the ground that you walk 
 on, the air that you see, the guns that you shoot, and the enemy that killing you are so real, so!
 
  AI is so great, the enemy take cover greatly, shoot on-time, speak together rightly, and their acts 
 are so real! your friends are genius and help you full-time!
  grafics are so advance and attractive! when you play, you think that everything is real; the grass, trees, water 
 effects, clouds, sky, sun..... are right in-place!
  gun designs are very good, that make you belive that you are shooting a real one! gameplay is the 
 best in FPS games (not in size of HALO 3) ; chapters sre well-design, and arrenge good; the time-play 
 is good, not great, it is so-so!
  and the game must be a game that make nad force you to play!
  this game is that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ybernard
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 8, 2007 12:16 am PT
Review:  No matter in the multi player or single player game, it is excellent. The intensive gunfire the 
 multi player game mode was never experienced in any game before. The innovation of killing enemy 
 in a row to earn UAV, Airstrike and Helicopter assist are good (copy from BF2) and if you can do 
 that in the game, your adrenaline level will goes up. Ranking system is also good and motivating. 
 It encourage for player to play more since you can earn new weapons and challenges. However, no 
 screen capture or game video replay is employed in this game, if there is such feature (like in 
 HALO 3) it will be better.
  
  Cinematic single player game mode will bring you to a new world of conflict. You will experience 
 death in the rubble of nuclear explosion and an ruthless execution in 1st person, these are the 
 experience you will never experience in other FPS game before. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nooblet69
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 7, 2007 11:01 pm PT
Review:  I was a little skeptical going in to buy this game but after about 13 hours of pure gaming I am 
 convinced that I made a great decision in picking this up. The campaign on regular took me about 
 8 hours to get through and then I spent about 5 hours online until I needed a break. The campaign 
 sucks you right in with its flashy cinematic and long fire fights. The story is extremely well 
 done too. Multiplayer is like socom mixed with counterstrike, amazing :) . Best shooter I have played 
 in a very long time. The only complaint I have is that not everything in the environment moved 
 when shot but the game runs extremely smooth at 60 frames per second which is probably why they 
 didnt make everything so destructible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vader2k3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 5:33 pm PT
Review:  This is the real reason to own a PS3 or Xbox 360, this games has been done very well, first thing 
 it is no longer a WWII shooter. It is Modern Warfare. Call of Duty 4 has everthing going for it 
 and then some. It has the best graphics I have seen in a game, not to mention about everything 
 else. The story in C. o. D. 4 is sensational, its is easy to follow and it has a lot of action, which 
 is better than Halo. Now Halo 3 was a good game that had a great story and was fun to finish but 
 thats about the only thing that really grabed me. I did like the online campaign co-op, however 
 C. o. D. 4 is so much better than Halo 3 in every way. I am glad Infinity Ward did this game and 
 got out of WWII. They did an excellent job with this and they should be proud. If you like war 
 first person shooter games this is the one, and should not be missed for any reason. Through my 
 experience first person shooters feel better on 360 due to controls and how the game plays. Go 
 out and buy this game!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LostAdvenger
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 11, 2007 11:40 am PT
Review:  You already know that single player only lasts about 5-6 hours on the regular difficulty. That's 
 the only downfall of this game. The single player is a hoot while it lasts though. 
  
  Offline multiplayer is fun, but it lacks the unlockables found on Live multiplayer. There's also 
 not as many maps, game types, or weapons. There are also predesignated packs which cannot be edited. 
 There are also no perks. But it is still fun none the less. Especially 1 on 1 sniper battles.
 
  
  Regular online play will make you poop yourself. Again, amazing graphics, pretty good sound, and 
 plenty of unlockables. The perks system is pretty neat and gives you a unique edge over your opponent. 
 Why I think this multiplayer is better than Halo's is because there is a more level playing field. 
 In Halo, you can have an opponent picking you off from across the map and not a thing you can do 
 about it unless you have a sniper rifle yourself. However, in Cod4, anyone can take out anyone 
 with anything. You can take out an m60 machine gunner with a m9 pistol if the situation is right. 
 
  
  Gameplay 10/10. This game is intense. Bring an extra pair of underwear
  Sound 9/10. Seems lacking w/o surround sound. 
  Graphics 10/10. Best graphics I've ever seen.
 
  Physical Value $80. This is the game Live users have been waiting for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jayjay7117
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 7, 2007 8:27 pm PT
Review:  The reality is... (somebody may have used this analogy so sorry, but) When Return of the Jedi came 
 out, we were all pumped because it was a new Star Wars. However, isolate the movie on it's one, 
 and it was prettty run of the mill. Same thing with Halo 3.
  
  COD4 is truely an awesome game that smokes, beyound any question, Halo. You know, and I know, that 
 Halo developers are disappointed with what they produced. You've got shooters that have waaaay 
 better and COD4 is an example.
  
  It's not Game of the Year material but it is totally awesome. I highley recommend getting this 
 game if you were a bit disappointed with Halo and want to play an awesome shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chawy24
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2007 7:59 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the most gripping and gutwrenching first person shooters I have ever played. The 
 single player campaign is full of great surprises. I know a lot of reviewers are saying that the 
 camaign is too short. I disagree. I think that the campaign was the perfect length for it's story. 
 This game also has one of the best endings for an FPS since Halo: CE. The ending is so sick! The 
 multiplayer is also superb. With lots of stuffto do and unlock it is one of teh highlights of the 
 whole package. All in all COD 4 MW is definitely the Gam of the Year. Better than Halo 3, better 
 than Bioshock, and better than anything you will or have played this year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1mpthra
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2007 7:43 pm PT
Review:  that first hele jump on to the ship and waste the guys, it was love, then the next level, with 
 the russian. more love. this game plays like nothing before, it looks god like, with looks and 
 gameplay both being the best i have seen, (next to bio shock, but being on a mass scale) this is 
 my fav game. and at the last level, i was pissed... &gt;&lt; ill just say i put the whole clip 
 into that **** (Griggs... NOOOOOOO) , btw the multi is any thing and more of what i though it would 
 be, it is so fun the perks thing, is a nice ad on. 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: giglebits
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 7, 2007 7:33 pm PT
Review:  alright here is the war game you been waiting for COD 4 is soo far the greatest series out there. 
 if you got your online connected this game is mint fast past shooter , amazing graphic the battles 
 are amazing gotta buy shoot through fences, ligh drywall, under the floor of a house !!! if you 
 got online this game is awsome it has ranks set up every kill u get u get 10 points more kills 
 more point more the Exp the exp gives you extra things too doo you need to be lvl 15 to create 
 a clan you have too be on the game to make a clan you need to be a striaght edge gunner move on 
 ur feet fast and look around hard for enemys up in building or those dam snipers the online got 
 a kill cam its cool it shows how the other player killed you if any pc players played COD 2 for 
 pc it has the kill cam in it. i give this online gamplay score 8.5 / 10 should of added capture 
 the flag !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andorhal
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 7, 2007 7:33 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty has been mostly known for WWII gameplay but now, with the return of its original developer, 
 Infinity Ward, the series has created an excillent FPS shooter based on modern day combat in a 
 fictional world.
  
  First lets start off with the basics. The graphics are awesome, and they look good in motion. Sound 
 is crisp, and voice acting is spot on, along with battle shouts and ambent sounds. The guns sound 
 realistic along with explosions.
  
  Now for gameplay, it brings a really nice experience to the FPS genre, motions are fast along with 
 smart NPCs and frendlies, along with putting in the ocasional pice of intel here and there. An 
 overall fun experience. It also introduces shooting throuh walls, a feature not sown before in 
 FPSs that adds a new line of thought to where youhide, instead of just sucking for cover.
  
  Multiplayer is worth it, unlike some other ranking systems, your rank is based on the amount 
 of kills you get, and with one extremely small glitch, works. Experience points are acquired another 
 way also, kinda like goals there are challanges that require you to do certain things, like shooting 
 an amount of kills prone and things like that.
  
  Overall, it is a well balanced game with features that make it stand out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cofergus
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 20, 2008 5:27 pm PT
Review:  This is a great shooter and the best in the call of duty series. I myself have been waiting on 
 a shooter that could compete with Counter-strike for the PC. The visuals are amazing but the campaign 
 is too short.. The only complaint that I had with this game (besides being too short) is that I 
 was hoping that there would be a cover scheme like GoW or RS: Vegas. The AI in this game is a little 
 too smart in the sense there are scenes that you really dont have to do anything but let your troops 
 mop everything up. There are also scenes where all you are is running from obstacle to obstacle 
 with no enemy resistance, its just follow the leader. Go now and get this game it is worth playing. 
 If you are looking for a great multiplayer and singleplayer/offline then RSV would be more to your 
 liking. Some people might say that RSV is a little to picky and frustrating at certain times of 
 the game. I would agree with them but I like the challenge. I rarely had to restart in COD and 
 the checkpoint system is very forgiving. There is a checkpoint almost every couple of feet which 
 takes the challenge out of it a little. I also like being able to control my troops instead of 
 them controlling me. There are situations in this game where you want the excellent AI to shoot 
 at something else or go to different locations. If you are looking for a modern shooter or just 
 like FPS in general, go pick this one up. If you are trying to decide between RSV and this I would 
 say go get both, but RSV is a better all together package. There is absolutely no contest in the 
 way of multiplayer however. This is the best online multplayer game that I have ever played and 
 I never thought I would say that over Counter-strike. This game will give CS a run for its money. 
 I believe that this will be the most played multiplayer game ever and stay that way for a LONG, 
 LONG time. Probably have to wait a couple of more years to find a game that will be able to compete 
 with this mp. The ranking system is addicting and you almost have to fall asleep playing in order 
 to stop. Why are you sill reading this you could be fragging it up in mp cuz in the time it took 
 you to read this you could have finished the single player and be addicted to the mp like I am. 
 In fact why I am still here typing, I GOT COD4 to play online. See ya on live. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rhmrhm9473
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2007 4:41 pm PT
Review:  The games design is superb. I cannot find a single fault, other than it being a little short. However 
 the only reason it is too short is simply because I wanted more of a good thing. The timing of 
 the game is excellent. The graphics are superb. One of the most impressive parts of the game is 
 the voice-overs Very well acted out. I love interactive cut scenes and COD4 has them. The final 
 scene will have your heart pounding. The music is some of the best out there as is the soundtrack 
 for COD3. I have not done much of the online play yet but am looking forward to it. I am ready 
 for COD5!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MB116
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 7, 2007 4:38 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty $ is definetly one af the best shooters ever made. As i said before it is certainly 
 as good as halo 3 and gears of war if not better. The graphics are stunning. These are the best 
 graphics i have personally ever seen. the sound is amazing and it is so realistic. The Ai for the 
 enemies and your sqaud mates are incredibly realistic. The campaing is amzaing because the action 
 never stops. Each battle is breath taking and exceedingly intense. The Multiplayer is incredible 
 as well. It is highly addictive and enjoyable. It really helps that the game has an offline multiplayer 
 as well which is great because not a whole lot of shooter have this. The only downfall the game 
 is the campaing is incredibly short and there is no co-op mode. Although the campaing is short, 
 you will end up playing it over and over again because it is so fun. Other than that this is one 
 of the most realistic games ever to hit the market and everyone who is a fan of shooters should 
 buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yakuma411
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2007 4:17 pm PT
Review:  the best FPS war game out to date, graphics cant be beat and game play is awesome especial the 
 multiplayer. at first i was blown away by the graphics, they are so real and stuff are interactive 
 when u shoot at something it will have an effect like if u shoot something it either moves or blow 
 up. and also the new online system are fun and will actrually last for a couple of months unlike 
 other games. this is all u would ever ask for in a FPS and also even beats halo 3, and a must get 
 now!!! and thats all to it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamenerd4211
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 7, 2007 3:14 pm PT
Review:  COD4 is a must have games it has a great single player and its great online I love it omg I recommend 
 it to every body go out and buy it ASAP. I love how they worked so hard to make this game so good 
 my personal opinion its way better then halo3. Im about to trade my halo3 in because I wont play 
 it any more because COD4 is great. The single player is amazing the graphic great too I have not 
 played online yet because Im in college and they dont have Xbox live but I heard a lot of people 
 saying online is great to
  
  COD4 IS GREAT!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Opalescent
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 7, 2007 2:55 pm PT
Review:  It's finally out and boy does this game rock. It is one of the best first person shooters I've 
 ever played, and the only FPS I dare put in the same sentence as Halo 3 and not negatively compare 
 it to that other legendary game.
  
  The single player is very good. Despite its short length I really feel it was very satisfying and 
 fun. So what if it's a bit short? It's like those essays you write in English class. You know, 
 there are those ridiculous 50 page essays that absolutely suck, because they're filled with garbage 
 and fluff, and then there's the half-page essay that gets an A+. And you go to the teacher and 
 say, Why did my essay get an 'F'? I wrote 50 pages! The point is, quality trumped quantity this 
 time.
  
  You've got a large selection of delectable weaponry to choose from. Although they're all pretty 
 standard in terms of what they are (RPG launchers, machine guns, sniper rifles, pistols, SMGs, 
 etc.) they are very easy to handle and the sound of an SMG spraying some poor n00b with dozens 
 of deadly little lead bullets is very satisfying.
  
  And despite its length, the single player campaign will feel longer than it is because of its amazing 
 breadth of locales and several shockers in the storyline, which I will not spoil for you. All in 
 all an amazing singleplayer experience not to be missed.
  
  But besides that, there's also the multiplayer, which is where CoD4 is at its best. Multiplayer 
 is both visceral and fun, and much quicker paced than Halo 3 if that matters to you. Oh yes and 
 I don't think there is such a thing as shotty snipers in CoD4, hehe. It's actually very hard for 
 me to describe why I love CoD4's multiplayer so much.
  
  If you sit down and think about it, there's nothing revolutionary about how they did this, it's 
 all pretty generic. Most FPS can boast the sorts of Multiplayer they have, Death Match, Team Death 
 Match, Capture the Flag, King of the Hill, etc. And while the guns are awesome, they're nothing 
 new. So why is it so great? I'm not actually sure, but it is, it just is. Maybe it's how it all 
 came together so cohesively, how each piece is so meticulously put together to make a very satisfying 
 multiplayer experience. Well, and the ability to call down an airstrike onto a group of unsuspecting 
 n00bs is pretty entertaining too.
  
  The graphics are stunning, as to be expected. And the sound, if you happen to have 5.1 Dolby Digital 
 Surround Sound, is amazing. You'll almost feel the bullets whizzing overhead, rebounding off of 
 metal and concrete behind you. It's a stunning technical achievement. The best part is, nothing's 
 forced. You're too busy enjoying the graphics and sound to know that you're enjoying the graphics 
 and sound, which is the oxymoronic way that great graphics and sound are supposed to be.
  
  This is simply one of the best games out this quarter, this year, and possibly of all time. If 
 nothing else, it is definitely a worthy successor of its predecessors, and a credit to its name. 
 If you liked the other Call of Duty games, don't be put off by the modern setting of this one. 
 It is definitely worth every penny.
  
  (Additional note: some people have commented that I rarely give out 10.0 scores, even for games 
 I claim are perfect . The reason is simple, for me a game only gets 10.0 if they're more than just 
 perfect, they actually revolutionize a genre. For instance, the original Halo revolutionized the 
 first person shooter, so it deserves a 10.0 in my book. Call of Duty 4 may be an awesome game, 
 don't get me wrong, and I love it, but it doesn't do anything truly revolutionary, so I can only 
 give it a 9.5.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OSNAPANTHONY
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2007 2:52 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 Is the Best First Person Shooter I've ever played and I've pretty much played them 
 all. With That said COD4 is the Best of the Best and what an Ending. Bad azz!!! All around Masterpiece 
 from beginning to end. Little on the short side in the single player mode it's all over around the 
 5 hour mark. I expect expasions in the near future. Go out and buy this and I'll see you on the 
 battle field however you won't see me because I'll be picking you off from afar and then you'll 
 know that you have just been Sniped by the Syrup Assassin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HeroicNmaster
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 22, 2008 4:34 pm PT
Review:  Activision finally realized that ww2 was getting old. Call od Duty 4 is a great game with some 
 great gameplay with amazing graphics and a compelling storyline. There are to many goods things 
 to say about Call of Duty 4 so lets focus on the bad. COD4's campaing kinda short, Though the campaing 
 is short it is action packed from start to finish. The multiplayer on the other hand is one of 
 the best multipayer ever made. Each map is so well desinged and you can tell that they put some 
 thought into it. If you get a few kills in one life you you then get acces to some cool power ups 
 that are very effective. Another cool thing is the ability to upgrade your charater by upgrading 
 your weapons and special abilitys. Though i still think that the Halo series has the best multiplayers. 
 Over all Call Of Duty 4 is a great game with a great multiplayer but with such a short campaing 
 ill give it a 9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigpimppapa
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2007 1:38 pm PT
Review:  This is clearly the most intense military shooter to date. Online is top of the line you can even 
 see the lighting striking across the sky in the map Downpour. Nice weapons to unlock and there 
 are many types of map styles and game play. This game will keep you busy till the end of 2008. 
 Also INFINTY WARD went the extra mile and rewarded gamers who participated in there sweet web site 
 http://www. charlieoscardelta. com/indexnew. php with T shirts *maps *hats posters* water bottles 
 *stickers* patches. I know that when these guys start a project it is way above THE CALL OF DUTY!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RaySplasher
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2007 1:33 pm PT
Review:  I picked this title up last night after I left my job and didnt play it until this morning. I 
 havent tried the single player, but I have tried the multiplayer. I had never played a Call of 
 Duty title since I was getting sick of the World War II scene. I have never seen graphics that 
 look so real and played so proficient as well. The sounds effects are unrealistically realistic. 
 The gameplay runs at 60 fps, making this title a very smooth one. From what I had read, the single 
 player campaign is pretty short. However, the fact that you cant access different multiplayer 
 modes without leveling up your current character makes you want you go on a fragfest all day and 
 night. For a title that was over 2 years in development, you have to have Call of Duty 4: Modern 
 Warfare. This will serve as a wonderful First Person Shooter to add to your current collection. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Animal-Mother
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 7, 2007 1:19 pm PT
Review:  What can I say, just as I almost became a Nazi sympathizer, Infinity Ward surprised me with announcing 
 Call Of Duty 4: Modern Warfare. But in a slew of modern shooters, Black Hawk Down, Battlefield 
 2, Socom, I think sooner than I had anticipated I might get sick of shooting middle eastern's. 
 But onto the review. I was skeptical, very skeptical of this game, in a slew of games where multi 
 player is becoming the main focus of a games, and if you don't hop on the wagon right away, you 
 feel doomed. But this game exceeded my expectations by far, with an extremely solid multi player 
 and a solid addictive single player, the game works flawlessly. For the first time in the series 
 infinity ward decided to include a storyline within the franchise. I havn't gotten very far but 
 it's a solid story. The Multi player is something to rave about though, the ranking system is great, 
 it's easy for anyone to pick it up and start ranking up, and the challenges system is a great way 
 to make people become good with a weapon they want to, and not able to pick up anything and be 
 the terminator, the amount of maps are fun and flawless, from urban to country-esk their all fun 
 to play, some are a little bigger than the other though, so stop reading this and go out and buy 
 it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paynehos
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 7, 2007 1:06 pm PT
Review:  I must say this games Mp kills halo by far. Its just more i love the weapon choices the team based 
 is great where one guy cant carry the team. The sounds is just top notch it is just by far one 
 of the best if not the best sound ive heard in a game this year or in a long time. The Graphics 
 are by far the best ive seen all year its just5 plan beautiful other then that its about the best 
 game so far this year in terms of Mp and sound the SP is short but tis nicely done though i do 
 was there was a co op Graphics 10
  Sound 10
  multi player 10
  single player 8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zsciaeount
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 7, 2007 1:03 pm PT
Review:  With Call of Duty 2, developer Infinity Ward created what was arguably the best launch title for 
 the Xbox 360. With intense battles across multiple campaigns, and a robust multiplayer experience, 
 COD 2 was a must-have for the fledgling system. The series was briefly handed over to developer 
 Treyarch for the third installment, which, while solid, was simply more of the same in what had 
 by then become an overcrowded World War II genre.
  
  Infinity Ward is back at the helm of the venerable series with Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare, 
 and as the name implies, it takes the series into a fresh, and relatively unexplored new era. The 
 end result is a game that feels familiar enough to fans of the series, but brings enough exciting 
 and new experiences to the table that even the most grizzled war shooter veteran will find something 
 to like.
  
  Set in the present day, COD 4 focuses on the intersecting stories of two soldiers, S. A. S. Sergeant 
 Soap MacTavish, and USMC Sergeant Paul Jackson. The campaign is waged in both Middle Eastern 
 and former Soviet Bloc nations, and finds the two soldiers embroiled in a complex struggle to stop 
 a Russian militant from making World War III a reality after he acquires a number of nuclear warheads, 
 and stirs up trouble in the Middle East to divert attention from his true cause. The game seamlessly 
 switches between the two storylines, eventually culminating in a combined offensive on the crazed 
 madman and his comrades.
  
  Unlike previous entries in the series, however, most of the story comes from cutscenes that link 
 the storylines and mask load times, and very little from in-game dialogue between the two characters. 
 This does make sense, however, since intelligence has come a long way from the seat-of-the-pants 
 chaos of WWII. All in all, it is an engaging, surprising, and at times a very disturbing story 
 which pulls no punches, and really gives the gunplay a great deal of context, and imbues a sense 
 of urgency that keeps the firefights tense.
  
  As mentioned before, veterans of the series will find themselves right at home with COD 4s gameplay, 
 as at its core, it is very similar to the previous entries in the series, from gameplay mechanics 
 to the control scheme. The firefights are set in a variety of indoor and outdoor settings, all 
 of which progress in a more or less linear fashion. While the narrow corridors and pre-set exploration 
 path could be seen as a knock against the design, it is this very element that allows the creators 
 to construct tense set-piece firefights, where the players tactical advantages and disadvantages 
 are exploited in full. However, this mechanic also seems to have excused Infinity Ward from the 
 duty to create solid AI; the enemies are not particularly intelligent, and squad mechanics are 
 almost non-existent. Instead, the challenge arises from the sheer number of enemies, and their 
 tactically advantageous locations, either up on rooftops, or behind corners. While the player is 
 sure to find themselves unexpectedly ambushed multiple times throughout the first playthrough, 
 eventually picking off enemies becomes a process of memorizing the four or five locations in each 
 skirmish where enemies will either approach or set up shop, and it becomes a process of hitting 
 all of those locations quickly enough to suppress fire and allow you to advance forward into the 
 next scripted skirmish. In this regard, the enemy design feels a little bit tired, though its 
 not as blatantly obvious as the design was in Call of Duty 3.
  
  That said, the firefights are undeniably intense, and you are still forced to choose between the 
 mobility and tactical awareness of shooting from the hip, versus the necessary accuracy afforded 
 by aiming down the sights.
  Noticeably absent, however, is a truly robust cover mechanic. While the Call of Duty series has 
 always been about seeking cover and laying down suppressive fire, it is curious that the series 
 has not adopted a cover mechanic similar to other entries in the shooter genre, such as Rainbow 
 Six, Gears of War, and GRAW. Even more curious is the fact that the non-player characters seem 
 to possess more advanced movement and cover capabilities than the player, sliding into crouched 
 cover and sticking their backs to the walls. All in all, it is a disappointment, though there are 
 still a ton of ways in which the player can conceal himself.
  
  New and exciting to the series is the notion that not all cover is created equal, which is exploited 
 at times to satisfying effect. Spot an enemy behind a brick wall, and youll have to wait for him 
 to poke his head out. However, catch him ducking behind a wooden fence, and you can pick him off 
 through the cover with a well-placed shot.
  
  Of course, the gameplay is not all run-and-gun. From time to time, you are offered the opportunity 
 to man mounted weapons on vehicle missions. While it is disappointing that you never find yourself 
 in the drivers seat, the missions are busy and varied enough to prove satisfying. Perhaps the 
 best mission in this regard is a nighttime helicopter mission where you man the cannon and pick 
 off targets under infrared vision. The graphics in this mission look like theyre straight off 
 of CNN, and the commentary is spot-on.
  
  The other vehicle missions, however, are less engaging. The daytime helicopter cannon missions 
 are rendered frustrating by the difficulty of visualizing targets, many of whom can down your chopper 
 before you even get a look; also, the final truck escape is frustrating, since you are equipped 
 with a weapon with a very small clip, and the ability to aim is severely hindered.
  
  These minor quibbles aside, however, the game manages to be exciting for nearly its entire length, 
 with many moments that are simply awe-inspiring in their scale and intensity.
  
  Many have criticized COD 4s campaign for being too short, but in the opinion of this reviewer, 
 the campaign length feels just about right. On the Hardened setting, the game will take most people 
 about 8 hours to play through on the first go-around, and it never overstays its welcome. By the 
 end, you will have been treated to a satisfying experience that feels just about right for what 
 the game has to offer.
  
  Beyond the single player, the game boasts a very robust multiplayer that could give Halo 3 a run 
 for its money. There are a ton of very well-balanced maps and a handful of game types to keep things 
 varied, but what is truly special is the character customization. As you ring up accomplishments 
 and gain experience, you unlock Perks, which allow you to add a few new features to your character. 
 These include weapons with greater stopping power or a more robust demolitions loadout. Perhaps 
 the best is the Martyr Perk, which causes your character to drop a live grenade when killed, punishing 
 those who linger over their fallen target.
  
  There are also some other innovative ideas at play, such as rewarding players for streaks by allowing 
 players to call in airstrikes to add insult to injury. It has the tendency to tilt the tables even 
 further to the side on a hot streak, but with so many players in the mix, it is not often that 
 someone will get three unanswered kills.
  
  All in all, the multiplayer is so good that the disc is sure to stay in the tray long after the 
 single-player campaign is complete.
  
  In terms of presentation, Call of Duty 4 is nothing short of spectacular... for a while. Graphically, 
 the game opens strong, with a tense nighttime battle at sea during a rainstorm. During this scene, 
 the games astounding character design and animation is evident, as are the stunning lighting and 
 particle effects. Seamlessly transitioning to the streets of the Middle East, the credits sequence 
 serves up a robust visual feast that could easily be mistaken for live action.
  
  The graphics hit their peak during a battle to protect a tank as it advances through the war-torn 
 streets. The draw distance is phenomenal, the street is littered with junk, and bombed-out buildings 
 truly create a sense of realism. Add this to the dozens of detailed characters on the screen, and 
 some truly great special effects, such as concrete exploding into clouds of dust from impacts, 
 and the haze and distortion created by the tanks exhaust, and it is clear that you are playing 
 the best-looking Xbox 360 game to date.
  
  However, in the last third of the game, the game loses a lot of its graphical luster. The environments 
 during the final hours of the game do not share the same intricate design of the earlier levels. 
 Textures and vegetation look less convincing, the lighting and particle effects become almost non-existent, 
 and the levels themselves look a lot more plain, both in terms of design and polygon count. Even 
 more disappointing is that along with the decline in graphical quality, the gameplay during this 
 time also suffers, relying more on cheap-shot level design than ingenuity to create challenge. 
 Its as if the developers rushed the end of the game to meet a pre-holiday release deadline.
  
  In the audio department, COD 4 shines. The series has long been known for its sound design, 
 and COD 4 takes the audio to a new level. For those with surround systems, the experience is a 
 true tour-de-force, with excellent soundstage mapping. In addition, a variety of battle noises 
 appear to have been recorded multiple times to correspond with the distance of the gunplay. Top 
 that off with convincing explosions, terrific voice acting, and a cinematic score, and COD 4 leaves 
 nothing to be desired in the sound department.
  
  All told, Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is a superb and satisfying shooter that breathes new life 
 into the franchise, and manages to conceal the lack of gameplay innovation in a truly atmospheric 
 and adrenaline-inducing campaign. Though the lack of polish in the final third of the game does 
 keep the game from establishing itself as an instant classic, it is still a must-play for any fan 
 of first-person shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: secondshooter
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 7, 2007 12:32 pm PT
Review:  In the Call of Duty series, for the sequels, there have never been any subtitles. Excluding Big 
 Red One, Finest Hour, ect. What I mean is, there are no subtitles in the main series. But, you're 
 walking by your local favorite neighborhood game store, and you norice a little game called Call 
 of Duty 4 . But what's this!?!?! Below the title of Call of Duty 4 you see a little subtitle Modern 
 Warfare . Well, you say to yourself. I never thought of the second Great War as being all that 
 modern. Then you see the cover. It all becomes clear to you know upon seeing the modern soldier 
 with modern gear with a modern weapon. Finally, as the title suggests, Call of Duty has finally 
 moved into the modern-er era. You buy the game and pop into your Xbox 360 (this is the Xbox 360 
 review, isn't it?) and start to play. That's enough second person for now, I think. To the third 
 person. The game has exellent graphics. Everything almost seems real. One can nearly smell the 
 debris flying around. And the game almost always keeps up with its sixty frames per second frame 
 rate. Key word almost. The sound is arguably the best part. The music, voicework, gun sounds, explosion 
 sounds, everything sounds so realistic that it seems like one is really there. The gameplay is 
 amazing. And challenging. But mostly amazing. I mean with both the single and multiplayer. Now 
 (shifting to first person) I do have one small-ish complaint. The singleplayer is short. And I 
 don't mean a couple hours short of the average shooter, I mean half the length of the average shooter. 
 The average shooter ranges from about eight to twelve hours. Well, Call of Duty 4 ranges from about 
 four to six. Hours, that is. I beat the game on regular difficulty in five hours. But what it lacks 
 in quantity it makes up for with quality! The signleplayer campaign is high quality whit a good, 
 dark, grisley, story. So you've beaten singleplayer. What else is there to do? Multiplayer, that's 
 what. High-quality multiplayer that can last a lifetime. Or until a new Call of Duty game comes 
 out. Overall, Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is an enjoyable, high quality first person shooters 
 with a good story driven singleplayer campaign that's short but fun. So, if (third person) you're 
 looking for a high-quality, deep multiplayer shooter, Call of Duty 4 is it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PerpetualBliss
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 7, 2007 12:23 pm PT
Review:  The first Call of Duty was one of the greatest first person shooter's of it's day, and it wasn't 
 because it had a complex story, or because the gameplay was incredibly diverse. In fact, it was 
 great because of it's simplicity. The story was based on World War II, which is very familiar to 
 all of us. The controls were simple and easy to learn, and the game lent itself well to those controls. 
 The action was intense, and relentless, and the scenarios were just different enough to keep you 
 interested. In the next few games, Infinity Ward tried too hard to introduce new elements while 
 still trying to keep the gameplay smooth simple, and in my opinion, they failed. To me, Call of 
 Duty 2 was just OK, and Call of Duty 3 was an absolute letdown in every way. With Call of Duty 
 4, Infinity Ward has brought back a simple style of play very well. The gameplay is smooth again; 
 it has a rhythm that's easy to pick up on. There are very few new elements that confuse the player, 
 such as night-vision, flash-bangs, or the grenade launcher. All of them are easy to use, and make 
 sense in their appropriate situations. With this simple style of play wrapped up in a beautifully 
 crafted story, the game is both engaging, and a heck of a lot of fun. Oh, and the graphics are 
 some of the best I've seen on the 360. The only reason I'm not giving this game a 10 is because 
 it's not totally perfect, it has a few glitches, and spots where it's easy to get stuck for quite 
 awhile, either because you're lost, or because the friendly AI is making you fend for yourself 
 against hundreds of enemies. However, these little frustrations don't subtract much from the game, 
 as they don't occur that often. 9.5 out of 10 for single player. I haven't tried mulitplayer yet, 
 but I've heard it's better than the Halo 3 multi from everyone I've talked to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SouL-Tak3R
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 7, 2007 11:42 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is an exciting, beautiful, fun game. The story mode is amazing, 
 looks amazing, and gives you many times were you might just yell out O $%!#. The story in the campaign 
 is awesome, but very short, yet still satisfying.
  The multiplayer is a very fun and competitive shooter as any other. But perks add to the fun and 
 it is very fast paced and keeps the action and excitement going. the multiplayer even has better 
 graphics than some single player 360 games have and does not dumb it down at all.
  I'd recommend this game to anyone who is a fan of shooters.
  In my opinion better than any other 
 Call of Duty game because of the speed up of fun, excitement and game play its definitely a Must 
 Own , especially for xbox live subscribers. I have seen no bugs, no frame rate issues despite the 
 amazing actions going on and every detail being perfectly executed, by the explosions, the details, 
 the bullets through the walls, and the headshots. Overall this game deserves attention. A great, 
 but short story. And also a multiplayer competitor of the popular Halo franchise, it'll keep you 
 coming back for more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wakko19991
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 7, 2007 11:08 am PT
Review:  Everybodt knows what it is so no need to go into that. Bottom line is this game delivers. Not what 
 I was expecting in terms of 'modern warfare' , but is IS modern warfare. I was thinking something 
 a little mroe futuristic, but what they deliver is fictional realism. This will be big on the multiplayer 
 circuit (no big prediction there though) Graphically the game looks fantastic. The animation doesn't 
 look as good as I remembered in the pre-release videos, but it's probably just my perception. There 
 is a bit of glidi-ness in the movements (a la NBA live) . Not a big detractor from the action though. 
 You get varied missions that quickly go from one mission to the next as part of one big campaign. 
 Although on mission seems to not fit, but I may have checked out of the story line becasue I was 
 up so late playing the game. Not much I can say about the game without giving away some of the 
 wow. I'll just say the game does some impressive things in the story, graphically, and gameplay 
 wise. The end kind of just pops up one you though...
  
  There were some things that I didn't like though. Sometimes the game wouldn't move unless you moved 
 to a specific checkpoint first, which means you had to be point, but you don't know it because 
 no one says anything about it. At times in the game you will be instructed to take point or do 
 other tasks. At times you have to wait and the AI squad will move forward. So sometimes you don't 
 know if you are to move or hold position. I hate the dogs! These things are powerful, more than 
 they should be when I have a gun. Other thing I didn't like were the fact that the opponent and 
 mu squand could soot around corner and do blind fire... not an option for you. YOu basically have 
 to expose yourself entirely to shoot. Sine these gunfights are so intense, you'll get hit a lot. 
 GOdd thing is there is a forgiving recover system in the game. I would recommend it as a buy if 
 you are into shooters. EB and gamespot are rediculous with the preorder thing. They only carried 
 enough for the pre-orders which I think is dumb. Got it a circuit city, they had tons of them... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FraserAlexander
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 7, 2007 10:36 am PT
Review:  1) The enemies in campaign mode respawn endlessly, unless you move to specific goal areas. This 
 means that if you like to snipe, you will do it endlessly or unil you run out of bullets. This 
 makes sniping in SOME campaign areas borderline pointless.
  
  2) All the wonderful animations that you see your team AI and enemies do, you cannot do. ex; blindfire, 
 or any kind of taking cover. This is more of a minor complaint, but it leads to you taking so much 
 damage that it takes away from the experience. In the campaign (which I do not find too short - 
 and reviewers must realize that most people who play games dont' do it for a living) I must have 
 taken over 500 bullets... maybe 1000. One other thing that I would have liked is detailed map descriptions 
 or layouts to study for multiplayer. many of the maps I don't know how one side links to the other 
 or where I am in relation to the rest of the map. This familiarity happens of course by playing, 
 but since maps are rotating (random) you can't really focus on one at a time without hosting. Also 
 I only thought of this because of the gametrailers videos on map rendering from a nice zoomed out 
 view where I wen't ooooh that's where that is etc. Overall a great game. I traded in halo for it 
 and got 40$ !!! I don't regret it at all, I'm having so much fun with it and would recomend it 
 to anyone unless they hate fps's. peace. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CoolDude1969
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 7:47 am PT
Review:  I just got my copy of Call of duty and man this is one engrossing military FPS. Great visuals, 
 Fantastic score and great pacing. The first mission is a little misleading though... you squad are 
 like super men... you could just watch and they would finish the level for you but after that the 
 training wheels fly off!!!! My advice to staying alive in single player is follow orders and listen 
 for enemy positions... you'll need all the help you can get. If your not a FPS vet pick normal or 
 easy or you'll fall prey to what will no doubt feel like cheap deaths that could be avoided by 
 veterans of the grenre. For those who pick the last two difficulties get ready for enemies that 
 flank and rain grenades on you. Not to mention flash bang you can close in for the kill! these 
 guys pack rpgs and have no problem using them. get ready for a tough fight. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Endtime222
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 7, 2007 9:54 am PT
Review:  COD4 MW is great because it really didn't change much just the scenario of it's single player mode 
 and revolutionized the multiplayer mode. While playing COD4 MW I found myself thinking about how 
 great COD 2 was when it first came out. This is the same formula that has been kept as far as game 
 play with the obvious tweaks in graphics and some gameplay mechanics. The multiplayer is very addictive 
 and will have you glued to the screen long after you told yourself that, this is my last game. 
 The pace of the game is impressive and if you ever played, Counter Strike, you'll know what I mean 
 by the fluidity of the game. I do have one negative thing to say about this game besides it being 
 so short in the single player mode. Why can't (won't) other FPS adopt the take cover function that 
 is found in Rainbow Six Vegas? I believe that this would be a great feature in this game both in 
 single and multiplayer mode. Just a suggestion. In the mean time, I will be enjoying COD4 MW for 
 a long time and might throw in COD2. Let's do this! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raddhazard
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 7, 2007 9:43 am PT
Review:  First off let me get this out of the way. This game is short and most people will finish it in 
 5-8 hrs depending on the difficulty. This shouldn't stop you from getting this game though as it 
 is the most intense and fun games you'll ever play.
  
  To make up for the short campaign (which you will want to play through numerous times) is the outstanding 
 multi-player. The maps are among the very best, and the ability to customize your character by 
 earning kill streaks is great.
  
  Really nothing needs to be said about the graphics and audio. Top of the class and the best on the 
 360 so far.
  
  Upon completing the campaign some unlockables become available and they're a lot of fun too.
 
  
  If you liked CoD 2 or want an extremely intense FPS go and buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drbob33
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 7, 2007 1:49 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty has been a love hate series for me. The first one was really not that exciting for 
 me, I certainly preferred the original Medal of Honor. Call of Duty 2 on the other hand, was one 
 of my favorite games of 2006 and was easily the best game of the 360's launch. Then came Call of 
 Duty 3, which of course disappointed me thoroughly. Sorry Treyarch, Inifinity Ward just makes better 
 games. Call of Duty 4 is back in top form and it's better than it ever has been. The campaign may 
 be short, but it is such a white knuckle thrill ride filled with intense, holy s***! moments that 
 the length hardly matters. Quality over quantity they say.
  
  Good- Graphics are outstanding. There is no question in my mind that this is the nicest looking 
 console game around... it goes head to head with Gears of War. Sound is unrivaled. The weapons 
 sound realistic and extremely visceral. When I am carrying an M4, darn it I want it to sound like 
 I am shooting an advanced weapon with rounds that will puncture walls and people. So many games 
 muffle sound effects and make it sound like you are using toys, or pea shooters if you will. Rainbow 
 Six Vegas did their guns almost to perfection, and Call of Duty 4 brings back that realistic feeling 
 with the best sound effects to date. Voice work and music are also excellent and really contribute 
 to the atmosphere. Presentation. I often do not even care about this aspect of a game, but it deserves 
 special mention in this case. Every aspect of the presentation is excellent, and the in between 
 mission animations really show the passion of Infinity Ward's development team. It's the attention 
 to the oft overlooked details of level transition that add to the feeling of complete immersion. 
 Where there was once a generic loading screen there is now a stylized sequence with intense dialog 
 and vital stats on upcoming mission equipment or objectives. AI. For the first few missions I feel 
 like I hardly did anything... my teammates would move in and clear a room before I even got there. 
 The enemies are not much dumber and will duck in and out of cover like good soldiers would. Multiplayer. 
 There is no question that I will be playing this in favor of Halo 3. The incentives to earn new 
 weapons, scopes, perks, and skins make the multiplayer worth getting addicted to. The multiplayer 
 matches are so intense that sometimes I feel physically tired after just a few hours. Talk about 
 an adrenaline rush. The perk system is one of the nicest additions to the game- each ability really 
 helps to keep matches interesting, and with 16 maps to play on, you won't be getting bored any 
 time soon. Bad- Yes, there are a few negatives. The difficulty system kind of sucks to be quite 
 honest. Normal difficulty is not very challenging, especially for FPS aficionados. I believe I 
 died 3 times in the normal campaign, most of which were just sheer stupidity on my part. However, 
 the Hardened difficulty really kicks it up a notch, and is really quite rough. The Veteran difficulty 
 is so hard that it really detracts from the fun of the game in my opinion. It is absolutely punishing 
 and it doesn't really feel all that rewarding. Enemies take 2 and 3 shots to the face and still 
 fall over only to pull out a pistol and keep shooting at you. Meanwhile, you take 1 bullet to the 
 toe and die. A little exaggerated, but you get the idea. I don't feel rewarded for careful planning 
 and excellent marskmanship... I can spend 15 minutes carefully shuffling to cover and popping off 
 a few headshots at a time only to be killed by some random enemy from nowhere. Not fun. Lack of 
 co-op single player. Is this really that hard to build into your game? Everyone is doing this right 
 now, and it really adds a fun element to the gameplay. Gears of War and Halo 3 co-op were some 
 of the best game experiences I've had all year. Why is it missing in this game? Especially with 
 squad based combat, this seems like a no-brainer. No multiplayer achievements. Really? Yes, and 
 it's lame. I'm a bit of an achievement fiend, and no MP achievements is kind of sad. Length. This 
 game is so good that I wanted more single-player action. If I had to assign point deductions for 
 specific things, I would not deduct for this, because what is there is extraordinary and is not 
 repetitive even for a minute. Verdict: Man my wallet hurts, but BUY. I would say if you have just 
 one shooter this year, make it Call of Duty 4. You will not regret it. This recommendation excludes 
 those that do not enjoy intense action games, first person shooters, or realistic games. Halo 3 
 is slightly more arcade-like and may appeal to some gamers more than CoD4. This is not Guitar Hero 
 or Uno either. You play this game for a thrill, not to chill. Enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trivity
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2007 9:16 am PT
Review:  Go Get It. Graphics are great, Game play is awesome, multi player is great, Single player is great... There 
 is so many options and unlock points in this game and level upgrades / weapon upgrades that it 
 just make the game that much more to have the replay value that everyone is looking for in a FPS 
 game... The Realism in this game has conquered any other COD ever to date. Just in my opinion this 
 has to be one of the best game in the FPS / Army / war in its genre that has been released to date... 
 I love me some gears of war but this is a different type of FPS compared to GOW you can't really 
 compare it since they are so different but being the type of FPS it is and all the different modes 
 it has like Search and Destroy brings me back to my counterstrike days
  Overall a great game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mikcarius
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 7, 2007 9:15 am PT
Review:  Good graphic, nice gameplay, bad speech, good sound effects... All.... When writing your review, 
 remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. We encourage you to try 
 to get your review right the first time  you may choose to edit it later on, but by doing so, 
 you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage you to write your 
 review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy and paste it into 
 the posting box below. you may choose to edit it later on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive 
 feedback associated with the review. We encourage you to write your review in a word processor 
 or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy and paste it into the posting box below. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seamus_O_Gamer
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 7, 2007 9:13 am PT
Review:  The Good:
  
  COD4 has numerous WOW factors. The visuals, the audio, the story and the multiplayer. This game 
 totally justifies why I spent a small fortune on my HDTV and sweet, sweet surround sound. The game 
 is tight and IW did a great job putting all the elements into one terrific package.
  
  The Bad:
  
  COD4 lost points for two things:
  
  1) Lack of online or system link campaign 
 co-op. C'mon, IW, you have to know that people enjoy playing through the campaign with other people. 
 Campaign co-op is an absolute must. It raised Halo 3 just a little bit higher than COD4 because 
 of it.
  
  2) Length of the single player campaign. Way too short. IW sort of shot itself in the foot by making 
 the game so good. When a game is THIS good, you are even more disappointed when it ends so quickly. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deathmeat
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 7, 2007 9:12 am PT
Review:  This game is one of the best games i've played in a while. Even as the single player campaign is 
 short, it covers a lot of conflicts, and a lot of story. The thing is not that the campaign is 
 very short, but that everything goes on very fast, like modern warfare reallly most be. There are 
 parts that you will feel completely confused on what's going on around you, but if you listen very 
 well to the radio commands and see your objectives often, you'll know what to do. Beautiful graphics, 
 master-piece audio and very good voice acting are great all a great plus. HIGHLY RECOMMENDED and 
 a MOST HAVE in every xbox 360 collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arc_Angel2k4
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2007 8:53 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 Modern Warfare at first I was sceptical because it is a great FPS but it is a WW2 
 FPS not know to dive into anything else, I loved Cod 1, 2, &amp; 3 but I felt they were going into 
 a genera they did not know. Lets face it I was wrong this game is very well done looks better than 
 CoD3 and most FPS now, plays like CoD2 (the best for their campaign) and is not the overplayed 
 WW2 scenarios like D-Day or fighting in Russia again. Enough of this blurb time to get on with 
 the review
  
  This game looks great, feels great, plays great. The AI both allies and enemies is a little weak 
 but it is much better than most, they throw grenades, try to hide behind cover, can flank but most 
 times will not (unless on Hard or Veteran) . I have had no frame rate issues or any issues at all 
 no gliching or freezing. As for Controls it is all around good, I dont like where the sprint is 
 ( it would have been better as LB) knife action is great, Crouch and Prone work well, another issue 
 is returning a thrown grenade (RB throws a grenade as well as returns one I have had a little issues 
 with this) . Graphics are some of the best yet, the environments are crisp clear and have loads 
 of action going on in them. Character models are very nice and all around look good (with their 
 was some more variants with the enemies) . Guns fire very well, not a lot of recoil and seem a little 
 over powered (not that I am complaining) . As for the game it self yes it is linear but it is good 
 none the less. Some missions is just you and your squad (who are powerful) running in and shooting 
 anything that moves. You play as a SAS and USMC and both have very nice voice acting for fellow 
 soldiers. the bog is a great level for showing the cooperation and skill of your fellow soldiers 
 (the night vision effect in this game rocks) but the level that I felt played the best was the 
 stealth / sniper mission all ghilled up and the shot. in the beginning of the mission you assume 
 your with a guy but you see no one, then he gets up out of the tall grass with his sniper camo 
 on and I was just wowed, the level was great and the dual sniper act and knife kills was great, 
 I was stressing over the event where the soldiers and tanks roll through the field. In the beginning 
 of the shot the sniper rifle action their was very nice and I felt gypped when I saw my bullet 
 trail go through the guys head but only his arm came off (if it was me that guy would be dead) 
 but ohh well. Also death from above was a great level even though their was no treat of death 
 the level was very fun. The game is short but worth one or two plays through campaign. The achivements 
 are all single player based and majority of the big ones require you to beat the game on Veteran. 
 The multiplayer is great but you do not get to create a class, clan or anything right of the bat 
 you need to play a few rounds to level up to gain that ability. In comparison to the other CoD 
 games this plays and feels the best and I am glad that took a risk with going off the WW2 genera. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: angelasman22
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2007 8:33 am PT
Review:  I've played this game for about 4-6 hours in singleplayer mode and maybe and hour in multiplayer, 
 I was in the beta and put about 25 hours in it also. I haven't beat the singleplayer yet but I 
 am playing on hardened difficulty level which I'm sure has something to do with that. I'll break 
 the rest of this up into two sections, first section will be singleplayer second will be multiplayer. 
 The game starts out pretty good. Even on hardened difficulty I really didn't have to do much on 
 the first mission it's more of an introduction. Every mission after that is awesome. There is a 
 lot of variety in gameplay as you go through the missions, sure you still shoot stuff but in some 
 missions you'll have an objective such as to rescue a helicopter pilot and carry her to safety. 
 There are a few missions where you actually man the guns on aircraft (AC-130 spectre and the helicopter,) 
 which is very fun by the way. There's a nice little sniping part in the game. The story is very 
 compelling and more gritty than most other games I've played. Sometimes while playing the game 
 I still can't believe how good it looks. Weird actually playing the bog mission and seeing it run 
 on my 360 instead of watching the video on the web. The blood in the game is very well done also. 
 I could write about the singleplayer forever but I'm going to save you from more reading and say 
 that it may be short but it is the best single-player I've played in a FPS in a long time. The 
 multiplayer is what I think most people will be buying this game for, I hope they play the single-player 
 though. The multiplayer is superb. It is nice and in-depth and there is so much to unlock that 
 it should keep most people busy for a long time. The unlockables also help to keep the game from 
 getting old too fast. The perks are a nice touch, they help add variety to the way people play 
 and gives one the ability to customize a class that suites their playing style. The unlockable 
 attachments for the guns are one of the things I try to get first. It is way easier for me to hit 
 someone when my gun has a red dot scope than with open sites. I think the graphics look just as 
 good in multiplayer as they do in singleplayer which is saying something. The game runs smooth 
 the whole time and I haven't seen any lag in multiplayer yet, I'm sure occasionaly you'll get a 
 really bad host but if everyone has decent connection speeds then there should be no problem. The 
 map layouts that i've played are very well done and allow for multiples methods of dealing with 
 your opponents. Halo is a good game in most people's opinion, mine included, but I believe that 
 cod4 offers soo much more in it's multiplayer- I'm enjoying the singleplayer more too, even if 
 it is gonna end up being over before I want it to be ( I think that's the way it should be.)
  
  In conclusion, The singleplayer may be short but it's probably the best you've played/seen 
 in a while, does offer some replayability due to arcade mode and the multiplayer gameplay can be 
 customized so much that it should be enjoyable to anyone who has any interest in first-person-shooters. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dlandeiro
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2007 8:17 am PT
Review:  I review games a bit different than other players or GameStop for that matter. I give my games 
 a 10 from the get go until I find something I don't like. One of the first things I look for when 
 rating a game is its length and the challenge. Some games are too short and too easy thus leaving 
 you with this Is this it?! feeling at the end. This game (on a normal difficulty or above) challenges 
 you and engrosses in the story many times over to the point that you want to be that SAS or Marine 
 and get these guys. The sniper guile suit level is awesome. Having to carry your wounded and place 
 them in an advantageous place to provide support in battle tells me that the guys over at Activision 
 and Infinity Ward have given this game thought for a long time and are just as excited about creating 
 the game as I am playing it. I played the beta when it became available and I have been anticipating 
 this game, since then. It met my expectations and more. So far I have yet to find something disappointing. 
 Oh sorry there is one thing, but is not negative is just something to build on; we can always improve. 
 I wish to be able to get more grenades on the start when playing multiplayer. Just one grenade 
 is a little short. Well then again it may just be that I need to level up. If that is the case 
 never mind. If not it is food for thought. Thanks again Activision and Infinity Ward for making 
 me happy to spend my money on your creation. Very happy customer! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stormheart
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 7, 2007 8:13 am PT
Review:  Yes, the game's short - but I'm willing to forgive short (To an extent) if the ride is wild enough; 
 and CoD4 is definitely a wild ride. I can't think of a single bad thing about it other than the 
 overall length; and the aforementioned Ghillie suit mission stands out as one of the greatest moments 
 in recent gaming. The last time a FPS struck me as that jaw-droppingly cool was the derelict cruiser 
 infiltration in Republic Commando. There were bits in the ghillie suit mission that literally had 
 me holding my breath. In addition to that, there's something to be said about a game that allows 
 you to play in an AC-130 gunship. Screw having to choose which weapons you carry into battle; in 
 that run your loadout is predetermined - nevermind it reads '25 mm', '40 mm' and '105 mm.' 
::::::

::::::
UserName: havoc6
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2007 7:55 am PT
Review:  This is by far the best game to ever come out on any system. NO CONTEST This is by far the best 
 game to ever come out on any system. NO CONTEST This is by far the best game to ever come out on 
 any system. NO CONTEST This is by far the best game to ever come out on any system. NO CONTEST 
 This is by far the best game to ever come out on any system. NO CONTEST This is by far the best 
 game to ever come out on any system. NO CONTEST This is by far the best game to ever come out on 
 any system. NO CONTEST This is by far the best game to ever come out on any system. NO CONTEST 
 This is by far the best game to ever come out on any system. NO CONTEST This is by far the best 
 game to ever come out on any system. NO CONTEST This is by far the best game to ever come out on 
 any system. NO CONTEST This is by far the best game to ever come out on any system. NO CONTEST 
 This is by far the best game to ever come out on any system. NO CONTEST This is by far the best 
 game to ever come out on any system. NO CONTEST This is by far the best game to ever come out on 
 any system. NO CONTEST This is by far the best game to ever come out on any system. NO CONTEST 
 This is by far the best game to ever come out on any system. NO CONTEST This is by far the best 
 game to ever come out on any system. NO CONTEST 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Noct
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 7, 2007 7:37 am PT
Review:  I have never played a CoD game before, and man did I pick the right time to join the series; this 
 is simply the best FPS I have ever played, no question about it. Fantastic storyline, non-stop 
 action, spot on controls, and the single best graphics I have ever seen in my life. Some of the 
 levels are simply photo-realistic. (The sniper level especially)
  
  I have only a few minor issues with it that keep it from getting a 10 in my book.
  First, as 
 stated everywhere, the SP campaign is just too short. I finished it in less than 6 hours, and I 
 was not rushing at all... I bet if you could actually play through without dying that you could 
 beat it in 4 hours or less. This would be a death sentence to me for most games, but the game play 
 and experience are so outstanding that I have no doubt I will be playing through the campaign multiple 
 times.
  
  Next, the inability to open doors drove me absolutely insane. In a game this perfectly realistic 
 where I can handle every situation as I see fit, and there are dozens of paths to the goal line, 
 why was this one thing left out? I realize they had some scripted events that pertained to doors 
 opening in a timely fashion, but come on... We have been opening doors in FPSs since Doom days; 
 it feels extremely odd to remove that ability, especially in a game that excels at making you feel 
 so immersed in the experience. Lastly, while this feeling subsided as I got further into the game, 
 I hated how much follow the leader was in play for several of the levels. Not only did my teammates 
 usually get in my way when I was trying to burst into a room, they killed guys that I wanted to 
 kill! The game is clearly based on a squad experience, but the devs forced that a little too hard 
 in my opinion. It annoyed me that teammates seemed to be invincible, it bothered me that they sat 
 and waited for me to stand in a specific area before they would move on, and it drove me bonkers 
 a few times when I was forced to sit and wait for the point man to get to where I was and open 
 the afore mentioned sealed doors before I could move on.
  
  Granted, these are minor annoyances in the grand scheme of things, but in a game that did such 
 an amazing job of immersing the player in one of the most fantastically realistic war simulations 
 ever made, these little quirks can totally kill the realism. Well, for a few minutes anyway, until 
 you're surrounded by terrorists with bullets ripping through the wall you're hiding behind and 
 you forget all about it again.
  
  One of the missions has you in a plane shelling targets from overhead that I did not care for (it 
 felt a bit crow barred in) , but that was mainly because I wanted to get back on the ground and 
 start shooting a gun again, so I cant really complain too much about it.
  
  I feel like Im nitpicking on a few of these issues, but that is because the game is so fantastic 
 that the only complaints I have are minor annoyances. Overall, CoD4 is simply an outstanding game, 
 one of the best every made in my opinion. Everyone should play this, especially action/FPS fans. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fonz500
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2007 7:07 am PT
Review:  Yes the SP campaign is short, but the multiplayer makes up for it. It is kinda like an RPG inside 
 a FPS. It's amazing !!!!!!!!!! The story of the SP actually makes you care about the people around 
 you. And just the fact that we can actually use modern day weapons makes the game that much better. 
 The sound is top shelf, actually I am not sure I have heard better sound in a video game.
  
  The graphics are nipping at the heels of Gears of War and for as much that is going on around 
 you I don't know that it could get any better.
  
  The gameplay is just insane. I have never been so addicted to playing a multiplayer game in my 
 life.... And as much as I will probably get burned, it blows Halo 3 out of the water. Sorry Bungie 
 fanboys.
  
  Overall this game is a 9.8, but because some of these sites aren't giving it the love (I think 
 they are on Bungie's payroll) I am giving it a 10, to make up for their faulty scores. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackal883
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2007 7:04 am PT
Review:  This game imo blow halo 3 away. The match making is convenient, unlike halo 3 you can continue 
 to play with the same people in a room over and over if you wish. I can not see myself tacking 
 this game out of the CD tray for some time to come, except the possibility of Assassins Creed, 
 but even then it will be hard to pick what to play I'm sure.
  The ranking system in this game is also well thought out, and not dependent on getting exp only 
 if your team wins ie Halo 3. You do get more experience for winning, but you still earn your kill 
 exp and Barracks award exp independently of your team. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: angkawsw
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 7, 2007 7:00 am PT
Review:  Great story mode and very intense for the single player mode, awesome visual presentations and 
 amazing effects. On top of that it also has great multiplayer experience to players. The game visuals 
 itself is quite jaw dropping in overall and the in-game effects put this game in the top lead from 
 other shooting games.
  
  Too bad that the story mode ended too quickly. However putting that aside, this game's packin the 
 punch and easily positioned itself to be head to head with halo 3... perhaps it is valued more 
 to some people...
  
  overall it is a must play game for shooter fanatics and also starters alike... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rong42
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 7, 2007 6:25 am PT
Review:  This is definately a shoot first and ask questions later type of game. Action is non stop, but 
 at the same time you have to be some what tactical. Different boards put the value of certain weapons 
 at a premium!
  
  On Multi Player as you rank up you unlock guns and different perks, i. e. Red Dot Sight, semi-auto 
 sniper rifle, etc...
  
  There is also a bunch of challenges that you work on to unlock even more extras! The challenges 
 are based on each character class, and it ranges from 25 head shots with a sniper rifle, to 100 
 head shots. All unlock a bunch of great goodies!
  
  Awesome game, definately worth the cash!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dreamscott
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2007 6:12 am PT
Review:  This game is the s***!! This game is the s***!! This game is the s***!! This game is the s***!! 
 This game is the s***!! This game is the s***!! This game is the s***!! This game is the s***!! 
 This game is the s***!! This game is the s***!! This game is the s***!! This game is the s***!! 
 This game is the s***!! This game is the s***!! This game is the s***!! This game is the s***!! 
 This game is the s***!! This game is the s***!! This game is the s***!! This game is the s***!! 
 This game is the s***!! This game is the s***!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UrMom686
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 7, 2007 5:41 am PT
Review:  I begin this review by saying Gerstmann's review was off the mark here. By giving Halo 3 a 9.5 
 and this game a 9.0, he has lost my respect. Sorry.
  
  Now, to the review. Call of Duty 4 is easily the best shooter of 2007 and I am taking into account 
 Halo 3. Call of Duty is a higher quality game. First, let's tackle the single player. Yes, it is 
 a short campaign, as the critics have repeated over and over again, but it is a great campaign. 
 There are so many moments where you're just like 'Oh crap, oh crap', fighting for your life in 
 a chaotic and very realistic atmosphere. The story is mostly believable, and IW even reincarnated 
 our beloved Captain Price of the SAS.
  
  Don't even get me started on the multiplayer. It is easily the best online shooter of 2007, bar 
 none. It's easy to party up with your friends and get in a game in seconds and start playing. The 
 maps are great with fantastic mixes of close quarter, house-to-house fighting as well as long range 
 combat. The weapons are fantastic and well-balanced. Perhpas the best facet of the online experience 
 is the leveling system and create a class system, where you unlock new weapons and perks through 
 playing games and achieving certain challenges and utitlize them in whatever combination you desire 
 with five available custom class slots. This allows you to make the system conform to your style 
 of combat, whether it be long-range stealth fighter or Rambo incarnate with a M60 and massive health. 
 The multiplayer never gets dull no matter how long you play it.
  
  The graphics are great. IW stated that they would make this one of the smoothest running games 
 of the year and they followed up on their promise. The sound effects and visual effects are great, 
 better than any other shooters of the day.
  
  In review, Call of Duty 4 is an experience you won't want to miss. So, drop your copy of Halo 3 
 and go get CoD4 now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Element_Stance
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2007 5:39 am PT
Review:  You'll be hard pressed to find a more rewarding multiplayer experience on the Xbox 360. The singleplayer 
 lacks length, but contains more detail than the competition, offering fun to grab achievements, 
 and an arcade mode, along with of course the standard gauntlet of Veteran mode. All of these things 
 add up to a singleplayer you can at least moderately sink your (modern!) teeth into. You'll want 
 to put tons of time into it's competitive multiplayer as well, as it contains well into the ridiculous 
 in terms of unlockable content. That, and, a very, very difficult choice once you unlock it all... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hessticle
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2007 5:06 am PT
Review:  There are pro's and cons to every game. But this game has very few cons.
  The Pros however are vast.
  The visuals in this game are nothing short of spectacular. The characters 
 look fantastic. The settings are top notch.
  The campaign is action packed and challanging enough for anyone to play. I think I'll play thru 
 several time, at varying difficulties.
  The online play is top notch. There are tons of options and a huge selection of multi-player maps. 
 The only con I could find in multiplayer is the inability to play ranked matches with a room full 
 of your friends. I am sure the thinking behind this has to do with the experience point system 
 within the game. I assume the developers didn't want people playing games that would artificially 
 boost exp points. I give this game a 10 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kmilden
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2007 4:29 am PT
Review:  Simply unbelievable. The quality of the game pushes the envelop of what is visually possible on 
 the Xbox 360. Supper gritty and realistic yet easy to play this is the new benchmark. From the 
 first level to the nuclear blast my mouth was virtually open the entire time. Cool new game play 
 such as firing from 20,000 feet using a 120 cal. Looks just like the real thing. You will not be 
 disappointed one bit. This is last years Gears of War .
  
  If you haven't invested in a console yet and are looking for the bleeding edge of HD gaming experience. 
 Then Modern Warfare is a great way to get started. You will find your self in very realistic situations. 
 The maps go in many different directions. So campaign mode is super creative.
  
  I am just happy to see that CoD has finally moved beyond WWII. It was an amazing series but I think 
 we have played virtually every different variation of that historic battle. The developers spared 
 no expense to deliver the speed and game play that you want within an immersive environment that 
 lives up to the experiences on a modern day battle field.
  
  Semper-Fi 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Salvo_78
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2007 4:16 am PT
Review:  I have played a lot of FPS games, but I have to say that COD4 is the best game I have ever played. 
 The visuals the sounds, it all comes together to make a spectacular game. If you are looking for 
 more once you beat the campaign in about 5 hours, then hop onto the online multiplayer maps. It's 
 great fun teaming up with other online soldiers. I only played a handful of games, but from what 
 I saw so far, it's great. It's a little crazy with bullets flying everwhere, but fun. It's very 
 satisfying stabbing an unsuspecting opponent..... in the game, not real life. Unless you're OJ.
 
  
  Guilies in the Mist is the best level ! It really gives you a sense of urgency and a rush of adrenline. 
 It's an incredible game and a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: b0r3d_2_d34th
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2007 3:32 am PT
Review:  This is quite simply the only game for 360 that has impressed me thus far. I haven't even had a 
 chance to touch the single player campaign, but the online multiplayer is quite possibly the most 
 incredibly fun gaming experience I've ever had. With loads of challenges and unlockable upgrades 
 to be had, I can tell that it's going to keep me busy for a long time to come. The controls are 
 tight, the graphics are stunning and the sound will make your jaw drop. Incredible effing game, 
 folks. Best of all you can group up with friends and play with them - on the same team - supersweet! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sw_and_wet
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2007 2:06 am PT
Review:  I am really glad and excited that I finally got Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare. And I got to say, 
 this game is the best FPS arround. Infinity Ward finally abundant the WWII background and moved 
 on to Mordern War, so we finally get our hands on new modern weapons and cool technologies. The 
 game didn't disappoint me expect the short campaign. But It has got a fun MP to back it up.
  
  Graphic of COD4 is top-notch, the envionment you fought in is like a really world. Lighting 
 effect, shadow and objects in the environment is outstanding. Character models are also very detail 
 and is a pleasure to look, explosion and smoke effect are also wicked. Along with super-intense, 
 realistic and powerful gunfight, you really feel like you are in a war zone, instead of sitting 
 at home, holding a controller, and shooting up dolls. The intensity and the excitment of the gameplay 
 is already hard to decribe by words, the experience is just so awesome. If you have companies watching 
 you play, they will be amazed and enjoy it as a intense action movie.
  
  The only shame of this game is the campaign mode to far too short, it's about 5-6hour of gameplay, 
 and you'll be able to extend an hour or two if you have higher difficulty setting. There are some 
 replay value, as you will unlock a new mode called arcade mode, but it's exactly the same as they 
 campaign, except you now can earn points when you kill foes. And you can challenge higher difficulties 
 to earn all the achivement points.
  
  However, the multiplayer mode is a blast, it's a excellent MP that can compare with halo even beyond 
 it. The multiplayer is so addictive where you can earn exp to upgrade your character. You unlock 
 more perks, weapon accessories, and classes. And they allow you to have more fun while playing 
 MP with people arround the world.
  
  In my opinion, COD4 is a must-buy, it is definitely the best in COD series, and people who love 
 FPS must not miss out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_of_Dark
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2007 12:10 am PT
Review:  The Call of Duty Franchise has always been about WW2 up until now. Usually they come out every 
 year on a bunch of different platforms. I have to be honest and say I did not play 3 because I 
 was kind of sick of WW2. We see it in most FPSs on the market today. But Modern Warfare takes the 
 series to a whole new level. It is unbelievably fun and is not a game to be missed. Obviously the 
 hard work they put into this game shows because it puts you in the middle of the battle. War is 
 Heck (for lack of a better word) , and It's a Heck I want to be in. This is definitely the most fun 
 I've had all year so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ROCZTAR
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2007 12:24 am PT
Review:  COD4 rocks!! it is amazing in all aspects of gameing .. I keep reading that it's short ? well if 
 you play on easy then perhaps but go for veteran and you def have your work cut out for you. The 
 multiplayer on this is the best I have ever played it is absolutely loads of fun I think it is 
 the best game to date not takeing away from other great games but everyone has there own opinion 
 so here is mine - this game is awesome amazing crazy fun I give it a strong and well deserved 10. This 
 game stands out from all the rest i have been playin games since pong atari coleco vision intellevision 
 etc etc and only once before this game did I get the wow factor and that was Halo (first one) and 
 that was it up untill now .. and as i play thru single player campaign and multiplayer im just sitting 
 here in total awe and the wow factor is back once again =] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrclean2988
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 7, 2007 12:06 am PT
Review:  CoD4 is quite quite possibly the best war game I have ever played. I sat down to play it the day 
 it came out and could not stop until I finished it. Since they no longer do the five way breakdown 
 on this site that I love so mcuh, I'll do it anyway, since it explains my love for this game.
 
  
  Gameplay: 9/10 This game and the others like it capture the feeling of being on a battlefield better 
 than any I've ever played. My heart was actually beating faster as I played it, dodging bullets 
 and clearing rooms commando-style. It really is a phenomenal experience that has to be felt, and 
 can't be explained. The only thing that drags it down was the lack of a cover system. Not even 
 a Lean Function, which, in a game that has so many bullets flying at you all the time, really was 
 missed. It got frustrating in huge firefights to always have to through myself out at the hail 
 bullets cutting up the wall next to me, but eventually, you learn to work around it.
  
  Sound: 10/10 It's rare for me to give a game a perfect ten on sound, since I count voice acting 
 as a sound effect, and I have yet to see a game that has a perfect voice cast. But now I have. 
 The actors in this game were able to pull off not only authentic frenzied shouts amid the crossfire, 
 but also some humor and story telling during the cinematics. All the terminology and orders/briefings 
 sounded authentic, and the sequence from the gunship felt like watching a recording of an actual 
 operation. Not to mention I have never seen a game that can go from deafening noise to deafening 
 silence after a firefight better than this one.
  
  Graphics: 10/10 This 10 mostly comes from the fact that the game looks great, and yet even in the 
 most insane battles, never slows down a bit. stays steady the entire time. That, and all the cinematics 
 are completely in engine adds to the feeling of being there.
  
  Value: 8/10 I wouldn't CoD4 is totatlly revolutionary, but I would say it's a big step in the right 
 direction. The more games that can do what this one does, the better I say. It gets an 8 simply 
 for being a wonderful addition to the modern combat genre of war games, but no 10, because, hey, 
 it didn't redefine the genre or create a new one, but it did a great job holding to it.
  
  Tilt: 10/10 Simply put, I loved this game. Goes immediately on my top ten list. Any game where 
 I'm yelling for my friends to come look at what I'm doing now!' or I'm simply yelling Holy ___! 
 every six seconds gets a gold star in my book. In all honesty, I have never felt this involved 
 in a game before, and that is quite a victory for Infinity Ward to have pulled off if others feel 
 the same way. My only wish is that it had been longer, I could do this stuff for days. This game 
 is a must have for anyone looking for a fantastic and heartpounding adventure. Can't wait for it's 
 sequel! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: THE_PREZIDENT
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 6, 2007 11:21 pm PT
Review:  So, Call of Duty 4 has arrived and well, this game is amazing. To keeps things brief;
  
  Gameplay: Single player is good. Though I have not finished it, I'm having fun going through the 
 mission under Veteran difficultly. And MP is there to keep you playing CoD4 for months to come.
 
  
  Graphics: They are simply amazing. Frame rate is solid, never had any drops, even under intense 
 gun battles. And jaggies are non-existence.
  
  Sounds: The game has to have one of the best sounds out there. Value: The game is amazing, worth 
 the 60 dollars. Though the only thing I have to complain about that it does not have dedicated 
 servers. So if the host quits, the match ends right away. But who knows if that little annoyance 
 will be fixed in the near future. Plus, downloadable contents will make you come back for more. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eddamame
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 6, 2007 11:02 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is as good as they say it is. I was not too impressed with the single player game 
 compare to call of duty 2 but it is none the less fun while it lasted. I would recommend playing 
 the multi player game to make up for it if you like online gaming. It feels too much like any other 
 online first person shooters. i. e. Counter Strike. The graphics are good but I was not as impressed 
 as I was with Call of duty 2. I just wish infinity ward would go back and make a WW2 game from 
 the German perspective they dont have to change history just make us relive the experience from 
 the other side. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: destinhpark
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 6, 2007 10:36 pm PT
Review:  First and foremost, I must take a paragraph aside simply for the fact that:
  
  CALL OF DUTY HAS FINALLY DITCHED WORLD WAR EFFING II. WOO!
  
  Thank you, now onto the review.
 
  
  Now that Call of Duty has taken a step into present day, some things have changed, while sticking 
 to the same core gameplay that IW is famous for.
  
  When walking around and firing a gun, it definitely feels like something Infinity Ward developed, 
 which is good. Because we all know how solid COD2 was for the 360 when it first came out. But just 
 because the core gameplay feels similar doesn't mean the game is completely the same as past ones. 
 Many things have been changed, and all for the better. But not too many. If any of this makes sense, 
 that's good. But if you are totally lost in this review I deeply apologize. It is very hard to 
 explain.
  
  I'll just sum up this paragraph by saying that Call of Duty 4 is damn good, and it has by far surpassed 
 the amazing experiences the other Call of Duties had to offer. This game is a genuine masterpiece.
 
  
  Let's talk about visuals first. We've all tried a call of duty game in the past, so you should 
 know what to expect...
  
  ... then again, your expectations will most likely get blown away. This game looks beautiful. Environments 
 this time around are much more detailed, and the facial expressions and character models are top-notch. 
 These visuals are almost virtually flawless. You could basically say the same for the sound effects. 
 Think about COD2's amazing sound features and times them by 10. COD4 just goes to show you IW knows 
 what the hell they're doing in this department. And they're damn good at it. Voice acting - brilliant. 
 The game has very well written dialouge with fantastic voice work to back it up. You will feel 
 drawn to your fellow soldiers in the game. You'll feel like you actually care for them, and you 
 will laugh, cry, and have a good time while fighting along side them. It all just adds to the already 
 extremely visceral experience.
  
  Moving on, we will go ahead and briefly describe the gameplay. The controls are exactly the same 
 as COD2. Except for one small and new thing. The D-Pad now selects special weapons, including grenade 
 launchers off your rifles, night vision, C-4, Claymores, and more. This feature is a small addition, 
 but it really seems to add much more depth to how you play the campaign and how you compete online. 
 Yes, this feature is available to play around with on XBL matches as well.
  
  Speaking of XBL, it's a huge part of this game (obviously) .
  
  Call of Duty 4 contains the 
 single most impressive Xbox Live experience I've ever played. It's a sum of many small features, 
 really, that makes it so much fun.
  
  Online, you now level up as you get more and more kills. The experience points you gain from killing 
 will level you up, causing your rank to go up, which also causes you to unlock tons and tons of 
 content. You will unlock small things like weapon silencers, laser aims, etc to big things like 
 gametypes, and more and more weapons to blast away with online. The way it is set up just makes 
 the online play very addictive and makes you feel like you're working for something and earning 
 praise along the way, even without online multiplayer achievements.
  
  Yes, every single achievement is for the single player campaign. And you know what? I could care 
 less. I'm very glad IW chose to do this. So long, gamers that come in games and screw them up because 
 they want their oh so important achievement. So long.
  
  All in all, Call of Duty 4 is one of the most impressive shooters on the market, up there with 
 Bioshock and Halo 3, and in my opinion, slightly more impressive than both.
  
  Seriously folks, even if you've never tried a Call of duty game in your life, you must try this 
 one out. Do it. Now. Get up, of your big, fat ass that sits in the computer chair all day, start 
 up your car, no, walk (since you're most likely a fat ass) to the nearest Gamestop and PICK THIS 
 UP.
  
  It's all worth it in the end. And by the way, without any kind of spoilers, I'd like to say this 
 game has the best ending a Call of Duty game has ever seen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killersguns
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 6, 2007 9:51 pm PT
Review:  Best of the Best, game truly lived up to its hyped. Intense single player campign combine with 
 deep fullfuling multiplayer that would make you playing for hours to come. Massive levels that 
 has amazing, breath taking graphics you'll see on next gen. Turning from WWII to Modern warfare 
 was the best idea Infinity Ward did. Online multiplayer is fast pace and is only for the elites 
 so dont think about going on if you dont got the skills. Iwht Single player campaign that is all 
 the reason you need to buy this game. Challenges online is what keeps hardcore players playing. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnnyq451
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 6, 2007 8:46 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing the Call of Duty series since Finest Hour on the xbox. While I never got serious 
 about the series until Call of Duty 2 came out on the 360. Once I played that my eyes were awaken 
 to how much action and adrenaline you can pack into a single moment. Call of Duty 4 has raised 
 the bar for that. Call of Duty 4 is the newest addition to the CoD series being made by the developers 
 of Infinity Ward (also made the original CoD and CoD2) . Instead of being in the same old WW2 settings 
 you've seen a hundred times, this game takes place in modern times in a fictional war which puts 
 you in the role of a British SAS operative nicknamed Soap and Sgt. Jackson of the US Marines fighting 
 against Russian and Middle Eastern forces. I didn't think I'd be involved in the story as I am. 
 The main characters you fight with (your commanders and key enemy leaders) all have distinct personalities 
 which make the game much more alive. Now enough about the story, lets get on to the gameplay. The 
 gameplay is still the hectic adrenaline soaked battles that you'd expect from a Call of Duty game. 
 The tension never seems to settle. By the end of the first level I was starting to breath heavily. 
 Now instead of having JUST raging battles that get your heart pumping like you did in WW2, IW decided 
 to put all that adrenaline and tension in a different form, more involving stealth and close call 
 moments. An example of that would be the All Ghillied Up mission (the mission shown at E3) . This 
 mission has you 15 years in the past before the game starts. You are a young Lt. Price sent to 
 assassinate Zakheav, a radical Russian nationalist. In this level your mainly crawling around on 
 the ground in a ghillie suit sniping guys from a ways off. However that level was probably the 
 most intense few minutes I've ever had in a video game. Other missions have you taking out troops 
 from high in the sky in a AC-130 gunship, assaulting a cargo ship during a raging storm, and attacking 
 a tv station in the Middle East. The multiplayer was a big step from any of other CoD games. The 
 gameplay is based around the class type games with ranks and levels. The battles are still as hectic 
 and intense as they are in the single player and still run as well. Before you hit level four you 
 are stuck with the default classes. But after that you are free to make your own classes picking 
 your own weapons and perks. Perks are basically like power ups in a modern world. These can be 
 anything from extra health and bullet damage to dropping a grenade when you die and being completely 
 undetectable on radar. All of these are pretty well balanced and hard for one to be too overpowering. 
 While there are no online achievements, IW has made up for it by putting in challenges. They're 
 basically what you'd expect from an achievement, get so many kills or headshots on a certain weapon, 
 sprint for so many miles, etc. These and ranks can award new weapons, camos, attachments, gametypes 
 for unlocking them. These all give you something to play for and keep you putting this back in 
 your console. Now while this game is near perfect, every game has its flaws. One thing that always 
 bothers me about CoD is that they're all pretty short. If you're playing on a lower level you can 
 probably beat it in a few hours, while the harder difficulties may take a you a day or so but even 
 then the online can make up for it. Another would be the fact that you can't have guests play with 
 you online. Also there are a few other minor annoyances like running into an ally online and sorta 
 lag or get stuck to each other for a second. But with these problems hardly mean anything when 
 you look at the big picture. Call of Duty 4 is a big step up from the other CoD's in many different 
 ways. IW has been wanting to make a game like this for a long time and they're excitement and passion 
 shine through this game in every component. This game has been keeping me from playing The Orange 
 Box and even Halo. This game is one of the best fps I've played and delivers a intense cinematic 
 experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Meteor7
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 6, 2007 8:42 pm PT
Review:  What a great Call of Duty game that came out and finally it takes its steps off the WWII part of 
 history and moves on to the modern ages and brings quite a bit to the 360! The graphics are so 
 beautiful it makes you feel like you are there, the weapons are great and modern of course, single 
 player is amazing the story line is well worth the time, the multiplayer is just addicting as hell, 
 the ranks and challenges are just cool, and the characters and maps are just good looking. You 
 can play as the Arabics, Russians, USA, or SAS in multiplayer and then you can choose classes which 
 are the Assualt (Assualt Rifles) , Demolitions (Shotgun) , Special Opps (SMG) , Sniper (Sniper) , and 
 Heavy Assualt. It just doesnt stop there either in classes you can now create a class which lets 
 you choose weapons you unlocked and upgrade them by adding scopes, grenade launchers, silencers, 
 and more. It also lets you choose the pisto and the Upgrades to your character like more health, 
 damage, sprint time, and even let you grab your pistol when you are wounded badly and shoot while 
 you are dieing. Also the game allows you to take on challenges and give you more exp to your profile. 
 Last but not least is the special in game machines of war you can call in a UAV, Air strikes, and 
 Heli strikes. There has been many conflicts about which games are better and I honestly think it's 
 retarded! Why can 't you like all the games. This game deserves a 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theo_1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 6, 2007 8:14 pm PT
Review:  the gameplay is very sweet controls are incredible everything is so realistic like the first time 
 I played duck hunt I thought that graphics cant get any better. LOL
  there is a great array of weaponry, the way you can quickly change to your pistol or even quicker 
 knife and slash a close quarters enemy or dog is great. I about crapped my self when I realized 
 I was gonna be firing the 25, 40 and 120 MM cannons at ground troops and armored vehicles. This 
 game is what Next Gen is about. You are in a craazy gun fight yet are amazed by all the things 
 that are going on like fog flowing with the wind or the way dust particles move in the light. If 
 you do not buy this you will be missing out on one the greatest FPS games yet to be made. I am 
 not so thrilled with the online part, I like the way Warhawk allows you to see servers aand pick 
 wich one you want to join. otherwise online is really cool with the standard rank ups and what 
 not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beamofpureenerg
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 6, 2007 8:02 pm PT
Review:  There is an unbelievable flow to the game, both online and off, that truly sets it apart from every 
 other shooter I've played in the past. The graphics are some of the best you will see in 2007, 
 the sound design is perfect, and the online component is (so far) the most beautifully balanced 
 I've yet to experience. This is, beyond any shadow of a doubt, Call Of Duty's first foray into 
 the next generation. Though I have enjoyed the Call Of Duty games in the past, COD4 elevates the 
 series to a height that would make pennies deadly. Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mitchebaby2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 6, 2007 7:56 pm PT
Review:  After calling countless stores around Western PA, I finally find Target which has my beloved Call 
 of Duty. Then the fun began. When I got home, I tore the game from it's package and unlocked over 
 200 points within 4 hours of starting (50 points an hour is not too bad for just playing campaign) 
 I also gained 2 ranks in 1 match (my only match so far)
  
  Back to the review:
  
  The Mission layout isn't the usual go through a house, kill the baddies, go to the next house, 
 the layout is very different then the usual call of duty structure. In one mission you are infiltrating 
 a cargo ship, in another you sneaking through tall grass in order to assassinate a man. All the 
 levels are different, and there is never a dull moment. One of the best moments of the campaign 
 is when you man an AC 130 gunship and bomb the living crap out of everything in your way. A downside 
 to the campaign is how short it is.
  
  An interesting feature pops up during campaign once in a while, Interactive cut scenes, although 
 not exactly new these are interesting insights into the world of Call of Duty. In one scene you 
 are a president about to get assassinated by radicals. in another, you are marching through a wasteland 
 about to die.
  
  Multi player, what can I say, it is perfect. The amount of levels you can achieve, along with the 
 perks and different weapon customizations and camos make multiplayer have some amazing longevity.
 
  
  After completing the campaign, you are allowed to play arcade mode, a halo 3 meta-game lookalike, 
 and rag time mode, basically you play with sepia tone gfx and rag time music.
  
  Overall the campaign lowers the score I gave, but with a longer campaign this game could be perfect. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Necrophant
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 6, 2007 7:50 pm PT
Review:  The Call of Duty series has been known for its great cinematic action and a comparatively high 
 level of realism. CoD4 continues this winning formula with a vengeance. While it is true that the 
 campaign is completed in less time than the average shooter, one needs to factor in both the faster 
 than average pace of the game's action and the jaw-dropping quality of gameplay and visuals.
  
  I've assigned this game 'revolutionary' status for several reasons, although they mostly have 
 to do with audiovisual effects. This game sounds perfect. If you been close to a firing weapon, 
 you'll know that it sounds remarkably different from the often dull, stylised sounds in most shooters. 
 The weapons in CoD4 really couldn't sound much better - no other shooter has produced shots and 
 explosions with such visceral and satisfying cracks, thumps and hisses, and also how these sounds 
 are affected by the the player's proximity to them. As in the previous games, the bullets and shrapnel 
 whizzing about your head is an exhilirating effect.
  
  In terms of gameplay, I consider CoD4 to be revolutionary simply because it is arguably the first 
 FPS to feature reflex sights that actually work! Admittedly R6: Vegas has them, but they don't work 
 anywhere near as effectively. In CoD4 it really feels as if you have your eye directly behind the 
 reticule.
  
  The bullet physics are supreme, adding a new layer of depth to considerations such as cover and 
 penetration.
  
  Thematically this game also continues in the CoD tradition of making shooting people fun while 
 also cleverly highlighting the things that make war so disturbing. This is a fantastic shooter, 
 and a stunning game overall. I'd say it will be on my favourite list for some time to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghog69
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 6, 2007 7:26 pm PT
Review:  What can't you say about this game? The gameplay is hectic and fun. The weapon variations and perks 
 offer a truly RPG-like leveling structure which promises a lot of variety. The maps are big and 
 very well laid out. There is a lot of debris behind which to take cover, plenty of open buildings 
 with levels for sniping and choke points galore. The graphics are very good especially considering 
 all that is usually going on onscreen. Online gameplay with a full complement of 18 players has 
 been steady with minimal lag or stutter. It is easy to get a room full of your friends together 
 and then go online for some competition. The game options are varied and the game types are all 
 enjoyable. There are a few other notable titles still to be released this holiday, but the only 
 one I could possibly see beating out CoD4 for Game of the Year would be Mass Effect. CoD4 has dethroned 
 Halo3 as the blockbuster title of the year and unless ME delivers on its great amount of hype, 
 this is the game to beat. I don't believe many games can be a '10', but this is one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RLJSlick
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 6, 2007 7:26 pm PT
Review:  I thought that after playing the many series of Medal of Honor games, it would be impossible to 
 improve on that series, but when Call of Duty came out I found myself playing what I think, at 
 the time, the most realistic feeling shooter that I have even played. Since then Call of Duty have 
 moved to the 360 platform and have continue to be the most beautiful, the most intense, and without 
 a doubt the most fun of the World War II shooters out there, BUT that was the problem, it was a 
 WW II shooter. After 15 years of playing WW II shooters even a great game like COD can get a little 
 dry, so it was great timing that Activision and Infinity Ward decided to make a modern day shooter. 
 There have been others, but not with the same flair for excitement that COD have been able to bring 
 us. This game continues an amazing streak of First Person Shooters from Activision. Right from 
 the first screen down to the final battle this game is totally first rate, The sounds, the action, 
 the lighting, everything, the game is totally intense and you better be ready for a mind blowing 
 experience, because you will be in a total maddening game play the attire game. The graphics are 
 so well done, that I believe they are even better then Gears of War, which are very amazing in 
 itself, the city and the surrounding towns you fight in are so war ravaged and depressive that 
 it looks amazing like a 3rd world country destroyed from many years of war and poverty. I just 
 cant say enough about the atmosphere of this game, it just drew you in as much as any game that 
 I have played. Also this game is much more forgiving then games like Rainbow Six or Ghost Recons, 
 which are awesome shooters in their own right, but unlike those games, you dont go down with one 
 shot unless you play at the very highest level. So this game is a lot more entertaining and quicker 
 paced.
  There are only 2 problems I can find with this game, first the manual is totally useless, we are 
 starting to see way too much of this in games today. For COD veterans its not a big deal the game 
 pretty much play the same as the others, but for newbies, it will be a learning curve, a fun learning 
 curve but one all the same. The second and the only reason I didnt possible give my first 10 out 
 10 rating, is the fact single player campaign is terribly short, one of the shortest shooters that 
 Ive played in a long while. I was amazed with I was done with this game. Thats too bad, because 
 there is so much I want to do with this game. Time to try Online with this baby! Go get it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LegendofYaslint
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 6, 2007 7:20 pm PT
Review:  Leaving world war 2 behind has paid off in spades. The modern warfare setting is perfect for Infinity 
 Ward's brand of aim down the sights intense combat formula. The campaign has some really amazing 
 moments to make up for it being so short. The gameplay always feels tense and thrilling and the 
 level designs are well planned out for large and small battles.
  
  As for the graphics, the game doesn't look that impressive at first due to a lot of low resolution 
 textures but once you get into some open areas where the stunning amount of detail, the wonderful 
 HDR lighting, and the sixty frames per second of action come into play, you have one stunning game 
 on your hands. It's not quite as good looking as Gears, but it's pretty freaking close.
  
  In the sound department the only gripe I have is that the guns are not as loud as they are in games 
 like Half Life 2, Black, or even CoD2. The guns sound good, it's just that they should be louder 
 when firing a machine gun close to your head. You shouldn't hear everything else just as loud. 
 The battle chatter is good and it's a nice touch how in MP your character will call out for cover 
 if you are reloading and a buddy is standing by you.
  
  As for Multiplayer, this is the meat and potatoes of this game. There are sixteen maps and they 
 are some of the best maps I've ever seen in a MP game. They look amazing and they are laid out 
 perfect for Call of duty's style of action. The leveling system gives you reason to keep ranking 
 up and unlocking new weapons and game modes. The perks was a great idea as well.
  
  My only gripe about MP is that this game lends itself to a lot of camping and this becomes a huge 
 problem once you reach a high rank. After about rank 16, I noticed the camping issues becoming 
 really bad and it starts to really ruin the gameplay online.
  
  Hopefully the camping issues will get sorted out and people will learn to play a little more fun 
 and not so seriously. The ranking system didn't do a good job of putting me with people of my rank 
 either but the game is new so I'll just hope that gets better.
  
  Overall, this game should keep shooter fans happy for a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrrNiceHk
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 6, 2007 7:10 pm PT
Review:  Well what can I say, I am not a huge fan of the Call of Duty series mainly due to the lack of cover 
 system but holy sweet Jesus fish cakes this game is pure fun and one big adrenaline rush. The opening 
 scenes on the single player left me with a knot in my stomach like I had just experienced something 
 truly disturbing. The sense of panic and air that you could be shot dead at any moment hangs heavy 
 in this game. The Multiplayer... Wow ! Wow ! wOW! this game quite simply is a masterpiece. How 
 that croc of crap Halo got a higher scroe than this is beyond me. Lovng this game and will be playing 
 it to my eyes bleed. Whilst playing multiplayer tou regularly hear gamers lauughing like a mentalist 
 through sheer gaming joy.
  
  Get it ! like yesterday ... best game yet on the 360 and thats saying something 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carrett
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 6, 2007 6:54 pm PT
Review:  Gotta keep this short cause it's taking away from my time of playing this brilliant game! If you 
 haven't picked up this game yet - WHAT ARE YOU WAITING FOR?!! COD4 is def one of the best shooters 
 EVER! The multiplayer is as fun as anything I've ever played. Even though the single player is 
 a little short, it still ROCKS (plus the online MORE than makes up for it) . All I can say is that 
 it's a MUST HAVE for anyone looking for a GREAT FPS! So go out, pick up COD4 and let the addiction 
 begin! I guess I'll have to end this buy saying.......... Halo who?????? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 11cairborne
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 6, 2007 6:53 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: amazing since infinity ward made it again its probably the best war game made. the slashing 
 of the enemies is cool too. the weapons are awesome and the multiplayer is awesome too like the 
 perks and the ranks u have. the only problem is that the game is too short i beat it in 7 hrs. 
 overall the gameplay would get 9.8 out of 10 Graphics: oh my goodness they are amazing. maybe some 
 of the best graphics i have ever seen. especially in the first mission when the water is rushing 
 in and your trying to escape its to intense and the water looks beautiful. they've really stepped 
 it up in graphics in this game. So i would give the graphics a 10 out of 10.
  
  Sound: Also amazing the voices the explosions and the bullets sound are amazing. I dont really 
 know anything else to say. i would give the sound 9.9 out of 10
  
  Value: I paid 70 for collectors addition and i got a dvd with a walk through, trailers, history 
 of SAS aka special air services. the game was definitely worth 70 bucks its a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XxJorge12219xX
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 6, 2007 6:51 pm PT
Review:  Best Call Of Duty game ever made period. All the rest were great but this installment is beyond 
 great. Whoever wants to play a great shooter and mulitplayer game while feeling like your in the 
 game then this one is definitely for you. It was for me like all the previous COD games. Could 
 not ask for a better game. From the Campaign to the Mulitplayer you wont fine anymore fun in a 
 first person shooter. Well as soon as i bought it i could not wait to pop it into my 360 its relatively 
 easy to get in to the game if u played COD3 becuase the controls are pretty much the same which 
 makes it much more convienant. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ant123ant123
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 6, 2007 6:27 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty 4 is a great game to add to your 360 collection. From the graphics, to the gameplay 
 it deserves a 10 out of 10. The regualr one person campaign is just amazing. Prepare to die a lot 
 of times as you rip through the stages in the middle east or somewhere in the pacific ocean. Intelligent 
 A. I. makes the game all the better, while you are trying to stay alive with 5 enemies pinning you 
 down. Easy achievements by completing the game on hardest difficulty. Online is just spectacular 
 with may modes you can choose from to play. Rank lvls with added customization of your own class 
 makes fragging all the better and more fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcod1
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 6, 2007 6:13 pm PT
Review:  Pretty Freaking Awesome! This series cannot end. I will be playing COD 20 if they continue with 
 this. I can't believe they out did themselves, but this game is true eye candy and stimulates all 
 my senses. The guns have awesome kickback through the controller... it's like you are actually firing 
 the gun itself. Man o' Man this is one hell of a game.
  
  When I first bought my 360 on launch, COD 1 was the first game I played and it rocked my world 
 and here we are years later with COD4 and I feel like I just went from XBOX to 360 all over again 
 with this game. If you like FPS and have $60 this a obviously a no brainer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: judasblk01
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 6, 2007 5:56 pm PT
Review:  I won't waste endless lines saying how great this game is, but I have to admit that I still being 
 blown away everytime I play this game. The online modes are far better than what you Halo fans 
 have come to expect for FPS games. There isn't a feeling more satisfying than getting a new rank 
 just for blowing off someone's head or literally stabbing them in the back. The campaign is on 
 point as well. My favorite moment comes from the rescue mission near the beginning [won't spoil 
 it with details :) ] . This game will get just as much love as Rainbow Six: Vegas. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rozzano
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 6, 2007 5:53 pm PT
Review:  So today i went and picked up a collectors edition of call of duty 4, and let me tell you i was 
 not the lest dissapointed. The game is amazing period. When i put the game in and watched that 
 first video i was almost pissing my pants anxious to play. I started the campaign and my jaw drop 
 the graphics were unlike anything ive ever seen and when u get into the fighting and huge battles 
 your on your toes the whole experience. Multiplayer wise xbox live runs flawlessly and the graphics 
 are just as good as single player. If you have not got this game go get it now or else probably 
 will be the best in your collection is you like first person shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: echmo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 6, 2007 5:49 pm PT
Review:  From start to finish the action doesn't let up. It's a little disappointing that the single player 
 isn't a little bit longer. The multi player on the other hand is what you want from start to finish. 
 Unlike halo 3 once the game is over it doesn't make you research for another game. Instead it puts 
 you back in the same lobby as the one you started in before the previous match. You have the option 
 to leave. The menu's are well organized and simple to navigate. The actually game play looks really 
 good. Of the time that I have played there has not been one bit of slowdown. The weapons on the 
 multi player are a little too accurate. I was able to snipe a guy from a long distance with my 
 machine gun on full automatic. I guess thats why there are patches. The weapon upgrades are going 
 to be interesting to see how the game would stay balanced with someone with the starting selection 
 of weapons. My only two grips of the game is the shortness of the single player and the amazing 
 accurate weapons. I'm nit picking, these are minor problems that in no way should deter you from 
 getting yourself to the store and picking up COD4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThaGrateOne
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 6, 2007 5:52 pm PT
Review:  Multi-player is better than the BETA, but something we all knew already. Single player game is 
 just missing the Co-op..... other than that it is something myself and anyone a fan of this type 
 of game will play through again. The game's sound and visuals are almost perfect. The game's fast 
 paced gameplay and story are very much intact and I can not say anything negative other than where 
 is the co-op ! Next-Gen in my opinion is a good game with co-op and multiplayer online. Back to 
 the game.... This game in my opinion is another of the few games that covers it's weight in gold. 
 Call of Duty 4 is very, very good, actually it's great. It is the upscale for Call of Duty 2 and 
 3. This should have been part 3. Infinity Ward shows why they deserve credit where credit is due. 
 Absolutly one game that is a must purchase. This is a great game... PERIOD! GameSpot's Review summary: The 
 single-player campaign is over in a flash, but the high quality of that campaign and its terrific 
 multiplayer options make Call of Duty 4 a fantastic package.
  
  Only downside is a 7 hour campaign. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Boosteeohs
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 6, 2007 5:15 pm PT
Review:  I'm going to keep this short and sweet, cause I really only have to tell you one thing..... buy 
 this game. This game is truly a work of art. It's infinity ward's magnum opus. It makes me want 
 to take back that 10 rating I gave to Halo 3. If you have even the slightest interest in shooters, 
 then you will certainly love this one. The single player plays out like an intense war movie. While 
 the multiplayer is so well done, that I can't believe I'm actually writing this right now, I could 
 be playing online! I know I'm only one of hundreds of people to review this game, but what you'll 
 notice is we are all saying the same thing, this game is amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PingGolfer05
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 6, 2007 4:42 pm PT
Review:  I thought the game would be like all the other past call of duty games, but this is the best by 
 far. Great graphics and gameplay. It actually feels like you are in combat. Shooting through walls 
 is also a very nice feature and helps in multiplayer. The guns sound and shoot like real guns do. 
 The single player is also fun. I haven't fully completed it yet, but the beginning sure is full 
 of action and the beginning sure gets you hooked! I would recommend this game to anyone that likes 
 FPS games. If you think you will not enjoy it due to the past call of duty games.... think again 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cifani
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 6, 2007 4:38 pm PT
Review:  excellent in all facets of the game a must have
  graphics
  lighting
  multiplayer
  levels
  Guns
  perks
  ect
  it was worth the wait... they did a great job on it love the multi-player 
 im new to COD never played it before.. it was easy for me to get the controls and all that i recommend 
 this game to all if you are a fan of the first person shooter game its for you... game play is great... Extremely 
 realistic character models... a completely intense thrill-ride from start to finish
  
  i was a big fan of ghost recon witch i loved untill i got my hands on call of duty4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: msta0924
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 6, 2007 4:29 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 has a perfect balance of single player and multiplayer gameplay. The campaign is 
 awesome, with a cool storyline and great gamplay thats super fun. The multiplayer is by far the 
 best of any game ive ever played, with the ranks, points, and unlocks making the game so so addicting 
 and just magnificent. This game is the best game for the 360 period. It is definitely worth the 
 wait, and it proves that infinity ward makes absolutely amazing games. Call of Duty is a must-have, 
 and once you have it, youre never going to want to play Halo (or any other shooter for that matter) 
 ever again, because all other games pale in comparison to COD4!! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IrishCyanide
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 6, 2007 2:12 pm PT
Review:  Single Player? Amazing. Multiplayer? Amazing. Graphics? Intense. Sound? Beautiful.
  
  I've been playing Halo 3 since the date of release for at least a couple of hours every day. I 
 doubt I'll be playing much more of it. Every aspect of modern day combat is featured in this. The 
 storyline is also pretty amazing. While many people say the single player is too short, it depends 
 on if you rush through it. I've played for over 5 hours (which is what others are saying they are 
 beating it by) and I haven't completed it yet. And I have been putting a lot of time into it.
 
  
  I have also decided that when I beat it, I'm going to go through and play it all over again. Do 
 not rent this game, purchase it. Otherwise, you will be spending 70 dollars as opposed to 60 dollars 
 on this game for the added on rental cost. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: catrocr
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 8, 2008 6:24 pm PT
Review:  This is what I have been waiting for all this time. The gameplay is PERFECT and realistic, the 
 graphics are like Gears of War -- only in COLOR! They took what was good about CoD3 and fixed all 
 of the problems with the latter. Amazing since usually in my many years of gaming experience a 
 new developer=horrible sequel. Infinity Ward did the right thing!!!
  
  Loading times are super fast (how'd they do that?) , which is even more amazing when you see how 
 much detail is in the graphics and how rich the environments are.
  
  And multiplayer? SWEET. Unlike Halo 3, you are judged and ranked on YOUR skill, and horrible players 
 (n00bz) can't drag you down with them! I love it!!! And the extra skills you can "buy" once you 
 unlock them with good ranking is unique and fresh.
  
  Walk -- no RUN to your nearest store and BUY THIS GAME!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gbird991
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 6, 2007 1:32 pm PT
Review:  The wide variety of maps and modes make class creation all the more essential. You'll benefit from 
 having classes specific for corridor-heavy maps or specific objective modes. In this way you can 
 be properly prepared, as any good soldier would be, when heading into battle.
  
  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is a fantastic game. The single-player experience is easily Infinity 
 Ward's best work to date. Calling it intense may be an understatement. The overall story is standard 
 action movie fare, but the relationships built over the short five hours of play are surprisingly 
 strong. Though the single-player lacks length, the multiplayer should keep you invested in COD4 
 for the long winter. This is a truly fantastic multiplayer offering that's as deep as any other 
 online game available. Infinity Ward has done it again. Call of Duty 4 is a winner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: filmfreak1138
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 6, 2007 12:35 pm PT
Review:  When I bought my 360 I picked up CoD2. That was a must buy if you bought a Xbox360 when it first 
 came out. I loved it... It was a GREAT game and well worth every penny. CoD3 came out... and I 
 was not sucked in like I was before. Well CoD4 had a beta that I got a token for and love it, but 
 now that the whole shaBANG is out... It is amazing!!
  
  Now the game play is a little short... but the mutiplayer has MANY layers to it. Other games need 
 to take note and learn from CoD4. It will not get old any time soon... at all.
  
  It is very beautiful... Some of the best graphics so far. I fell good when I finish a level. The 
 A. I. is really good in this game. I have not seen anything crazy yet. The sound in 5.1 surround 
 sound is amazing. Very well done.
  
  Fun factor... Well... I can not stop thinking about this game. I dreamed about it after playing 
 it for hours. Im just waiting to get off work to go home and play my friends.
  
  This is a game that YOU must have for your 360. I would have to go out on a limb and say this is 
 one of... if not THE... best WAR games I have ever played. To think it could get better than this... 
 at this moment that is really hard to even to think it could.
  
  CoD4 is one of the BEST FPS that I have played... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JohnyWise
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 6, 2007 12:19 pm PT
Review:  Thats what i really expected, the best title in series.
  
  Graphics: Realistic, artistic and beautiful. I am really impressed by the level of improvements 
 compared to the last title.
  
  Gameplay: CoD is CoD and always will be The King of FPS games, with its small additions making 
 the game better and better every time a new title comes out.
  
  Single Player: I haven't played more than 4 hours but till now , i always want to see what comes 
 next. I would say that the scenario is really strong and will for sure keep you interested all the 
 time.
  
  Multiplayer: Seriously awesome! I would say its multiplayer generally is what established CoD on 
 the game industry as an always highly anticipated title.
  
  Congratulations to IW for one more great game in the series, the best one i would say. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TENTHROW2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 6, 2007 11:42 am PT
Review:  Seriously - why was there not as much hype for this game as Halo. Now i love halo, and enjoy every 
 minute of it, but COD4 blows halo away in ALL aspects save story, and COD's story isnt too far 
 off.
  
  The graphics are insane, i cant believe what i'm seeing half the time, the sound is intense and 
 you feel like your in the middle of the action. The controls are spot on. Anyone who played beta 
 will be able to instantly pick up and go.
  
  The single player campaign is outstanding and even after you beat it, the unlockables, cheats, 
 etc, the replay value is far far greater than any other FPS out there. The story is good with plot 
 twists and turns, and comes out better than i expected.
  
  Now the multiplayer, ohhhh the multiplayer - wow wow. The experience is amazing, this game is (will 
 be) king of online multiplayer with orange box a close 2nd and halo 3rd. The ranking system, the 
 ability to upgrade your character with stuff that actually effects how you play, and not just how 
 you look (halo &gt; 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kelvinx11
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 6, 2007 11:41 am PT
Review:  now developers know how to utilize each systems powers now we will see next gen games. and this 
 cod 4 wipes out the pc version. cod 4 xbox 360 is equal to the ps3 version except they say the 
 ps3 has better lighting but they look the same to me. i got the xbox 360 version mainly for the 
 achievements. its a great game see u in the battle assassins creeeeeeeedddddddd ahhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh 
 toooo much ggggooooodddddd games, maaaaaaasssssssssssss efffffeeeeccccccttttt. too much good games. 
 lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol ol ol lol lol lol lol 
 lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol olo lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol 
 lol lol ol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol olo lol lol lo lo llol lo 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Expo_Smacko
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 6, 2007 10:25 am PT
Review:  Wow, this game is just wow... I love it.
  It was the best gaming experience I have gone threw in a while. I mean single player is AMAZING. 
 The story, the missions are breath taking. It has so much replay value I swear!
  I just got done with the ending of the game and there was no boring moment what so ever. This missions 
 let you do a lot of different things that most FPS don't let you do.
  I won't ruin them but they are simply amazing.
  The graphics are also.... wow.. Haha.
  I have 
 not played the Multiplayer yet but I did in the beta and that was the most amazing MP game I have 
 played.
  So my advice is go buy this game LIKE NOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CMcCon342
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 6, 2007 9:54 am PT
Review:  I the year of BioShock, Halo 3, and Orange Box, Call of Duty 4 takes the cake. It is perfect in 
 almost every way. The multiplayer is like virtual crack. One thing it does very differently from 
 Halo 3 is that it doesn't punish you for doing poorly, it only rewards you for doing well. Its 
 much faster and much tighter and the outcome of the match doesn't matter nearly as much as your 
 individual performance (unlike in Halo 3 where you can do amazing well, but if your team loses 
 you'll probably de-rank) . Ultimately it is shooter bliss with very little frustration even if you're 
 just an average player like myself. Believe what people are saying, it is THAT good. CoD4 will 
 be resting comfortably in my system for a long time to come, Master Chief, you can take a time 
 out.
  
  One complaint: This will hopefully be corrected with an update at some point and I know it doesn't 
 effect everyone, but I really wanted split screen online, I am surprised its not there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DMB28th
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 6, 2007 9:52 am PT
Review:  i love this game from the moment i saw it i said oh my god i need this is going to be the game 
 of the year and it was. if you are saying it cant be better then halo well guess what it is halo 
 did not touch this game. i am even mad that i am going to get a hair cut instead of playing this 
 game do your inner gamer a favor and BUY THIS GAME!!!!!!! pleas do not read this because its only 
 so i reach the 100 word count it will be a waste of your time the the the the the the the the the 
 boy boy boy boy boy boy boy loves love loves loves loves loves Call Call Call Call of of of of 
 of of Duty Duty Duty Duty 4 4 4 4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dirty89
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 6, 2007 9:10 am PT
Review:  This game is the best war similated game ever and I played them all. The realism is enough to keep 
 your mouth dry on the edge of your seat for hours. In my opinion even though i love Gears of War 
 this is reality that the locust horde couldn't touch. The only reason to snap out of being immersed 
 and sucked into the game play is when you look at the clock realizing you have play a video game 
 from 7:00p. m to 5:00a. m. I highly recommend anyone whether it be P. C, PS3, or360 buy this game im 
 telling you it blows away all the competition. I almost didn't have words to describe how good this 
 game is but I had to put the word out on the GOTY. BUYBUYBUY......... A MUST HAVE. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aduana69
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 6, 2007 8:47 am PT
Review:  There's no denying that the Call of Duty franchise is as good as it gets for WWll games. So when 
 Infinity Ward announced the next-gen Call of Duty title with more than just a major twist, it was 
 constantly talked about from that day forward. Call of Duty 4 tackles todays modern warfare with 
 the new weapons available today, setting itself in the middle east, and probably the biggest of 
 all, the new look. The graphics are far superior with this title then its predecessors as they 
 were able to add in a lot more detail and the modern look won us all over from the first screenshot. 
 The single player in Call of Duty 4 will, no doubt offer an intensive, exciting new experience 
 like we have ever played with before, it looks that good. Offering 10-15 hours, it'll keep you 
 busy and coming back for more. And this is why I state this, there are only single player achievements. 
 So for those looking to nail 1000 achievement points, then expect to come back. Now it's time for 
 the online. A lot of players were lucky to get into the Call of Duty 4 beta that was released back 
 in august. And a lot came out with high expectations. Feedback from the players stated that the 
 game ran smoothly and was one of the best fps shooters to date ( and thats excluding the single 
 player experience, being only 12 players not 16 and leaving out 13/16 maps and the other game modes.) 
 Call of Duty 4 has an experience system with endless possibilities. If you reach your max lvl and 
 want to start over, you dont have to delete and create your original character. You can just start 
 completely over but with a special insignia now that appears above your character during the game. 
 Not forgetting the perk system, which has gotten more excited about this game then ever. Perks 
 offer you a lot of different and unique ways to change the fight and how you want to approach a 
 situation. There are 3 sets of perks offering several options for your character. Perk 1 includes 
 c4 x2, rpg x2 and other various weapon specialties. Perk 2 will offer you choices that have to 
 do with your stamina, how steady your aim is, extra health etc. And perk 3 has 2 amazing perks 
 listed, Last Stand and Martyrdom. Last stand is the perfect perk to laugh in your apponents face. 
 As soon as you're nearing dead (or technically when you shoudl have died) you'll stay stuck in 
 a prone position with your pistol out and you can shoot whatever gets in your way, but it only 
 takes 1 bullet to put you out. And Martyrdom will let you drop a live grenade on your body once 
 you die. So if you get rushed by 4 enemies while in a room, surprise them when you die and strike 
 them with the grenade. With the endless customization options, the wonderful perk system, an intense 
 single player and an online multiplayer that's sure to shine. Call of Duty 4 is a rich experience 
 that will have you addicted from when you first deploy on your mission, where it's online or offline. 
 Look out Halo 3 and TF2 because Call of Duty 4 is here to dominate the online competition and has 
 more than full potential to be GOTY. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wutevrman
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 6, 2007 8:17 am PT
Review:  All I have to say is WOW! Last night, I just played a little MP, and this game is frickin' awesome. 
 I haven't even tried the other game modes or campaign yet, and I am speechless. I knew it was going 
 to be good, but WOW. MUCH replay value! This game will be around for AWHILE! I knew I was going 
 to love it just from the beta, bt add the many, many, weapons, perks, and ranking system, you can't 
 help believing that you control the outcome of your play. I get killed, A LOT, and it doesn't bother 
 me. No glitching, no whining, just gamers that like to game. Traded H2.5 to gamestop and got a 
 $43.50 credit to boot! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dizzyd123
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 6, 2007 8:11 am PT
Review:  im not a video game geek but i know when i see genious.
  
  this game had me since a friend told me about the beta.
  im usally a sports game kinda guy, but 
 this game just friggin rocked my socks. the sound, the visuals and the gamplay are unmatched on 
 any other game ive played on 360. its as real as it could be right now. i brought this game home 
 yesterday after work at about 5 pm i didnt stop to eat, drink, smoke or use the bathroom all night. 
 it is more like playing a part in a virtual war movie. infrantry ward put their best foot forward 
 in a kind of this is what a game should be stance.
  this will no doubt be a classic for this generation of console as the new standard.
  they thought 
 of every detail for this game. its more like a work of art.
  there is a scene where you are in an old mercades benz ( which i owned that model a 1977 230 d) 
 and even the interior of the car was true to life. i
  was like wow.. if they pay that close atention to somthing like the interior of a 30 yr old car 
 they can sell me on their conviction for this game.
  there was only one thing if i had to put a red mark on this one that i would like to be a little 
 differant ,like how you cant hug the walls for cover... but that is almost selfish to ask of a game 
 that already gives you more than you need. i would recomend this game to anyone ITS A MUST HAVE. 
 i cant see anyone who really wouldnt enjoy this lil bundle of joy. PICK THAT ISHHH UP !! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 7amanu
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 6, 2007 7:28 am PT
Review:  The main thing that makes me love this game is how you can't just go in gun's blazing like in COD3 
 or Halo 3 and wipe out hoards of enemies. The AI in this game is realistic to the point that you 
 feel completely submerged in war. Only a couple steps out of the door of a heavy gunfight will 
 have them sending a flag home to your family. The squad based formations not only work with you 
 but the enemies also fight back with unbelievable firepower and mobility. I can't count how many 
 times I tried to be covert only to have a terrorist pistol whip me before I could pop off a round. 
 Aside from single player missions, multiplayer in this game is unsurpassed. Never have you felt 
 such a smooth and realistic experience while playing in urban combat scenarios and still have the 
 fantastic feeling of fragging at an uncountable rate. Controls are top notch and this deserves 
 to be noted as the foundation for next-gen FPS.... Sorry HALO fans, just not impressed with shooting 
 aliens... Just not realistic!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gen_Warbuff
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 6, 2007 6:44 am PT
Review:  If the opening mission, and the following cinematic scene does not immediately suck you into this 
 instant classic, then nothing every will. Right from the get go this is a action packed, beautifully 
 done game. I have not finished the game yet, but here are my thoughts..
  
  Following in the footsteps of its predecessors, COD4 has top-notch graphics (maybe better then 
 we have ever scene) with so much going on that it makes you feel the dust in your eyes and sand 
 on your teeth. Running through the streets of what I called the Black Hawk Down mission Was some 
 of the best, most intense gaming I have ever played. Around ever corner the game just gets better 
 and better.
  
  Graphics : As I mentioned, they may be the best we have scene. For some reason it takes me back 
 to Full Spectrum Warrior just much better and more complete. With dust, junk and paper flying 
 around some levels, there is so much going on its hard to see across the street. Really gives 
 you that real world feeling.
  
  Sound: Again, awesome! The guns are dead on, and the voice acting is fantastic.
  
  Controls: 
 Very easy to use, everything is in the right spot. Online: From what I can tell its very well 
 done. With a ranking system that unlocks new units &amp; weapons, it also unlocks different types 
 of game play as you rank up. I played for about an hour online last night, experience NO lag and 
 had some very good fights. With 16 maps, there is enough options to keep things interesting. Also, 
 the maps seem very well laid out.
  
  Overall, this is very near a perfect game and there are only two small items that keep me from 
 giving it a 10. 1) I wish there was some kind of cover system. If they could incorporate something 
 like from Rainbow Six Vegas, it would take what are great gun battles and make them AWESOME gun 
 battles.
  2) During the single player campaign I often felt like I was just following the AI and supporting 
 them while they kicked in doors and stormed rooms. If you are a fan of FPS or tactical type shooters 
 this is the game to get. It might just get enough votes for GOTY. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UltrA_999
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 6, 2007 10:23 am PT
Review:  This game is the best war similated game ever and I played them all.
  Great game play, awsome graphics, and a story line that seems to be able to be followed so far.
 
  Controls are top notch and this deserves to be noted as the foundation for next-gen FPS....
  The squad based formations not only work with you but the enemies also fight back with unbelievable 
 firepower and mobility.
  Sniping is fun and the realistic way people dies just adds to it.
  Everything looks real, even down to the slightest piece of grass. Smoke, fire, explosions, gunshots, 
 everything looks great. Sound needs no introduction or explaining. The story is actually interesting, 
 and will keep you entertained until the final showdown. Actually, without exaggerating, this is 
 the best single player campaign that I have played in a very long time. Besides, the levels are 
 now open ended, so there are multiple paths to your objective. All in all, the single player campaign 
 is worth the price of admission, but the multiplayer is the icing on top of a already very sweet 
 cake.
  
  I highly recommend anyone whether it be P. C, PS3, or360 buy this game im telling you it blows away 
 all the competition. I almost didn't have words to describe how good this game is but I had to put 
 the word out on the GOTY. BUYBUYBUY......... A MUST HAVE. GOoD WoRk! InFiNity wARd!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! Credit 
 to the Developer... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeLashmutt1980
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 6, 2007 6:33 am PT
Review:  FPS are always short games. I finished CoD4 in less than 8 hours. This is really a disappointment 
 considering the fact that games cost $60+. Even though the story is complete there is a multiplayer 
 function. However, you MUST have xbox live or friends over to enjoy it. Whatever happened to AI 
 Bots? I might be old school but they were a great way for you to brush up on skills and they offered 
 a little comic relief at times. Honestly? Does anyone have the time and mobile equipment to do 
 a system link? The Multiplayer levels also seem kinda small. They are based on the levels from 
 the game's story lines and they are a lot of fun, but they just aren't going to bring my overall 
 reactions to this game up any higher. A game like this would also be fantastic Co-Op. But aside 
 from mulitplayer, your buddies have to wait their turn. As you can see, my only real complaints 
 about the game are about the way the game play was structured. All together, CoD4 does offer a 
 wide variety in regards to the missions you will do, the weapons you will see, the sounds and environments 
 and the types of soldiers that you will use. (My comments get more constructive from this point 
 on) Visually, the game is among the best FPS I have ever seen. I makes Rainbow Six and Gears of 
 War look like a couple of late PS2 games. The cover in the game is finally realistic! You can't 
 hide from a 50 Cal. behind a thin sheet of ply wood anymore. Other games touched on this but not 
 at the same level as CoD4. The use of Dogs is also a fresh new look at FPS. Their Animal AI is 
 also pretty cutting edge. The dogs are alert and react to goings-on in the environment! I just 
 hope PETA doesn't get all pissy over snapping the dog's necks and riddling them with bullets. The 
 AI on the enemy soldiers is also a stong point for CoD4. They take cover, move as their cover gets 
 destroyed, flank and even seem to understand that channeling down a hall way will result in all 
 of them being every dead very quickly. Gillie suits! Thank God a FPS finally got this down. They 
 have made appearances in games before but never with this kind of versitility. You can actually 
 lose track of your sniper partner if you don't take careful note of where you last saw him. The 
 camo is THAT GOOD! Frame for frame, texture for texture, this finally makes Sniper missions, sniper 
 missions. You do get a little close for comfort which snipers would probably never do... But Still, 
 it is exciting.
  
  Bottom Line: This game has a lot of great stuff. It is VERY SHORT! The Simpson's Game took me longer... 
 But there are a number of things that make this game the best in the series, easily. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: commandoraider
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 6, 2007 6:03 am PT
Review:  COD 4 brings a new experience to FPS ever! Very intense, great graphics, love the military tech 
 they use in the game (especially the AC-130 you use in the campaign, I love that level. Your just 
 raining death to all that's below you and everyone in the gunship is chilled. Thats so great.) , 
 awesome gameplay, multiplayer is great, I can just keep going and everyone will say the same!!! 
 The campaign is finally good for once. A good storyline, stealth levels are very fun and it'll 
 keep you on the edge of your set the whole time. The squad that your with are very funny. They'll 
 chip in a lot of funny things during the fight. But overall, this game is one of the best. A must 
 buy game!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: claymor2592003
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 6, 2007 6:01 am PT
Review:  Pick this up yesterday! Played for hours and was not disappointed. Amazing graphics, intense warfare, 
 AI is good, and sound effects are great. Call of Duty lost nothing in the transition from WW2 shooter 
 to a Modern Day Shooter. Great Game! You will not be disappointed by this one. The only thing I 
 wish they could have added was a better cover system. You can crouch behind things, but I want 
 to be able to stand up against a wall for cover in a buiding. You see the Allied AI stading in 
 cover against a wall, why can't I. That is the only thing I can see that I could call a negative. 
 Other than that, no problems at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dantheman21192
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 6, 2007 5:42 am PT
Review:  This game is one of the best games I have ever played, NO LIE!!! I have played many games, but 
 never any like this. I am familiar with past Call Of Duty games and I love them, but this is by 
 far the best. The action is amazing and intense. You never get bored playing this game! Also, I 
 am so glad that the COD series has finally drifted away from the WWII setting and decided to go 
 with a modern setting that is more familiar to the player. I will probably be playing the campaign 
 mode for a long time to come, and because it has excellent online play as well, I will spend even 
 more time with it. This game is an instant classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: machew100
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 6, 2007 12:04 am PT
Review:  The Call of Duty series has always delivered in every aspect. It's no suprise that the repeated 
 success of the CoD series ensured the success of this newest addition to the franchise. The graphics 
 have been pushed to the limit, with glassy smooth framerates. I don't know how, but Call of Duty 
 always manages to blend the perfect amount of graphics and high framerates together seamlessly. 
 Single player is better than ever, where every mission is epic, exciting, and often times breathtaking. 
 All the missions are highly climactic or build a lot of tension, in other words, it sucks you into 
 the moment. Some people say the single player is short, but with what action they give you in every 
 mission, I'm definitely not complaining. Multiplayer is possibly the best part about this already 
 great game. The gameplay stays true to all other Call of Duty games -- if it already works, why fix 
 it? Multiplayer is highly addictive, and with the new perk system and unlockables, it can definitely 
 keep you hooked for longer than you'll want to admit. Perks and weapon customization is a great 
 way to keep every match dynamic, requiring different strategies for every group of people you play 
 with. Whether you play as a juggernaut, scout, or explosives expert, the possibilities are endless. 
 Once you unlock everything you possibly can for a certain class, you can just go back and unlock 
 everything for a different one, providing a fresh new experience to an already extremely prolonged 
 amount of multiplayer life. Overall, this game is a winner in both single and multiplayer, doing 
 what the CoD series does best, and simultaneously exceeding what other games with similar features 
 have done in the past. Buy it, it's undoubtedly worth your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gunslinger_boy
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 5, 2007 11:32 pm PT
Review:  First and foremost, this is a game that has to have two parts; one for the single-player campaign 
 and one for multiplayer. **long review, but great information is inside**
  
  
  Single Player
  
 
  
  Okay, mostly everyone has tried a Call of Duty game before. If not, where have you been? This is 
 one series that is known for epic WWII battles (yeah yeah I know, WWII games...) , great gameplay, 
 and great gameplay, all pulled together with a very cinematic feel. But I bet you're wondering 
 what the game is like since it has moved out of the WWII era. The answer is that you have a very 
 solid, groundbreaking FPS, that outdoes every CoD in the series, hands down!
  
  The controls are the same for anyone who has played CoD 2 and/or CoD3. In other words, near perfect. 
 As always, the controls are tight, and a joy to use. Since we are in the modern age, there are 
 a few twists to the mix. On the D-Pad, you have four options: night vision, a gun attachment and 
 the other two are for you to see. Also, the rifle-butting and pistol-whipping has been replaced 
 with a knife. Believe me, it is very fun to use and is a guaranteed one hit kill.
  
  Graphics wise, you can't do better right now, in other words, they are insane! Everything looks 
 real, even down to the slightest piece of grass. Smoke, fire, explosions, gunshots, everything 
 looks great. Sound needs no introduction or explaining. If you've ever heard a CoD game being played, 
 you are in familiar territory here. If not, just turn on a war movie like Saving Private Ryan or 
 Tears of the Sun with the volume up at a good level, and you will get the idea of how the game 
 sounds.
  
  The story is actually interesting, and will keep you entertained until the final showdown. Actually, 
 without exaggerating, this is the best single player campaign that I have played in a very long 
 time. Besides, the levels are now open ended, so there are multiple paths to your objective. All 
 in all, the single player campaign is worth the price of admission, but the multiplayer is the 
 icing on top of a already very sweet cake.
  
  
  Multiplayer (XBL)
  
 
  
  When I was fortunate enough to get a beta key for CoD4 from Gamespot, I took the opportunity to 
 try the beta out. Ever since I was able to play enough of the beta to say I would purchase the 
 final game, I have been waiting on the edge of my seat to see how the multiplayer would turn out. 
 Surprisingly, everything that worked stayed, and everything that needed fixing/tuning, was fixed/tuned. 
 Way to listen to your fans IW, keep it up! If you must find something to complain about the multiplayer, 
 it is that you can't choose what map you want to play on, it is all predetermined (cool thing is 
 that there are 16 maps out of the box!) However you can choose to veto the map. The other thing 
 that is rather strange is the respawn points. For some reason, you spawn right around or very near 
 another player. But I think this is to keep everyone in the same playing field because some of 
 the maps are rather large. Gameplay wise, this will put other multiplayer games to shame ( Yes, 
 even yours Master Chief) . Airstrikes, helicopter raids, UAV assistance, ranking systems that actually 
 earn you things you can use, customizable class systems and weapons; the list goes on and on. This 
 is definitely a breath of fresh air to XBL, and is great fun to play. Lag is virtually non-existent, 
 unless more than 3 people have a bad connection, then it briefly says, Connection Interrupted, 
 then refreshes the connection, all while you are still playing. If someone quits early, you keep 
 playing. If someone's connection totally fails, you keep playing. The only exception to this is 
 if the host of the game leaves. However, respawns are real time, with no waiting, and connecting 
 to a match takes between 10 and 30 seconds. Wow! 
 
  
  So there you have it. One of the years most anticipated games actually lives up to the hype, and 
 then goes out with even more bangs. Just wait until after the credits for a bit of a surprise. 
 If you are a FPS fan or a fan of action games, you owe it to yourself to play a game that is likely 
 to be around well after other FPS and/or CoD games have come out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaysgrand
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 5, 2007 11:24 pm PT
Review:  I am 100% satisified with this game. Great game play, awsome graphics, and a story line that seems 
 to be able to be followed so far. Even with all the difficulty settings there is a plethera of 
 gamerpoints to be had in this game. I hve never bought a COD game before but i heard alot about 
 them (yes good and bad) and I cant see why anyone would hate this game. There is somethign for 
 everyone to enjoy in this game, from Fast paced fire fights to bombing the enemy from a plane high 
 above. I would say oferall the hours i have already put into this game and the 2hr wait have been 
 well worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XGamer_09
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 5, 2007 11:01 pm PT
Review:  Let me start off first by saying i really never liked Call of Duty, but for some reason I loved 
 this one. The graphics are amazing, multiplayer is addictive. I love all the details they add, 
 the gameplay is alot easier. The difficulty isnt a probelm you can play whichever one you want. 
 Only thing about multiplayer is when you first start you will get owned. you have to build your 
 rank and get the better weapons, which i dont really like, but its still really good. Like i said 
 i love this game, and if you buy it you wont regret it. trust me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brokengammer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 5, 2007 9:43 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty 4 has got some of the most intense action that i ever experiance in a game the sure 
 sizes of the battles, authenticity on how the weapons feel and sound is kick *** . the story is 
 intrusting and the voice acting is realy good giveing most of the character a real personality 
 witch is kinda cool. Multiplayer is realy cool my favorit is team death match, during the match 
 you can get into some ridiculous and awesome fire fights. This game isnt for everyone but if you 
 are a shoot first ask questions later and dont mind going a little tactical this is a game for 
 you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: socom9866
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 5, 2007 9:21 pm PT
Review:  One of the best games i have played to date. I have been waiting for a first person modern shoots 
 that rocks my socks. THIS IS THE ONE. I will be playing this not stop for a while. Halo3 may have 
 come out before but you always save the best for last. Halo is repetitive this is something new 
 with online that is not just another shooter. I played the PC demo about 40 times beat it on every 
 setting and just cant get enough. The graphics are amazing and really add to the game play. Finally 
 a shooter where bullets penetrate things like cardboard and 1in thick concrete. I love the new 
 knifing affect and not just being able to kill someone with the butt of your gun. Also sniping 
 is fun and the realistic way people dies just adds to it. The environments are destructive but 
 not to the point where you cant find cover. A MUST HAVE!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pipefitterrome
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 5, 2007 9:05 pm PT
Review:  The main thing that makes me love this game is how you can't just go in gun's blazing like in COD3 
 or Halo 3 and wipe out hoards of enemies. The AI in this game is realistic to the point that you 
 feel completely submerged in war. Only a couple steps out of the door of a heavy gunfight will 
 have them sending a flag home to your family. The squad based formations not only work with you 
 but the enemies also fight back with unbelievable firepower and mobility. I can't count how many 
 times I tried to be covert only to have a terrorist pistol whip me before I could pop off a round. 
 Aside from single player missions, multiplayer in this game is unsurpassed. Never have you felt 
 such a smooth and realistic experience while playing in urban combat scenarios and still have the 
 fantastic feeling of fragging at an uncountable rate. Controls are top notch and this deserves 
 to be noted as the foundation for next-gen FPS.... Sorry HALO fans, just not impressed with shooting 
 aliens... Just not realistic!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HarveyDangeeR
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 5, 2007 9:01 pm PT
Review:  Its everything Socom was PLUS more.. Litte known Fact:
  The phrase Call of Duty is actually French, pronounced Calla de dutea meaning Halo is crap 
  
 
  Litte known Fact:
  The phrase Call of Duty is actually French, pronounced Calla de dutea meaning Halo is crap 
  
 
  Litte known Fact:
  The phrase Call of Duty is actually French, pronounced Calla de dutea meaning Halo is crap 
  
 
  Litte known Fact:
  The phrase Call of Duty is actually French, pronounced Calla de dutea meaning Halo is crap 
  
 
  Litte known Fact:
  The phrase Call of Duty is actually French, pronounced Calla de dutea meaning Halo is crap 
  
 
  Litte known Fact:
  The phrase Call of Duty is actually French, pronounced Calla de dutea meaning Halo is crap 
::::::

::::::
UserName: remaGloohcSdlO
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 5, 2007 7:55 pm PT
Review:  I can't begin to express how much Infinity Ward needed to get back in the saddle with multi-player. 
 After a dissapointing result with Activision's attempt, I'm glad to see it go back to IW! The MP 
 is where this game will shine for months... maybe even years! The single player game is great, 
 and those that want a challenge can try the humbling veteran difficulty, which extends the length 
 of the game through difficulty alone. I like a good WWII shooter, like anyone else, but the modern 
 setting is the final straw, in a nearly perfect game. You don't need my amateur opinion, when you 
 can just go to a professional site to see the mass AAA praise for the game, but I'll close on one 
 more note: The COD4 multi-player, is the best MP game on the 360. Hands down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enraged-killer
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 5, 2007 7:43 pm PT
Review:  this game is very good i recomend it to all those hardcore gamers and the noobs. the grafics is 
 very realistic, the gameplay is very good, the AI is good, and the multiplayer is awsome. i recomend 
 all of you to get this game. if ur not a fan of call of duty pick up this game and refresh your 
 memory. the controlls are the same but ur playing in an entirely new enviorment
  its a breath taking game and the more you play it is the more you get into it. my gamertag is engraved 
 killer hit me up if you need help with achievements ect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sherkinator
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 5, 2007 7:09 pm PT
Review:  Out of all od the COD games, this one has to be the best one by far! Like Halo when you play online 
 you earn ranks and unlock different things as you progress. I think that COD4 should get a 90.8 
 but the slide bar makes you increase by .5 This Game is awesome and you should definetly buy 
 
  HSH AH A H ZBH HN DA F H AH A DF H J YJ S H A EH H HA R TH HFH H H AS TH H H H AH YUJ A A A A 
 A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A AA A A A A A A 
::::::

::::::
UserName: magnus500
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 5, 2007 7:01 pm PT
Review:  Los graficos son increibles, de lo mejor que he visto, la acci&oacute; n es interminable y divertida.
 
  Todo lo que se puede esperar de un titulo asi y mucho mas.
  El framerate es constante, por mas que se llene la pantalla de explosiones y muchos personajes, 
 el juego se mantiene a una velocidad excepcional!
  El sonido es muy real y nos mete dentro de la trama.
  La historia esta completamente actualizada 
 y mas cinematica que nunca.
  Jugamos con un marine estadounidense y con un soldado ingles, es una guerra en medio oriente, muy 
 inspirada en los sucesos actuales del mundo que vivimos.
  Recomendable 100% sin dudarlo! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jazzdragon
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 5, 2007 6:06 pm PT
Review:  im generally not one of those gamers who play old war games from WW2 i mean dont get me wrong C. O. D 
 3 was ok but this updated version in my opinion beats all others hands down . All i can say about 
 playing this game will suck you in at the start. i havent played for no more than 90 min but holy 
 crap this game will consume you so my advise is to stay ahead of the pack if your a vet anyone 
 else just stay behind r platoon . you will find out what that means when u begin playin. Last words 
 BUY THiS GAME NOWWW . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fathomglow
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 6, 2007 8:06 am PT
Review:  Like many other long time Call of Duty fans, I was wary of what Modern Warfare would mean for the 
 series. Call of Duty had become the quintessential WWII shooter of its time, becoming the FPS that 
 all other WWII shooters would be measured against. When Activision/Infinity Ward announced that 
 the series would be leaving its WWII roots for a more modern themed iteration, many of its fans 
 were naturally worried. Thankfully, Call of Duty: Modern Warfare puts many of those fears at rest. 
 Slick modern military design, cinematic flair and the same great gameplay that Call of Duty is 
 known for come together to create a compelling and worthy addition to the series. As the name suggests, 
 CoD 4 (As I will refer to it from now on) takes place in a Modern Warfare setting. The classic 
 Garand, Thompson, BAR and horde of Nazis from the previous series has been traded in for modular 
 battle rifles and Russian Ultranationalists. The change for the most part is cosmetic of course, 
 aside from a few upgrades the same great gameplay is alive and well. CoD4 does a great job of integrating 
 what made the series so good with the necessary changes that the new theme requires.
  
  The gameplay in CoD4 for the most part remains unchanged from previous iterations, which considering 
 how good the series has been isnt a bad thing. Controls are virtually identical to most FPS games 
 on the market and veterans of past CoD games will be quite at home. CoD4 features the same semi-tactical 
 but still forgiving gameplay that have been a CoD staple and it works just as well in the modern 
 setting as it did in WWII. Along with the new theme comes a new modern set of weapons and gear, 
 and CoD4 does a great job on both the weapon models, design and sound. Sound is particularly good, 
 everything from the muffled taps of silenced weapons to the crack of the more powerful sniper rifles 
 are satisfying and really give weight to the weapons. Graphically, CoD4 is just slightly above 
 CoD3 and on par with most next gen games on the market. While it may not be groundbreaking, its 
 certainly nothing to scoff at. Models are nicely detailed and animations are fluid and natural, 
 both your enemies and allies look great. The levels in CoD4 are nicely done as well, though some 
 levels show amazing possibilities while others come off as bland. Like the previous CoD games, 
 the single player campaign in CoD4 is a great mix of large scale battles, scripted events and stylized 
 gameplay. Though somewhat short, the campaign is compelling and immersive. The campaign puts you 
 in the shoes of an SAS commando and a US Force Recon Marine fighting in a number of different locales, 
 from a cargo ship in the Bering Straight, a fictional small Middle Eastern country and deep into 
 war torn Russia. The story certainly has potential, but is never really fleshed out. There are 
 numerous cinematics and news story style narration throughout the campaign, but none of them really 
 tie in the story. Then again, most of the background story is just an excuse to put you in the 
 action anyway, so its not much of detraction.
  
  Multiplayer wise, CoD4 has perhaps the most full featured multiplayer component of any CoD game 
 thus far. Aside from the wide variety of maps and game modes, the most dramatic addition is that 
 of a ranking system. These ranks allow access newer weapons and weapon upgrades as well as special 
 abilities. While these upgrades are definitely a good incentive to keep playing online, they do 
 sometimes skew the balance toward veteran players. Fully upgraded players definitely have the advantage 
 over newer players, which might turn off some newer players. Though the ranking system is surprisingly 
 lenient, and it wont take long to earn those upgrades. In the end, CoD4 is a great addition to 
 the CoD series. The change of theme in CoD has thankfully not affected the high caliber of the 
 game. The tight gameplay, visuals and design come together to make a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: REforever101
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 5, 2007 3:52 pm PT
Review:  i havent finished this game yet... so im just going to talk about what i have played. The first 
 level ****ing rocked!
  
  the game gets you so in the moment with the whole mock boat training course, and its even more 
 fun cause you can try and beat infinity wards best time (or at least try and get the achievement 
 for completeting it in under 20 seconds)
  
  then the boat level.... wow. not to spoil anything, but theres gonna be some parts that will make 
 you smirk just cause there so damn awesome.
  
  what i like about cod4 thus far, that i didnt exactly find ideal in the past cods, is the story. 
 in cod4 its actually presented as well.... a story. theres epic ass moments that make your jaw drop. 
 like when ure being driven around that city as the ex president. The game instills such a great 
 sense of impending war that its almost too much to handle (in a good way)
  
  but yea, i was right when i said this game would kick the crap out of halo 3 twenty times over.
 
  
  and im not just talking about the single player. the mp is the **** too.
  
  I was in the beta, so i already knew what to expect. but i was pleasently surprised that infinity 
 ward obviously listened to user feedback. literally all the issues i had with the beta were remedied. 
 that maps pwn so hard too 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amirps2
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 5, 2007 3:01 pm PT
Review:  it has wonderful grafic and amazing game play. thank you activision. i injoy very very much of this 
 game. i offer you that buy this version of game for xbox 360.
  plese buy this and injoy from amazing art of activision
  thats beter of call of duty 3 and all 
 of other fps games.
  i repeat :
  it has wonderful grafic and amazing game play. thank you activision. i injoy very very much of this 
 game. i offer you that buy this version of game for xbox 360.
  plese buy this and injoy from amazing art of activision
  thats beter of call of duty 3 and all 
 of other fps games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zishan200
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 5, 2007 2:32 pm PT
Review:  First of all it has amazing graphics and superb gameplay so much more differn't then the orginal 
 game if your some people that dont like fps as much id say rent it first but id say its a huge 
 change from WWII to this generation id rate this game 10/10 its just to awsome lol its like gears 
 of war its so much fun and cant get your hands of it. Grapchis- 10 sound -9 - tilt- 9 overall-10 
 to the ps3 version id rate the same other the lighting incrase over the xbox 360 version buy it 
 JUST BUY IT :D ITS TO AMAZIN LOL BUY IT !!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aaronfilmltd
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 5, 2007 12:59 pm PT
Review:  After playing this game, you will be on this same site writing your perfect review. Call of Duty 
 4 has been hyped well, and as a proud member of Charlie Oscar Delta. com, here's my review of Call 
 of Duty 4: Modern Warfare.
  
  The single player is by far simply the best out there. Infinity Ward chose to go for the story 
 buildup in this game. And it worked.
  
  You'll remember in the last CoD games, you were jumping around from character to character, nation 
 to nation. There wasn't really a purpose to your fighting, and you never really cared about the 
 characters you played as. If you're used to that style of story, then this game will spoil you 
 with its gripping story as you fight to stop Zakhaev and Al Assad, the main villians. It is an 
 amazing story to go along with the intense action you're constantly fighting through, and actually 
 makes you care about your character and your teammates. And if a first person shooter game does 
 that, you have yourself a great game.
  
  Now, after playing this game, I can see how it was renowned as the all-mighty Halo Killer. It is 
 simply that good. It's so good, it is right up there with Halo, possibly beyond.
  
  Graphically, the game is impressive. Pffft. Impressive. That word can't even begin to describe 
 what you're seeing on your screen. The textures are perfect, and the shadows are amazing. There's 
 even a level that takes place from sunrise to sunset, so the shadows are moving around realistically. 
 There's a level that takes place on a cargo ship at midnight during a thunderstorm. As the lightning 
 shoots through the sky, you actually see the shadows on the ground sway with the boat. It is simply 
 staggering what Infinity Ward did with this game. This could easily take the cake for the best 
 looking 360 game out there. Even Halo can't compare!
  
  The music is composed by Harry-Gregson Williams, and they simply couldn't have made a better choice. 
 Williams truly delivers with his amazing action themes, and it ups the adrenaline a couple notches 
 when you're in mid-battle.
  
  Multiplayer kills Halo's by a long shot. There is an experience system, so as you get more points 
 in mid-game, you get closer to leveling up. As you level up, you gain awesome new weapons and great, 
 more accurate attachments. This keeps the multiplayer from ever getting stale, which is an excellent 
 quality for this intense game.
  
  It is hands-down awesome what this game has become. The hype of the game was huge, and well-deserved, 
 too. I am a player of the beta and the demo awhile back, and I have to say, this game blows me 
 away. It will no doubt be a prime contender when it comes the time for Game of the Year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: curly3498
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 5, 2007 12:45 pm PT
Review:  CoD: 4 is without a doubt the best video game I have ever played. From the moment you turn on the 
 game you will not be able to stop the intense action. The single player campaign is incredible 
 and the multilayer is just as intense. No other game can compare graphically to this game, and 
 the sound is so good that you will actually feel as if you are part of the action. I loved CoD: 
 2, liked CoD: 3, but this game trumps them both. Even if you are not a shooters fan, BUY THIS GAME 
 YOU WILL BE SO GLAD YOU DID! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sasuke_Ninja21
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 5, 2007 12:41 pm PT
Review:  This game did many things which i wanted to do.... first thing first NO MORE WORLD WAR 2 GAMES, 
 ive proboaly killed more nazi's then covenant grunts from all 3 halo games put togeather, this 
 is the way call of duty should be made!! modern and one of the best first person shooters ive ever 
 played.
  
  Once playing this game i couldent help but just completly.... stare.... into the screen.... as i get 
 shot... just looking at the scenary, of course getting shot isnt a good thing but come on you really 
 have to give credit for the developers that made the torn up wastelands they really do look like 
 the real thing i was just in awe looking at the way the grass moved or the way colums were knocked 
 over or just looking at the soilders getting shot as i put a couple of rounds into there chest.....
 
  
  People wanted to know first off is this more succesful then what call of duty has done with world 
 war 2? yes it is a complete turn over i had almost lost all sense of belife in call of duty after 
 playing WWII game after game after game...... the battles couldent be any more amazing then they 
 already are.
  
  The A. I is also impressive hiding behind walls or trying to flank you and even running away from 
 grenades instead of standing there watching as you run past them then BOOM! gone.... nah... they 
 actually run away and take cover then pop back up to try to get another shot off which is great 
 especially when you have a true automatic m14 upgraded in your hand right?
  
  I was also happy about the first greatest sniping mission where your in full camoflauge and picking 
 off guys one by one... its just so fun to watch the other guy look around then.... dead in an instant 
 this is what games now adays need to do they need to start thinking about what PEOPLE want not 
 what some head guy wants they aint buying the game we are and they finally give us somthing that 
 we want.
  
  I haven't actually gotten a chance to play multiplayer having only getting it 2 hours ago and playing 
 as we speak... so i dont know if there are classes or pick up and gun game but i am sure that there 
 are classes and they will all be balanced for fun and interesting multiplayer expierence.
  
  So overall yes this is a great turn over from the world war 2 style, yes it should stay this 
 was for a long time and eventually become a new series.... and yes... this is a very good game... and 
 should be picked up by halo fans, call of duty fans, medal of honor fans.... and typically and gamer 
 that likes to cap some guys ass that isnt a jerry lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sharpshoota202
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 5, 2007 12:03 pm PT
Review:  **** Amazing  . . . . 
 . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . . . . .. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kbutta01
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 5, 2007 11:22 am PT
Review:  SIMPLY AMAZING! Im very picky with my first person shooters (fps) but this takes the cake in my 
 book. Single player is a high intensity experience that shouldnt be missed, and multi-player is 
 the same none stop action for everyone at any level of experience. More than enough connent to 
 satisfy your tastebuds for modern war experience. Dont miss out on this Masterpiece of epic proportions. 
 The smack in the face to Halo, dont get me wrong here im am an avid halo fan but after playing 
 this game i dont think ill be playing much of it anymore. If you take anyones advise on this game, 
 please trust me when i say this game will take game of the year, the 40+ e3 awards dont lie. I 
 was one of the thosands of beta players and its even better now than it was then which is hard 
 for even me to believe. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkelf505
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 5, 2007 11:18 am PT
Review:  I'll just cut to the chase. this is the best in series, and the best in genre. the graphics are 
 amazing, the sound is even better. The gameplay is stunning. I have played many shooters, particularly 
 modern shooters, and this was by far the best.
  
  The multiplayer game is innovative and incredible. The developers really brought some new ideas 
 to the table when they came up with it. This is definitely a game to buy now.
  
  For a much more thorough review of this game, please click this link and join the Gaming Review 
 Union. You will find the best reviews on GS there, including my full review of COD 4.
  
  Join here 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gene14
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 5, 2007 10:40 am PT
Review:  I know I rated it a 10 and it was hard to choose between a 9.5 and 10. But anyway:
  
  Gameplay: 10
  It has so MUCH variety amongst the regular run and gun shooting. Within the story 
 you play with 3 or 4 different perspectives. An arabian president, a SAS soldier, a USMC soldier 
 and an unknown special forces soldier in a huge airliner rescueing a hostage... It's weird, but 
 awesome. Also, there are simple in game perks... Like, if a dog attacks you, it jumps on you and 
 you have a fraction of a second to press the melee button at the right time and you'd grab it's 
 head and snap it or... if you don't time it right, it'll rip your throat out and... you die. The 
 MULTIPLAYER: Is fantastic, unlike many, many, many shooters with powerups and stuff, it's EXTREMELY 
 balanced and so fun to mix and match the powerups, called perks. The weapons of course are plentiful 
 and customizable.
  
  There's a lot more, I just can't fit it all within the 9 minutes I have to right the review.
 
  
  Graphics: 9.9
  It isn't Gears of War, but it is graphically proficient. You WILL NOT notice any bad textures... 
 unless you really, really, really try. That's all I must say, it looks great, guns are good, the 
 people and absolutely no framerate hiccups EVER. Unless it's that guy with the n00b connection, 
 that's the only time you'd get lag.
  
  Sound:10
  Perfect, the sound effects vary from many places and at the same time. And they do a good job showeing 
 how loud something should be compared to something else... Like, if the dog, like I mentioned above 
 jumps on you, and you snap it's neck, it'll be VERY loud, it'll muffle the sound around you, except 
 the sounds that are always loud... like the AK-47 firing 3 feet from you.
  
  Value:9.9
  The multiplayer is endless and the single player is easily replayable for fun.
  Only 1 problem.... 
 ONLY 1:
  
  The Achievements are only for the singleplayer... but a lot of them are for beating cetain missions 
 on the veteran difficult... which is hard... since 2-3 shots kills you. And it takes you to longer 
 to heal yourself.
  
  Tilt: 10
  Because I love it.
  
  Final word:
  
  THIS IS A MUST BUY, PERIOD. I sold halo 3 for it and I don't regret it whatsoever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DominicanAG
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 10, 2007 2:04 pm PT
Review:  Yes you read that right it's Call of Duty but in modern combat this time. This game is being developed 
 by the same guys that brought you the great Call of Duty 2 infinity ward. These guys did a great 
 job back than and did an even greater job with Call of Duty 4.
  
  Like in this previous COD games you'll be playing as different soldiers in the game. You'll be 
 playing as Sgt. Soap MacTavish from the S. A. S. and Sgt. Paul Jackson from U. S. M. C. You'll be flipping 
 back and forth between these two characters in the game and every level in this game feels different 
 and refreshing. You're task is to take out these top 4 villains with that are wiping out the country. 
 You'll be given different task which are all fun to do. This game is nothing but intense battle 
 so there are no moments of peace in the game. It's basically running and wiping out the enemies. 
 I can't tell you how many times you will be dying in this game in the normal difficulty so be prepared 
 to do a lot of hiding because if you take a lot of hits you'll be gone before you know it. There 
 will be times you be calling in for air strike which are always cool to see the after affects and 
 their times you'll be using it more than once because you have to clear the way to come from point 
 A to point B. There will be times in the game where you'll be one on one with another fellow soldier 
 which was one of my favorite parts of the game, which you'll have to be stealthy and not get caught. 
 The game never has a dull moment which will keep you on your toes at all time which is great.
 
  
  The graphics has to be one of the best of the series and I think this has to be the best looking 
 FPS this year along side with Halo 3, The Orange Box, and Bioshock. The environments in this game 
 look and feel so real it's like you're there. The sound and music in the game go so well with the 
 feel of the game. Also the multiplayer has to be one of the best aspects of the games as well up 
 to 18 players online with the similar modes from the previous call of duty games. If you don't 
 pick up this game, than you'll be missing out on a game that might be a heavy contender of being 
 Game of The Year.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamefreak9007
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 9, 2007 10:35 am PT
Review:  first time i herd bout it and i thought that activision wouldnt do any good but i take that back. 
 i never liked the other three cod games i like futuristic or modern shooters, its ALL I PLAY so 
 im, like i sed speechless on how it looks and im sorry if i had to copy this paragrah but its just 
 there are no werds to describe a perfect game.
  
  i really recomend this game for ppl who just like shooters of any kind its a great game, that is, 
 well one of the best there is and im just like i sed a million times speechless so ya great game 
 to add to ur games an if ur just bout to start playing shooters its a great game to start with. 
 im mad at gamespot, a 
 
  
  P. S Im  
::::::

::::::
UserName: floodiastus
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 5, 2007 8:47 am PT
Review:  This game blew my mind. I didnt think any game would come close to looking as good as gears of 
 war and still have huge seamless levels but this game sure has an insane amount of detail and a 
 constant flowing framerate. Its cinematic aproach and killer soundtrack and soundeffects make this 
 one a must have. The quality of presentation is astounding as well. I have not yet tried multiplayer 
 except the beta and that was great as well. Glad to see they dropped the WW2 setting, because this 
 game is looking gorgeous.
  
  I hope Modern Combat is their new franchise! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Angels_Airwaves
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 5, 2007 7:53 am PT
Review:  There's no denying that the Call of Duty franchise is as good as it gets for WWll games. So when 
 Infinity Ward announced the next-gen Call of Duty title with more than just a major twist, it was 
 constantly talked about from that day forward. Call of Duty 4 tackles todays modern warfare with 
 the new weapons available today, setting itself in the middle east, and probably the biggest of 
 all, the new look. The graphics are far superior with this title then its predecessors as they 
 were able to add in a lot more detail and the modern look won us all over from the first screenshot. 
 The single player in Call of Duty 4 will, no doubt offer an intensive, exciting new experience 
 like we have ever played with before, it looks that good. Offering 10-15 hours, it'll keep you 
 busy and coming back for more. And this is why I state this, there are only single player achievements. 
 So for those looking to nail 1000 achievement points, then expect to come back. Now it's time for 
 the online. A lot of players were lucky to get into the Call of Duty 4 beta that was released back 
 in august. And a lot came out with high expectations. Feedback from the players stated that the 
 game ran smoothly and was one of the best fps shooters to date ( and thats excluding the single 
 player experience, being only 12 players not 16 and leaving out 13/16 maps and the other game modes.) 
 Call of Duty 4 has an experience system with endless possibilities. If you reach your max lvl and 
 want to start over, you dont have to delete and create your original character. You can just start 
 completely over but with a special insignia now that appears above your character during the game. 
 Not forgetting the perk system, which has gotten more excited about this game then ever. Perks 
 offer you a lot of different and unique ways to change the fight and how you want to approach a 
 situation. There are 3 sets of perks offering several options for your character. Perk 1 includes 
 c4 x2, rpg x2 and other various weapon specialties. Perk 2 will offer you choices that have to 
 do with your stamina, how steady your aim is, extra health etc. And perk 3 has 2 amazing perks 
 listed, Last Stand and Martyrdom. Last stand is the perfect perk to laugh in your apponents face. 
 As soon as you're nearing dead (or technically when you shoudl have died) you'll stay stuck in 
 a prone position with your pistol out and you can shoot whatever gets in your way, but it only 
 takes 1 bullet to put you out. And Martyrdom will let you drop a live grenade on your body once 
 you die. So if you get rushed by 4 enemies while in a room, surprise them when you die and strike 
 them with the grenade. With the endless customization options, the wonderful perk system, an intense 
 single player and an online multiplayer that's sure to shine. Call of Duty 4 is a rich experience 
 that will have you addicted from when you first deploy on your mission, where it's online or offline. 
 Look out Halo 3 and TF2 because Call of Duty 4 is here to dominate the online competition and has 
 more than full potential to be GOTY. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abbas123
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 5, 2007 7:35 am PT
Review:  Well this is one of the best games i have ever played, action is intense, graphics are incredible, 
 single player is awesome, and multiplayer, well it just gets better.
  
  This is one that all you hardcore and not so hardcore gamers have to get, it just needs to be in 
 your collection. When i got this i started playing this and in like a few minutes i was just addicted 
 and couldn't get up. I think i'm not going to see sunshine for a while, lol, seriously it is that 
 good.
  
  If you love call of duty games and any other shooter games, this is the game for you, YOU WILL 
 NOT BE DISSAPPOINTED.
  
  I thought this game was being hyped way too much, but it deserved all the hype it got. I think 
 it should have been hyped even more after playing this.
  
  ONE OF THE BEST and a very solid game that can take GAME OF THE YEAR easily. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
