-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Call of Juarez
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/thelawman/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Interesting two-character dynamic with varying gameplay styles.
 Shooting is solid.
 Great environmental graphics.
 Largely excellent voice acting and music.
 Multiplayer is good fun.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Billy's sections revolve around too much stealth and lousy platforming.
 Character models look strange and zombielike.
 A bit of a generic feel to much of the game.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun  7, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.4
Critic Score: 7.1, 41 Review (s)
User Score: 7.5, 1,357 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Techland
Genre: Historic First-Person...
Date: Jun 7, 2007
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Call of Juarez takes few risks with its setting or genre, but it does what it does well enough to 
 be enjoyable. 

  We know about the genre known as the spaghetti western, but is there such a thing as a pierogi 
 western? There is now, thanks to Polish developer Techland's Call of Juarez. An Old West-themed 
 first-person shooter, Call of Juarez fits snugly into the solid little niche that games like Gun 
 and Red Dead Revolver have already taken up residence in. The game is similarly hard-boiled and 
 filled with gunslinging, horseback riding, train robbery, and all the other staples of the western 
 genre that you might have already gotten your fill of. Still, for as few risks as Call of Juarez 
 takes across the board, it's a well-made genre exercise that's more often entertaining than not. 

          Never has a game so realistically rendered a Sunday sermon as Call of Juarez does.     
 

  The game puts you into the boots of two distinct characters. Billy Candle is a half-white, half-Mexican 
 drifter of sorts who had been on the hunt for the legendary Lost Gold of Juarez, a treasure trove 
 of gold buried somewhere within the titular town. Unable to find it, Billy decides to come home 
 to the town of Hope to visit his mother and stepfather -- only to find them murdered upon his arrival. 
 The other character is Reverend Ray, Billy's step-uncle and the town preacher. Ray's a reformed 
 gunslinger now dedicated to spreading the Lord's word, but when he hears of the ruckus going on 
 at his brother's farm and arrives to see a panicked Billy running away from the bloody corpses 
 of his brother and sister-in-law, Ray vows vengeance, and begins tracking his step-nephew until 
 he can satisfy it.  

  The dynamic of having two playable characters would be more interesting if there weren't such a 
 distinct separation of quality between them. The more entertaining of the two, both in story and 
 gameplay, is easily Ray. Voiced by an actor who seems to be equally channeling Sam Elliott and 
 the creepy priest from  Poltergeist II , Ray's sequences are filled with enough amazing, self-righteous 
 bible quoting immediately followed by heavy amounts of murdering that you almost wish they'd gotten 
 Samuel L. Jackson for this role. Heck, Ray's even got what we'll affectionately refer to as a "bible 
 button." One of the weapons he can hold is a bible, and if you press the fire button while he's 
 holding it, he'll start reading random passages to any nearby enemies, who will then stop for a 
 second to listen, at which point you can shoot them in their stupid faces. That's either genius 
 or awful -- or possibly both.  

  Apart from using the gospel as a weapon, you spend most of your time as him running around, shooting 
 various hombres, rustlers, outlaws, and other unsavory individuals. His primary weapon is a pair 
 of six-shooters, which he can actually use to bust into a slow-motion "concentration mode" when 
 he draws them from their holsters. Doing this gives you a pair of targeting reticles you can guide 
 toward any nearby enemies and then unload upon them. Ray also gets to engage in some straight-up 
 gun duels against other gunslinging baddies. These are essentially the bulk of the game's boss 
 fights, though they're very quick. In these fights, a counter ticks down, and when you get to the 
 end, you quickly pull back and then press forward on the right control stick to draw. Once you 
 do, your reticle pops up and the scene goes into slow motion again, though the reticle is a little 
 off-kilter, as you did draw rather quickly. It's up to you to aim and shoot before the other guy 
 offs you. You can't call these sequences brilliant, or even especially original (Red Dead Revolver 
 had some similar mechanics) , but they're fun all the same.  

  Less fun and generally more irritating are Billy's sequences. Billy can fire the occasional pistol, 
 and even exclusively use both a bow and arrow and a whip, but nearly all of the scenarios he finds 
 himself in revolve more around bad first-person platforming and overlong stealth sequences than 
 any form of real action. The stealth stuff isn't bad, exactly. Billy can find shadowy or otherwise 
 dark areas to hide in, as well as use bushes and boxes to hide behind, and that all works pretty 
 much as advertised. The issue is that all the stealth bits take way, way too long. Waiting for 
 your enemies to slowly wander through their patrols so you can move from shrub to shrub is about 
 as fun as it sounds. In a few cases you can run and gun it if you want, but you're rarely ever 
 properly armed for these types of situations, and as you are without uncle Ray's concentration 
 ability, Billy just isn't quite as useful for gunfights. So instead, you're stuck spending 15 minutes 
 just trying to navigate one camp full of bandits.  

  Less tolerable are the bouts of climbing and swinging. First-person platforming has never been 
 a good idea, yet for some reason developers keep trotting it out in these sorts of games. It doesn't 
 work here, either. Billy can climb up short ledges, use his whip to grab onto branches and other 
 elongated protrusions, and then swing from one ledge to the next. The main problem here is perspective -- when 
 you're jumping around in the first-person, it's sometimes difficult to gauge the distance of jumps, 
 so you end up trial-and-erroring it until you get just the right amount of distance. The whip-swinging 
 thing seems neat at first, but it can be tough to get the right amount of swing momentum to hit 
 certain ledges. Again, it's a trial-and-error process to figure out how much you need to climb 
 up the whip to get the proper angle. And like the stealth bits, these scenes are just overly protracted. 
 There's one obnoxious fetch quest in the middle of the game where you have to climb up a giant 
 mountain for nearly a half-hour (counting time needed to die and start over) , just to grab an eagle 
 feather for some cranky old Indian, only to have to spend another several minutes jumping your 
 way down. Creating a degree of separation between the two playable characters wasn't a bad idea, 
 but this was perhaps not the ideal way to go about it.  

          Gun duels are neat, though also very short and relatively easy in most cases.     

 
  Horseback riding pops up now and again for both characters, and it's an enjoyable distraction 
 from the usual trudging around that you do. Controlling the horse is initially a bit of a pain, 
 but once you get used to it, it's both a quick way to get places and a fun way to engage in combat. 
 There are a couple of scenes where you'll find yourself blasting away at other bandits on horseback. 
 Aiming while on a horse is tough, but that makes sense.  

  Once you've bested Call of Juarez's 8-to-10-hour campaign, there are some other options to mess 
 with. There's a series of extra, non-story-related missions to take on, a bunch of gun duels to 
 play around with, and multiplayer for both system link and Xbox Live. The multiplayer is pretty 
 typical class-based FPS style action. You can play as either a rifleman, a gunslinger, a sniper, 
 or a miner, and there is a variety of modes like deathmatch, team deathmatch, capture the flag, 
 VIP, and so on. There's also a mode that lists off several "historical events," such as the shootout 
 at the O. K. Corral, but these are basically just fancy names for something like a team deathmatch 
 mode in a vaguely O. K. Corral-themed map.  

  The multiplayer isn't remarkable, but it can be fun. The four classes are reasonably well balanced, 
 and there are enough different modes to keep the action interesting for a while. It helps that 
 the game isn't kneecapped by bad weapons, as some historical FPSs tend to be in the multiplayer 
 arena. All the weapons pack a nice punch, though each class is only assigned a pair of specific 
 weapons, a primary and a secondary. There are no weapon pickups on the various maps. Though our 
 time with the multiplayer was solid, we did run into some occasional connection issues, including 
 a couple of crashes that forced us to reboot the game.  

  In terms of presentation, Call of Juarez is all over the map, especially as far as graphics go. 
 Environments are definitely the high point. As you wander around the game, you'll see tons of attractive 
 Old West scenery, from mountain vistas to desert plains. It's great-looking stuff that's made better 
 by some nice lighting effects and solid texture work (save for a few occasional ugly spots) . On 
 the other side of the coin are the character models. The people you encounter all have that sort 
 of Doom 3 overly shiny thing going on, and they even look a bit mutated to boot. Animations tend 
 to be stiff, clipping issues pop up quite often, and any time you catch a glimpse of what your 
 own character model is doing, either in a reflection or a shadow, or just by looking down, you'd 
 think you were controlling an animatronic robot from some ghost town tourist trap. Still, the problems 
 are mostly outweighed by the positives, and the game as a whole looks good.  

          Be prepared to stare at a lot of shrubbery while playing as Billy.     

  Audio is less 
 scattershot. Apart from some great sound effects and a soundtrack that nicely captures the atmosphere 
 of the era, the game has mostly solid, if slightly hammy voice acting for nearly all the characters. 
 Billy is the only one who didn't fare very well, as the actor who plays him sound like he's in 
 as big a rush as possible to get out of the recording booth, but pretty much everyone else is on 
 their game and delivers an entertaining performance.  

  As ham-fisted and generic as Call of Juarez can be at times, it does enough right to transcend 
 its various issues and turn in a pleasing shooter. It does the Old West motif well, the gunslinging 
 (and bible slinging) are a lot of fun, and the capable multiplayer modes have enough going for 
 them to give the game a bit of staying power. It doesn't quite rise past the ceiling established 
 by other recent western shooters, but it's good, solid fun all around.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (106 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: analog999
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 23, 2009 11:31 am PT
Review:  I saw the trailer for Call of Juarez Blood Brothers and thought that looked awesome. I found out 
 that there was an original Call of Juarez and that it only sells for about $15 used. I downloaded 
 the demo on xbox live and was impressed. Bought the game on ebay and when it came I was blown away. 
 A lot of fun, very immersive. Graphics are good, not great, but nothing to really complain about. 
 Controls for the guns are great, except the whip and stomping spiders could be a little more straightforward.
 
  
  This game is Tombstone meets Indiana Jones meets Tomb Raider, all set in the old west. This isn't 
 just a FPS, it's also a FP puzzle challenge (not too difficult) . Shooting the indians with the 
 old winchester is great fun, as well as all the other shootouts. The music is fantastic, very mood 
 setting and heart pumping when you're getting hurt. 
  
  Other people complain about playing Billy. They complain about all these sneak scenes. I don't 
 know what they're talking about. Go kill someone, take their gun and forget about sneaking - blow 
 everyone away! Worked for me anyway. The other parts where you play Billy you are doing the puzzle 
 type things, which to me aren't boring. There is very little in the game where you absolutely have 
 to sneak. 
  
  The only things that I think could improve this game would be two player co-op on xbox live and 
 slightly better graphics. I would have also liked it if they had you hunt more often. I'm almost 
 done with the game and there was only one point where you had to hunt with the bow an arrow. It 
 was challenging to have to lead the rabbits with your shot and I would have enjoyed hunting other 
 animals throughout the game. I haven't played any of the extra missions, so it is possible that 
 perhaps some of that is in there.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DisturbedMDD
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 13, 2009 6:49 pm PT
Review:  Call of Juarez is a FPS that takes place where John Wayne and Clint Eastwood call home. The Wild 
 West. It's the late 1800's and You get to play the role of 2 characters - a kid with a bow who 
 you think is an Injun, but turns out to be a Mexi -- Can; and a man mean as hell. A man with a steel 
 chest and a heart of frost. A man with True Grit... the local priest?! Really? Okay, fine. I can 
 dig that. Anyway onwards to the review!
  
  Firstly, CoJ, as I will be referring to it from here on in, is a purty game. The environments, 
 for the most part are a sight to see. But, in the underground areas and the nighttime episodes 
 you can't see three feet past the spurs in your boots. Also, the people look good from a distance, 
 but when you get close, you can hardly pay attention to the dialog because you are trying to figure 
 out what the character is looking at. One eye is a-lookin' to some far off distance, but one eye 
 is dead on. 
  
  Beyond the visuals though, CoJ has a pretty run o' the mill FPS experience, but one aspect that 
 I really enjoyed was riding the horse. Unlike another game, which shall remain nameless for the 
 moment, in which you can ride a horse but thats it, you can actually shoot while on your horse. 
 (Moment's past. Oblivion be thy game) So if you're in a high-speed chase, you can keep going and 
 gun down your opponent.
  
  Another aspect of the combat I really enjoyed was the duels. Nothing bring you into the West like 
 some scum-sucking low-life calling you Yella... its awesome. 
  
  Now to the bad. The whip, while necessary in any Indiana Jones film, seems a little out of place 
 and half of the game makes you use it, but the actual controls of said whip are way out of whack 
 and mess up... a lot. You'll be trying to swing on a branch and find yourself plummeting to your 
 imminent DOOM. 
  
  Anyway, I found CoJ to be a surprisingly fun game and while there are better FPS's out there, I 
 say go ahead and give this one a try. So grab your six-shooter and get ready for some old timey 
 fun. I give Call of Juarez a 8.5/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: McGuire0025
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 11, 2008 4:24 pm PT
Review:  Ah, Call of Jaurez I got it when it first came out and spent all summer playing it, I've beaten 
 more than once, and will pull it out when I'm borred. The game has mulltiple weapons gadgets, horses 
 and stuff. It's a run and gun game wear you play as a preist who wants revenge for the death of 
 his brother, or a half indian boy with a bow and a whip. The games story is like a spaghati western, 
 and in my opinion the best story a video game could have. the gameplay is like call of duty 3 with 
 revolvers, the graphics are stunning at times, and the controls are good, espescially considering 
 you'll be duel weilding most of the game. The game also has a multiplayer option, which I haven't 
 experienced because I don't have xbox live. The only thing this game lacks would be the frustration 
 in stacking boxes to get out of saloons and burning barns well being shot at. But this game is 
 so underrated and deserves so much more, it's a must buy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FelisLeo1980
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 2, 2008 3:09 am PT
Review:  Call of Juarez has an interesting setting and story, but its gameplay started to irritate me just 
 after 10 or 15 minutes. GUN is still the king of western games.
  
  Year is 1882 in Texas and a man named Billy returns to his home ranch after being away for 2 years. 
 Unfortunately he hears gunshots and finds his mother and stepfather murdered with the words "Call 
 of Juarez" written in blood on a wall. At this point Billy's step-uncle Reverend Ray shows up and 
 assumes that Billy has killed his brother. Reverend sets out in pursuit of Billy and in this way 
 he chooses to become what he was so long ago: a skillful gunslinger. Story switches between these 
 2 characters all the time, but the story itself stays the same. Game uses cutscenes and in-game 
 dialog, but it's all done in a first person perspective, just like in Half-Life for example.
  
  Environmental graphics are especially well done and it would have been a real pleasure just 
 to explore these lands a bit more. Unfortunately game moves forward in a linear path so you can't 
 get lost. Lighting effects are great and as whole it's a pleasure to look at. Character models 
 do their job well, but they are not as stellar as the environment. Loading times occur quite often, 
 but they are short and the frame rate stays solid. Story progresses during loading screens so make 
 sure to listen. Aside from excellent voice acting the sound design is also done well. Music brings 
 that familiar western feel really close and the sound of wind in the bushes while adding some howling 
 coyotes is really something. In the end I must admit that audiovisual presentation in Call of Juarez 
 is just what it should be. Too bad the same can't be said about the gameplay.
  
  Controls are easy to learn, but changing between weapons and items is far too slow as a shooter. 
 When playing as Reverend Ray you'll mostly solve light puzzles and shoot a whole bunch of bad guys. 
 A bullet-time effect called Concentration Mode let's you do some really fast dueling action and 
 it's always fun to be the fastest man in the West. Billy's parts however are not so great. First 
 of all the platforming is awful and it involves a lot of trial and error. Secondly the sneaking 
 parts are too frustrating since you don't have a clear understanding about how far an enemy can 
 see you or can't see you.
  
  There are numerous historical guns to use and it's something we haven't seen a million times before. 
 But whose bright idea was to make guns explode after a few dozen shots? It adds absolutely nothing 
 into the game, except maybe leaving you defenceless in a nasty firefight.
  
  Enemy AI is decent, but why do I need to fire 6 times to a bad guy's mid-section before he dies? 
 Headshot on the other hand kills instantly, but since these guns are pretty inaccurate it's not 
 that easy to hit people in the head.
  
  Game uses checkpoints to save your progress and this makes the stealth portions and platforming 
 bits nearly intolerable. Trial & error gameplay doesn't mix with the use of checkpoints. Even if 
 you enjoy westerns and want to like this game the save system might be too much to handle.
  
  Call of Juarez also includes a multiplayer component with standard modes like Team Deathmatch 
 and so on. Action is not hindered by the fact that this is a historical game, but unfortunately 
 it might be quite hard to find some people to play with you.
  
  In the end Call of Juarez has a great presentation and a nice story, but its gameplay suffers some 
 serious flaws and the use of exploding guns and checkpoints makes it even worse. If you are a fan 
 of westerns I recommend you to check your bargain bin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sortacanadian
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 7, 2008 4:57 pm PT
Review:  I was hesitant to play this game until my friend forced me to install it on my computer. I have 
 to say i was pleasantly surprized with it. The graphics were decent enough and the voice acting 
 alright for the subject matter but what really stood out was the gun-play and blood effects. To 
 be honest i think his game has better blood/death animation than most recent games. When you shoot 
 an enemy it really does feel like you're killing someone and the effects are quite visceral. You 
 see the blood stream out and the body react to the shots and best of all, the carnage is to be 
 seen afterwards with blood on the walls and wounds on the body. This game made shooting a real 
 rewarding experience so much so that the other portions of the game (when stealth is key) are nearly 
 unbearable as you can't wait to get back to shooting. Really I think that's the only flaw, playing 
 as "Billy" just isn't fun and is nearly frustrating at times. The enjoyment of this game comes 
 out of playing as Ray where the real fun is to be had though he isn't the most likable character, 
 but aside from billy the most fleshed out. Story tries to be an important factor here but it's 
 nothing special and draws heavily from a stockpile of Western movie cliches as one would expect. 
 Still, if you have a love for the genre, this is one of the best western games if not the best 
 western game I've played. I'd love to see something similar in the near future that improves upon 
 some of this game's less than perfect aspects. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ANIALATOR136
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 12, 2008 3:37 am PT
Review:  Its a little different from most games. The graphics are extremely good for a game such as this. 
 One thing about this game is extremely disappointing, that is the interaction between objects and 
 characters. You could be talking to someone during a cutscene and they take a few seconds to respond 
 which can be quite annoying. A few great points are the weapons, the chapters and the wild animals 
 you come across. First the weapons. I loved the choice of weapons including revolvers, a sniper 
 rifle and a bow and arrow. They really thought out how the bow and arrow could be used. You are 
 able to shoot rabbits as they speed out of the bushes. In this chapter you must help an indian 
 catch his dinner and climb a mountain for an eagle feather. Im not particularly pleased with the 
 way they have tried to combine first person and third person. For example it just isnt right riding 
 a horse in first person but it is better than not having any horses. Overall I loved this game 
 and regret trading it.
  Just give it a try! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Supaza
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 19, 2008 10:52 am PT
Review:  This game had a lot of potential, and unfortunately couldn't quite decide what it was going to 
 be; a first person shooter, or an RPG. This game is set in the Wild West, where you take control 
 of two characters, one chasing the other. It's quite a clever game in that you are playing both 
 the predator and the prey in the same game, alternating levels between the two. The idea is that 
 this kid (whose quick with a whip and pistol) is falsely accused of killing a family member and 
 his uncle, a preacher and retired gangster gun man is on the hunt to bring him down. So you basically 
 play the game as that. You play the stealthy, "running away" levels as the kid and the more action 
 packed gun slinging levels as the preacher. The story doesn't really go anywhere exciting and winds 
 up trying to be too clever. It does however have some good moments. 
  The controls are easy to get the hang of, however the circumstances are not. While the preacher 
 levels are all simple "shoot to kill", the kid missions often involve a lot of climbing and swinging 
 from the whip, also a lot of boring sneaking and stealth. While all of these would be fun and easy 
 in an RPG or third person view, they are not only hard and frustrating, but just plain boring in 
 first person mode. The cool thing is, the whip can be used to fight and disarm enemies, which is 
 useful if caught in the open. Playing as the kid often requires you to scavenge for whatever weapon 
 you can find. The preacher can't jump and climb like the kid can, however he doesn't need to. He 
 can blast his way through any and everything with his 6 shooters and rifle. The weapons are fun 
 to wield that cannot be denied. When using the pistols, you can holster them, and quickly draw 
 them again to activate a slow motion mode, at which point you have a limited matter of seconds 
 to shoot as many enemies as you can before the time runs out. This slow time feature is cool as 
 you can walk into a building with pistols down, draw and within a matter of seconds, have down 
 4 enemies. It's very fun. This carries over into duels, where quite often in the game, instead 
 of a boss; a main character will challenge you to a duel. In this case, you both must holster your 
 weapons, and then draw and kill your opponent before he can do that to you. Its fast and tense. 
 Another thing you can do, which is completely ridiculous, and possibly the dumbest thing I've seen 
 in a shooter, is you can take out a bible and read passages of revelation to your enemies. This 
 bamboozles them, allowing you to shoot them as they listen. Stupid and pointless. I played the 
 whole game through and didn't touch it.
  Overall the game is quite good fun. The action sequences fun but short lived, few, and far between. 
 There is too much wandering around climbing and jumping and not enough FPS action. Horse riding 
 doesn't look as good as the rest of the game, which has pretty good graphics. Voice acting and 
 sound is not all that good. While the weapons sound good, the talking and voices sound off somehow. 
 You're more likely to get bored or frustrated with this game long before you complete it. The multiplayer 
 has very little going for it. Something like Call of Duty 3 you can choose you class at the start 
 of each re-spawn and that dictates your weapon layout. Unfortunately the hit system is very bad, 
 as is the character movements around the maps. The maps are authentic and western looking, but 
 the problem is the players moving around them. From your point of view, you see only your gun, 
 however when you see someone else running around, their feet are not on the ground, their body 
 seems completely separate from the game world, their shadows move inconsistently and the hit system 
 means that even if you miss by a foot, there is a chance you might still get the kill. The multiplayer 
 sadly, had nothing going for it. All in all, value for money? I'd pay no more than 15 and trade 
 it in again. It has little to no replay value, even if you complete it. This is a shame as the 
 game had great potential.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jojowonderdog
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 9, 2008 2:30 am PT
Review:  Call Of Juarez may not be a game that will ever rock your world, but it's certainly got some great 
 moments and a lot of ideas for the Western genre, even if not all of them are pulled off.
  
  You play as 2 characters: The first is Billy Candle, a young cowboy who returns home just in 
 time to find his mum & stepdad have been murdered. Thats when the second character: Reverend Ray 
 (Billy's step-uncle) shows up, he sees you looking all guilty and running from the scene of the 
 crime. 
  
  And so the chase is on.
  
  This 2 character dynamic gives a great pace to the game and stops it from ever getting too repetitive 
 and boring. 
  With the Reverend it's more unleashing the wrath of God with your pistols and with Billy it's a 
 lot more of a stealth game, hiding in bushes, sneaking past baddies to get to your destination.
 
  
  And overall it works well. The gunplay is a lot of fun. It feels a little strange to begin with, 
 but this is because we're so used to unrealistic FPS's that when you are given 2 old western pistols 
 and asked use them its not as simple as shoot and blast anything infront of you and expect to hit 
 it.
  You are actually going to have to hit it (and in the correct part of the body too)
  
  The greatest achievement this game has is that it distracts you from the fact that at it's 
 core, it's just another run of the mill FPS. 
  The story and especially the Voice Acting make you feel like you could be in the old wild west 
 and the constant changing between the 2 characters keeps it from getting stale.
  
  Original? Slightly
  Cliched? Of course
  Stock FPS? Kind of
  Alot of fun for very little cash: 
 Definitely
  
  7.0: Go on you know you want to.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrisbrookscool
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 28, 2008 7:27 pm PT
Review:  The gameplay of this western game is priceless. One hand your playing a boy on the run after being 
 framed of murder and on the other hand your playing a priest who's chasing after the boy because 
 the person who was murder happen to be the priest's brother.
  
  What makes this game different from other western games is the special abilities/skills you have 
 with your revolver. I also liked how they made the two people you play as have different items. 
 The boy gets a wipe, which can be used as a weapon or a rope to swing between gaps and the priest 
 gets a bible where you can freeze people for a spit second (didn't really work for me though)
 
  
  Now the graphics weren't as good as Call of Duty 4 but they weren't bad either, great character 
 animation.
  
  As I said in the review deck, This COULD have been the best western game ever!!!!. they reason 
 I said Could because I didn't really like how they address the story, it was a long passage at 
 the beginning of each level. Then the bosses, well I really wouldn't them that because it was no 
 challenge to defeat them. Other then that though there really wasn't any other problems.
  
  Overall, this game is kinda like a western version of Tomb Raider, how you do alot of climbing, 
 alot of adventure, and alot of shooting. I say this game is worthy of buying or at least give it 
 a try.
  
  (sorry for any misspelled words) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedneckGamer87
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 5, 2008 10:10 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: So in Call of Juarez, You play as young Billy Candle and the righteous Reverend Ray who 
 was a famous gunslinger, gone preacher and is also billy's uncle. Billy has been off searching 
 for the lost gold of Juarez, the same mythical stash that the Aztecs paid Cortez to free their 
 captured leader, Montezuma. It is said that the lost cursed treasure is buried somewhere in Juarez. 
 After searching without luck, Billy returns home to Hope, the small town that is about as hopeless 
 as it gets. Soon after a brief rendezvous with the local prostitute, Billy returns home to his 
 mother and abusive stepfather. There's only one problem -- they're dead. So begins the epic game 
 of cat-and-mouse that will touch upon just about every Western cliche out there, from the wise 
 old Indian sage to the sultry saloon prostitute to a train robbery to a stagecoach chase and, eventually, 
 to the lost gold of Juarez. In this game you get to use pretty much the same weapons as any western 
 like, revolvers, shotguns, winchesters and Bow and arrows. There is also a multuplayer which you 
 can play online or just on the consol with a few friends but I personaly don't like playing shooters 
 with a control and perefering the keyboard and mouse on the computer.
  
  Graphics: I have to say that the graphics are really well done in this game. Everything is detail, 
 looks real and is colorful. The lighting and shadows are especially well done -- looking toward 
 the setting sun behind a mountain top is gorgeous. Character models and animations all look good, 
 and the game holds steady with a nice framerate. There are several problems, though. In dark environments, 
 the details are washed out and you can barely see your gun in front of your face
  
  Sound: The sound in this game are well done aswell. The soundtrack suits the game well and sound 
 effects and voice covers are really done well in this game.
  
  Value: All in all this is a fun game but it uses almost every western cliche out there. Wish they 
 could make a game that did not use so much steriotyping. So if you like western shooters or just 
 shooter games in general then you will probrably enjoy this game. The atmosphere is excellent, 
 thanks to a great cinematic score and a great variety of gameplay including horses, dueling, stealth 
 and flat-out action. I give this game 8.5 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: orb_03_2006
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 22, 2008 3:06 pm PT
Review:  for what I played of the game, it was very excellent. the graphics were amazing the gameplay was 
 interesting. the capability of what you can do was one of the best features. the free-roaming was 
 great. what I didn't like was how on occasions is that the game got a little confusing. they give 
 you no hint on what needs to be done. you just walking around for periods of time and guess to 
 figure things out. the weapons were very great, too. some weapons they had were creative to some 
 level. I was also fond of the voice acting. not many games have great dialog, but this one impressed. 
 I was also fond of the cut-scenes. the shading and shadows used were a great touch. this is the 
 first game I've played for the 360, though. so maybe there are better. but overall, I thought it 
 was a great game. well worth the price! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WonderBread88
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 11, 2008 11:02 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay/Interface: 8.5/10
  - This is the first western FPS I've played. Story is certainly good and really keeps you going 
 to the end, unfortunately the game is rather short. The to characrers you play as are Billy and 
 Billy's uncle who is a preacher, suprisingly the preacher is the only fun character to play, Billys 
 style is complete stealth which is kind of odd for a western style game. The preacher, however, 
 is the one blowing people away. Radar is completely useless in the game. SOme of the puzzles can 
 leave you feeling uncertain as to what your ever suppose to do.
  
  Environment & Immersion: 6.5/10
  - Maps are pretty decently detailed but can be very miss-leading 
 as to where your supposed to go, even with the compass which might I add is of no help. The game 
 is quite easy to really get into and is addicting untill you get stuck at something and have to 
 retry till its boring. The best part of the game is the gun fights, theres just some thrill about 
 the slow mo shoot out or even just the fact that the shotgun deals a hilarious amount of force 
 against your enemies. The Innocent Person and corpse rule should have been optional under parental 
 controls. It was very annoying when you would be in a gun fight and you accidentally shoot a corpse 
 to many times or a victim out of nowhere and the game just ends.....
  
  Graphics/Physics: 8.5/10
  - Much better graphics than what I was expecting. The lighting was 
 almost perfectly done in this game. The amount of blood that spills out of people is almost a joke 
 when you can't even shoot a corpse without the game ending. Blood was still fun. Gun models could 
 have been a bit larger, I felt like every gun was the size of a derringer and that the derringer 
 felt like the "Cricket" from Men In Black. 
  
  Sound: 8/10
  - The voices were well done, the preacher really did sound like an old rustic, out-west preacher. 
 However, Billy didn't even sound Hispanic which was rather odd when there were other voices in 
 the game that were clearly Hispanic sounding. Gun and explosion sounds made the game all-that-more 
 entertaining.
  
  Bugs, Stability & Performance: 9/10
  - No bugs to be found, the loading screens on the other hand were sometimes strangly long, expecially 
 in the first half of the game. Some loading screens took almost 2 minutes to finish, at least there 
 were voice-cut-scenes to listen to while it loaded.
  
  Replay value: 8.5/10
  - I can completely see myself coming back to this game just for the gun fights. Multiplayer is 
 also fun just because its one long complicated shoot-out.
  
  Value for money: 6.5/10
  - For $30 I can't really complain to much, I do wish it had of been longer and that billy weren't 
 to have been all stealth. Its a so-so amount.
  
  Will this game be remembered by old school gamers as a classic after 10 years?:
  - Only for those 
 who are big into Western games. As where some other gamers way not even recall the name. 
  
  Who would I recommend to buy the game?:
  - Western fans, Any FPS gamer who is wanting to 
 try a different style other than the typicall modern, futuristic, or WWII game.
  
  -----------------------------------------------
  
  Overall: 8 - Fun Western style FPS. Great 
 shoot-outs and action, very boring stealth missions. Game should have also been a bit longer. I 
 would also say this game is often under-rated. This game is certainly a lot of fun, but just has 
 some slow parts. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrwizard209
Rating: 4
Date: Apr 9, 2008 1:47 pm PT
Review:  sure the graphics are nice, but that is where it all ends. they tried to make it as real as possible 
 but don't let you have any freedom with your choices. it's do it this and do that but do it this 
 way. if you want to do a bunch of crap other than shoot people, go for it. the stroy is pathetic 
 and every thing is done to the fullest extent of cliche. i mean the sherif meets you as you enter 
 town and harasses you. the local brothel has a hottie working there and guess what, she likes you 
 and will do you for free but, another wallop of a twist, the salon owner hates you. wow, like i 
 didn't see that coming. the objectives are just plain foolish. every little thing is an objective. 
 if you want a shooter play a medal of honor, call of duty, or halo. this game flat out falls on 
 its face. play only if you're hard up for a western themed game, and i mean hard up like there's 
 no western movie on either cause watching one is basically like playing this game except the guys 
 in the movies can actually have fun. i say avoid. there is far better gaming to be had. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jasonfinger
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 29, 2008 5:57 pm PT
Review:  I played the demo and thought it was pretty decent....
  I got this game from someone who was done with it. I popped it in and remembering the demo I thought 
 his game wouldn't be half bad. Popped the game in and I was starting off as this Billy character. 
 Ok, I'm billy? Who's this guy from the Demo? Billy sucks! All he could do was sneak around like 
 a little wussy boy and crack a whip. Not to mention byou have to swing from ledges to ledges like 
 a fricken monkey. WTF!!!??? Then after wanting to pull my hair out I became the PRIEST, ok this 
 guy is cool... but why do I have to move boxes around to jump on them? Cant I just keep going in 
 this game and play it instead of doing all this artsy fartsy crap? You can preach the bible in 
 one hand and blow them away with other. Thats pretty cool. The reverend is a cool bad-ass but I 
 don't know how many times I wanted to say SCREW THIS GAME! The only thing that kept me going was 
 the fact of the story line.
  Billy is seen at his murdered mother and step fathers house. The reverend sees him (The reverend's 
 brother is his step-father) and thinks he did the crime. So your chasing Billy with the Reverend 
 and Running away from the Reverend with Billy. Kind of neat story. Thats why I kept playing it.
 
  
  Bottome line. Cool story, Billy sucks, reverend can be cool, Gameplay SUCKS MY BUTT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilman5100
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 2, 2008 1:58 pm PT
Review:  This is definately the most whacked out western game ive ever played... however the last western 
 game i played was Red Dead Revolver, and that wasnt bad at all. Anyway apparently the game is about 
 some guy whose uncle thinks he killed his mom and dad... well the the father is the uncles brothers 
 and now hes out to get his nephew and bring some justice. Well the game was definately over rated 
 but it passes time, lame, but good if you need to waste time. The graphics are moderately ok but 
 the scenery is well done... however, the game and story are not that great, you got people who come 
 out of no where and bust a cap in your ass. The weaponry isnt all that fascinating either, your 
 option for the kid is a whip and a bow, and your option as the priest are guns... thats it. I like 
 to believe i have good taste in games and this is not the best game ever, but ill give it a generous 
 rating for the fact that i bought it and play it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Swimmerking33
Rating: 1.5
Date: Dec 30, 2007 11:42 pm PT
Review:  I don't even understand how you can make a game like this without confusing yourself, this game 
 is pitiful, i played for a hour, and didn't even get past the second mission or whatever. THEY 
 CALL IT A WESTERN GAME? the second mission is me holding a bible as some reallllyyyy ugly old man 
 chasing after a kid who disappears, they give you no clues of were he might go, u just have to 
 guess and look around for 3 hours till u can figure out what the **** your doing. Seriously though. 
 Its games like this that really tick me off, they are just in it for the money, there is no thought 
 in the design of the game, like come on, u gotta be able to do better then this, the first mission 
 i spent a hour just trying to figure out how to get past some old guy, and the hints they give 
 me at the bottom of the screen are WAY to small to read without being a inch away from the t. v.
 
  
  There just wasn't much thought put into this game, don't buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnblood
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 28, 2007 9:13 am PT
Review:  i think that this game couldve been better graphically and gameplay. it was really clichy and even 
 on the hardest difficulty it was easy. the multiplayer was okay at best though. honestly the only 
 reason i finished the game was for the achievements. im an achievement whore so as you already 
 know i had to have them. i rate this game at a 7 only because its fair and i have respect for the 
 hard working guys that put all those sleepless hours to games for us to enjoy. i think that all 
 that hard work put into this game it could have been made up in the multiplayer. there wasnt really 
 a whole lot of people online that played this game so it made it difficult to play online witha 
 full room. the potential didnt make the outcome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarkedByAshes
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 13, 2007 8:17 am PT
Review:  When I first popped this disc in, I was thinking it was going to be just another game to plow through 
 and I wouldn't really care. Half-way through, I became saddened to know that this was a title I 
 could have taken my time with and really enjoyed if I hadn't gone in thinking it was a 'Gun' or 
 'Red Dead Revolver' knock-off. Sure it takes from both titles, but there's plenty more to enjoy 
 than just the same ol' duel with outlaws and horse riding. Of course these things are in there, 
 but there are a few new twists that give 'Juarez' a charm of it's own.
  
  The story is a little more complicated than the box description tells you. To sum it up, you take 
 control of 2 main characters that you'll swap between for the various episodes. Each has their 
 own story that entertwines with the other. You begin the game as Billy Candle, a teenage runaway 
 returning home from a failed attempt to find the lost gold of Juarez. Right from the start they 
 throw you into a tough situation: working your way down the mountainside without dying. This may 
 sound easier than you think, but one bad step and you go tumbling to your death within the first 
 minute of the game. This sets the stage in two ways; (as Billy) you must move cautiously around 
 the landscape, and the game has an unexpected difficulty to it. After navigating your way down, 
 you're put into a tutorial of sorts that introduces you to the game's FPS stealth mode and platforming 
 aspect. Here, you'll learn exactly how patient you can be as well as how beautiful the scenery 
 is. By this, I mean that you'll spend a good deal of time hiding behind rocks and in bushes as 
 you wait for someone to look the other way giving you the opportunity to sneak by. And believe 
 me, your patience WILL be tested as you will have to time things out right and watch every move. 
 But we'll come back to Billy in a moment...
  
  Moving on to the second main character, you'll take control of Reverend Ray; a grizzly old fire-and-brimstone 
 preacher who reminded me of a cross between Johnny Cash and Dirty Harry. He's also Billy's step-uncle 
 and happens to find his brother and Billy's mother lying dead at their ranch and little Billy is 
 running from the scene. (Now would be a good time to check out U2's song with Johnny Cash, "The 
 Wanderer" from the 'Zooropa' cd.) So old Ray takes off after Billy "with a Bible and a gun" (a 
 line from "The Wanderer") to bring the boy to justice. From this point on you play the story from 
 both sides: the hunter and the hunted. And not to worry; Reverend Ray is all about kicking a** 
 in the name of the Lord. There will be plenty of run-and-gun gameplay for those who love traditional 
 FPS's.
  
  Overall, the switching between characters works well to change up the pacing of the story, but 
 the stealth/platforming sections involving Billy seemed to drag on more than it should; mostly 
 in part to the trial & error method of figuring out how to work past your enemies. Episode 4 in 
 particular posed a real challenge, not in the difficulty, but due to a slight flaw in the game 
 design. The level takes place at night and it makes things really hard to see if you're in a well-lit 
 room. Not being able to see the enemies is one thing, but when they can spot you from across the 
 field AND hit you with precision accuracy, then there is something wrong. A fix to this is also 
 another downfall; if you are spotted, you can merely backtrack through the level until the "alert 
 music" stops playing and the baddies return to a state of unaware stupidity. It helps balance the 
 difficulty, but wouldn't you rather out-wit your enemies as they try running to your location instead 
 of taking a few well-placed shots to your person and then lazily return to patrol? And of course 
 during these stealth missions you get a bow and arrows to help take down thugs in silence, but 
 you still have to keep a close eye on who will see them fall. 
  
  Moving once again back to Reverend Ray, the gunplay is quite decent as are the "quickdraw" features. 
 You can enter a "concentration mode", which is like bullet-time, and take down enemies in slow 
 motion. The one-on-one quickdraw scenes are similar, but require a much steadier hand. Both features 
 could use a little fine-tuning, but it serves it's purpose for the game. I just wouldn't want to 
 see the exact same mechanic in another title. 
  
  A couple of other minor issues to point out are the lack of weapons and overall content of the 
 game. The designers tried to implement a 'breakable weapons' system by having rusted guns, overheating, 
 and blowing up in your hand. This was a cool concept, but it doesn't come into play enough to really 
 warrant using it. Sure you can find new weapons, but I rarely had to search for a new gun and only 
 once did I use one to the point that it exploded (and didn't kill me???) . The game is also a bit 
 on the shorter side as I completed it in just under 9 hours and 30 minutes. There is bonus content 
 but it doesn't quite feel like it belongs. You can unlock duels (which are simply replays of the 
 in-game duels) and bonus missions. The bonus missions add another hour or two of game time and 
 are a bit more difficult, but they don't fit the story. They feel like deleted scenes that were 
 taken out because they didn't fit within the rest of the game. In these bonus missions, you take 
 the roll of a third character who is tracking rustlers, but it never really ties in to the rest 
 of the game. They do, however, add a bit more replay value for those who like Reverend Ray's portion 
 of the story. 
  
  Overall, this isn't a title to be missed. It has it's flaws but it's far more enjoyable than I'm 
 sure I've made it out to be. I really liked the beautiful and detailed graphics and I wish now 
 that I had purchased it and not run through so quickly. And considering it can be found for $30 
 or less, I think it's a title worthy of a spot in your collection... especially if you enjoyed 'Red 
 Dead Revolver' and 'Gun'. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: waveddiamond
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 25, 2007 9:20 pm PT
Review:  Call of juarez is set in the "wild west" where a troubled kid returns to his home town only to 
 get into more trouble apperantly, a reverent who used to be the fastest gun in the west. Follows 
 billy's trails after he has been set up and everyone believes he has killed his parents.... so 
 on and so foward. Im going to focus more on the online since its the only reason why I would dare 
 to give this game a 7.5, the physics are horrible and you practically fly up stairs, once you have 
 shot some one dead they take a good extra second to realize they are dead, on the other hand gameplay 
 is fast paced and enjoyable. There is a weapon for every kind of class you might be good at, they 
 have a sniper that actually works lol. You can decided to be a fast shooter and use a six shooter 
 or become a miner and throw mines like crazy and eliminate multiple enemies at the same time. Ranking 
 was never used in call of juarez, so pretty much people just play player matches and hope to get 
 all the achievements. Maps are large, but not to the point where you cannot find your enemy, the 
 stay close the actual scenerios in the game and have cool cliches from actual western flicks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amphibiouskille
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 25, 2007 2:09 pm PT
Review:  Definitely not the best FPS out there for the console, and not the best western-themed one either 
 (why did Gun stink so bad as well?) .
  
  While the FPS aspects of the game are decent, a lot of it seems like it could have been on a last 
 generation console. The whip mechanics when playing as the boy are horrible, especially when trying 
 to swing from one area to another.
  
  The storyline is good enough (probably the best aspect of the game) and the ability to switch between 
 to the two characters is a novel trick as far as the plotline of the story goes, but adds little 
 to the fun of playing the game.
  
  I would rent this game to get a taste of it, but don't waste your money (or your time) buying this. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MYSTROW1
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 10:29 am PT
Review:  call of juerez is a let down. the graphics aren't great and the multiplayer is sometimes good but 
 some times very lagy when you have more than 6 players but the maps are very well designed with 
 different routes too take and get around behind the opposition. the singleplayer is a bit repeative 
 when you have too save people and the horses look like they run on petrol and are square. it is 
 quite hard because you run out of ammo quite quick but i like how you can set boxes and things 
 on fire including people! i wouldn't buy it unless your not wired right. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AssassinExDeus
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 10, 2007 3:24 pm PT
Review:  I originally played this game on the computer. I didn't finish the story on the 360 version but 
 did play alot of MP on the 360 version. This is one of those games your going to like 100% or your 
 going to hate 100%. Western games are hard games to make people like. COJ's SP has a great story 
 and could have been even better if the MP had some work done on it. The game is very griping and 
 pulls you in, more so later into it. 
  
  The gameplay is complicated to explain. In the SP you play as two guys, switching as them in each 
 chapter telling the same story. One a kid who's coming back to town and the other a preacher of 
 the town... both related. The kids gameplay is more stealth, puzzle like. The preachers is more 
 shooting and fighting with fists. They both shooting in each style but its a unique to play as 
 both. 
  
  When your the kid you'll be using your whip to swing from trees and along rock ledges or in caves. 
 Maybe riding a horse and killing angry Indians and cowboys. While as the preacher you'll be just 
 about killing everything and occasionally helping people whom you think god has sent you to help. 
 Your secret weapon is your bible, you read something and it stuns people so you have time to shoot 
 them. You can also punch things which makes it really fun when your close to someone.
  
  The MP is your typical online game with your typical modes of team vs team... etc. Just like with 
 the PC version though it needs some work. The levels were to small and the gameplay was a little 
 unfun.
  
  Difficulty wise this game is not easy. The AI sometimes seems easy and other times feel like they 
 are sharpshooters. As the game progress's you'll definitely die a few times.
  
  The controls are a little weird since it isn't your typical control scheme. But you should get 
 use to them after an hour or so.
  
  The graphics are great but somewhat... awkward. Can't put my finger on it. I think maybe its they 
 way the characters look. The western look of the game really looks great when your riding a horse 
 through the canyons higher up. 
  
  Overall this game is pretty good and has a lengthy story that will keep challenged as the game 
 goes on! Buy if you like westerns. Rent if you have any doubts though.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talisac
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 10, 2007 5:46 am PT
Review:  The game begins with you playing as Billy Candle, a young guy, son of a white setler with an unknown 
 mexican father, his step-father is brother to Reverend Ray, the other main character of the game. 
 As Billy you'll find yourself looking for your family's farm, however, as you reach it some stuff 
 happens that makes it look as if you has killed your parents, Reverend Ray witness you near the 
 scene of the crime and start hunting you down.
  Basically, while palying with Billy you'll be running away from the Reverend, and when palying 
 with the Reverend you'll be hunting Billy down and occasionally doing a side track mission such 
 as help some poor folks from a train robbery, etc.
  Playing as Billy is stressing and takes away all the fun of the game. He's horrible with guns, 
 dies easily, and you'll spend most of the time hiding from enemies. On the other hand he has a 
 great sight and he's a master with the bow and arrow, he has a whip so he can climb a few spots, 
 but it's really hard to do it, since the controls are horrible when playing with Billy.
  As Reverend Ray the game is spectacular, a true western as you roam around villages and deserts, 
 with true western weaponry shooting bandits down with the utmost precision. His controls are basic, 
 they add nothing new but they don't complicate either.
  Graphics are gorgeous with a few flaws.
  All in all this game is a must-have for western fans, 
 and a weak game for anyone else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PdPstyle
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 7, 2007 4:02 pm PT
Review:  Call of Juarez has proven that the western is not dead yet! the best thing about this game is the 
 single player (though honestly I did not get to really play much multilayer) . while it does use 
 the standard run and gun tactics, it adds a few fun if not some strange elements. for one being 
 able to recite passages from the good book is strange/slightly blasphemous as you use it to distract 
 your enemies so you can get a clear shot at them.... but it is fun. The matrix style bullet time 
 is also a welcome addition that adds spice to the game and adds to the feeling that the character 
 truly is a legend from the wild west. The story and video clips are both top notch, blending perfectly 
 with the games style. If you are a fan of good old fashion western shoot outs AND in depth story 
 this is a must play game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: knitecrow007
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 7, 2007 11:48 am PT
Review:  Call of Juarez tries a different take on the first person genre by setting it in the old west; 
 a welcome change from the typical si-fi/war themes that exist. The most striking feature of the 
 game are its graphics and they are good. In particular, the lighting effects and high dynamic used 
 makes everything seem more natural. Going beyond graphics and western setting, Call of Juarez is 
 surprisingly average despite all the numerous minor additions to game play. For example, two protagonists 
 that you alternate between, quick-draw matches with end bosses, ability to ride horses (even though 
 they may be sparse) . Ultimately the blame can be laid on the main story, which is not strong enough 
 to set it apart from other shooters, and the level design, which again is not original/unique enough. 
 There are exceptions, such as the part where you search for Juarezs gold but most levels are quite 
 bland.
  
  That it not to say this is a bad game, it is just an average shooter in an very crowded market. 
 The single player campaign will keep players interested for its span. A worthy rental for the FPS 
 fan but not worth owning.
  
  7.0 / 10
  
  Visit my gaming site:
  www. gamingdump. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: b0-0n
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 24, 2007 7:26 am PT
Review:  With another setting and concept, one that doesnt fall into the category of Westerns, Call of 
 Juarez probably would have come and gone without making much wind. But in a gameworld where just 
 about everyone eagers for a grown up and immersive adventure based on cowboy and Indian the game 
 received quite a lot of attention. And that isnt completely without reason. Techland nicely did 
 their homework. Shoot-outs, horse riding, injustice and revenge, train robberies and burning saloons, 
 we get everything a fan of the genre longs for! On top of that, the whole is added with a sugar 
 sweet layer of charm and entertainment that will make you easily overlook a substantial number 
 of shortcomings.
  
  Your first steps in the Wild West are set in the footsteps of Billy, a young bloke looking for 
 the gold of Juarez. Unfortunately his quest isnt going all too well and he returns to mom and 
 stepdad to find out theyve been killed. His step-uncle Reverend Ray sees Billy running away just 
 after he arrived home and thinks hes responsible for the gruesome murders. What follows Is a chase 
 between the sneaky and silent Billy by the raging Reverend whos quoting pieces of the Bible and 
 shooting his duo pistols. You get to play both characters, a nice find!
  
  Unfortunately, playing with Billy is all but as fun as with Ray. The latter is over-the-top and 
 having your opponents listen to a phrase from the Holy Book to then shoot them to pieces or pour 
 gasoline all over them to make a barbecue is more than fun! Your weapons may be all but varied, 
 but your six-shooter does its job beyond expectation.
  
  You also have some sort of bullet-time that allows to have a visor on both your left and right 
 pistol so you can add holes in vermin with both triggers at the same time. The implementation of 
 this isnt quite as it should be (you constantly have to put your guns back in the holster to draw 
 them again to start the special) and also the boss-fights in which you get to do a duel are a better 
 finding than that theyre implemented.
  
  Without a doubt also better on paper than on the 360 is Billys gameplay. This consists mostly 
 out of pieces of stealth and some first person platforming, something even Half-Life 1 hardly got 
 right. Its therefore no surprise that the developers completely miss the ball here. Sneaking doesnt 
 make any sense since you never know whether or not youre hidden and also the graphics with flat 
 bushes dont help either. You get a bow and arrow to silently get rid of enemies and also a whip, 
 but neither plays really nicely. I often fell in a ravine because swinging from tree to tree with 
 the whip is totally unlogically set up. Also climbing and jumping is a disaster and combined with 
 all the previous this leads to more frustration than you can bear from a game. The horse riding 
 and the fun parts with Ray luckily make up for this a bit.
  
  Fed up with the single player? Then theres some more to have fun with. There are extra missions, 
 you can play the duals separately and theres of course multiplayer. Dont expect too much from 
 that though as you get the usual, though class-based, modes like CTF, (team) deathmatch and an 
 escort mode. Decent but not something that will last forever on Xbox Live.
  
  Graphically, CoJ has as many highs and lows as with the gameplay. Something they really look good 
 with impressive lighting effects that make you believe youre shooting in a dusty, hot desert city, 
 while at other times you get to see very ugly objects or textures. Also the animations tend to 
 fall short due to their lack of realism, but after a while you do start to get used to that. The 
 sound effects during the shoot-outs nicely do their job and also the music is well integrated with 
 whats happening on the screen. You can discuss about the voicing but since this is a virtual equivalent 
 of a spaghetti western we dont mind the over-the-top acting.
  
  Call of Juarez is a blanket made out of good and bad pieces. Playing with Ray is more than fun 
 while Billy excels in bringing frustration. In the end the game manages to deliver just enough 
 entertaining moments that it deserves a small recommendation for those looking for a shooter with 
 a Western sauce. However, dont expect Deadwood on the X360. It seems that for that well have 
 to wait until a top developer starts meddling around in the Wild West. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Robert-Sapolski
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 10, 2007 7:47 am PT
Review:  Call of Juarez is a story driven, western themed, FPS. You play as two characters throughout the 
 single player portion of the game. The game starts of as you playing the first character Billy. 
 Billy is on his way back to his hometown from searching for the lost gold of Juarez. On his return 
 home he finds his mother and stepfather dead on their ranch. Billy then runs in fear of what might 
 happen and because of this running the other character you play Reverend Ray suspects you are the 
 killer. Ray is brother to Billy's stepfather so Ray is ready to bring the lords justice onto Billy 
 and basicly anyone else who get's in his way.
  
  In terms of gameplay Ray is the most fun to play, mainly because he is able to slow down time and 
 use a cool targeting system to pick of his enemies. Ray is also able to take way more damage than 
 Billy as Ray is war hardened and a gun expert. The portions of the game that you get to play as 
 Ray are hugely entertaining, running across deserts and landscapes chasing after the next clue 
 that might lead you to Billy whilst blowing the hell out of everyone that get's in your way. The 
 only downside is that Billys sections are very slow and kind of boring. Because of Billys age and 
 tactical ability he is limited to stealth. He can still slow down time with his bow but the stealth 
 in the game takes ages. Most of the time it is just a case of waiting until you can move, which 
 can be very dull. Its a shame these sections are like this because Rays parts a so much fun and 
 make you forget about how boring Billy is. The only part of the game that manages to redeem Billy 
 is his whip. Billy is able to whip onto certain objects and swing Indiana Jones style. These almost 
 platforming sections may not be as fun as shooting loads of guys, but it is still fun.
  
  The graphics in COJ may not be the best on the 360 but the draw distance is very often suberb. 
 You will be blown away by how much you can see across deserts, fields, forests and canyons. Technically 
 the graphics are amazing, however some of the textures do look a bit rough and don't blend in. 
 The worst part is the shadows. The shadows in the game make every person look like robots, they 
 just don't move fluently enough to make the shadows seem realistic at all. It's a shame as everything 
 else is really good.
  
  The reason I haven't said much about the story is so I don't spoil it. Though it may not be the 
 best FPS story in the world, It has it's high points and low points and the overall game take about 
 8 hours to complete. Beyond that there are side missions to take where you play as a character 
 who dies early on. There is also a great multiplayer component to the game which supports 16 player 
 online. You can play standard games like team deathmatch, CTF and all that but COJ also has some 
 of it's own western themed games online. The best of these is robbing a train on horses whilst 
 one team attacks and the other team defends. It's like reanacting a scene from a classic western 
 movie every single time. Theres also bank robberys and other fictional events to wage war in.
 
  
  Overall COJ is a pretty standard FPS. It stands out over some of the others by it's ability to 
 remain fun from start to finish and you won't get bored of slowing down time and quick draws by 
 the 8th hour, however you might get bored in some of Billys sections which while can still be fun 
 take too long. It may not appeal to most, but Call Of Juarez is a great Western themed game that 
 any fans of should not miss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: candidate0
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 7, 2007 1:00 pm PT
Review:  The old westerns were fantastic to watch with stories that kept you gripped and a good guy versus 
 bad guy thing going on.
  Movie stars and legends were born with The Good The Bad And The Ugly still being my favourite movie 
 of all time.
  
  Now games have struggled to live up to the classic movies which is a real shame as i would much 
 prefer to play a Western game then i would a ww2 shooter.
  
  This game may have a few online faults and achievement glitches but who cares, its still the best 
 Western out there and deserves a little credit, it kept me hooked for a good few weeks, buy it.
 
  You wont be let down, it really is a good game.
  Dont expect to still be playing in a few months though but if you look at your games collection 
 how many games do actually last that long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrnivek
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 1, 2007 10:19 am PT
Review:  I always love a western video game and and like Red Dead Revolver and Gun when it came out and 
 this game just didn't interest me like those. I hate a shooter game like this where you are dependent 
 on running, jumping and swinging with very poor controls. Can't tell you how many times I fell 
 to my death with a misjudged jump, way too frustrating. Also didn't like the bland colors in the 
 game which made it harder to pick out where the baddies were to shoot them. But the story was interesting 
 enough to keep going and I had some fun playing. Kept me busy for a few days but nothing more 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigb89
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 28, 2007 6:13 am PT
Review:  Call of Juarez is loosely based on a number of Western movie hits from the last four decades, particularly 
 the Spaghetti Westerns that became popular in the sixties and early seventies. The game features 
 two different characters: Billy Candle , a young fugitive accused of murder and the Reverend Ray, 
 an ex-outlaw who turned to religion, believing that God Himself has chosen Ray to be the instrument 
 of His wrath.
  
  Billy's character provides stealth and sniper elements to the game. With his whip he can latch 
 onto objects to get into hard to reach locations. Later in the game, Billy acquires a bow, which 
 can be used for ranged stealth kills.
  
  Reverend Ray can enter Concentration Mode allowing him to hit multiple targets in a drawn-out second. 
 Along with his other weapons, Ray wields his bible and spouts fire and brimstone scripture while 
 he blasts the enemy with his trusty six shooters. The reverend also wears a cuirass that protects 
 him from all bullets hitting his chest. Many of Reverend Ray's levels will end in a quick-draw 
 gunfight between him and a main antagonist in the level. The player waits for the clock to count 
 down and then has to draw their gun as fast as possible and pull the targeting cross-hair to their 
 opponent and kill them before Ray takes too much damage.
  
  Although violent, Ubisoft has eliminated corpse beating and will eject the player from the game 
 for beating an animal or attacking an innocent person.
  
  Plot
  
  The story follows the adventures of both characters, switching from one to the other from mission 
 to mission.
  
  In the opening, the narrator tells the legend of treasure of Aztecs, which was allegedly meant 
 as ransom for Montezuma held hostage by conquistadors. The treasure was lost long ago and never 
 found again. Nevertheless, many daring souls set out to retrieve the riches of Aztec Empire, but 
 the treasure is rumored to be cursed and anyone looking for it will find nothing but death.
  
  One of the protagonists begins the story with his recount of his past life. His name is simply 
 Billy; since he has no idea who his father was, he has no real last name. His mother gave him a 
 medallion in his early childhood which had a candle on it, however, so the other kids nicknamed 
 him 'Billy Candle'. Due to his Mexican ancestry, he suffered racial prejudice from the local population. 
 He especially hated his stepfather Thomas who beat him all the time. Billy soon had enough of it 
 and left town to go after the rumored treasure of Aztecs, but after two years of fruitless searches 
 he found nothing. So Candle finally returned to his hometown of Hope to see his mother. Unfortunately, 
 he is greeted by the sight of his dead mother, lying underneath the words Call of Juarez written 
 in blood. Whilst he is there, he is spotted by the other protagonist Reverend Ray (essentially 
 Billy's antagonist at first as he works against him) . On seeing Billy standing over his dead mother, 
 the reverend presumes that Billy is the murderer; a view which is encouraged by the fact that Billy 
 runs from him in fear, rather than claiming his innocence. The reverend decides that it is duty 
 as God's emissary to track down and kill Billy for the crime.
  
  The story unfolds from the two different points of view, with Billy Candle attempting to clear 
 his name whilst on the run, and the Reverend Ray in hot pursuit, only slowing to take part in violent 
 skirmishes and confrontations that block his path. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MartinWinthrop
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 27, 2007 7:16 pm PT
Review:  Thats all I can say really - ffehh. I played this game for a while and then just kept on feeling 
 like, whatever. The environment was about the only good thing about the game. You got this bad 
 guy gone preacher, gone bad guy again as he walks upon some relatives who had been murdered. I 
 thought it was funny how he didn't give is nephew or whoever he was, the benefit of the doubt when 
 he arrived on the murder scene with the confused nephew standing over the bodies and immediately 
 assumed the worst. Im going to kill you boy. The boy taks off running. It was just one big chase 
 the whole game. I also was not impressed with the weapons. I know it was 19th century and you are 
 limited with what you can do. But still they sounded like cap guns. Anyway, I got tired of shooting 
 outlwas who were in my way of the kid I was chasing and then I got tired of playing the kid who 
 was running from my other character that I was playing. I kept feeling like I was running away 
 from myself. I got confused. The whole thing was just whatever. I give this game a rank of the 
 scale of grand central fun a big whatever. Whatever!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Imigrant71
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 27, 2007 2:10 pm PT
Review:  Being a Western is what made me pick up this shooter. I had some expectations and overall they 
 were all met. The game is good, the story is fine and the shooting feels just right. Call of Juarez 
 is a good alternative, perhaps even a good break, from the hot zones of military shooters.
  
  I especially enjoyed the pick-up-and-play factor, the game plays well, once you're done familiarizing 
 yourself with the controls (should be quick) . Having to play as two different characters was interesting, 
 I am not sure if it would have made a huge difference, but it was ok.
  
  What I really liked was the background music, it really deliver the wild-west setting of the story. 
 I wish there were more puzzles and an actual weather system (this would have made the game more 
 immersive and real) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: quagmire75
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 20, 2007 10:31 am PT
Review:  Graphics: this game looks pretty decent overall. it isnt the best ive seen on the 360, but its 
 nice. the environments are all pretty large and there is a nice amount of detail in them. the character 
 models are pretty good too. overall the game looks good. - 8.0
  
  Sound: the weapons all sound pretty good. bullets flying and the old western weaponry sound pretty 
 cool. the voice acting is pretty well done, except an occasional over the top voice here and there. 
 the music is also very atmospheric and fitting, although i turned it off to have a more realistic 
 experience. - 8.5
  
  Gameplay: mixed feelings on this one. the gun gameplay when you play as reverend ray is pretty 
 solid. the 360 controller works well with the action. the concentration mode works well with the 
 analog sticks of the 360 controller. the game also runs pretty much smooth all the way through. 
 now where the gameplay can be frustrating is when you play as billy candle. i found myself running 
 around for 10 minutes with no clue what to do in some parts of the game. at times, the game doesnt 
 direct you good enough so that you know what you are supposed to do. also, some of the climbing 
 mechanics can be kind of annoying, and i found myself falling to my death frequently. - 7.5
  
  Value: what can i say, this game is fun. i rented it and returned it the next day. i beat the 
 game in that amount of time. dont get me wrong, the game is too terribly short, i just played it 
 a lot. i would say it would take about 10 hours for the average first person shooter fan to beat 
 the first time they play through it. 8.0
  
  tilt: the game does have some staying power. some of the missions were a lot of fun, especially 
 the reverend ray ones. i could see myself renting the game again. now i didnt get a chance to play 
 the multiplayer, because my internet was messed up at the time, but i hear its pretty fun. based 
 on the gameplay from the single player i think that multiplayer would work quite well. - 8.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ish_gibbor
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 19, 2007 9:37 pm PT
Review:  After beating most every game available for the 360, I appreciate the release of the Call of Juarez. 
 Although I am not fond of the old west, I enjoyed playing this game. With two six shooters, a long 
 dark trench coat, and an old plain bible, I am prepared to mow-down an infinite number of hell-spawn 
 sinners. I can see desert shrub, sparse trees, plenty of nice looking rocks, and beautiful skies. 
 Dust lifting off the ground and moving through the dank air like smoke trailing from a cigarette. 
 There is a distant shriek of a hungry vulture waiting for death, my deathrepeatedlyyet some how 
 an unforeseen force resurrects me each time. This is the life of Ray, an ex-gun slinger, turned 
 preacher, now out for revenge. Convinced that God wants him to kill the sinners from hell; he opens 
 an old dusty box, and reunites with his old friends, the revolvers. Sneaking around, solving puzzles, 
 and trying to stay alive is the life of Billy Candle, a not so bright, young, half-white half-Mexican 
 kid. Playing as Billy Candle, helps break up the non-stop gun slinging action while playing as 
 Reverend Ray. Graphics: The rocks look nice and I hope to see more like them in other games. Everything 
 from explosions, fire, water, dust, glass, wood, look up to 360 standards. Peoples faces and their 
 animations also look good. The environments are bland; constantly reminding me that I was playing 
 a video game. Sound: For the most part the voice acting is well done. Although, through out the 
 game there are sounds I felt like I should be hearing. Gameplay: The gameplay and story is what 
 carries this game along. Sure, the gameplay is not revolutionary and even easily forgotten, yet 
 I will remember that I had fun playing the Call of Juarez. I can easily recommend that you rent 
 this game; however, I cannot recommend that someone purchase itat least not for full price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: t-mac720
Rating: 2.8
Date: Aug 13, 2007 4:39 pm PT
Review:  i thought since this a old western type of game which by the way i love. i started off hating it 
 and well i still did. it got boring and boring and by the time i got mid way in the game sold that 
 piece of sh! T and its not that i hate first person games but for a old western type of a game it 
 sucks and the game isnt mostly action excpet when ur that old guy but if ur not him ur basically 
 hiding and trying to find ur way out of trouble which is boring the achievments are pretty simple 
 i have to say soo to end this review just dont buy the game well dats my opionion idk wats urs 
 but i really dont care but if u want a reall good western game get gun that game is incredible! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thomass60r
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 10, 2007 1:44 am PT
Review:  call of juarez is simple its a wild west game from ubisoft and you play a rather decent but not 
 great single player that is mostly easy and not anything new.
  
  the multiplayer is better though with huge maps to battle out in which is good but can it save 
 the game?
  
  the truth is NO.
  
  the reason is because the weapons are poor and hard to use like a pisol that feels so weak and 
 you wont feel dangerous running about with it.
  
  there a lot of cool game mades like capture the bag and other exclusive ones but in the end with 
 games like gears of war call of duty and rainbow six vegas your not going to really play it for 
 more than 2 weeks.
  
  verdict overall
  
  call of juarez has an impressive multiplayer and its single player is decent but it feels so old 
 compared to current shooters that it feels gunned down by the new breed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Prtofdacrowd
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 9, 2007 5:31 am PT
Review:  I feel that this game has been underate by many a game reviewer, although the static character 
 control is clearly visible and takes an hour to get used to the detail and the painstaking hours 
 of gameplay and plot is enought to sell this game on its own without the multiplayer.
  
  The game takes you on the road as either a mad gun wielding priest or a half mexican but dressed 
 in an indian get up. It is 15 levels long each lasting around the 30 min mark so its short but 
 sweet, with possible updates via LIVE service would see this game really take off
  
  The multiplayer is easy and very well balanced amoung teams and characters, the downside is your 
 stuck with the weapon your character has and thats it once your ammos done.... so are you
  
  This game is well underated and is well worth a good gaming session on even for the easy achievements 
 that will make the fanboys grin from ear to ear 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 7-ate-9
Rating: 6.3
Date: Aug 8, 2007 5:09 pm PT
Review:  It's 1882, the Wild West. Whiskey drinking scoundrels and STD infested whores await behind every 
 turn but the biggest cause of death isn't lead, TB or gonorrhea but, yep you guessed it: poor spacial 
 awareness on behalf of our protagonist: Billy the wimp. So in a nutshell this game could have been 
 cool, it has cowboys and saloons and all the attendant features you'd expect to come along with 
 that milleu. However this game isn't cool because the biggest causes of death are 1) Falling from 
 a ledge onto rocks 2) Falling off a ledge into water 3) Falling off a ledge onto another ledge 
 and then falling of that ledge onto rocks/ water. The guns in this game aren't anywhere near as 
 lethal as falling from ledges. If you think running around solving inane box puzzles so you can 
 get onto a ledge only to have the first person perspective give no idea as to where the hell your 
 feet are, and then fall off the ledge and die several times per box/ledge or whip/ravine scenario 
 (of which there are uncountable amounts) then buy this game NOW.
  
  If however you'd prefer to deal out some good old time western gunishment (and not fall off ledges) 
 rent this before deciding whether it's for you. I find it fun in the shooting parts as Ray the 
 missionary, but nearly half the game is moving boxes around jumping across ravines and yep, falling 
 off ledges and the biggest challenge the game has to offer is....??? yeah I think you get the picture. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: quelon
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 6, 2007 2:04 pm PT
Review:  Call of Juarez provides some great shooting quality, and brings some new stuff for fans of FPS. 
 The story line features Ray and Billy. Billy is wrongly accused of killing his parents, and is 
 being hunted down. It is up to you to beat the game and find out how this links to the gold of 
 juarez. The online multiplayer is just awsome! Its fast and fun. It lets you choose between 4 classes 
 and jump into a game. There are tonnes of gametypes that are all fun. There are also bonus missions, 
 and duels to finish after the game is done, providing great re-play value.
  
  Problems- Laggy Online Multiplayer, NO ladder climbing animation (your character floats up) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SonicKid_UK
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 6, 2007 12:30 pm PT
Review:  I love western, they are great be it in a book, a film or a game yet surprisingly I have never 
 bought a western game so when this came out it was a must buy game for me. Once the initial purchase 
 euphoria was over I started noticing the game fully. The solid feel of the guns is nice &amp; it 
 in more than one occasion do you find the mere action of shooting said gun really fun, for example 
 during concentration mode (often referred to as bullet time in other games) time slows &amp; you 
 can shoot 4,5 &amp; maybe even 6 (only if you're really good) people with a head shot providing 
 a spray pf blood &amp; your opponents hat flying off into the dusty street. You also have the quick 
 fire mode where you can make your six shooter do maximum damage. You know in all the films where 
 they have the gun in one hand &amp; keep cocking &amp; shooting the pistol really fast? Well this 
 is it &amp; it is pretty nifty even though the game doesn't provide you with much opportunity to 
 use it. You can also quick doors down &amp; set things alight making you feel like a real badass! 
 Unfortunately this is only one character who you play as, the other is not as cool in the all action 
 bang bang you're dead sort of way but isn't without his advantages. He often relies on a bow &amp; 
 a whip &amp; is far weaker so it easier to complete his missions relying on stealth rather than 
 going in all guns blazing.
  This game is visually impressive replicating the movie brawls &amp; shoot outs that we all know 
 &amp; love with blood spraying everywhere, dusty streets providing the perfect battle ground &amp; 
 even the odd tumble weed (if you look hard enough) . Yes graphically this is impressive but it falls 
 slightly when before a mission there is a little blurb &amp; if you don't have a HDTV it is near 
 impossible to read. But where the major let down is is the sound. Whilst actually playing the guns 
 sound great &amp; there are people screaming once you've shot them in cut scenes it is ridiculously 
 hard to hear what the characters are saying &amp; it is no use turning the subtitles on because 
 as I've just mentioned they are impossible to read. So now we move on to the extras. The lack of 
 ability to free roam is a bit annoying in what could have been such a great extra dimension to 
 the game but that does not matter as it is good fun going through the game for a 2nd &amp; 3rd 
 time to pick up the hidden wanted posters or to get the achievements &amp; once you have completed 
 the game you unlock extra missions which all add to the experience. A very good game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jay_k3
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 5, 2007 1:54 am PT
Review:  There's one type of genre that I have enjoyed watching in the movies, and its westerns. My favorite 
 movie has to be Unforgiven. The movie presents justice in such an unjustful fashion. Presents the 
 American Dream without tightening the bootstraps. Basically presents the vengeful actions of one 
 man in that time frame. Well, Call of Juarez is similar to that fashion. You are a former priest 
 who seeks revenge on the murder of his brother. The former priest believes it is the step son of 
 his brother and hunts him down. The step son Billy, runs trying to get to Mexico. Well the great 
 parts of the game is playing Ray the preacher. You can use handguns in the most accurate fashion. 
 You can use two guns to one with fast action. You can use rifles and throw dynamite. As Billy you 
 can use guns, but you don't have the matrix effect like Ray. The only time is when you are using 
 a bow and arrow. Another thing about Billy's story is that he is constantly on stealth missions, 
 which can get annoying when you die several times. It can get fustrating and you have to sneak 
 in somewhere without anyone detecting you. Sometimes you have to hide in a bush for a very long 
 period of time without people seeing you. Personally the game is great if you love westerns. If 
 you don't this game maybe a dissapointment. I been waiting for a game like this to come out and 
 even though the reviews are average, I still love the genre that this game represents and I am 
 absolutely satisfied with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spyderfan1212
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 5, 2007 12:48 am PT
Review:  I have only played two western games in my life, Gun and Call of Juarez.
  I think there both great games. Call of Juarez tell the story of a family in crisis. Billy is a 
 young half white-half Mexican boy who returns to his dreaded hometown looking for money. Instead 
 of finding his beloved mom making pies he finds her, and his stepfather dead. The other main character 
 is Reverend Ray. A baddass old man who used to be a ruthless murderer but now has settled down 
 as a priest, resenting his past life. On arrival to his brothers farm (Billy's mom's husband) he 
 finds his brother and his wife dead, whos the only person around...... Billy. The game instantly 
 engages in pursuit of Ray after Billy. In the end Billy escapes. Ray now feeling like God wants 
 him to be his sword breaks out the ole duel pistols and begins kicking ass like no priest before 
 or after him. The rest of Call of Juarez is a two side story of a chase, finding gold, and finding 
 truth.
  
  Gameplay- While playing as Billy you want to play in a more stealthy approach by hiding in bushes 
 and silently killing others. Many didn't like but if felt the contrast between Billy and Ray was 
 nice and made the levels play out differntly. Ray is the run and gun type with the ability to slow 
 time (think Gun) . All in All gameplay is really fun and makes for a great action game.
  
  Graphics- Graphics are variable. Enviorments all look good. Player models are decent . However 
 if you look at your shadow you guy moves like some creepy robot thing...... its weird.
  
  Sound- Voice acting is good so are sound effects.
  
  Value- The game is okay here. The SP is 
 short but the MP is decent to keep you coming back. Theres also Extra Missions and Duel Challenges.
 
  
  Overall: Good game, worth a rent at least. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RLJSlick
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 4, 2007 5:07 pm PT
Review:  Pretty much all I got out of this game, Good if not great graphic, story line seems odd and not 
 very imaginative, game just wasn't that much fun to play after the WOW factor was over. Game sounded 
 OK though sometimes the voice overs sounded like they were a mile away. Even riding on the horses 
 was boring and not done very well. The computer enemies wasn't very bright but they could hit you 
 with their guns a mile away. I'm not kidding. You can get hit buy the enemy even if you are too 
 far away to even see them. I was hiding in bushes about 900ft away from a enemy and they hit me 
 even though I couldn't make out nothing but mussel fire.
  The biggest disappointment with the game is that it was about as linear of a game I have played 
 in many many years. There was very few choices you could make to get out of trouble. You got this 
 huge valley but you are stuck heading in the direction you know there are 6 or 7 Indians or other 
 bad guys. Very disappointing after all said and done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wulfgar2007
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 31, 2007 7:03 am PT
Review:  I rented it like a do many games. Even some poorly rated games can be fun for a few nights. Unless 
 your some poor Bum who bought a game and had to give it a crap write up and somehow forget to tell 
 us that it just sucks because you forgot to rent the game befor you bought it. Morale is rent befor 
 you buy and everything is rosey. But ya the games cool, story and voice acting is better than some, 
 graphics are not bad and oh ya did i mention my friends xbox smoked his big screen TV yesterday 
 . Literally made it start smoking HaHa. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nymets819
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 30, 2007 9:44 am PT
Review:  I think Gun was a better Western game because of all that you could do. I think Gun was a better 
 Western game because of all that you could do. I think Gun was a better Western game because of 
 all that you could do. I think Gun was a better Western game because of all that you could do. I 
 think Gun was a better Western game because of all that you could do. I think Gun was a better Western 
 game because of all that you could do. I think Gun was a better Western game because of all that 
 you could do. I think Gun was a better Western game because of all that you could do. I think Gun 
 was a better Western game because of all that you could do. I think Gun was a better Western game 
 because of all that you could do. I think Gun was a better Western game because of all that you 
 could do. I think Gun was a better Western game because of all that you could do. I think Gun was 
 a better Western game because of all that you could do. I think Gun was a better Western game because 
 of all that you could do. I think Gun was a better Western game because of all that you could do. I 
 think Gun was a better Western game because of all that you could do. I think Gun was a better Western 
 game because of all that you could do. I think Gun was a better Western game because of all that 
 you could do. I think Gun was a better Western game because of all that you could do. I think Gun 
 was a better Western game because of all that you could do. I think Gun was a better Western game 
 because of all that you could do. I think Gun was a better Western game because of all that you 
 could do. I think Gun was a better Western game because of all that you could do. I think Gun was 
 a better Western game because of all that you could do. I think Gun was a better Western game because 
 of all that you could do. I think Gun was a better Western game because of all that you could do. I 
 think Gun was a better Western game because of all that you could do. I think Gun was a better Western 
 game because of all that you could do. I think Gun was a better Western game because of all that 
 you could do. I think Gun was a better Western game because of all that you could do. I think Gun 
 was a better Western game because of all that you could do. I think Gun was a better Western game 
 because of all that you could do. I think Gun was a better Western game because of all that you 
 could do. I think Gun was a better Western game because of all that you could do. I think Gun was 
 a better Western game because of all that you could do. I think Gun was a better Western game because 
 of all that you could do. I think Gun was a better Western game because of all that you could do. I 
 think Gun was a better Western game because of all that you could do. I think Gun was a better Western 
 game because of all that you could do. I think Gun was a better Western game because of all that 
 you could do. I think Gun was a better Western game because of all that you could do. I think Gun 
 was a better Western game because of all that you could do. I think Gun was a better Western game 
 because of all that you could do. I think Gun was a better Western game because of all that you 
 could do. I think Gun was a better Western game because of all that you could do. I think Gun was 
 a better Western game because of all that you could do. I think Gun was a better Western game because 
 of all that you could do. I think Gun was a better Western game because of all that you could do. I 
 think Gun was a better Western game because of all that you could do. I think Gun was a better Western 
 game because of all that you could do. I think Gun was a better Western game because of all that 
 you could do. I think Gun was a better Western game because of all that you could do. I think Gun 
 was a better Western game because of all that you could do. I think Gun was a better Western game 
 because of all that you could do. I think Gun was a better Western game because of all that you 
 could do. I think Gun was a better Western game because of all that you could do. I think Gun was 
 a better Western game because of all that you could do. I think Gun was a better Western game because 
 of all that you could do. I think Gun was a better Western game because of all that you could do. I 
 think Gun was a better Western game because of all that you could do. I think Gun was a better Western 
 game because of all that you could do. I think Gun was a better Western game because of all that 
 you could do. I think Gun was a better Western game because of all that you could do. I think Gun 
 was a better Western game because of all that you could do. I think Gun was a better Western game 
 because of all that you could do. I think Gun was a better Western game because of all that you 
 could do. I think Gun was a better Western game because of all that you could do. I think Gun was 
 a better Western game because of all that you could do. I think Gun was a better Western game because 
 of all that you could do. v 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ameglino
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 29, 2007 1:43 pm PT
Review:  I have to say that the Call of Juarez was definetly an interesting game with some nice features 
 which I never seen before.
  
  There is two main stories in the game, one side is about a down on his luck guy name billy, which 
 unfortanly came home to only find his parents murder and now he's being hunted down by his crazed 
 step uncle who is priest, which that the second main character in the game. During the whole game 
 it goes back and forth with these two character while they trie to figure who was behind this murder.
 
  
  One of my favorite feature in the game was the whip which billy can use to swing across branches 
 and what not. Kind of gave me the Indiana Jones feeling when I was using it.
  
  I'm defenetly going to give credit for Ubisoft and Techland in a wonderfull job on making the west 
 look so real. From the towns to the weapons the senic views and the movements of the clouds which 
 actually blocks the sunlight had so much life.
  
  Last but not least, the multi Playing games. It's sort of like Call of Duty but westernized. You 
 got your usuall medic, sniper and etc. The multiplaying games still hold just as great as in the 
 story mode. It's not like in some games where the story mode looked great and sounded great. But 
 When you decided to go online to play everything kind of went down hill. Where it just look so 
 bad. But the Call of Juarez had hold up very nice from begining to the end 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smerlus
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jul 27, 2007 10:08 pm PT
Review:  I just learned how the west was won by beating Call of Juarez, a FPS set in the wild west era of 
 the U. S. CoJ is another developers take on this setting and while it comes closer in some parts 
 than other recent western attempts such as Gun and Red Dead Revolver, it still doesnt complete 
 the whole feel of what a western game should be.
  
  In an interesting twist, the story involves a young Mexican boy being chased by his old step uncle 
 for a crime he did not commit. What makes this interesting is that you actually play as both of 
 these characters. While never truly capturing the feel of playing as the hunter and the hunted, 
 Call of Juarez does a good job of including all the elements youd expect from western story; law, 
 outlaws, Indians, Mexicans, train robberies, and horseback riding just to name a few. The dialogue 
 is campy at times and the animations during the cutscenes are often stiff but CoJ still has a pretty 
 good story behind it all.
  
  Between the story parts is either the run and gun portions of the game as you control brutal Reverend 
 Ray, or the more stealthy, platforming elements as the agile Billy Candle. Im an action kind of 
 guy so the good old reverends parts were much more exciting to me. Ray just felt like I was behind 
 a hellfire and brimstone preaching bad ass able to shrug off handfuls of bullets because of his 
 chest plate armor and dishing out a blasphemous form of justice on anyone with a gun. Not only 
 did the reverend have more stamina, but he was also equipped with a Bible that would stop outlaws 
 in their tracks as he read verses and he had a concentration function just like most western games 
 do.
  
  
  Billys levels added some variety to the game but the quality wasnt always even. The stealth portions 
 of the game proved to be more of a nuisance than effective thanks to the very tacked-on feeling 
 stealth system. Also the platforming showcased the nice scenery found throughout the game, but 
 was overall underwhelming. Its only when Billy was getting chased or sneaking through houses did 
 I enjoy these parts of the game.
  
  
  The A. I. for the most part did the very least youd expect A. I. to do. Running back and forth and 
 stopping behind cover for brief moments were about as intelligent as the foes got. Most of the 
 time however, theyd just reload where they stood and get shot. The best part of the enemies was 
 the physics and slight destructibility of the environments: shooting people and watching them Fall 
 through railings, tumble down cliffs or somersault over boxes was western movie quality.
  
  For the most part the graphics were surprisingly good. While Call of Juarez may not the best that 
 the 360 has to offer, the game did have some impressive environments and some graphical flair that 
 I did not expect from this game. There are some drawbacks though that detract from the beauty, 
 the textures on rocks make every rock look the same, shadows were often jaggy and the main characters 
 were poorly animated when you could see portions of yourself. The environments sure were good looking 
 but they often were very linear almost to the fact that some parts, while being in the great outdoors, 
 felt like you were actually being led through corridors.
  
  
  The gun fighting found throughout CoJ was very satisfying, again thanks to the physics and the 
 fact that most of the guns felt natural. Different types of pistols of varying quality are found 
 all over and each had separate rates of fire and amount of damage. The same could be said about 
 the groups of shotguns, sawed off shotguns and rifles. Even the stealthy bow and arrows were enjoyable. 
 Another way to dispatch enemies that I found very fun was from the oil lanterns. If you see one 
 of these babies lying about, you simply pick it up, toss it at a foe, and shoot where ever you 
 see the oil substance which would quickly engulf your enemy in flames. If a lantern was hanging, 
 rather than sitting on the floor, simply shoot it and rain fire down on your foes. The fire would 
 overcome most flammable objects but the environments arent fully destructible so no luck on setting 
 whole houses on fire. The only bad portion of this is when foes are actually a blaze; I was hoping 
 to see panicked human torches flailing about but was instead greeted with calm burning men that 
 would continue shooting until they died. Oh well.
  
  Voice acting was adequate; Reverend Rays excellent voice was offset by Billy Candles average 
 monologues. The music is what youd expect from a game like this and did a good job of picking 
 up speed during the hectic moments. Also all the sound effects were spot on. Not too much too complain 
 about here.
  
  My main complaints stem mostly from the fact that Call of Juarez didnt make any huge strides to 
 push the western shooter subgenre any further. Random acts of violence were impossible to do simply 
 because the game wouldnt let you no shooting horses, civilians, not even a wolf when it lay dead 
 on the ground. The game does a good job of looking like a western game but a very poor job of feeling 
 like one as there is little freedom to do anything outside of where the plot takes you. Having 
 a good story, great environments and perfect period feeling weapons are what this game does good, 
 but other games like Red Dead and Gun offer more of a true western feel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SteveHill2392
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 19, 2007 11:44 pm PT
Review:  Honestly when i first started the game i thought GUN!!! but then it did have some graphical and 
 gameplay differences that really set it apart. Goin down a cliff actually takes concentration in 
 this game. My buddy and i were discussing how this game could be another sandbox like GTA and Gun (ofcourse) 
 But we were surprissed yet again. Although the controls start of very choppy they do even out as 
 skill is gained through out gameplay. The Concentration was just another cheesy nock off of every 
 other Spagehtti Western Game ever made. The two different character that you play as gives a good 
 twist to the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phaedo23
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 17, 2007 9:38 pm PT
Review:  Call of Juarez does not necissarily divert from the western theme games of generations before, 
 but it is the first western i have seen on a next-gen console. The story line is engaging - like 
 an old clint eastwood flick- and gives the story a new dynamic by switching between the two main 
 characters.
  
  Graphics are top notch in my books, good draw depth and there are many small details that are animated 
 such as butterflys floating around or grass on a distant hill blowing in the wind. The character 
 animations are standard at best, but the voice acting more than compensates for that. The actors 
 voices give life to the otherwise lifeless faces to these characters
  
  Multiplayer is quite good, I only wish more maps were available
  
  If you are a fan of the 
 western motif, then there is NO chance that you will be dissapointed with this game with its solid 
 graphics and great story line 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoystikJoe
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 13, 2007 12:57 pm PT
Review:  Great story, great action, immersing, and one heck of a great game! I totally enjoyed it! A must 
 have if you like westerns!!!! I couldn't put it down!!! At first I thought that this game was boring, 
 but as I continued to play it , it got better and better. The concentration mode in the game is 
 awesome. Don't expect to get all the achievements the first time through the game. You are so involved 
 with killing the out laws, that it doesn't really matter how you do it, as long as you do it! The 
 controls take a little getting used to, but once you do, you feel like Wyatt Earp. I think climbing 
 to mountain to Eagles Nest was the most challenging and lip biting part of the game. I felt so 
 relieved when I finally reached to top! This is a compelling game that deserved at least an 8.0 
 from Gamespot, but you know how they are. This isn't a Gears of War or Halo Game, but it is surely 
 one heck of a western action game that is destined to become a classic! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DADA_007
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jul 13, 2007 11:23 am PT
Review:  We follow the call of Juarez.
  The first impression you get when start playing is perfect graphic of the game. It is wonderful 
 indeed. Landscapes look extremely natural. And this is really amazing. And now let&amp;#8217; s 
 pay attention to the plot. From the times of Hernando Cortez a lot of daredevils have been trying 
 to found his legendary gold that was paid as redemption for Montesuma and is hidden in the ancient 
 capital of Aztecs &amp;#8211; Tenochtitlan. After looting of the city gold disappeared. It is rumored 
 to be hidden near some small near-border town but nobody knows what the city is exactly. Gold of 
 Juarez joined lives of two men who had very different characters. The first one is young Billy 
 Candel whose father was Indian. Billy was unlucky to be in the wrong place. So he was accused of 
 murder of preacher Ray&amp;#8217; s brother. But Billy is a boy who would not hurt a fly! He usually 
 uses his natural reserve and cunning. When he meets an enemy he prefers to run away or just hide. 
 And when he does it we feel very disappointed the first time as the stealth element is poor in 
 the game. Remember an anecdote about imperceptible Joe? He was so imperceptible because nobody 
 tried to catch him. We have the same story here. When enemy notices you he takes his weapons, informs 
 his friends and&amp;#8230; continues to stay where he is. You have just hide and give no signs 
 of movement and the enemies will forget about you in half a minute. Of course, there is no group 
 round-up and elements of intellect of the &amp;#8220; brave&amp;#8221; cowboys here. But the funniest 
 thing is Billy&amp;#8217; s hiding. When he tries to be unobserved being in a small bush in a meter 
 from a guard who can easily see him and&amp;#8230; succeeds! Those guards evidently need good glasses 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zeratul_pl
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 10, 2007 5:40 pm PT
Review:  Not so many of you know that the game was made by polish team. They did a great job, and some lvls 
 of the game looks great. Gameplay is good and its def worth it to buy it. Unfortunately multiplayer 
 sucks. there are lags in the game. Achv are fair and you can get 700 points easily but its almost 
 imposible to score a 1000. If you not sure, just rent a game before you'll decide to buy it. One 
 of the best shooter in western times. Better than GUN. Nice thing is that you have different mission, 
 some are stealth some are just simple shooting. Story is also very good and the chicks are looking 
 very nice :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ihateyou_right
Rating: 4.3
Date: Jul 8, 2007 1:08 am PT
Review:  I decided to try this game out after reading countless reader reviews saying that the multipler 
 was simply brilliant. When I got the game I excitedly stuck the game in my 360 as the title screen 
 appaered i imeddiately clicked on xbox live and began searching for matches. Well after 30 mins 
 of looking for a match on countless variation such as different game modes and ranked unranked. 
 There was no-one there was acctually no-one to play this game with online I couldn't belive it 
 Perfect Dark Zero is still more popular than this game.
  
  After this huge dissapointment I thought that i'd cut my lossses and try the single player ouch 
 its bad. Who decided to put stealth levels in a FPS with no way of telling if your deep in cover 
 or if the enemy can see you its fraustrating and leads to unfair deaths. Oh and the platforming 
 once again what the hell where the game designers thinking it's a FPS it just doesn't work for 
 jumping to small ledges and don't even get me started on your characters whip that basically don 
 work at all. Oh and when you do finaly get into some fairly decent fights your guns just explode 
 I mean that sucks being left withouht a gun because for some reason it just exploded no its just 
 all over wrong.
  
  Gameplay: POOR singleplayer and I have managed to get a multiplayer game since the date I got it 
 it is fun but there is a serious lack of people.
  
  Graphics: they seam good at some points but heck they become too dark on occasions and just leave 
 an underwhelming experience.
  
  Sound: Pritty nice voice acting is good too I have heard some pritty funny things come out of characters 
 mouths.
  
  Value: I probably played it for a bout 3 hours and I have had all I can take. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: khankster
Rating: 4
Date: Jul 7, 2007 8:11 pm PT
Review:  It's not the worst game I've ever played, but it ranks below the line of acceptability. I couldn't 
 return it once I had opened it, so I simply traded it in at EB Games for another western shooter 
 called Gun , which I've played a little on regular Xbox and it was much better than TCOW. Usually, 
 I prefer FPS games to be much faster, regardless of the story type, along the lines of Quake 4 
 and Doom 3. This is too slow to hold my attention for very long, and when you add to that the tediousness 
 of having to go find a rope (or whip) , climb boxes, latch onto something with the whip, pull yourself 
 up to some ho's hotel room just to get a gun, it just seems far too tedious to enjoy. The multiplayer 
 is boring, slow, and suffers from the same unfair gameplay that plagues Halo 2; you fire on an 
 opponent many times, yet it only takes one to three hits for them to kill you. The things I did 
 like about TCOW are the graphics and the music, both of which contributed greatly to the feel of 
 a nice western style game. Aside from the graphics and sound his game feels cheaply made. Examples 
 of this are found everywhere such as the way you pick up items (a hand symbol appears, then items 
 simply float in front of you when you pick them up ) , stairways that you can't climb, chintzy character 
 facial expressions, odd button combinations to perform simple actions like dropping your gun, etc. 
 It feels like a combination of a PC game converted to console and an old PS2 game. Overall it's 
 just not a great game, and guranteed to be in the bargain bin for $20 by the fall of 2007 if not 
 sooner. It might be worth a rent if you're really bored and really like western shooters. It's 
 a shame, because a great western style shooter with excellent campaign and multiplayer modes is 
 in serious need these days, but games like this generate the lack of interest that keeps developers 
 from really taking the ball with the genre. If you want a great western style shooter, DarkWatch 
 was awesome the whole way for its fast-paced, arcade-styleaction and it's awesome graphics. However, 
 even as good as that was, it still lacked an engaging storyline. For the Xbox 360, there's Gun, 
 though it's graphics aren't next-gen. I'll continue to hope for the future, but other than Halo 
 3 (which has yet to be seen) , TCOW adds nothing to the FPS genre despite my high hopes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gaeren
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 6, 2007 11:27 am PT
Review:  juarez is a lot of things but to describe it easiest it is underwhelming.
  
  there is a total lack of innovation in the game. if it's been in an fps, you'll probably see it 
 here. they get the western period pretty dead on, and the environments are pretty, but the graphics 
 will never blow you away. nor will the enemies by and large. the a. i. isn't very impressive.
  
  the music is fantastic. that i will grant them. the mood is wonderfully created thru the ambience. 
 but the interaction is severly lacking. wanna look at a pretty painting of the old west and imagine 
 playing a good game, then have it. picking up anything acts like ur playing mist and that may be 
 great for pc players who have been used to this kind of things for the last decade but console 
 gamers are not. i want to interact not sit there and look at the scenery, or pick up a box without 
 it 1- floating before me like i'm some uber mage, or 2- having the box completely obscure my field 
 of vision so i can't take the box anywhere it might need to be.
  
  story is unfortunately weak as well. billy candle is so much less interesting than the reverand. 
 not to mention the reverand actually uses guns! amzing it's a shooter and the best part is the 
 guy who actually uses his guns!! billy sneaks around a lot and sometimes has a bow and arrows... sometimes 
 not.
  
  there's no real feel of immersion in the culture of the old west. hey if you want old west fun 
 go play ''gun'' for the ps2 or xbox, because everything there was done better than this.
  
  bottom line is this pry should have stayed on pc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XFoogyX
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jul 5, 2007 7:35 pm PT
Review:  Call of Juarez isa fairly unique experience, but focuses too much on the platforming elements. 
 Half the time you will be sneaking around as Billy. The game will tell you to hide in bushes to 
 avoid being detected, but in certain situations, the computer will detect you anyway, I think just 
 to make the chase seens more intense.
  Also, as Billy you'll have to use your whip to cross chasms. However, you cannot swing on any old 
 tree. There are very few designated spots where you're allowed to swing from, and even once you 
 find them, you'll find yourself falling down and dying.
  The actual shooting missions are the most fun, if not a little stale. Quick draw allows for some 
 cool kills, but hardly anything you havent seen in the game GUN. The bodies have better dying animations/ 
 reactions in Call of Juarez, but that's all.
  Also, you'll spend most of the shooting scenes far away from your enemy, meaning you wont get a 
 real good look at the action.
  All in all, if youre looking for a cowboy shooter game, you'll want to play GUN and Red Dead Revolver 
 before you even think of picking up Call of Juarez. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xantiriad
Rating: 6.4
Date: Jul 3, 2007 11:09 am PT
Review:  For: Great Western aesthetic; large environments; good story
  Against: Multiple weaknesses in game design; below par multiplayer; floating up ladders!
  
 
  Juarez is a disappointing addition to the X360 shooter fold. Whilst looking fantastic, and having 
 some engaging Western settings, the weaknesses in the games design prevent Juarez from delivering 
 on early promise.
  
  The majority of the game's problems surround one of the two playable characters - Billy. Billy 
 is on the run and so he spends much of his time involved in copious amounts of stealth and platforming 
 based elements; neither of which fit comfortably into the Western genre - unless he was playing 
 a Native American tracker, then it would make more sense.
  
  Stealth and platforming elements are rarely successful in a FPS because the fixed perspective camera 
 doesnt give you the required peripheral view necessary to successfully avoid detection or position 
 yourself for jumps. Worse, done badly as it is here, you end up playing 50% of the game looking 
 at your feet and the others replaying the same death over and over again.
  
  The game design also requires the environments to have platforms where you wouldnt have platforms: 
 for instance lots of strange grassy islands or convenient branches to cross canyons. It just looks 
 contrived and silly.
  
  Ray, the second character, is a lot more fun to play with. His bible trash talking as you take 
 someone down with your six shooters is pure cinema. Having to replay the level you just completed 
 with Billy, however, is not.
  
  Juarez looks good and has an genuine Western feel to it. The characters, music and voice acting 
 are spot on and really add a level of authenticity to the game.
  
  As well as the main campaign, there are also duelling and multiplayer modes. The multiplayer games 
 are largely team based, and offer the run of the mill FPS action with a western look. The level 
 design is not particularly inspired and some of the dodgy object physics in the main game creep 
 in here too.
  
  I am a huge fan of the Western genre and consider some of Sam Peckenpahs and Sergio Leones films 
 some of the best movies ever made. Although a reasonable attempt at a Western style shooter, Juarez 
 plays more like a generic FPS dressed in a Western trench coat. Many of the gameplay elements dont 
 fit well and are poorly executed; whilst the beautiful environments are ruined by contrived platforming 
 elements and linear/invisible barriers.
  
  Call of Juarez is worth a rental if you are an FPS fan, but otherwise Id save your money for some 
 of the better titles out there or on the way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blue_Tomato
Rating: 5.9
Date: Jul 2, 2007 4:50 pm PT
Review:  One of the most fascinating things about computer games is they allow you to do things you can 
 not normally do. You can fly, shoot nasty people, drive like a maniac and in general experience 
 a much broader freedom than in regular life. I love this kind of open ended game experience, and 
 at first sight CJ seemed to be like this.
  
  Once I booted up this game, it looked quite promising. You start off somewhere in the wilderness, 
 and can seemingly explore the woods. But, not really, you have to stay strictly on the path and 
 go exactly where the designers want you to go. And in a very strict way too, if you miss the path 
 just a bit you may even fall down and die when walking towards your first little challenge.
  
  The game starts by teaching you the basics of gameplay, and your first mission is to sneak 
 past some old, grumpy guy who will get annoyed, but not much more, if he catch you on his property. 
 Basically you have to check when he is looking, and hide in some bushes, until you finally reach 
 a box with a gun and ammo stored on the rooftop for some reason. As it turns out, sneaking around 
 is going to be a big theme in this game.
  
  After the tutorial intro its off to a little town, where you have to dispose of the gun again to 
 the sheriff. Stealing a new gun is then your first priority. The local hooker seems to have some 
 crush on you, and she also stores a small gun in her drawer. So, why not take her invitation and 
 relieve her of her gun. Actually, you have to, there is no choices in this game, you play it the 
 way you are supposed to and in the order you are supposed to. Seeing her without money is a problem 
 though, as her pimp is in the way. So she calls you to the back window where you can climb in. 
 You can then take her gun, but before getting any ammo her pimp will come storming in and you have 
 to flee out the window again. Trying to run into the town again will prompt the pimp to shout to 
 everyone he will grant half an hour for free to whoever get you. From now on the game starts to 
 be quite strange. Basically the townspeople will now try to murder you, if they spot you. Hmm, 
 ok, after all it is the wild west, however it seems a bit of an overreaction. With no ammo, you 
 need to sneak your way past the people. My first idea was to jump into the window again to the 
 hooker. Noone would expect that, right? But, of course, you are not allowed to do that again. My 
 next idea was to stack some boxes and then jump over the fence. I stacked several boxes on top 
 of each others, only to find out the fence can not be crossed due to some invisible barrier. My 
 next move was to take a whip I found and try whip the people chasing me. But again, failure, as 
 they seemed immune to it, and just killed me off.
  
  Okay, fine. So, I had to go along with the only escape plan possible. Basically just running out 
 and away. Pretty straight forward in fact, and I was a bit disappointed my original ideas, which 
 I felt was more interesting escape plans, were not allowed. As you escape through a hole in the 
 fence and out into the wilderness, something very annoying happens. Suddenly some people teleport 
 in behind you and start shooting. To create some kind of suspense and thrill I guess, making you 
 feel you are barely escaping. They keep teleporting in right behind you as you progress, shooting 
 all the time. At this stage, you are again running at a predetermined path, which is very narrow, 
 again removing any kind of choice and free will. Then, its time for more sneaking as you arrive 
 at some crazy bloke's house. You have to sneak past him to steal his ammo. Once succeeding, he 
 will teleport in right behind you, so that you are forced to escaping out the window. Again put 
 on a narrow trail where you need to do jumping and swinging from tree branches with your whip to 
 escape.
  
  Ok, I am not going to reveal any more of the story, but this is a quite good summary of the game. 
 My number one complaint is the lack of freedom, and number two is the designers always take the 
 easy way out to drive the story forward. Teleporting in people as needed to force events that would 
 otherwise not be logical. Again, limiting your freedom to explore and play the game in your own 
 way. Also, I was surprised to see a wild west game with so much emphasize on sneaking, jumping, 
 puzzle solving, swinging and what not. I expected some more shooting.
  
  The game is way too linear to my taste. It tries to be innovative, but the innovations are just 
 too restricted. If you do anything the designers did not think of, you will basically fail, no 
 matter how logical it may seem.
  
  I found myself mostly annoyed by the game and stopped playing pretty early into the game, although 
 it has its moments and graphics wise I think its pretty. The story is not half bad, and its kind 
 of interesting to stay in there to find out what happens next. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: atagger1
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jul 2, 2007 3:07 pm PT
Review:  great multiplayer. story mode is fun, but falls flat as a game. the story itself is ok. it's annoying 
 you can not shoot innocents, game reminds you it is unethical. sort of weird in my opinion. render 
 engine makes people look like plastic. multiplayer is both humorous and fun. i like playing as 
 a miner and throwing dynee sticks. story mode is really easy. certain scenes in the game are way 
 too dark and the puzzles where you need to climb with the whip get a tad laborious. would have 
 like to see more of a range of weapons in the game and some sort of currency based upgrade system 
 for equipment and weapons. duel mode is boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: listerfiend21
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 3, 2007 2:16 pm PT
Review:  Call of Juarez is a western style shooting game similar to GUN It starts you out as a man named 
 billy candle, your on your way to visit your mom after a failed attmept t osearch for the gold 
 of juarez but when you come to her farm she and your step-dad are dead. While you stand there in 
 disbelief the town preacher Reverend Ray sees you at the crime scene thinking you did it, and billy 
 is on the run from the preacher who used to be a mass killer. The Game switches characters from 
 the stealthy and quick billy to the strong, gunslinging reverend ray. The Shooting in this game 
 is very fun especially the concentration mode (pretty much the same as quick draw mode in gun.) 
 The fun in shooting your enemies and seeing blood fly out of them and slowly falling to the ground 
 is pretty much the best thing in this game. The graphics in this game are great, being able to 
 see the tiny imprints on rocks and the dirt stains on ur enemy is telling me they put good effort 
 on design, but i did notice some characters that i already killed come back in the game, and the 
 acting is very corny but still entertaining. The guns in the game were not very unique besides 
 that one held more ammo and one was more powerful, but the realism that if you use your gun too 
 much it might blow up is pretty amusing. The duels in this game are easy and not challenging at 
 all. One thing that did annoy me was that billys parts were always more of an adventure than action 
 and that you always had to sneak around which got tiring after the second time. also the shadows 
 of your character were very motionless and annoying. The ai was pretty bad and it seemed to easy 
 to kill the characters. The game took me only 10 hours to beat but the extra missions are an add 
 on and action packed. The Xbox live in this game is ok. You can play many games like deathmatch, 
 robbery, skirmish, capture the bag, wanted, and famous battles. There is some errors in it and 
 the lack of hiding spots makes it a run around run and gun match. In the end your left with a crappy 
 ending, a few extra missions of shooting people, and a few replays of the duels you did, each just 
 a little faster than the other. Overall the game is good but i wouldnt reccomend buying it but renting 
 it is a possibility. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cherrytwister
Rating: 5.2
Date: Jun 28, 2007 2:05 pm PT
Review:  Fun This game does draw you in and makes you keep playing. However, I was'nt real please with the 
 graphics, they could done much more with grand scenery. also the on screen instructions are so 
 darn small you can't see the buttons they are instructing you to push. If you don't spend alot 
 of time playing your xbox 360 like me! At times even the enemies are hard to see... I don't really 
 care much for westerns, but this game was a fun shooter and kept me busy for a day or so... Too 
 Short!!! I guess you can chalk this one up for ANOTHER 360... Meh... Title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PaladinJoo
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 25, 2007 11:54 am PT
Review:  Call of Juarez makes it's way onto the Xbox 360 from PC a few years ago. While the game definitely 
 shows some age and perhaps lack of polish in it's graphics and some of it's platforming bits, it's 
 overall a pretty good first person shooter in an exciting setting with a decent storyline.
  
  The game puts you behind the eyes of two distinct characters, each set against one another. 
 As Billy Candle, a half caucasian, half Mexican young drifter who's been down on his luck his whole 
 life, you'll be doing a lot of fleeing from baddies and trying to stay out of sight while you pick 
 them off with your trusty bow and arrow. As Reverend Ray, a man of God and experienced gunslinger, 
 you'll be basically just kicking down doors and shooting guys in the belly as you chase down your 
 nephew Billy, who you believe is the murderer of your brother and sister in law.
  
  The two person mechanic works out actually a lot better than one might think at first. Billy's 
 sections are definitely less fun to play through, but they seem to do a decent job of slowing down 
 the gameplay and focusing on the story itself. This is a pretty good break from the pretty much 
 nonstop action of Reverend Ray's missions. Billy is a kid, and inexeperienced in shooting, but 
 has youthful vitality, so naturally his missions center around avoiding conflict until you are 
 properly armed to engage in it, usually by climbing up large surfaces or sneaking through shrubbery, 
 AKA doing frustrating things. As Reverend Ray, all your special mechanics will revolve around shooting 
 guys. He gets a concentration mode which lets him mow down an entire room of guys with little effort, 
 and he also gets body armor for protection as well as the ability to kick doors down and basically 
 just be a badass gunslinger, AKA doing things that are fun. Overall it's actually a decent mechanic, 
 as you want to play through the less fun Billy sections just to get to the super fun Ray sections.
 
  
  The shooting is your run of the mill solid shooter, and the weapons pack a decent punch. There 
 are several different revolvers, each with their strenghts and weaknesses ranging from stopping 
 power, to reload time, to durability. There are also a few rifles and shotties, but the revolvers 
 will be your stand by weapon throughout the game.
  
  The sound is easily one of the high points, while graphics are among the low. Voices and weapons 
 both come with equal strength in the game with only minor lowlights, and this all helps for the 
 authentification of both story and setting. The graphics however, fair less well. Enviroments as 
 a whole look pretty enough, and there is some good detail to show rusty weapons and such, but the 
 people in the game just don't animate well and are very wonky looking. Still, overall the combination 
 of enviroments and sounds bring the presentation up to a presentable level.
  
  Overall, Call of Juarez is a decent FPS that, although has flaws, is a fun romp through the old 
 west setting that has an interesting mechanic not seen in many games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _SemperFidelis_
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 25, 2007 6:50 am PT
Review:  Call of Juarez - a western themed FPS nobody heard of . Or... the best game nobody heard of. Probably 
 these are the way I could define this game. It's based on an amazing concept: basically, you control 
 2 characters who require different styles.
  
  Billy, a kid who is accused of murder. He mostly uses his whip, and has to stay unnoticed.
  
 
  Reverend Ray, a priest, who in god's name wants to kill Billy, because he believes he's the actual 
 killer. Reverend uses guns. Hardcore.
  
  Unfortunately, the game's biggest issue is shown right away in the beginning: Billy and this whole 
 stealth stuff. It's somewhat ridicilious that if you walk into a bush (which is basically smaller 
 than the character) you are hidden, and not noticable for anyone.
  
  But apart from this: the game really doesn't have any gameplay issues. The occasional puzzle solving 
 is welcome, although it definitely should give more hints sometimes, because it's not always obvious 
 what to do...
  
  Reverends' levels concencrate on shooting, and damn, it's good. I wouldn't say realistic, but it 
 definitely feels like that you're a pissed of priest. It's a BLAST running and gunning while quoting 
 the Bible. There are duels too, but unfortunately, they're pretty lousy and forgetable. Should've 
 been a little more thought-out, especially since this is a Western game.
  
  The game's plot is pretty interesting, and apart from Billy's rare mistakes, the voice acting is 
 superb, but unfortunately, misc characters tend to repeat the same things over and over again too 
 many times, and although for most parts the music is great, on some levels it's way too repeatative. 
 Graphically, the game is 2 faced, but for most parts, it's breathetaking. The draw distance is 
 amazingly big, and the plants, the landscapes are like in real life. However, dark levels tend 
 to look cheesy, and most side characters look like zombies: the engine isn't very good at modelling 
 faces.
  
  The game's strongest part is the experience. The missions are very diverse. In one mission you 
 have to climb a mountain to acquire an eagle feather. Or shoot bunnies. Or get your hands on a 
 treasure... it's really not just running and shooting.
  
  However, it ends shortly. Although compared to the PC version, the XBOX360 one added a duel mode, 
 it's really not worth spending your time on unless if you want achievements. I didn't get to try 
 the multiplayer, unfortunately, so that might be good - I don't know.
  
  Overall, this game is an amazing FPS, and you should definitely try it. It's not an ordinary FPS, 
 because for most of the time, it's not about shooting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickdastick
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 24, 2007 4:54 am PT
Review:  So I rented this game to find out if it was any good and I was pleasently surprised. It's a solid 
 western with very fun multiplayer.
  
  Gameplay: Cool gameplay with some neat shooting mechanics. The online multiplayer has the perfect 
 groups that each have their pluses and minuses which really adds to the gameplay.
  
  Graphics: The game looks nice but is nothing special. It does have a really cool zoom effect that 
 is the one spot where the graphics shine!
  
  Audio: Nice old school gun sounds. I love hearing the dynamite!
  
  Overall Call of Juarez is 
 a fun game that has a neat SP but really has a KILLER MP. I'm not picking it up but that is just 
 because there are some other games that I want more and I'm not made of money! The online alone 
 is worth the price though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: captaincap
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jun 23, 2007 1:34 pm PT
Review:  Call of Juarez looked like an exciting, addicting, western game. Not at all. It turned out to be 
 a total disapointment.
  
  Bad Parts:
  
  1. First of all, the campaign is the most boring thing you have ever played. Some parts are so 
 frustrating and it gets really old very fast. Half of it is walking through trails, trying to find 
 your way to the next objective, and falling of the hills and dying.
  
  2. The multiplayer is just as bad as the campaign. Game modes suck, there isnt enough to keep you 
 occupied, and its just plain boring. It needs somre more to make it fun.
  
  3. Not enough to keep you interested for long. I got bored of it in less than an hour. Im so happy 
 I only rented it. Good Parts (Difficult to think of any....)
  
  1. Graphics in this game look pretty nice. The detailed environment gives you a good western feeling,
 
  
  2. Sound quality is just as good as graphics. Not outstanding but ok.
  
  Overall this game is a waste of time and money. Grapics and good sound cant make up for the unintersting 
 campaign and the boring multiplayer.
  The gameplay is just as frustrating and repetitive as its is boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pete5506
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 22, 2007 12:00 pm PT
Review:  Call of Juarez is yet a wild wild west, vary rare to see theres games, but when they do come out, 
 they seem good. Call of Juarez is a fps that has the old west feel, where a\you have to go around 
 killing poeple to save the city and other people. I don't have much to say about the game, since 
 I have mabe only 5 hours of playing time in. The main story is not that good for what I have played, 
 but its still worth playing. HTe multi player is way fun, I like it, with all the old theme and 
 guns and people to shoot up. Its not as good as red dead but its still good. THe gameplay is nice 
 with all the cool blood anf gore and things likethat. The graphics are not that good. I have seen 
 better but you dont need good graphics to have a good game. The sound is all there, and its nice, 
 the value is not 60, I tell you that, mabe 30 at tops but its still worth playing. THanks for reading. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SupAxKoPxKilla7
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 21, 2007 10:22 pm PT
Review:  Call of Jaurez is a good name, love it! The Graphics are Good when it is Daylight but at Night 
 it looks Like it Hitched a Ride on the PS2 express train! The gameplay is good but not inventive. It 
 feels like u are playin a new pc game rather than a true 360 expeiriance ya na!
  
  Single player is hard but very fun. (still havent beaten it yet tho!)
  
  Multiplayer is good 
 and is very easy to get into with simple gameplay, good maps, good mode choices, and a friendly community.
 
  
  To sum it all up it is a fun western style game with a good but hard single player, a easy and well 
 balenced multiplayer, good graphics (except at night LOL!) with good but uninventive gameplay.
  
  I really enjoy this game game and i think it is a must buy!
  
  So! See Ya Later Kidz!
 
  
  Oh yeah! It sounds really great to! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JNU13
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 20, 2007 10:47 am PT
Review:  Story is very good but it can run on sometimes and seems to get a little boring in the middle. 
 The online is very fun but the lag makes this game feel like, where the hack am I&gt; Graphics 
 are some of the 360's best, I can not say anything bad about the graphics because they look so 
 nice. Can get a little dull during the gun fights. The stealth ruins the game because it would 
 have succeded more as just a run and gun. the sound it ok but nothing that would make you want 
 to listen to it very much. I personally like to put on my own music. If you liked GUN try this 
 it may be what you are looking for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShattyFattmas
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jun 20, 2007 11:24 am PT
Review:  This wasn't the action filled cowboy game I was hoping for. In fact, its quite a let down. Most 
 games that get hyped alot prior to release don't usually do so well, but Call of Juarez seems to 
 hurt more then the rest. With many similar games like Red Dead Revolver and Gun falling short of 
 expectation, Call of Juarez was suppose to be the the answer.
  
  Graphically the game looks good for the most part, the distant terrain is spectacular. The character 
 models on the other hand look mildly deformed. Add into this the lackluster game mechanics and 
 you get another mediocre cowboy game. The whole whip system just isn't as good as I imagined it 
 to be. You basically just latch on, swing and let go. Climbing can really be a pain at times, not 
 being able to climb on certain ledges that you should easily be able to grad ahold of.
  
  The game pretty much offers no choices as to what you do, you cant harm Innocent civilians, or 
 corpses. If you even throw a bucket at someone the game will restart you at your last checkpoint. 
 The game makes you stick to the story line, if you try going off a path you'll usually just end 
 up dying from a fall no more then 1 foot, so all those pretty distances arnt accessible. Duels 
 are a breath of fresh air, it plays very similar to Red Dead Revolver, where your in a slow time 
 and must move your cursor while getting resistance.
  
  The story is somewhat short, and at times I found the multi-player to be non-playable. In the two 
 days that I tried multi-player the Call of Juarez servers kept going down, and when they didn't 
 games lagged horribly. There were numerous times when I shot someone, and a minute or two later 
 they would die, and Id get credited with the kill.
  
  Overall In my opinion Call of Juarez isn't worth the $60 price tag, its better off as a rental. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rhody1976
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 18, 2007 12:21 am PT
Review:  I'm probably about half-way into 'The Call of Juarez' right now. When I first started playing the 
 game, I was dissapointed; but hold on, the game improves. Some of the later levels feature some 
 very pretty graphics. Ubisoft makes some pretty good shooters imo, and this one is no exception; 
 however, do yourself a favor and take off the auto-aim/sticky feature in the options menu. Kills 
 are far more satisfying when they are harder to pull off... auto-aiming makes the game far too easy, 
 I wish they wouldn't bother with it.
  
  I've read a few reviews here that find fault in the kid's missions. I disagree, and I'm someone 
 who generally doesn't enjoy sneaking around; I prefer to run and gun. That said, I actually enjoyed 
 the sneaking parts, and so far, I haven't found them excessive or particularly difficult. Also, 
 don't get the impression that all you do in the kid's mission is run around with a whip: you do 
 a fair amount of shooting yourself, just with less health. This game could have been far better 
 if the developers had only pushed the immersion factor more. You can shoot out shards of glass 
 from a window, yet bottles don't break... you can look down and see yourself walking, but when you 
 swing from a branch, your legs don't move. And why didn't they have you swinging your legs up onto 
 the horse? it's a western for crying out loud, and the horse is pretty fun to ride; pressing a 
 button and magically being transported to the saddle was a cop out. I'd also like to have seen/heard 
 more wind at times whistling through the canyons. Why not go that extra bit and bring the game 
 closer to reality?
  
  Those gripes aside; it's still a great game. I'm particularly impressed with the graphics; leaves 
 and rocks are stunning and some of the canyon parts are visually breathtaking.
  
  If you like westerns and are online: it's worth the purchase. If not, rent it and enjoy the ride 
 while it lasts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mehroze_96
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 17, 2007 4:15 am PT
Review:  Ok , so we , play two roles , Billy and another guy. With Billy we can shoot and climb obstacles 
 and we have to run away from people, we many times we have to sneak into places using bushes to 
 hide our selves. If we play as the other guy we have to chase and track people down. We can go 
 to shoot outs too. We can also climb to heights using a whil with billy. The games graphics rock. 
 We many times have to save people from danger. We can also pick up things. sorry for the short 
 review but all i want to say is that the game rocks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: headbanger124
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 16, 2007 12:38 pm PT
Review:  The campaign can be done in 7-8 hours that is unless your attempting to get all the achievements 
 in one string than it might take a little bit more. The achievements are easy on the exception 
 of one or two. The campaign has a lot to offer, it unlocks the duel challenges and the extra mission 
 when you beat it. This extra mission leads to two other ones, they are slightly a little bit more 
 challenging than the normal gunfights in campaign. And when your done with the campaign you might 
 find yourself tracking back to get those wanted posters. The multiplayer is just as fun but has 
 its problems. You can switch teams in the middle of the game making the noobs going over to the 
 other side so there on the winning side. Which can make it a 5 on 3 game. And from what I've seen 
 there are a lot of hosting problems. The ping is always high, theres a lot of lag many situations 
 in where you shoot a person point blank in the face and the just stand there. And i get a lot of 
 Host Critical Error messages and i end up back in the main menu. Overall the game will provide 
 hours of fun, especially if you find a good game on mulitplayer without the lag and the noobs. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattlom03
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 14, 2007 10:36 pm PT
Review:  This game didnt reinvent the wheel, but it shouldnt have to. I have only one real requirement and 
 that is the fun factor. I give this game a 9.5 . my reasons for that are as follows: the gameplay 
 is cool and easy to get used to; the story is pretty solid and doesnt leave you hangin; the fact 
 that you can unlock duels and extra missions is also a great thing. These unlockables give the 
 game some longevity, and the mutiplayer is cool to. Well, thats my opinion of Call Of Juarez, feel 
 free to share your opinion of the game with me, and if you disagree thats cool, just dont be nasty 
 about it, but all opinions welcome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IllReadIt
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 14, 2007 1:35 pm PT
Review:  Don't believe the low reviews that you see, this game is very cool. I am very picky about my games, 
 and have been gaming for many years, so I believe I can give a reliable report - short, but to 
 the point.
  
  Single Player/Storyline: Single player is pretty descent, slow to start, but picks up it's pace 
 after a few Episodes (Chapters) , which allows you to pick up the pace of the controls and actions. 
 Two different characters that have their own personalities and abilities, and you alternate between 
 them in episodes, which is a good thing in that you aren't the same guy doing the same thing throughout 
 the game. Reverend Ray is the run and gunner type character, and Billy is a more stealthy and strategic 
 character. People complain that Billy is boring being stealthy, well, you can run and gun with 
 him too, but using different run and gun approaches than Ray, so he is not boring at all. As far 
 as storyline, well, I have played a lot worse in games, and have read worse in novels too, so it 
 is a typical western saga, guy running (Billy) from a crime he didn't commit, and can't come forward 
 with the real story because no one would believe him anyways, he's not white Anglo American, and 
 has a bad rep as a loser kinda guy, hmmmm, not too much different from social behaviors back in 
 the real west, or unfortunately modern times.
  
  Graphics are top notch, from the West's beauty to behold, to the barreness of it's emptness yet 
 enhanced by man. The characters are well detailed, and lip synch if perfect, personalities and 
 characters of various people in the old west are captured very well, a real treat to behold.
  
  Dialogue and sound are Western and gun reports accurate, I think they captured these quite 
 well.
  
  Controls are spot on, actions are cool, I especially like the quick shot , it is so cool, I call 
 it hammer time , or hammer down , since it is the quick shooting of one revolver using the free 
 hand to quickly bring the hammer of the pistol back, like the gunslinger does in our favorite westerns, 
 makes me feel like Clint Eastwood in his spaghetti westerns hahahaha
  
  Multi-player: THIS is where the game shines, it is real fun, and everyone who plays it in the rooms 
 I've played in are quite thrilled and content with this game's MP. It is a nice change of pace 
 and therme in gaming, and I believe if your looking for a good MP game to play, as I was, this 
 will fit the bill nicely.
  
  The only thing I would've changed is the ability to go prone, seems to be the thing these days 
 to do that, however, it's no real big if we can't. there's plenty of action, and it really puts 
 you in the mood and tranquilities of the wild wild West. I heard one guy say in a room this game 
 makes him wish he was born in those times, I don't know if I'd go that far, afterall, they didn't 
 have XBOX 360, and XBOX Live hahahahahah
  
  Overall, this game is very very good, rent it first if you are sceptical, however, I bought mine, 
 and am glad I did, it fills a good spot in my library, I've won World War II, modern day terrism, 
 black ops, and alien invasions, and now I can win the West. It is the best Western game out thee, 
 and I've played them all, of course that's just my opinion, doesn't mean much, that's why it's 
 free, however, plenty people agree with me on that, so must be pretty accurate for once hahaha
 
  
  And to believe Ubisoft made this game ! Will wonders never cease ? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAMODA
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 14, 2007 12:43 pm PT
Review:  Story: Good story, adds good elements concerning the dual player system where you can see the plot 
 thicken through both hunter and hunted. Graphics: Great graphics, can't complain. The scale of 
 the game is awe-inducing, you peer out into a valley and its just beauty before your eyes... can't 
 explain, must experience first hand.
  
  Sound: I don't really see too much into sound unless it just seems corny or something. The voice 
 acting may seem a little campy to some, but that's ok for me. Weaponry sounds great, good musical 
 score, good environmental sounds, so I can't say anything bad about that.
  
  Gameplay: Standard shooter, non-revolutionary...... so depends on the user whether this is a con 
 or pro... but personally I am alright with ordinary. Concentration mode is good for crowd control, 
 dueling system is pretty sweet, horseback fighting is good too.
  
  Online: Easy to get online, great online play with a good amount of players, community seems friendly 
 enough. When I first played the game, I went straight to the online portion and that is where I 
 learned how to play, mostly not from experimenting, but from the other players helping me out... so 
 yeah... Maps are simple enough, interesting online modes, player types are pretty balanced
  
  Overall: 9/10 I think this is because I love good Westerns and have waited for a Western game 
 to come out, and finally one of good quality. Although some cons would be the absence of innovation 
 causing this game to not be a standout game, but is still a valid shooter in its own and operates 
 as how an FPS should. Like I said, Western fans should love it and own it, shooter fans try it 
 out first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WTA2k5
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 13, 2007 6:34 pm PT
Review:  Story: Call of Juarez focuses on two main characters, each starting out with their own agendas 
 and then ultimately come to goals bigger than their conflicts with each other. Billy Candle is 
 wrongly accused of murdering his mom and step-father by his step-father's brother, Reverend Ray, 
 who takes it upon himself to bring Billy to justice, while Billy tries to flee from the Reverend.
 
  Concept: The basic concept in Call of Juarez is to bring many forms of gameplay into the mix as 
 possible and present them well in its Western setting. Stealth, platforming, the use of vehicles 
 , dueling, and straight up blasting are included. Another one of the game's concepts is to have 
 each character be good in their own ways, and each be very fun to play.
  Details: -Call of Juarez features a Duel mode, where you can replay all of the duels in the story 
 mode for high scores and achievement points.
  -Call of Juarez features a great and fleshed out team-based XBL multiplayer experience, complete 
 with a class system, much more tactical action than the story and many maps and game modes.
  -Call of Juarez features 15 story missions and 3 bonus missions upon the game's completion.
  
 -Call of Juarez features two distinct characters. Billy can wield a bow and arrow, and is involved 
 with many stealth and platforming segments. Reverend Ray can slow down time, and is involved with 
 more duels and gunfights than Billy, and can wield the Bible, which can temporarily stop enemies 
 in their tracks as they listen.
  Execution: Call of Juarez ultimately delivers on most of it's concepts. All of it's forms of gameplay 
 fit reasonably well in it's Western setting, but not all of them are very fun. Dueling, gunfights, 
 the use of the game's vehicles (or horses and mine carts) and the character of Reverend Ray are 
 all fun to play, but unfortunately, the stealth and platforming segments aren't too fun, and since 
 Billy is always involved with these segments of gameplay, he ultimately becomes less fun to play.
 
  The multiplayer in Call of Juarez is excellent. The gameplay is very tactical and team-based and 
 each class is a blast to play.
  The value of the purchase of Call of Juarez is ultimately it's best quality. There are 15 story 
 missions (adding up to 10 hours or so) and 3 bonus missions to make the experience even lengthier. 
 The multiplayer is also pretty addicting and the Duel mode is worth beating as well.
  Call of Juarez also has great graphics and sound, but each one of these technical values has a 
 fair amount of glitches.
  
  The Good:
  One character is very fun to play.
  Excellent multiplayer and duel mode.
  Good graphics and sound.
  Amazing value considering the 
 game is a shooter.
  Awesome presentation.
  
  The Bad:
  There are a fair amount of graphical and sound glitches.
  One character isn't too fun to play.
 
  The story is a pretty stereotypical Western-movie plot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ironsulphate
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 12, 2007 2:16 pm PT
Review:  Love the slow-motion! If only we had more characters to switch from. It was really fun doing the 
 slow-motion, especially up close with high graphics settings. Used the shotgun and it blew them 
 away, WOW!.. did like, two back-flips.. The only thing that doesn't make since is that, slow motion 
 gives more damage that at regular motion. It would've been perfect if we could dive and slow-motion 
 at the same time.. wild west Max Payne! Oh yeah, LOVE the shoot outs.. i died about 2 times on each. 
 But when it got to the bosses... NOT REALISTIC ANYMORE! I also finished the game in about 3 days. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: restlessdragon
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jun 12, 2007 8:55 am PT
Review:  Mind you I have only played through the first 4 levels of the game and much like the video review 
 stated ... Ray is a lot more fun to play than Billy ... I did enjoy the shootouts and fistfights 
 so far though. Just don't enjoy sitting in bushes waiting for computer characters to look the other 
 way ... and so far with Billy all I've really had to do is sneak in, get caught and run away. With 
 Ray it seems that I cant keep from getting into gunfights at every turn as he has convinced himself 
 that he is doing gods will. I may be slightly prejudiced toward the Billy end of the game because 
 I have never been a fan of the sneak genre... I'll be updating this more as I progress through 
 the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_razorback
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 12, 2007 1:38 am PT
Review:  I've played many a shooter and I must say that this was one of the few that immersed me almost 
 completely. Sound: Great production, music and effects, very well done to give the game the right 
 feel. Character voices are perfect... at times you forget you're playing a game and want to reach 
 over for the popcorn!
  
  Visuals:
  Loved the interface and loading screens, a very creative way to have one sit through long loading 
 times is to give you something to do... in this case it's learn a bit more about your characters.
 
  
  The in-game graphics I'd say are perfect.
  
  Gameplay:
  I enjoyed using the bullet-time function, or rather quick-draw in slo-mo.. very fitting for this 
 type of shooter.
  
  The dual roles, you play as the Preacher and as the Native American, are great! To see each character's 
 perspective on events... It not only broadens the depth of the story but also gives you insights 
 for actual game play style.
  
  Story:
  What can I say, very well written story. I thought it would be a bit cheesy, but no.. to me it 
 was more than OK.
  
  Overall: A great time I wish would last longer! A game that even though replay value is limited 
 to multiplayer because once you've finished the single player, that's about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Diva-of-Destiny
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 11, 2007 7:02 pm PT
Review:  The good: Exceptional multiplayer loaded with great maps, gameplay modes, and fun combat. Authentic 
 wild west atmosphere showcased with great graphics and sound. Shooting is dead on.
  
  The bad: Climbing and stealth sections slightly irritating. Storyline is linear. The offline story 
 mode of Call of Juarez starts off slow, but after the first couple of levels really picks up steam 
 and the quality of the game shines. Fans of westerns will be in heaven in the authentic atmosphere 
 and sound, and great graphics to showcase it. The story is interesting. The shooting is flawless. 
 This game is like a cross between Gun and Call of Duty 3. The shooting and health system are just 
 like Call of Duty (with some added special abilities ) , and the western atmsphere is prevalent 
 like in Gun only with far superior graphics. Gameplay is great and approachable for anyone, with 
 3 difficulty modes that are actually labelled accurately (unlike some games like Lost Planet where 
 easy is actually wicked hard ) . The controls and camera are great and cause zero frusteration.
 
  
  Online mutliplayer for this game is AMAZING and the best online multiplayer for the 360 to date. 
 It is pure chaos and FUN, with lots of maps (all good) , lots of gameplay modes (all fun) , and lots 
 of kills every round. This carnage is pure pleasure. Team modes and solo deathmatch type modes 
 are both available. You can play as different types of characters online with different weapons 
 and abilities. At times it's even hilarious. Any fan of multiplayer shooters online has GOT to 
 check this out. Most of my other shooters for online play are going to start collecting dust now.
 
  
  As for drawbacks, there aren't many. Climbing and stealth sections are slightly irritating. Unlike 
 Gun this game is linear, so you can't run around choosing from sidequests and just wandering the 
 landscape. And the early levels are less interesting than later ones. But overall this game is 
 excellent. Fans of shooters and westerns should not miss this gem, and even non-fans may enjoy 
 this refreshing new theme that you don't see often enough in the shooter genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: humbikmeamyou
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 11, 2007 6:24 pm PT
Review:  Pros.
  1. Amazing graphics, the hued effects are awesome, your zoom is just like in real life, if youre 
 looking at something in front of you when zoomed, then other things are blurred, and vise versa. 
 The environment and scenery are exceptionally well designed. Not to mention very good rendering 
 for models.
  2. The games physics are pretty good, you can interact with pretty much everything you see, such 
 as boxes drovers, etc. realistic gravity.
  3. One of the only games that you can set the environment on fire, or put out fire by water, all 
 if which can be used for strategy purposes. 4. Great weapons, and good handling. The weapons handle 
 very well and they even wear out after allot of use. 5. Smart AI, AI takes cover and utilizes flanking, 
 there are also DUALS !!! Real western style duals that everything slows down and you have to act 
 fast to kill the guy before he kills you, VERY VERY INENCE !!
  6. The game always keeps you interested with the revolutionary story telling from the perspectives 
 of two characters that you play, once you pick it up, you dont stop, or at least thats how it 
 was for me. I started at 2 pm and finished it at 12 am. Cons.
  1. The game seemed short. As I said I beat it in 10 hours, but I am mostly a strategy gamer and 
 used to long hour of gaming, so if 10 hours is ok for fps then no problem here.
  2. Some of the weapons seemed very redundant, and some other interesting weapons that you gain 
 in the near end of the game you dont have much time to play with and enjoy before the game ends.
 
  3. Some levels feels very low in action as you try to sneak passed guards, these sneak missions 
 can be hard if you inpatient, but if you just crouch walk then there no hard, just strenuous.
 
  4. Multiplayer is very cheese in this game. I didnt like the multi player one bit. Compared to 
 counter strike source or some of the other fps shooters out there, this games multiplayer is just 
 a slug fest. Its almost impossible to use the rifle. All in all its a GREAT single player experience 
 with a smooth game play, even though it feels very short, but make sure you play the multiplayer 
 demo if youre buying it for the multiplayer experience. I recommend this everyone, fun, fast, 
 and a hint of innovation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kugellehr
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jun 11, 2007 5:10 pm PT
Review:  The game is pretty good except some minor details such as the sneaking all the freakin time (I 
 just want to use a 6 shooter and shoot some miners and stuff) its worth a shot. The genre is great, 
 the game however good it is, is still a wee bit lacking. The quick draw concentration gameplay 
 is great, and its been done before (Max payne, F. E. A. R.. etc etc) but its still really cool, especially 
 because you're gun slinging in the west. The physics are a little goofy like half life 2 but pretty 
 good as well. The best part about the game is winning a gun dual at high noon, if you're into westerns, 
 this is a game for you. Again i stress that the whole sneaking all time is not very fun and is 
 rather lame, but the gun battles that do happen are fantastic! So every 30 minutes is a blast! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: F1sTDaCuffS
Rating: 2.7
Date: Jun 11, 2007 3:22 pm PT
Review:  the single player is the only thing thats saving this game.. other then that that forget it. i 
 wasted close to 70 bucks for a title that was handed off to a sub contracting company of ubisoft. 
 i've should have guessed it was going to be half the game for the full price.
  
  in single player its fun you feel as though your in a movie, but, you dont have any freedoms to 
 do as you please you must follow the game to a T the graphics are nice and you find yourself looking 
 around thinking your in a oblivion type western. where you find that they've taken the time to 
 make the surroundings nice. thats it. other then that forget it.
  
  now on to multiplayer. this is less then a good multiplayer for a couple of reason for one. the 
 next gen graphics are not even next gen, they did an ok job, but, the worst part is the shading, 
 you lose sight of your enemy in the shadings of objects or backgrounds, now you would think you 
 could adjust this on your tv but, no. you can't if you do you get a haze or a light haze ruining 
 the whole experince of the game. next, the death scroll, in letter box. for i dont know what reason 
 the everytime someone gets killed or so on. it scrolls right past you in a black letter box that 
 sits over the top of your gun. hindering you, from knowing if you have switched to double fisted 
 or hand over the hammer for quick shot, or single shot. then if you do get shot, you start breathing 
 heavy and the screen almost turns red. all this you wind up lost and confused not only that with 
 the red on your screen from being shot the shading even makes it works. i feel like someone thru 
 red clay into a telescope and said hey play my game now.
  
  also the lag is horrible, if you have a bad connection, you will not be able to host. if you do 
 have a ok connection like most with cable max you can get out of 16 is 8 in a room without pings 
 going thru the roof. the aiming in iits simple with just a crosshair that lights up red and theres 
 a run button ala cod3
  
  the maps are vague and big, sometimes you just get tired of running. i could go on for days about 
 the multiplayer. but, the reason i mostly gave it a 3 it has an ok single player. and the fps is 
 very simple for people who just wanna run around and kill each other. i can understand that. but, 
 thats it. i suggest highly to rent it before buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcod1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 11, 2007 8:29 am PT
Review:  This game is one of the best games i have played since Far Cry. I don't understand why this game 
 is not commanding awesome reviews. The story basically starts with you trying to get to the bottom 
 of a very large hill. May sound pretty basic and boring right.... what makes it interesting is the 
 physics in the game which has you side stepping your way down, which can only be experienced to 
 appreciate what i mean. If you have ever had to go down a very steep hill in real life, you know 
 you can; t just walk down as you will fall. You have to shimmie down. Right out of the gate i knew 
 this was going to be a great visual and great physics experience and needless to say it is. From 
 the feel of shooting to picking up objects its all great.
  
  The story is great, the lush environment are jaw-droppinjg and the acting and sound is movie quality 
 and actual gameplay is very interesting and great fun.
  
  Also, i went online and i was in the wild west shooting it out with 16 others within 2 minutes. 
 I wish i could say that about ShadowRun. Awesome Game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mars188
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 17, 2007 2:41 pm PT
Review:  call of juarez was one game i wanted to buy and did 65 bucks, i love the western games. and just 
 not enough of them. i wish someone would spend sometime on some so we could get some great games 
 and diffrent, call of juarez is ok, just not a gold award, the jumping and whip crossing gaps, 
 should of been left out it hurt the game, they should of put more free roam in the game as well, 
 the jumping what gets me, but you know its worth having it in my game collection just not many 
 western games, the last stage of the game is a lot of fun the shoot outs and you are trying to 
 save the girl, it makes you feel you are right there in the battle, to me like climbing this big 
 mountain stage could of been left out, you are after a eagles feather makes me feel like i went 
 back to the land of zelda. its like a movie that puts in some filler because they got lost on what 
 to do next, then you are back to a lot of jumping its like they did not want to get away from this 
 jumping, to me the game would of been just find to just have the gun fighter pastor in the game 
 and left out billy. i would of made the game you are a bounty hunter after the bad bad men from 
 the 1880s. but over all you can get the jumping down just a pain, the game is a lot of fun and 
 i would say buy it, i hope next year we can get a western game based on going after the bad men 
 of that time they could make a great and diffrent game. i hope to see more of call of juarez, i 
 love the game have fun thanks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sproke
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 10, 2007 3:16 pm PT
Review:  Let's be honest, wild west games should be awesome. They have all the tools they need to make a 
 decent story, and a wealth of sources to take inspiration from, and yet, not many have been made. 
 Gems like Red Dead Revolver and Gun have certainly made an impression, and Call of Juarez tries 
 to help them in their valiant quest to bring that time into the gaming spotlight. It does right 
 by them, but it doesn't build on anything that has been tried in the past.
  
  Billy Candle , a boy of mixed blood that is accused of murdering his parents, and Reverend Ray, 
 the preacher turned Hand of God bad-ass (also brother of Billy's father) are on a chase across 
 the countryside. Billy is desperately searching for help and someone that will believe in his innocence, 
 and Ray is searching for vengeance. Cool, right? Sorta. I don't want to give anything away, but 
 along the way the plot hits a few bumps that make the characters change their minds without reason, 
 and many Eh? inspiring moments accompany them.
  
  The game tries something new in terms of mechanics, interpreting such things as bible reading to 
 distract your enemies and using a whip to cross gaps. These things are cool, but aren't that important 
 and often frustrate more than they help. The aiming is controlled by the standard crosshair and 
 zoom functions. Dual-wielding, fast shooting, and even a Matrix style slow-mo are available. There 
 is also a bow, but it is difficult to use and unless you are out of ammo, you won't use it, and 
 unfortunately, can't swap it for something more useful like a shotgun or rifle.
  
  The game is separated into episodes where you either play as Billy or Ray. Billy is the only one 
 with the whip and bow, and is more platform-oriented. You climb, whip, and ride through the level, 
 with various shooting breaks in between. The sneaking parts of Billy's episodes are often annoying 
 and have a you lose and you learn way about them. Ray is focused more heavily on the shooting aspect 
 of the game. He can't climb, but he can kick in doors and use his trusty (although useless) bible. 
 No matter who you play, the game is setting you down a pre-determined path through the level, so 
 you feel stripped of your freedom.
  
  The multiplayer is fun, although a bit laggy, and uses a class-system or rifles, dynamite, six-shooters, 
 and shotgun.
  
  Overall it is a decent game and good try at redefining the wild west genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nappan
Rating: 6.1
Date: Jun 10, 2007 12:42 am PT
Review:  Call Of Juarez just isn't that much fun, and it's no great shakes technically. That's about as 
 bluntly as I can put it to start off with, although in a way, that's too harsh an assessment. This 
 is by no means a broken game, and given the paucity of westerns, you'd think it's filling a seriously 
 underused niche. Time has shown however, that the western is often a VERY poor setting for videogames 
 of the Action/FPS variety. Lets face it, the weapons of the time were clunky and do not lend themselves 
 to breathtaking gameplay, and the setting was very crude. Those two issues, more than a fault of 
 the game itself kill COJ.
  
  
  Bound by it's western theme, COJ is limited in creativity and breadth, and sticks to very simple 
 gunplay mechanics we've all seen in other games. this, coupled with what ends up being a failry 
 boring setting filled with generic clich&eacute; bad guys, just wears you down. To be blunt, the 
 gameplay is old, and Techland doesn't do enough with the setting or story to make that a forgivable 
 sin.
  
  
  
  Slow motion gunplay which becomes EXTREMELY easy, or clunky stealth mechanics that have you wishing 
 that Sam Fisher would appear and start sniping are not engaging. Reading bible verses is cute, 
 but that's it. Add the fact that the basic mechanics are familiar and bland to the highly scripted 
 and all too brief storyline and you have a loser here. In all fairness, I know that there are people 
 out there who LOVE old westerns. Some people will be so compelled by the setting that the rest 
 is irrelevant, and for those people this game works on enough levels to be worth the rental.
  
  
  That said, in this day and age, most people have gotten over nostalgia of that sort and 
 prefer gameplay that is unfettered by a strict setting and mythos. The bottom line is that for 
 anyone who is not starving for a taste of Ye Olde West, there are many other worthwhile games you 
 can play instead. It's also worth considering that in a time when sandbox games are coming in to 
 their own and RTS' are still evolving and improving, and even the humble FPS continues to thrive 
 with exciting new gameplay... that a game like COJ is an anachronism within an anachronism, and 
 not worth supporting financially. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MoragArkadia
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jun 9, 2007 9:46 am PT
Review:  Call of Juarez while far from great and not without its share of flaws nonetheless still offers 
 up nice graphics and wild west shootouts. I bought this mostly for the multiplayer as I was looking 
 for something a little different. In a way this title offers much what Shadowrun offers, not in 
 the playing style persay as both are vastly different but rather in offering a slightly different 
 FPS. The single player on this (and I have played very little of it) is less than impressive. Perhaps 
 it gets better but I have not been blown away by anything and the missions with Billy are, well, 
 just plain not very good. However, online games are fast paced but at times clipping can occur 
 with the characters and what appears to be characters pinging out and lagging. When that is not 
 occurring then the play is fun. So here is the deal. If you have money to blow and really dig the 
 western genre and are looking for a FPS multiplayer experience then by all means this is the best 
 the 360 has to offer at this point. However, this is much more a renter than a buyer as their is 
 more wrong than right with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IggyGnugget
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 9, 2007 9:18 am PT
Review:  I had been following this game for months before its release, and about a week ago I was able to 
 download the PC demo. The demo blew my mind and I traveled to Software Etc. the next day and reserved 
 the Xbox 360 version. When I picked up the game a couple of days ago and played it for the first 
 time on the 360, I was satisfied but a little bit disappointed at the same time. The 360 version 
 featured all the same action and was just as engaging as the PC demo. Unfortunately, there are 
 a few things that seem to be cut out for the 360 version such as the bullet-holes that appear in 
 your enemies when they are shot and some of the textures seem to be a little bland compared to 
 the PC. besides that though, this is an excellent game that has a lot of replay value and a multiplayer 
 system that is very similar to the Call of Duty series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StopkaZ
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 9, 2007 4:04 am PT
Review:  First game made by Polish crew and yet ranked 3 today :) Great game as i said its long, there is 
 many weapons and everything worth buying :) My friends and i been playing this game for about 40 
 hours and we say : IT OWNZZZ (FPS-Doug RULEZZ :) ) btw. rent it , play it, give it a 9.5 to 10 :) 
 The sounds are realistic the grapichs are good . Only game i think on XboX 360 is better than this, 
 its Call of Duty 3 .
  
  P. S. Sorry for the spelling
  
  
  Comin' fo' u damn cheaters C-S 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sytzepunk
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 9, 2007 3:58 am PT
Review:  Call of Juarez is a western themed shooter where you take control of Billy, an indian who is escaping 
 from the law, and its fellow cowboy that try's to retrieve Billy.
  
  When I first saw Call of Juarez, I though it was somekind of RPG (Oblivion like) Western where 
 you could ride horses thru a huge world, the game doesn't support that, and I was dissapointing 
 at first, and still dissapointed after beating the game, the game could be alot more with a free-roaming 
 theme.
  
  Gameplay:
  Each campaigns will give you a new variety of gameplay and weapons, like with Billy you're a indian 
 with bow and arrow with a few Indiana-jone aspects like jumping from roof to roof and sliding down 
 ropes and use ropes to swing over huge gaps, cowboys campaigns is loosely based on shooting.
  
  Billy's platforming is terrible, swinging over gaps is terrible since you need to first try 
 atleast 5 times to throw the rope over a branch, and then get lucky to actually swing over a gap, 
 cowboys shooting is decent, it has somekind of bullet-time where you hold you're dual pistols in 
 different positions, letting you have two crosshairs at the same time, good for shooting down multiple 
 enemies quickly.
  
  Riding horses and getting into overpowered miniguns are also participating into this game, playing 
 as Billy and seeing a few lone cowboys roasting there food, seeing them yell at you as you sneak 
 upon them in the bushes in suprisingly fun.
  
  Theres a multiplayer component where I didn't got into, maybe its because if you play on Cowboys 
 side, you get two guns, if you empty one, you'll lose it, so even if you find ammo, you sometimes 
 won't even have a gun, so mostly you'll find yourself hanging onto closecombat in intense firefights.
 
  
  Graphics:
  Great, they captures the western feel with all the churces and Wild-west towns you'd expect from 
 a game like this, tho I would've liked some free-roaming.
  
  Psychics engine is great, if you shoot somebody with either a bow or gun, they'll fall down realisticly, 
 if you ride a horse and shoot somebody of a horse or aim for the horse, the horse will fall down 
 and the cowboy will roll of the horse being stunned, being a easy target.
  
  Something notable is the glass, it looks.. real, seriously.
  
  AI:
  Cowboys seem to be trigger-happy, 
 while civilians like to keep out the action, play as Billy and cowboys seem to have a racial dismark 
 against you, AI isn't really challenging, doesn't count for minigames either, you'll die alot from 
 falling down platforming objects then from firefights.
  
  Story:
  Billy is traveling to his parents house in a typical western town, being greeted by some racial 
 cowboys, he races thru a hail of bullets.. just to find out to see his parents and other relatvies 
 murdered.
  
  In cowboys shoe's, you'll miss out this action, but you're probably know Billy good, when you travel 
 to Billy's house aswel, he see's Billy standing near his dead parents, you're mission is to retrieve 
 Billy to justice while Billy is running away.
  
  Is it a good FPS:
  Might be a rent if you like western or FPS, or if you have nothing to play on the Xbox 360 for 
 now, the game lacks in stuff for it to be fully enjoyable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flav333
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 9, 2007 3:12 am PT
Review:  I loved the gameplay, the different types of pistols, rifles, shotguns even though there wasn't 
 that many as there was in Red Dead Revolver. The graphics are awesome particularly the scenery, 
 and the character presentation was good too. The blood splatter effects were good similar to Oblivion, 
 but if you kill someone who's infront of a door if you look closely on the wood the blood starts 
 to spread and seep in, it's pretty cool. I liked the different ways of handling the guns whether 
 gunslinger six shooter style, or single shot or double pistol action. If you liked Red Dead Revolver 
 for xbox, then you'll like this with Bar-room brawls to outdoor Indian Shooting, to Horseback rifle 
 shooting action, this game is for you. This game is amazing buy it have fuun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jriddle89
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 8, 2007 7:55 pm PT
Review:  Story: Good story, adds good elements concerning the dual player system where you can see the plot 
 thicken through both hunter and hunted. Graphics: Great graphics, can't complain. The scale of 
 the game is awe-inducing, you peer out into a valley and its just beauty before your eyes... can't 
 explain, must experience first hand.
  
  Sound: I don't really see too much into sound unless it just seems corny or something. The voice 
 acting may seem a little campy to some, but that's ok for me. Weaponry sounds great, good musical 
 score, good environmental sounds, so I can't say anything bad about that.
  
  Gameplay: Standard shooter, non-revolutionary...... so depends on the user whether this is a con 
 or pro... but personally I am alright with ordinary. Concentration mode is good for crowd control, 
 dueling system is pretty sweet, horseback fighting is good too.
  
  Online: Easy to get online, great online play with a good amount of players, community seems friendly 
 enough. When I first played the game, I went straight to the online portion and that is where I 
 learned how to play, mostly not from experimenting, but from the other players helping me out... so 
 yeah... Maps are simple enough, interesting online modes, player types are pretty balanced
  
  Overall: 9/10 I think this is because I love good Westerns and have waited for a Western game 
 to come out, and finally one of good quality. Although some cons would be the absence of innovation 
 causing this game to not be a standout game, but is still a valid shooter in its own and operates 
 as how an FPS should. Like I said, Western fans should love it and own it, shooter fans try it 
 out first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: profballplr
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 8, 2007 5:33 pm PT
Review:  CoJ is a perfect example of why *your* opinion on if a game is worth buying matters more than gamespot's. 
 This game is simply incredible in its presentation and execution, and it does so in a setting that 
 I typically find very boring. The pacing and variety of gameplay is well thought out, as if the 
 developers took the basic gameplay pacings of half life 2 and made it way more fun. The two main 
 characters are polished and much more interesting than Gordon Freeman, and the slo-mo effect does 
 not make the game too easy as it did in F. E. A. R. So as far as a brief summary goes on what I think 
 of this game, here you go.
  
  Why should you buy this game? Why is the game THE shooter of the summer? It's because when I play 
 this game, I get incredibly immersed into it just as much (proabably even moreso) than hl2, fear, 
 stalker, or any other fps I've played in the last few years. The game does everything it can to 
 make you feel like an elite gunslinger or bowman tearing through an environment of corruption and 
 lawlessness. The duality of playing two different characters is awesome, and makes the story much 
 more interesting to follow than hl2 (it feels very Tarantino-esque in how it's told) . And no, you're 
 wrong gamespot, Billy's missions are not overly platform and stealth induced. It says right in 
 the game that they are multiple ways to go through his missions. So if you don't feel like sneaking 
 past all the outlaws, you have slow-mo with a bow as well as dual pistols, and a whip.
  
  In conclusion, if you are into Western-themed games or even fps games in general I can recommend 
 no other at the moment. I will be replaying this game on hard and very hard, as well as playing 
 multiplayer and going through the duals this summer (while watching a sweet western like Open Range 
 ) . Screw the same old futuristic or WWII themed shooters which I'm sure gamespot will be praising 
 in a hyperbole of their own hypocracy. Game on.
  
  -Rhoak 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johndoelling
Rating: 4
Date: Jun 8, 2007 5:27 pm PT
Review:  There is so much potential in a game like this.. So many people love the western style genre.. But 
 it my opinion the ball wasnt only dropped on the making of this, the ball was lost! Who makes a 
 game nowadays without features features features??! Well i'll give u a cookie if you said Ubisoft/Techland...
 
  
  Pros:
  
  1) western theme
  
  Cons:
  
  1) camera angles
  2) short story
  3) no map
  4) no 3rd person
  5) you spend more time trying to hide and sneak to find simple pointless 
 objectives that you start to wonder when does the story start.. There are sooo many more cons i 
 could list but those are the main ones.. bottom line ladies and gentleman if u can buy this game 
 for 5 dollars you wont be ripped off... If you have to pay anymore than that go and buy the game 
 GUN!! Its a thousand times better.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zoltrix101
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 7, 2007 10:59 pm PT
Review:  Call of Juarez is a fun game but to short to justify buying i have yet to spend time on the multi-player 
 but I just finished threw the main story line in 8Hours 15 minutes. Gameplay : very addictive and 
 lots of fun well it lasts but a little to short i found a few glitches along the way the some being 
 very annoying one that stood out is on a train and i was stuck in there since a dorr wouldn't open
 
  
  Grapics: The enviroments are amazing just walking threw the forest seeing the different layers 
 of foliage is great but on the otherside i found the shadows on my guys would stand strait and 
 not move when i was running Sound: The sound is very well done the sounds of the whip cracking 
 and the sound of your reloading your gun is great, but what sold me was the sound of your gun overheating 
 and blowing up in your hands. if you go into slow motion (kinda like a bullet time) when your enemys 
 are talking to you their words slow down which is a nice touch,
  
  Value: unfortanitly i can only say rent it you can easyly beat it in a single sitting (i did) since 
 the game play is very addictive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chiphoi
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 7, 2007 7:53 pm PT
Review:  When I saw the initial videos of Call of Juarez over half a year ago, it was for the PC and seemed 
 pretty straight forward. It was a shooter and it had a Western theme. For fans of both venues, 
 I knew I would probably get it or at least play a demo.
  
  When info was released that it would be also be coming to the 360, my plans to purchase the game 
 became more solid. I didn't expect much, but after the first few minutes of play, which quickly 
 became hours, I knew I was hooked.
  
  The meat of the story is told through the loading screens in beautifully written and spoken dialogue. 
 The rest of the story is through in-game cut scenes and pop-up windows. It was all well executed 
 and professionally done. I'm pleased to say that there was hardly any moment when I felt without 
 direction. The action was well paced with options on how to participate. The physics in the game 
 are top notch, with limitless optons on how to tackle some of the obstacles, i. e., stacking boxes 
 to get up to a ledge or creating a barrier to protect yourself in a deadly shootout.
  
  GameSpot's reviewer didn't care too much for the stealth elements playing as Billy. To be honest, 
 you are not limited or locked into that stealth element. In all actuality, if you want some of 
 the achievements, then you'll remove yourself from the stealth atmosphere to take care of some 
 business.
  
  Speaking of achievements, Call of Juarez will have you thinking a little more than is usual for 
 a FPS, which is a nice change of pace. The achievements are clever and encourage you to do a more 
 than just shoot and run.
  
  Overall, I highly recommend this game to fans of either genre. The FPS aspects are clever enough 
 and varied enough to allow you some flexibility in your gameplay. The Western theme is thick with 
 atmosphere and story. The spoken dialogue is dead on, pulling you deep into the heart of the time 
 period. As for multiplayer, it's the standard multi-class kind with several game types... it's 
 enough to keep you coming back, long after you complete the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SURFERBOY313
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 7, 2007 4:45 pm PT
Review:  Its a great game especially for those who are tired of the same old shooters! It puts a great spin 
 on the genre and the weponary works really well. on top of that it also has great multiplayer! 
 From sniping to running up with a pair of six guns. And the single player is real good and not 
 too short like some games that attempted western style before. Its a all around great game but 
 if you have live it will make it a lot more worth while. Ill deffinetly be playing this game for 
 a long while. Call of Juarez is a must own in my book! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: talnick
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 7, 2007 4:16 pm PT
Review:  Call of Juarez is call of duty during the old west. Instead of tanks we got horses. I love the 
 multilayer. Its not broken or anything. Personally my favorite single player character is reverend 
 Ray. I mean come on a man of god with dual six shooters. I also like being able to read a script 
 from the bible and then shoot the guy in the head. The only thing that could of been fixed is the 
 loading screens. The ones where the character talks about whats going on. My screens like to load 
 and skip the scene, hence i cant tell what is going on sometimes. all in all great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crow114
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 7, 2007 11:35 am PT
Review:  Call of Juarez is a gfirst person action adventure set in the old west. You get to play as Billy 
 Candle who plays as kind of a Sam Fisher with a whip and Bow, and then there is Reverend Ray who 
 plays like the master Chief on crack. Now Billy's levels play more as sneaking around to avoid 
 the wrath of Reverend Ray who believes that Billy has killed his brother. Reverend Ray is this 
 badass preacher-gunslinger who is hunting Billy al the while delivering white knuckle two-fisted 
 gunplay. The game seems very realistic form lightning giving away your position to gun exploding 
 from rust and over use, but there are some flaws like being shot in the crotch will only make you 
 wish you were dead. All in all this is a great polished game with a few flaws but not enough to 
 take away from the experiance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: atomixxx_
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 7, 2007 10:37 am PT
Review:  Few days ago I thought that Call of Juarez is a very good game. After 10 hours of playing I have 
 to say that it's a GREAT game.
  Awesome gameplay, very nice graphics and cool music. You have to hear Ray's voice to feel the power. 
 It's a great feeling when You kill 3 or 4 enemies in the same time with the concentration mode. 
 Billy's levels are nice too. Especially the bow. It became my favourite weapon. Multiplayer gives 
 much much more fun than Shadowrun and it's much richer.
  Try to ride a horse and kill someone from your sniper rifle. Greeeat feeling.
  
  If You ask 
 me about Call of Juarez, I say It's awesome! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: austin050
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 7, 2007 9:28 am PT
Review:  its really from the best game i played , great Graphics , and very nice soundtrack . with an enjoyable 
 gameplay , the story is good and the value of the game is excellent . the game its not very hard 
 and you can learn it within 30 min .
  
  the difficult is normal . upisoft make another good game .
  
  when you play the game you feel 
 like you are really in the west from the amazing graphics and soundtrack , i dont see any proplem 
 in this game and deserve my excellent point . its the best game about the wild west and its worth 
 to play for many , many hours . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tacomonster3000
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 7, 2007 8:46 am PT
Review:  Against the judgment that i have received from friends, this game is one of a kind on the 360, 
 its been a while since we've had a western ... (i don't count GUN) . when i first went and bought 
 this i was expecting a lot less than i actually got ... the sounds are awesome if you have a surround 
 sound (i heard a cat and thought it was mine) ... the details of the environments are nothing too 
 look past ... running through a forest with guys chasing you with six shooters was the funnest 
 thing I've done in a while, and the prettiest. The gun fights are spectacular ... trying to find 
 cover because your being fired on by 10 guys and then pop around a corner use the concentration 
 mode and blast them all the hell in 3 seconds is awesome. Now i only played one game in live multi-player 
 ... but from what i played its pretty fast paced ... so I'm not gonna go and tell you to buy this 
 game ... but its definitely worth checking out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theirishstud
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 7, 2007 8:17 am PT
Review:  Todays developers need to realize that when making a game such as CoJ, you need to give it a large 
 free roaming environment. Those are the games of the future. Oblivion, GTA, Crackdown (even though 
 it sucked) . Freedom to do missions when you want how you want. If they achieved this with CoJ they 
 would have one of the best games for 360 today. I read that someone compared it to Oblivion which 
 is ridiculous. Forcing players to go in one direction the entire time gets boring. Gun had the 
 right idea but they missed the mark as well with the somewhat small environment.. Taking it for 
 what it is... it's not horrible. Great graphics, awesome score, really nice physics. Another Red 
 Dead Revolver with better graphics. Also, no multiplayer without Xbox live and that sucks. Take 
 it or leave it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tboss
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 8, 2007 4:08 pm PT
Review:  I played this game on PC last year and liked it very much. Now I play it on my 360 and the game 
 is even better and more polished than PC version. Call of Juarez is very different from standard 
 FPS games, because of it's mature realism and level of details care. The closest game I would compare 
 it to is probably HL2. I had similar experience. The two characters playing against each other 
 is a great idea. The way it is told through the whole game is very believable and realistic. Gameplay 
 is unique in all aspects. First you don't have automatic rifles. You might think this is cons but 
 if fact it is totally opposite. You feel every shoot you put into your enemy, and see the damage 
 you do. It is very satisfying and adds much to the fighting atmosphere.
  
  Riding and using rifle on your horse is excellent. Some of the levels gives you great freedom, 
 some are more linear with dence action. The concentration mode, dueling and fast shooting gives 
 you great western feel and can be used whenever you feel needed.
  
  There is so many different things you will be doing and every one of them is very believable comparing 
 to the usual FPS standard, where you have a few semioriginal elements overused through the whole 
 game. When you get to the end, you notice, you wil not forget this title that easily.
  I highly recommend it to anyone who wants fun, mature and very memorable action adventure shooter. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheLuxan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 6, 2007 8:35 pm PT
Review:  I loved the gameplay, the different types of pistols, rifles, shotguns even though there wasn't 
 that many as there was in Red Dead Revolver. The graphics are awesome particularly the scenery, 
 and the character presentation was good too. The blood splatter effects were good similar to Oblivion, 
 but if you kill someone who's infront of a door if you look closely on the wood the blood starts 
 to spread and seep in, it's pretty cool. I liked the different ways of handling the guns whether 
 gunslinger six shooter style, or single shot or double pistol action. If you liked Red Dead Revolver 
 for xbox, then you'll like this with Bar-room brawls to outdoor Indian Shooting, to Horseback rifle 
 shooting action, this game is for you. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
