-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Call of Duty 3
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/callofduty3/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Gorgeous visuals.
 amazing sound.
 vastly improved multiplayer.
 feels just like you're a small part of a huge war.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Single-player campaign doesn't play much differently than last year.
 story isn't particularly engaging.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov  8, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.8
Critic Score: 8.3, 88 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 10,567 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: Treyarch
Genre: Historic First-Person...
Date: Nov 7, 2006
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Though it plays nearly identical to Call of Duty 2, Call of Duty 3 is a fantastic game with top-notch 
 production values. 

  World War II may have ended in 1945, but that hasn't stopped the axis and allies from waging war 
 against one another on the video game front. Call of Duty 2 was one of the Xbox 360's best games 
 when the system launched last November. The game made use of the console's power to generate outstanding 
 visuals and sound, immersing players in combat like never before. With Call of Duty 2 developer 
 Infinity Ward having moved on to other projects, the series has been placed in the hands of Treyarch, 
 the developer behind Call of Duty 2: Big Red One. It did not disappoint. Call of Duty 3 plays every 
 bit as good as its predecessor, and it has improved multiplayer and visuals, too.  

          There's never a dull moment in Call of Duty 3.     

  Call of Duty 3 takes place in 
 1944 during the Normandy Breakout. After landing successfully on the beaches of France, the allied 
 focus was on getting the Germans out of France and liberating Paris, which was under Nazi control 
 at the time. As was the case in the last game, you're placed in the role of several different soldiers 
 and you'll participate in campaigns for America, Britain, Canada, and Poland. Each country's campaign 
 has a unique storyline that is supposed to get you emotionally involved with the characters, but 
 the stories aren't very interesting; there's a soldier with a strong distaste for the French, an 
 overbearing sergeant, and a young radio operator who has been labeled a coward. Though the stories 
 aren't particularly engaging, fighting for four different armies works because it gives you a sense 
 of not only how much effort it took to wrestle control of France from the Germans, but also that 
 it wasn't just the United States that lost men and women in World War II.  

  Once again, the game opens with a brief training mission, though it's a little shorter this time 
 around. Here, you'll learn how to fire weapons and throw grenades, as well as how to move around. 
 The controls are identical to Call of Duty 2, both in how they are laid out and in how they feel. 
 You can fire your weapon with a quick pull of the right trigger, but this doesn't allow for much 
 accuracy. For precision aiming, you'll want to pull the left trigger, which raises your gun to 
 eye level and lets you use the weapon's sight. Here, you're vulnerable during the time it takes 
 to raise your weapon and while you wait for the blurring effect that simulates your eyes focusing 
 to clear up. It's a subtle effect, but it works really well and it's not overdone. You can also 
 perform a melee attack by pressing the right analog stick. Clicking the left analog stick brings 
 up your binoculars -- an unfortunate button-mapping choice because it's far too easy to accidentally 
 push the stick down when you're scrambling for your life. You can toss smoke grenades to create 
 cover and frag grenades to clear large groups of Wehrmacht. Call of Duty 3 also lets you scoop 
 up grenades thrown by the enemy and toss them back. To prevent your grenades from being returned 
 to sender, you can "cook" a grenade by pressing and holding the right bumper, which lets the grenade 
 get closer to detonating before you throw it. This is an important technique to master -- not only 
 because it's useful, but also because screwing it up results in a grenade exploding in your hands. 
 Because there's no health bar in the game, you'll need to watch the screen when you're getting 
 hit. As you get shot, the edges of the screen turn crimson and close in around you the more you 
 get hit. Should you fall victim to a grenade or a bullet and not die, all you have to do is seek 
 shelter to recover your health.  

          Close-quarters combat is a new, albeit uninteresting, addition.     

  After your training 
 is complete, you hop in the back of a truck and ride into battle. When you get out of the truck, 
 or rather are blown out of the truck by an explosion, you're boosted over the cemetery wall. Here, 
 you'll find yourself in the midst of one of the most impressive firefights in any first-person 
 shooter to date. Everywhere you look, there's carnage. Bullets and grenades whiz through the air 
 while bombs explode all around, leaving soldiers to scramble for whatever cover they can find -- be 
 it a bombed-out mausoleum or a grave stone. The bodies of your fallen comrades are strewn about 
 the battlefield -- a stark reminder that unless you want to join them, you need to keep moving. A 
 later level sees you making your way across a pasture using a tank (and even the carcasses of dead 
 cows) as cover to shield yourself from the Nazi soldiers who surround the field. Most of the rest 
 of the game's 14 missions aren't quite as intense as these two examples, but there's rarely a dull 
 moment to be found.  

  Call of Duty 3 isn't a run-and-gun FPS, but it's not as slow-paced as a tactical shooter, either. 
 You'll fight alongside CPU-controlled soldiers, and you'll generally need to stay behind cover, 
 pick off as many soldiers as you can, and then advance to the next safe location. Since you spend 
 so much time behind cover, it would have been nice to have the ability to lean, but you can do 
 pretty well without it. Because the game's artificial intelligence appears "smarter" than a typical 
 FPS, it can be frustrating to be unable to clear a particular section because of cheap tricks like 
 how new enemies will spawn to replace fallen soldiers in outdoor levels (they don't do this indoors) . 
 But once you come to grips with the fact that you can't kill them all, it shouldn't bother you 
 much. You still need to be careful not to shoot fellow soldiers, but the game is more forgiving 
 this time around -- the game doesn't instantly end when you fire that first bullet into your comrade's 
 chest. Call of Duty 3 isn't a terribly difficult game on the default setting, nor is it particularly 
 lengthy, clocking in at 8 to 10 hours from start to finish. On the default difficulty, enemy soldiers 
 aren't very aggressive and they'll follow the same patterns over and over, so it's easy to sit 
 back and wait for them to show themselves. Series veterans looking for more of a challenge will 
 want to bump up the difficulty to hard or veteran, as doing so results in a vastly different and 
 more intense experience. Enemies are much more aggressive, they're better shots, and your health 
 disappears much quicker.  

          If you're not blowing something up, you're doing something wrong.     

  Mission objectives 
 are varied but don't stray far from what you'd expect from the type of first-person shooter that 
 takes place in World War II. Sometimes you'll simply need to get from point A to point B, while 
 other times you'll need to defend an area from attack, rescue hostages, or plant explosives. You'll 
 also have to use your binoculars to mark targets for air strikes, man stationary guns, and even 
 ride in the back of a jeep and pick off bad guys with the jeep's machine gun. Rather than a single 
 path to success, there are multiple ways to approach missions. Sometimes the game presents you 
 with clear-cut options, while other times you'll have to find them on your own. Each objective 
 is shown as a star on your radar, making them easy to find even in the heat of battle.  

  A few new twists have been added to the gameplay, but they don't necessarily make the game better, 
 nor do they make it worse. Rather than just hitting a button to plant a bomb and then running away, 
 you'll need to hit a button, rotate the analog stick a few times to insert the fuse, and then hit 
 a button to arm the bomb. There's also a new close-quarters battle mechanic that takes place when 
 you're surprised by an enemy. These scripted events have you rapidly alternating pressing the left 
 and right triggers to fight off your attacker and then pressing a face button to finish them off. 
 Some of the scenes look pretty cool, but the mechanics are boring and there are less than 10 of 
 these situations in the entire game, so they're rather worthless. Not all of the game's action 
 takes place with you on foot. There are a few missions that place you in the driver's seat of a 
 jeep, and it's your job to follow the checkpoints and avoid enemy fire while escaping from an area 
 or rescuing hostages. A couple of other scenarios have you behind the controls of a tank and you'll 
 need to eliminate enemy tanks and armored vehicles. The driving missions aren't particularly exciting, 
 but the controls are forgiving enough to make them sort of fun, and if nothing else, they do mix 
 up the gameplay a bit. The tanks are unwieldy at first, but once you get the hang of them, it's 
 a blast driving around and blowing stuff up.     

  Call of Duty 2 was one of the most played Xbox 360 games on Xbox Live, and Call of Duty 3 is poised 
 to be just as popular. While you were limited to just eight players in a game last year, 24 players 
 can now join in the fray, including four players per Xbox. Tripling the amount of players has made 
 the game much more fun, though it's more difficult to make a difference operating as a lone soldier 
 now. There are nine different multiplayer maps to play on, and the game promises downloadable maps 
 in the future. Six different match types are available for play, including team battles, capture 
 the flag, headquarters, and more. If you're looking to play as something other than a basic soldier, 
 there are seven different kits to choose from, including a medic who can revive players and a support 
 soldier that delivers ammo. To help ensure that people will play as these two classes of soldiers, 
 two of the game's achievements are specifically tied to healing people and delivering ammunition. 
 And you won't have to hoof it all the time, either. Jeeps, tanks, and motorcycles are found throughout 
 the levels, adding even more depth to an already deep multiplayer experience. Playing on prerelease 
 servers, the online action ran smoothly with nary a hint of lag.  

          The guns are very detailed and look great.     

  This is not a game that you'll play 
 once and then put on the shelves never to play again. There's enough difference between the different 
 difficulty levels that they're worth going back and playing again, and the multiplayer is excellent. 
 Of course, there are achievements to be earned, as well -- both on and offline. There are points 
 awarded for beating the game on any difficulty, beating it on veteran, and finishing multiple missions 
 for each country, as well as getting through a level without dying, without shooting, or getting 
 hit by less than 30 bullets. Additional achievements can be earned online for reviving players, 
 delivering ammo, and by achieving certain ranks.  

  It's worth noting that we encountered a handful of bugs in the single-player campaign. None of 
 these prevented the game from being completed, but they did force us to restart levels from previously 
 saved checkpoints. In one instance our soldier got stuck in a hole in the floor that had been created 
 when bits of it fell to the floor below. Later in the game we were supposed to meet up with our 
 squad, but were unable to do so because some of them had gotten stuck getting out of a boat, and 
 the event wouldn't trigger. Other nuisances included guns that we needed getting stuck in walls 
 and we got temporarily stuck a few times because a computer-controlled soldier had stopped in front 
 of us, while another stopped right behind us.  

          The cutscenes look nice, but they can't be skipped, even if you've already watched them. 
     

  Call of Duty 3's visuals are nothing short of amazing, and the game looks significantly better 
 than Call of Duty 2. The game, of course, looks best in high definition, but it still looks excellent 
 when viewed on a standard television display. The draw distance is excellent, and you'll never 
 notice any buildings or textures suddenly popping into view. Whether it's a farm in the French 
 countryside or a war-torn village, each level is very detailed and looks fantastic. The outdoor 
 environments are particularly impressive, and though you'll run into an invisible wall should you 
 stray too far, smart level design makes them feel larger than they really are. There are plenty 
 of lush bushes, thick grass, and large trees to use as cover, and they all look great. The textures 
 are an area of the game's graphics that have been vastly improved, as they're more detailed than 
 ever. It's hard to appreciate every little detail when you're trying to escape death, but the cutscenes 
 offer a chance to enjoy the improved presentation without having to worry about getting shot because 
 you stopped to admire the falling rain, planes flying overhead, or a puddle that has collected 
 in a hole left by a grenade.  

  Once again, the game's effects are outstanding. Throwing a smoke grenade results in a thick cloud 
 of smoke so dense and so realistic you'll sometimes find yourself squinting in an effort to see 
 better. Explosions from grenades, rockets, and bombs are similarly impressive. The frame rate isn't 
 locked at 60 frames per second all of the time, but outside of some occasional slowdown, it's fast 
 and smooth even during some of the most intense firefights. Every once in a while there will be 
 a hitch in the frame rate as the game loads new areas of a level. While this hiccup is certainly 
 noticeable, it only lasts a few seconds and it rarely affects gameplay since it usually happens 
 after you've accomplished an objective and there's a lull in the fighting. There are a couple of 
 small visual issues that mar the otherwise spectacular graphics. It never happened to a soldier 
 that was alive, but after you kill them, dead soldiers will occasionally get stuck in walls and 
 even float in midair. It's also possible to see the sparks from weapons fire through solid walls. 
 Even though the textures are better than last year, some of them aren't all that impressive and 
 some of the indoor environments, houses in particular, are repetitive.  

          Should I take the Rolls or the Tank? Yeah, the tank's a good choice.     

  Call of 
 Duty 3 sounds great, even if you're listening to it through your TV's built-in speakers. But if 
 you've got your Xbox 360 hooked up to a surround-sound setup, the game sounds  phenomenal . You'll 
 hear bullets coming from all directions and explosions will rattle your (and your neighbor's) walls. 
 The chatter from both your fellow soldiers and your enemies not only adds to the atmosphere, but 
 also provides helpful clues as to what you need to do next. Your squadmates will direct you to 
 the next checkpoint or cover, and listening to Nazi soldiers will let you know their tactics as 
 well as if your presence has been detected. Joel Goldsmith ( Star Trek: First Contact, Stargate 
 SG-1 ) has written a gorgeous orchestral soundtrack that elevates the presentation to another level. 
 Performed by the Slovak Symphony Orchestra, the majestic score is on par with that of any major 
 motion picture. It's a shame there's no option to just listen to the music from the game -- it's 
 that good.  

  From start to finish, Call of Duty 3 is an intense experience and a great game. The visuals are 
 fantastic and the sound is some of the best in any game to date. Though there's no question that 
 Call of Duty 3 is every bit as good as its predecessor, and without question the multiplayer is 
 vastly improved, none of the changes or additions to the single-player campaign significantly alter 
 the way the game plays. If the Call of Duty series hasn't won you over previously, Call of Duty 
 3 isn't going to do much to change your mind. But for anyone else, Call of Duty 3 is a must-own. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (835 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: huladog123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 18, 2009 1:10 pm PT
Review:  I fell in love with Call of Duty 3 the first time I played it. I know that to others it may seem 
 like "been there, done that" but I am telling you that this isn't the case. Call of Duty 3 is an 
 amazing first person shooter that puts you in the role of an American soldier fighting to liberate 
 France from the Nazis after D-Day. The story is compelling, and the gameplay is oh so sweet.
  
  I never get tired of the gameplay; shooting Nazis is just too much fun. Your selection of guns 
 varies depending on which level your on and whatever is available, but you shouldn't have a problem 
 using any of them to kill the enemy before he kills you. There is precision involved when it comes 
 to shooting, and you need to be aware of your surroundings at all times so that you don't find 
 yourself surrounded or separated from your squad. As you progress through the story, you'll infiltrate 
 enemy bases and sabotage them, clear out and redeem entire towns of the enemy, rescue hostages, 
 and even fight for your life inside an old house against an innumerable amount of Nazis breaking 
 through the doors and windows. You'll also have opportunities to drive trucks and tanks, use machine 
 guns, fire mortars, and (my favorite) set charges and blow 'em up. The gameplay is challenging, 
 and the controls are simple and easy to use.
  
  The graphics are pretty much perfect. The animations are smooth, and both the character models 
 and environments have a great amount of detail put into them. The sound effects and voice acting 
 are superb, and the music sets the perfect tone for a WWII game. Whether you're fighting indoors 
 or out, you always have the feeling like you're fighting the war.
  
  The replay value is very high, and I personally feel encouraged to try it on each difficulty. Call 
 of Duty 3 is one of the best games out there, and it waits impatiently for you to buy it.
  
  Score: 9.6
  Grade: A+
  Preference: Outstanding 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ferntfactor
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 8, 2009 2:57 pm PT
Review:  I know. it's very fashionable to slag this game and Treyarch in general. but why? i dug this game 
 and here's why:
  
  The Good: 
  
  - love the new locales and the story lines. the french resistance deserve more credit. not every 
 frenchman - or woman - surrendered. 10s of thousands willingly gave up their lives for freedom 
 and to save allied airmen stranded behind the lines.
  - i'm Canadian and it was fun to play these lesser known, but important battles. i really appreciate 
 the depth of thought that Treyarch and Activision put into this decision to also feature the Canadians 
 and the Polish. it was ballsy and sure to meet criticism.
  - excellent weapons, as usual.
  - nice atmosphere. many scenes are cosier than in other CODs, although there are also a couple 
 pretty magnificent, chaotic, set piece battles for variety.
  - a lot of night time fighting goodness.
  
  The bad: 
  
  - i took a quick look at multiplayer 
 and didn't love it. fine for its time, i suppose.
  - too bad it lacks collectables or upgrades to make it more re-playable. gun upgrades, medals and 
 perks are clearly the way to go.
  - the twisting of keys to prep artillery pieces was novel, but only the first time. say hello to 
 carpal tunnel syndrome.
  
  The summary:
  
  Give it a try. it's bound to be an absolute bargain these days, although i don't begrudge the 60 
 bucks i "shelled" out a couple years back. (that's a war game joke) . even as a Canuck i've always 
 been happy to play as a U. S. GI, Marine or as a British or Australian, but COD 3 was a nice change 
 up. good job, Treyarch!
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Necro79_basic
Rating: 4.5
Date: Mar 26, 2009 11:30 pm PT
Review:  I was really interested in hearing that this game was the first to actually let you play as a Canadian 
 soldier. For years American's didn't believe Canada even had a military 60 years ago, when we kicked 
 more ass then the Americans did, being in the war for two extra years without being attacked first 
 helps that kill ratio a bit. regardless im not going to start an argument, don't believe me? read 
 history books from a different country. But lets get back to brass tacks, Call of Duty 2 is the 
 successor to COD2, a great game with good production values and interesting missions with great 
 history homage to those unarmored ass-kickers from yesteryear.
  
  However that's where my compliments end for the most part. Call of duty 3 is quite bad in comparison. 
 Ive never seen an expansion pack sequel (this is a game that uses everything from its predecessor 
 and just expands on it without many changes) that just screwed up so bad but im willing to bet 
 it has something to do with the 11-12 months the developers spent working on it, thanks for that 
 deadline activision. The game plays badly, somebody thought messing with the Nazi AI was a smart 
 thing, really if Nazi's with mp40's were that efficient and accurate in the actual war, the allies 
 would have lost north America before the 50s. Ive never seen AI so accurate, yet so stupid, they 
 will tag you with laser accuracy yet stand there and get shot easily. this is a classic example 
 of terrible coding for the AI, the problem was it was fine in COD2, what on earth did the developers 
 do!@?!@?!
  
  The level design is painful, heavily scripted, boring and unfun. your funneled into choke points 
 constantly, hit with endless enemy generators and you cant jump over anything, its really pathetic 
 to see your character unable to mantle over a small piece of debris or a house foundation, or get 
 stuck in the process of doing so, its so painful that all these invisible barriers stop you from 
 moving to a logical spot on the map. there are also times where the controls are bad, like the 
 mortar and cannon controls and the quick time events for setting charges are boring and repetitive. 
 
  
  its funny the enemy AI is so efficient with SMGS, when the allies constantly get slaughtered because 
 they fire all there shots standing and take several seconds to fire sometime even at point blank 
 range. sometimes your allies have trouble even pulling the trigger when opponents are nearby, open 
 and obvious as well. more bad programming.
  
  The game also has badly placed checkpoints, cutscenes you cant skip and a problem where war sounds 
 drown out dialogue which with the various cultural accents like polish, french, limey and Quebecois, 
 there hard to hear, even the expensive narrator used isn't very legible. you'll have to put the 
 subtitles on, don't worry this isn't a stereo issue, my speakers are bigger then my 42 inch i play 
 on. 
  
  The game is just bad, you wont want to play it very much after the first run through, aside from 
 the multi-player, but that's side of the game was hard to muck up on cause it was already done 
 from the last game. Anybody who toughed it out to get the veteran difficulty achievement should 
 get the purchase price of the game on the spot, because that takes saint like patience and alot 
 of beer.
  
  finally, id recommend this game of the history, finally i get to play as one of my fellow countrymen 
 who were in the war, getting orders from a poutine munching douchbag and shouting left-tenant, 
 lol. Unfortunately its in the worst world war two game Ive played to date. The fact is the developers 
 had a year to make this and its shows, most of these problems could be fixed with playtesting and 
 tweaking. 
  
  Anybody who thinks this game is as good as COD2 didnt really play this one very much at all or 
 just on easy. Its a crappy game with a few good spots and whole lot of player swearing and WTF's 
 in the middle. Its more enjoyable to play MOD: AA or COD1 again, at least those were fun. sorry 
 for grammer, the developers didnt proof there code so i wont either, lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dastour
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 13, 2009 3:21 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty three is one of my favorite games. It's the first Call of Duty game on the 360, and 
 out of the series before it this is the best game out of the first two series because it has great 
 graphics, about 10x better than the one on the regular xbox, it has a good storyline and has good 
 game play. It isn't hard but if you haven't played Call of Duty before you might think it's hard. 
 It isn't as nearly as good as the online play of COD 4 or COD 5, but it just might have a better 
 campaign, but i'm probably wrong. Once you start the campaign you can't stop you get sucked into 
 it and once you've finished it you feel like the king of the world. The only problem is after you 
 finished the campain and you don't have xbox live the game is pretty much useless afterwards. But 
 overall you should really think about buying this game if you can't get COD 4 or 5, because it's 
 not only a great game but it has good ratings too! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: otto1967
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 26, 2009 9:45 pm PT
Review:  How anybody rates this game highly is beyond me. The enemies are mechanical and entirely predictable. 
 There is no randomization of movement at all. This game certainly wins the award for dumbest allies 
 of any game ever made. Your own squad will constantly walk right in front of you while you're firing, 
 killing them and ending the game from "friendly fire." It's completely retarded and such an obvious 
 game flaw I can't believe the developer released it w/out addressing it. The lack of checkpoints 
 means you have to go through long tedious sections over and over again until you want to scream, 
 primarily due to your idiotic compatriots as mentioned above. There is very little room for roaming, 
 which was a big upgrade in World at War. Nothing innovative about the game to speak of. The missions 
 are pedestrian. Just Another WWII Shooter would have been a better name for this damp squib. World 
 ar War is outstanding. This is crap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: code523
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 22, 2009 12:22 pm PT
Review:  CoD3 is the first title in this series I've played, and while I can't say it's a groundbreaking 
 game in any technical aspects, or that it offers up any unique gameplay elements, it is a great 
 first person shooter.
  
  As has been mentioned in the officail review, you don't play as the same character all the way 
 through. I think I would have preferred it if you did. To me the jumping around from group to group 
 kind of broke up the immersion factor a bit. 
  I always dislike "invisible walls" in a game; places that look like you should be able to get through 
 but, that you can't, another immersion spoiler. And this game has them all over the place. That 
 got to be a bit tiresome but, overall didn't spoil the game.
  
  I did however like the fact that there wasn't some deeper underlying story they were trying to 
 tell. I liked the fact that most of the objectives were rudimentary battlefield tasks... really 
 made you feel like an ordinary grunt trying to win the war.
  And if you are someone who thinks an epic story is a must, you won't have much time to think about 
 that in this game. It's action-packed from start to finish! The core of any FPS is the fighting, 
 and this game offers up some of the most intense firefights I've seen so far on a console game. 
 The guns are accuratley portrayed (even if the sound eefects are a litle off) , and the feature 
 that lets you toss enemy grenades back at them, and that lets you "cook" a grenade before throwing 
 it, adds a whole new demension to some of those desperate close-quarter moments.
  
  All in all, this is a fantastic FPS. Well worth playing if you're a shooter fan, or even if your 
 just a gamer that's a WWII buff... especially now that it's old enough to find so cheap; I only 
 paid $10 for a used copy of this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jason_Morris
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 31, 2009 10:13 am PT
Review:  Having thoroughly enjoyed CoD 4, I decided to go back and fill in the blank with a purchase of 
 CoD 3 which I'd previously omitted. So, how does it measure up? Initial impressions are very good, 
 the graphics are really rather good, despite the game's age; sound, atmosphere and general attention 
 to physical detail are also impressive. Even the usually awful quick-time sequences are bearable. 
 However, after a few hours gameplay things start to impress less, a lot less. 
  
  All the attention to detail in the graphics has been undone by some of the most awful level design 
 I've seen outside of Clive Barker's Jericho. Linear levels with absolutely no option to flank, 
 almost no effort made to disguise infinite enemy respawn points, and cramped fighting conditions 
 where you'll often die trying to get out of the line of fire, only to be halted by a squadmate 
 coming the other way. Despite the level of graphics, you often feel that you are fighting a psychological 
 battle against the level designers and not the Germans; "I need to get to this point to stop that 
 respawn point there, and to this point to trigger this cutscene", totally ruining any sense of 
 immersion.
  
  CoD4 may be half the length of this, but the level design is more than twice as good. While still 
 quite linear, it so much more successfully immerses you in the game world. What is so infuriating 
 about this game is that it's largely the weak and severely dated level design that's done it in, 
 almost everything else, apart from some cheesy accents, and lazy national stereotypes, oh, and 
 not tip top AI, is just excellent: graphics, sound, smooth engine, all great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSBFan12
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 10, 2009 11:00 am PT
Review:  In this game you are the americans, the british, the russians, and the french. In the game you 
 are mostly the americans. The story is not the best but the multiplayer is amazing. If you are 
 the americans in the game you are mostly in the city parts of Germany. If you are the British you 
 are mostly in the grassland and there is only a few levels that you are them. If you are the french 
 then you are mostly in tanks and there are only about three levels that you are them. And if you 
 are the French then you do only 3 missions that you spread out in the game. In some levels you 
 can pick which way to go with a group and the other group goes the other way. There is also only 
 a few missions that a german soldeir grabs you and is about to kill you but you need to press buttons 
 that they show to kill the german soldier. The multiplayer in this game is really amazing. You 
 can get inside vechicles and you can versus against your friends or go on Xbox live and versus 
 against people. 
  
  The good of the game is that the sound is great. Great graphics. Great weapons. Great Multiplayer.
 
  
  The bad of the game is that terrible story. The single player combat is not really that good.
 
  
  Overall this game is a very good game to get for people who like World War 2. I rate this game 
 8.5 outta 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: punkdsk8erdude
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 27, 2008 9:08 am PT
Review:  At this point, there is no point to buying COD3.
  You won; t miss out on anything.
  Treyarch didnt do too well with this game. COD5, now theres a game you should buy.
  And COD4, 
 man, you should definitely own that.
  As far as COD3 is concerned, the graphics were pretty good but bow in comparison to the newest 
 additions to the series, and the gameplay was pretty fun.
  The missions were pretty cool but honestly the best one is the second one youll play where you 
 can get stuck shooting what seems like hundreds of nazis for a good 10 minutes on the harder settings.
 
  The game is worth going back to beating more than once becasue the difference in difficulty is 
 pronounced.
  The online was also pretty good.
  There are still people playing it to this day.
  But again, its nothing compared to COD4 or 5.
 
  The single player was in this game was longer than both 4 and 5, but doesn't necessarily mean 
 it was better lol.
  Overall, a good WWII game. But at this point, just get COD5. Don't bother with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warrior427
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 21, 2008 4:01 pm PT
Review:  good game but I think its lacking a little a bit when you compare it to call of duty 3 the campain 
 mode just didnt suck me in and excite me like call of duty 2 so truthfully it took me a while to 
 play this and they dont change it up enough its almost like they try to copy the CoD2 but the game 
 does have improved graphics and I like the inclusion of vheicles like the jeep but I dont think 
 vhiecles even though they are good should make the play stray away from the first person shooting 
 action and i noticed that this game tends to do this but all in all its a pretty solid experience 
 with its good moments the storyline does drag on to the point of annoyence sometimes simply because 
 they make you sit through every single cutscene but I congratulate the game on bringing more of 
 a realistic war feeling to the game but it still barrows to much from the two games befroe it like 
 guns and the world war 2 stuff I like the history but they need to change it up and call of duty 
 4 is the game that does it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ztg360
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 2, 2008 6:33 am PT
Review:  First off I have played Cod2 and 4 and this one is superior to two but it is not as good as 4 but 
 they are all close. The graphics are very good for an 06 game now of course they are not as good 
 as gears grahpics but they are very good nontheless. The story is a bit weak because you don' t 
 really get too involved with the characters except a select few. The different difficulty levels 
 are very well balanced from the very easy one to the next to impossible one they all live up to 
 their names. The multiplayer is very good the maps are well made and provide plenty of cover and 
 sniping spots and other useful multiplayer tools. The fact that in a team battle in multiplayer 
 it has actual class differences other then weapons such as the riflemen having a rifle grenade 
 is a cool and interesting touch. overall this game is definitly worth the probably now low price 
 it would be to purchase it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DIABETUS
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 24, 2008 8:12 pm PT
Review:  So, I know this is an old game, but I just bought CoD3 for like $5 at the local game store. Yeah, 
 only $5. Why? I don't know. The game clerk warned me that this game will make you cry. Nah, it's 
 CoD, it couldn't be... Boy, was I wrong!
  
  The campaign: Left it to Activision to completely destroy the awesome concept of war in the series. 
 Hmm, what can I say...
  
  -Stupid AI that never helps: You will ALWAYS feel like you're the one man army in the entire campaign
 
  
  -"Friendly Fire Will Not Be Tolerated!": This shows up if you hit or kill one of your AI teammates... even 
 by accident. There were numerous moments in the game where I'd finally come to an area after a 
 long frustrating battle on Veteran Mode... Then, just as I'm about to shoot the enemy to finish 
 my objective, one of my idiotic AI spawns right in front of me; I killed him and I had to start 
 the mission all over again. Good job, developers.
  
  -Buggy, broken landscape: You'll find yourself pinned down by enemy fire sometimes throughout the 
 game. Sometimes you'll need to escape. Uh-oh! You're stuck?! You can't move?! Yup, in CoD3, getting 
 stuck into trees, AIs, and other objects is completely normal. But hey, at least you're absorbing 
 the bullets for your teammate.
  
  -ALL enemies target at you: Your AIs rarely help; you'll be always targeted by the enemy, no matter 
 what. And it seems that the Germans know that they've hit you, since once you're hit, the game 
 won't stop punishing you until you remove the impossible threat of 1 versus 50 Nazis.
  
  -No logical tactics on the battlefield: The game proclaims that you ALWAYS have the choice of either 
 flanking your enemies or hitting them head on. Unfortunately, it will ALWAYS be the latter: you 
 can't move behind enemies lines, you are restricted to the path your AIs take and it seems impossible 
 since you'll be mowed down by machine guns that can magically shoot through the floor, even while 
 you're taking cover.
  
  -Checkpoint system is a dud: Usually when you clear all enemies at a certain objective, a checkpoint 
 appears, but as the game progresses, it's clear that it's downright bugged and broken: If you die, 
 you'll need to start ALL over again to the last area, which can be very, VERY tedious indeed.
 
  
  -Not enough cover: You will always find yourself shifting back and forth for useless cover: Yeah, 
 useless, since I guess the Germans can target even a SMALL inch of your body exposed to them. Sometimes 
 you'll need to rush an objective, while being railed down by submachine gun fire: Which is extremely 
 annoying as hell.
  
  -Smoke grenades are useless: These grenades are suppose to put up a cover from the enemy. However, 
 it seems that they can mysteriously see YOUR specific movement alone, and not your AIs. Because 
 of this, you are once again, targeted alone. Again and again and again...
  
  So, yeah, giant disappointment on the campaign, but the multiplayer is freaking sweet. It's a simple 
 play: Deathmatch, capture the flag, blah blah blah. There are different classes like the medic 
 and etc. but that's pretty much the ONLY good factor in this game.
  
  Seriously, the game's campaign completely shattered my opinion on CoD3. I really HOPE that Activison 
 does not screw up on CoD6 and I can't wait to return this mistake to the game store. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maniak4life
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 23, 2008 7:23 am PT
Review:  If you've played Call od Duty 1+2 you'll know the score...
  Blast Nazi's in the face with your rifle in bomb strewn french citys.
  Although this time you 
 blast more detailed faces, with better looking rifles, in crisper bomb strewn citys.
  It's the 'if it aint broke dont fix it' mentality here, and yes whilst the graphics initially do 
 dazzle you and make you think ' wow treyarch nice job' you do realise after 10-15 minutes that 
 it is actually COD2 with a lick of paint, which isn't necesarily a bad thing as COD2 was bloody 
 amazing, yet you can't help feel that there could of been a bit more effort put in to create something 
 new and interesting.
  As it is, it feels more like an expansion pack.
  Which is why i'd recommend that you buy it if you see it at an expansion pack price.
  
  +
 
  
  Engine is still fantastic, as is atmosphere and most of the other things that made COD2 great.
 
  New graphics are gorgeous.
  
  -
  
  Same old, no effort has been made to make COD3 new and original.
  Feels more like an expansion 
 pack then a true sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prenandrew301
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 17, 2008 12:15 am PT
Review:  Call of duty 3 is the next game in the call of duty franchise, but not necessarily the step up, 
 call of duty 2 on the other hand seems to have a better feel to it and anyone who enjoys call of 
 duty 3 should just sell it and buy call of duty 2 for cheaper.
  
  A main problem i have in the game is the multiplayer, it is so hard to get a multiplayer game because 
 no one plays it
  this says something about the game straight up
  
  overall a great experience, but if you have loved call of duty 2 then just stick with it
  
 
  the sound in the game is great, but seems a copy of COD 2
  
  the weapons in the game are similar to that of other WWII games, but a problem i have with them 
 is the aiming in most of them. For instance, with the Kar 98k, in COD 2 it had this thick aiming 
 pin for it, in COD 3 it has this little piss weak thing
  though this doesnt really deter from the overall experience, it looks a bit weird especially because 
 it was done in COD 2 so well 
::::::

::::::
UserName: delta_116326
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 12, 2008 10:03 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3 is a great triumph in the sense that a new studeo, Tryarch, took over from Infinity 
 Ward and actually lived up to it. The game has everything we remember from the Classics as well 
 as new Content, Gameplay and Be-Ut-I-Ful Graphics. The 360 Version looks excellent and vivid and 
 lush.
  
  As in the first three CoD games, WWII is in bad shape. The allies make one Final charge on June 
 6th 1944. This particular story takes place Days after D-Day and the Allies Rush into Europe is 
 going well until the German Blitzkrieg. Now its up to the Americans, British, Polish, and Canadians 
 to stop the German Advance.
  
  The Game has all the Classic Weapons with a brand new coat of Paint. as well as your average peskey 
 Germans. But this time you can get into a Face-To-Face struggle with them and beat them down with 
 thier own weapons.
  
  In many a Review it has been seen as a average yet short comming game from the series. I Disagree, 
 its just as good as the others just not better. So if you were reluctant to play it due to the 
 New Studio Take-Over, dont be, its the Same ol' stuff we love. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tboneXS
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 4, 2008 2:58 pm PT
Review:  This new game in the franchise improves on CoD 2 in several ways. Graphically, this is a nice beautiful 
 game, though not nearly as impressive as 4, it is better than 2. The campaign mode seems limited, 
 there are some intense moments in the game but nothing you haven't seen before. Most of the missions 
 are what you would expect in a WW2 game, for example: Storm the bunker, hold of the German counter-attack, 
 take out that Panzer. You know, the usual. One thing, Treyarch & Activision added was minigames. 
 These are just "push the buttons in this order" type minigames. But when that minigame comes to 
 hand-hand fighting, the animations look pretty sick. I had a fight with this one German where I 
 pulled the grenade from his belt and pushed him through a window. BANG, pretty tight. Anyway, other 
 that that, the minigames are pointless, like when your arming a bomb, no we don't need to go through 
 the process. A major new feature that makes ths game good, is driving vehicles. It absolutly a 
 blast, things can get wild in campaign, but I swear, on this one mission where you first drive 
 the tank, the radio guy just kept saying the same lines over and over again. "Don't surrender, 
 KEEP SHOOTING", "Evasive Action". Man that can get annoying. Cool thing about the game is that 
 you can drive the vehicles in MULTIPLAYER. Yes, and I believe that is good fun, it can really turn 
 the tide of a battle. Controls are smooth, the new grenade cock feature is cool, but your character 
 never seems to let go of the grenade fast enough. In conclusion, this is a really good game, I 
 think it's better than CoD 2, not nearly as good as 4, but this is a game worth checking out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomwarrior235
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 23, 2008 6:35 pm PT
Review:  The Call of Duty series is one of the best shooter series out there. They have always had a good 
 single player with an awesome multi player. Call of Duty 3 has a good single player with an awesome 
 multi player, which makes it a good game in a good series.
  
  You are in Normandy, fighting the Nazi's like in most World War 2 games. The game play has not 
 changed a bit from the originals. The only thing different is that you get into these close quarter 
 combat fight scene where you have to mash buttons to kill yur enemy. These are kind of fun, but 
 there are only like nine of them, and they are scripted. Besides that, the gameplay is identical 
 to Call of Duty 2.
  
  This time around, there is no Russian missions. This time, you play as American, British, Polish, 
 and Canadians. The new sides are fun, but they do not replace the Russian missions in Call of Duty 
 2.
  
  The graphics in Call of Duty 3 look awesome. Character models look great, gun models look great, 
 and the environments look awesome.
  
  The sound is great like in all Call of Duty games. You hear bullets fly by you head, and you hear 
 explosions go off. It really sounds like you are in a battle field.
  
  Call of Duty 3 does have some problems. Some times chairs and stools will float up in the air and 
 fly into walls, and start spinning around. Some times ou comrades hand and faces will stretch out, 
 and they will look like some sort of monster.
  
  Call of Duty 3 has an awesome multi player. It has all the old modes like Team Deathmatch, etc. 
 But it has this new mode called warfare. In warfare you battle over control pints. Except you only 
 go for one at a time, you capture it, and you get a chance t capture another one, but the other 
 team can recapture control points. There are class in this, kind of like in a Battlefield game. 
 Call of Duty 3 has a great multi player that you should give a try.
  
  Over all Call of Dut 3 is a great game with an awesome multi player. You can now get this game 
 for only a few dollars 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ivory_soul
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 16, 2008 2:37 am PT
Review:  The Good: Excellent presentation, enjoyable story and characters, lots of variety in single player, 
 everything WWII has to offer is in here, addictive multiplayer
  
  The Bad: This is still another WWII game, nothing ground breaking, doesn't take many risks
  
 
  Every FPS fan has played a WWII shooter and it was either Call of Duty or Medal of Honor. While 
 Call of Duty is the superior WWII series it's just as guilty for having constant sequel after sequel. 
 The reason why the WWII genre is dry is because there is so much you can do with actual events 
 that happened. You can only use D-Day and Market Garden so many times before new explosions and 
 updated graphics won't even save those scenarios. Call of Duty at least tried to use new events 
 in WWII and this was the battle for Chambois also known as the Falaise Gap.
  
  The game has you playing four, I repeat, four different people and these are the Americans, Canadians, 
 British, and Polish. The game does develop some attachable characters that have personality, but 
 since the game is so short this can't be done properly. This is also the first "true next-gen" 
 WWII game that came out (no CoD2 was just a PC port) so you have high-res textures, flowing grass, 
 realistic weather effects etc. The game looks really good even for today and helps add to the realism 
 of the game.
  
  Everything here is the same as the past though with all your WWII weapons and I can't even tell 
 which ones are new or old since it changes every time. You do have new game play elements such 
 as button pressing sequences these are fun and break up some of the monotonous shooting. Now instead 
 of just attaching explosives to Flak guns you have to do button presses to do this. You do, however, 
 have to use cover a lot more in this game since the AI has improved a lot. Your teammates will 
 actually shoot back and HELP you and the enemies target you and run to cover you pretty well. You 
 can't just run around like Rambo shooting Nazis out in the open because you'll die pretty fast.
 
  
  One thing I do love out the CoD series is the sweeping orchestral soundtrack and that tear jerking 
 theme song! They put the right songs to the right moments of the game and it really makes the game 
 feel epic (not as much CoD4 of course!) Basically, the single player game consists of 9 levels 
 and is pretty much the same as before. You have driving sections, turret sections, tank sections, 
 every WWII weapon you can think of, a decent story, decent characters, and a wonderful soundtrack 
 so this makes things really solid.
  
  When it comes to multiplayer things really shine since there are a lot of modes. You have all your 
 typical modes, but what makes it great is you can play with 24 people on one map! This makes things 
 chaotic and addictive and you'll never stop playing. You have (I think) six or seven classes to 
 choose from such as medics, riflemen, assault troopers etc. All of these classes are well balanced 
 and the map are nicely designed. When you die though you don't just die you can call for a medic 
 (but no one is ever medic) . The multiplayer is pretty straight forward, but it's highly addictive 
 and this is always a plus.
  
  I just wish they'd make a game on WWI or the Revolutionary War! Once you finish everything here 
 you can look under the extras for concept art, videos etc. The achievements make for playing the 
 single player more than once and overall this is a solid WWII shooter, but we all know it wasn't 
 the last one.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiredcrescent
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 14, 2008 1:03 pm PT
Review:  COD 3 is yet another trip back to WW II. Although by now i feel that this subject matter is up 
 for saturation at any moment, COD 3 is the cream of the crop for WW II shooters.
  
  COD 3 leads you through the liberation of France through the perspective of different countries 
 that are fighting off the Nazi Brigade. This has been the best story in any WW II game as it is 
 presented in such a dramatic way that you get sucked into the world although you know you've been 
 somewhere similar before.
  
  From the first moment you aim your gun, you get the feeling of roughness that i haven't seen in 
 a WW II shooter to this degree. Every action you take in this game is much more close and personal 
 than others I have seen in the past. Close quarters combat can happen with a struggle of button 
 mashing many game that just adds to the gritt of the game. You no longer just place a bomb or c4, 
 you actually have to prepare it and doing this under fire is just stressful, but in a way that 
 makes you appreciate your own situation.
  
  The sound and graphics are what you'd expect from a COD game, but it seems to be less epic in scale 
 and much more rough. The overall rough feel of the entire game just makes it stand out from everything 
 else.
  
  COD 3 will not take much getting used to, but you will feel like your playing something quite different 
 from COD 1 and 2. These minor changes in presentation are enough to persuade anyone to take another 
 shot at the Nazis 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matzillia
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 6, 2008 11:54 pm PT
Review:  the campaign game is so easy and your enemies and allies, are very simple. when you play the game 
 on veteran, your teammate will run thruw a certain spot and get shot. after a while there will 
 be a pile of 10,15,20 dead all in the same stop. it is boring, you do not need to flank, cover, 
 or anything tactical because sometimes your enemy will just stand in the open. although they did 
 do a little better with the characters (but is no brothers in arms) .
  
  the only reason I'm giving it a 7 is because the multiplayer. it is the only game i play online, 
 because it is the only game that works with my internet. i like the ability to choose the match 
 you join unlike in CoD 2 &4. the online is just plain fun, tanks, jeeps and the ability to call 
 in arty. the weapon you can choose for online is a bit sad, you can't use the M1 carbine, geweher 
 41, FG42, MG42 (unless on a kuart jeep) , M3 grease gun, and the luger. but the positions you can 
 choose makes up for it. the different positions have special abilities like arty strike, ammo resupply, 
 and land mines. (the best is scout, or for me at less) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Legendaryscmt
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 1, 2008 2:45 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3 places you in the shoes of an American, Canadian, British, and Polish soldier during 
 the final years of World War II in France. While all the action takes place in France, some might 
 think it isn't as diverse as the previous Call of Duty games are, Call of Duty 3 does put you in 
 a few different environments and in quite a few intense firefights. What Call of Duty 3 does best 
 is really make you feel like you're fighting in a war, more so than any Call of Duty game yet. 
 While there are some missions where you're sneaking around try to find and rescue some of your 
 fellow soldiers, most of the time you'll be running from tanks, shooting at Nazis, and blowing 
 stuff up in destroyed cities. There are certain parts in the campaign where you'll be vastly outnumbered, 
 being able to see oncoming Nazis from far away, along with armored cars and tanks. It really goes 
 to say that Call of Duty 3 brings you the best view of battle yet. While the main campaign doesn't 
 last too long, anywhere from 5-9 hours depending on what difficulty you're playing on, there are 
 those 'wow' moments. However, what brings Call of Duty 3 down a little bit are the glitches that 
 it has, such as shooting a Nazi in the head and watching them fly into the air, or getting stuck 
 between a wall and a chair. 
  
  The game includes scripted events and cutscenes that you can't skip, and that play every time you 
 load up your progress in the mission. You could be at the last checkpoint in the final level of 
 the game, but when you start it up, it'll still play the cutscene from the beginning of the level. 
 Also, both your allies and your opponents' AIs do some stupid things at times, such as running 
 through a wall from time to time to running in place, along with running in front of you when you're 
 trying to shoot at Nazis.
  
  What Call of Duty 3 really introduces into the series are a more in depth look into your actions, 
 driving and operating vehicles, mortars, and anti-tank cannons, along with close quarters combat 
 and tossing back grenades. However, it goes to say that none of these really add anything to the 
 game except some annoyance. Driving the vehicles in the game adds nothing, because even though 
 they handle alright, you only do it in three missions. Operating the mortars and cannons are terrible. 
 By moving both of the analog sticks around, you aim at your targets and fire, but with how they 
 control, you can never really aim right at your target, ether not moving far enough, or overshooting 
 your target. Considering that the times you do this there are enemies swarming towards you, it's 
 more of a pain than anything else. Next, you take more control of certain actions you do, such 
 as rowing a boat or placing C4 on your targets. It really only comes down to ether hitting a button 
 and moving one of the analog sticks around. They don't come too often, and really aren't needed.
 
  
  Last but not least are the intense close quarters combat moments of the game. Picture you're moving 
 along in a destroyed city, rounding a corner. Suddenly, a Nazi pops out from around the corner 
 and hits you with the butt of his weapon, knocking your's to the ground. You two then become entangled 
 in a duel to the death. Like all the other new additions, this only happens about four or five 
 times in the whole campaign, and is just a quick button mashing sequence which will last on average 
 less than a minute. Also introduced in Call of Duty 3 is the ability to throw back enemy grenades. 
 However, this involves first picking it up with one button, and tossing it with another while the 
 countdown for the grenade still ticks off. Sometimes it's helpful, but other times you'll just 
 pick it up, and then it'll explode in your hand, killing you. While some of the additions may seem 
 good in concept, overall they could just be skipped all together and the game would have still 
 been fine. However, a good point to the additions is that the multiplayer has now been tweaked 
 to add more gametypes and balance, which is a welcomed addition over Call of Duty 2's multiplayer.
 
  
  Overall, Call of Duty 3 is still a great game. While not as good as Call of Duty 2, this game really 
 puts you in some of the best battles in a game, and in the shoes of different soldiers within different 
 places in the war, which is really an interesting look at what the other countries besides Russia, 
 America, and England did during the war. While most of the additions really don't add anything 
 to the gameplay, this game does deliver some intense firefights along with balanced weapons and 
 a better look at the really effects of war on towns and cities.
  
  
  The Good: The graphics are well done, really puts you inside of the war with intense firefights 
 and hopeless situations, good voicework and sound effects, more involved multiplayer than before.
 
  
  The Bad: Game has numerous glitches that take you out of the experience, AI is questionable, new 
 add-ons don't really add anything to the game except moments of frustration, you can't skip the 
 cutscenes and they always play when you start up again during a level.
  
  Buy, rent, pass: Overall, Call of Duty 3 is for most people a solid rent. The campaign isn't too 
 long, and while the multiplayer has been added onto and vastly improved, the game still doesn't 
 hold much ground. This is by far one of the better World War II games out there, but it won't take 
 long to beat and to move on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eastsidesanjose
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 24, 2008 4:54 pm PT
Review:  When i got this game i thought that it would have been awsome to play... i was wrong about that. The 
 game is ok to play and its not that bad, i think Call of Duty 2 BIG RED ONE is better than Call 
 of Duty 3. The reason why i think that is because Call of Duty 3 is more easy than Call of Duty 
 2 and it has more missions that you can do and you dont beat it as fast as Call of Duty 3.
  
  For some reason... the guy's who maid the game, it seems like when you play... they switched it, cause 
 Call of Duty was easy, Call of Duty 2 was medium and Call of Duty 3 was easy. When you play on wifi, that 
 is what the game gets more points because the game by it's self would be like 7.0 and the wifi 
 is awsome, it's like everything is happening at one time. So if you get this game you wont be too 
 dissapointed when you get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chiroklassen
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 21, 2008 11:25 am PT
Review:  THIS CALL OF DUTY 3 IS INCREDIBLE!!!!! IT BLEW MY MIND, IF U STILL DONT HAVE THIS GAME YET I SERIOUSLY 
 RECOMEND IT, U WILL HAVE A BLAST AT PLAYING THIS ESPECIALLY THE FIRST 1O HOURS. SERIOUSLY U DONT 
 HAVE AN EXCUSE OF NOT BUYING THIS!! THIS IS THE BEST!!!!! I ALSO RECOMEND CALL OF DUTY 4 AND BATTLEFIELD 
 BAD COMPANY, THEY ARE SMOKIN HOT!!!!! THE AUDIO IN THIS GAME IS SUPERIOR THAN ANY GAME BEFORE THIS, 
 FOR EXAMPLE THE ECHO IS GREAT THE FIRING IS GREAT AND THE TALKING BETWEEN THE FIGHTERS IS FREACKING 
 AWESOME!!!!!!!! BUT YET THE VISUALS ARE JUST AS GREAT AS CALL OF DUTY 2 EXCEPT FOR THE SMOKE AND 
 THE WAY THAT THE SOLDIERS BLOW UP. THE MULTIPLAYER IS VERY GOOD, BECAUS U CAN LIKE ALMOST LITERALY 
 FIGHT BETWEEN YOUR FRIENDS OR YOUR REAL LIFE ENEMIES AND LIKE ELIMINATE THEM OR BET AGAINST THEM, 
 OR U KNOW WHAT I`LL LEAVE THOOSE DECISIONS UP TO YOU. HAVE FUN PLAYING THIS GAME. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fubulu
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 3, 2008 5:20 am PT
Review:  One of the worst things that can be done to a series of games is to make sequel after sequel, year 
 after year. It runs the risk of making each succeeding game shallower than the one that preceded 
 it, and it can ruin what made the series stand out. Then there's the fact that if you churn out 
 game after mediocre game the fans can start to feel that the series has entered the dying days 
 of the franchise.
  
  Like Call of Duty 2 you play as different allies during World War II. This time around though there 
 are different ones. You play as the Americans, French, British, Canadian, and Polish. Each ally 
 has different weapons you start off with, all are vintage to WWII. Each mission you are asked to 
 do is different from the previous one so it makes the game fresh and seem less repetitive. There 
 are tank missions where you basically blow the German tanks and vehicles up to recon missions where 
 you have to get hostages. 
  
  Graphically the game is quite appealing. The water effects, the smoke, the individual blades of 
 grass, the shadows on people clothing; all these are of exceptional quality. They were the one 
 thing about this game that makes it worth playing. In comparison it looks a bit better than Call 
 of Duty 2, especially the cut scenes which had extraordinary visuals.
  
  Audiowise the game is phenomenal: lots of gun fire, explosions, etc. There were some nice sound 
 acoustics inside buildings: you can hear the echoes and such inside barns and buildings with high 
 ceilings. Another great aspect of the sound is the epic music during battles, especially big battles. 
 It really gets your heart pumping and gives you a bit of an adrenaline rush.
  
  The multiplayer is actually pretty good. You can have up to 24 people playing on the same map at 
 the same time and there's still barely any lag. I would say this is part of the game is better 
 than Call of Duty 2 except for the absence of kill cam, which sucks because that's one of the only 
 things about Call of Duty 2's multiplayer that I liked.
  
  Compared to other WWII games, CoD3 is really weak in comparison to Medal of Honor: Airborne, but 
 at the same time it's a lot better than Hour of Victory, Medal of Honor Rising Sun, and Big Red 
 One.
  
  So at the end of the day is Call of Duty 3 worth it? Yes, I suppose it is. Especially since the 
 game currently runs about twenty dollars.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rstewart1020
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 24, 2008 7:10 pm PT
Review:  The game is allmost identical to call of duty 2 but different time in the campaign, no russians, 
 different look and new online. The online is ok, it can be fun at times but the way you die really 
 gets annoying with the ragdoll physics. If you die you take the form of life size still doll and 
 roll around and if your killed in a tank you shoot out and its just wierd. The balance is good 
 for person-person or tank-tank but tank-person is just impossible, 1 bullet from the tank and your 
 dead so if 1 team gets the tanks they have a 95% chance of winning the match. But the class system 
 in online is nice with medics, ammunitioners, bazookas, air strikes, 30 cal. is really fun and 
 if all being used in balanced number can be a really fun match. The single player is pretty much 
 call of duty 2 without the great russian campaign and no truely breath taking battles (but the 
 polish hold of the hill is allmost as great as the call of duty 2 beach attack) . The guns are good 
 but to me the game doesnt feel real or fierce it feels a little cartoony with ridicullas enemy 
 deaths and new look on graphics. But in the end it is still call of duty but this time i would 
 recommend renting it first because the call of duty 2 feel is here for this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phxsns1
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 14, 2008 6:23 pm PT
Review:  And ok WWII shooter. Just ok. Shoot some Nazis, move on to the next level. Letting Treyarch develop 
 Call of Duty 3 was a HUGE mistake! This game was fun at times, but overall, it just can't stand 
 up to great WWII games like, the first 2 Call of Duties or Medal of Honor. I will say that it starts 
 out with one of the best levels of any WWII based game ever. But one level can't make a great game, 
 and every single level after that was, like I said before, shoot some Nazis, move on. The graphics 
 and sounds are all good, but something about it just didn't feel right. Multiplayer is actually 
 really fun escpecially now that you can use vehicles such as a tank, motorcycle or jeep. If it's 
 cheap or if you have the urge to blow up some Nazis, buy it. Other than that, you're better off 
 just picking up COD 2 for $10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster33
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 14, 2008 12:27 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Lengthy single player campaign is quite enjoyable; improved audio and visuals; addicting 
 multiplayer; lot's of intense action; controls feel smooth
  
  The Bad: No co-op; character bonding could've been a bit more fleshed out; not much of an improvement 
 over its predecessor
  
  The Call of Duty series has always been the source for WWII first person shooter games. This installment 
 continues that statement, but doesn't really offer anything new for those who've played its predecessor. 
 In case it hasn't been abruptly clear, Call of Duty 3 is a WWII first person shooter game with 
 a lengthy single player mode and great multiplayer. The game doesn't really give you a good relationship 
 with some of the key characters, you'll pretty much get what, exactly, is going on. The gameplay 
 hasn't changed one bit. There is no cover system, so you'll be using the Call of Duty "duck and 
 cover" system where you'll crouch behind cover, whether it be a wall or just a slab of concrete. 
 There's lot's of intense action throughout the campaign, which will take you around fifteen hours 
 to beat. What has changed, and for the better, is the visuals. The character models look a lot 
 neater and animate smoothly. You'll often be running around devastated cities that have huge chunks 
 of concrete and brick missing from the building walls, most likely from the big, loud explosions 
 from tank fire and grenades. Adding to the single player is the multiplayer. There are a variety 
 of different game modes that will keep you hooked for a while. Adding the great single player and 
 addicting multiplayer together makes Call of Duty 3 an enjoyable package that shouldn't be missed 
 out for those intrigued by its genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lennyv
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 7, 2008 6:40 pm PT
Review:  This game is such a load of rubbish. COD 2 is better than it by miles. Sure the graphics and sound 
 are top notch as expected but the gameplay from the singleplayer campaign is tedious and frustrating. 
 
  
  Example: driving around jeeps that handle badly on twisty turny roads while constantly under fire 
 from Germans, your teammates won't fire back all the time and your screen is so lit up with red 
 hit indicators that you just crash and die... REPEATEDLY. 
  
  Also the game makes use of like chokepoints where you can't progress and enemies constantly respawn 
 and take the same positions that their friends just died in, forcing you to kill swarms of idiot 
 robots over and over... NOT FUN. 
  
  The A. I. is inconsistent at best and completely retarded at worst. Example: sometimes you can stand 
 right in front of an enemy and he won't be able to hit you at all. Then, you can be running for 
 cover and *BAM*, you're hit by 5 guys all at once killing you. It also never feels like cover is 
 actually cover, only a visibility obstacle to you.
  
  I have a huge problem with the triggers and scripts in the game. Simply put, they don't always 
 run correctly. The last level is a fine example: my teammates all decided to stay in a house we 
 just cleared while I tried to hold off the German infantry rush by myself, like 1 vs. 20! ... I 
 DIED.
  
  The last level seems to have been rushed or something because it sucks so bad. At the end you need 
 to destroy 2 armoured cars and 2 tanks while under fire from scores of infantry. I watched in horror 
 as my last bazooka rounds actually clipped through the last tank and exploded harmlessly on the 
 soil. So I tried to use the Pak anti tank gun which when you get on gives you the controls on how 
 to move it. It says turn the left stick to move left/right and turn the right stick to move up/down. 
 So I tried this but the gun moved all over the place, competely randomly. I thought it was a glitch 
 so I reloaded the last checkpoint which was a good 3 objectives back! I fought through again and 
 watched again as the bazooka clipped the vehicles. Then I tried to use the Pak gun again and had 
 the same problem. So I reloaded about 5 times and had the same problem each time until I tried 
 rotating the analog sticks instead of "turning", and low and behold the gun moved. I was frantically 
 trying to turn the gun each time before and under so much fire that it never dawned on me to rotate. 
 I know in real life this is actually how a weapon like this is turned but i did not expect it in 
 a game, especially one which gives the wrong instructions, confusing turn with rotate. NICE JOB 
 DEVELOPERS, ADDED 30 MINUTES OF FRUSTRATION. 
  
  This isn't a huge problem but it would have been nice to be able to skip the crap cutscenes and 
 not just the end credits.
  
  Lastly, the dialog in the cutscenes make no sense and usually has people talking over each other 
 or too much gunfire to hear, contains sad and overused cliches or tries to be emotional but comes 
 off as embarrassing. 
  
  I know I would have been able to remember more examples of rubbish gameplay but I played the majority 
 of the game at Xmas 2 years ago. Only had the courage to finish it now. Time for a trip to Gamestop 
 I think.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phoenix534
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 28, 2008 11:19 pm PT
Review:  I don't see why people don't like Treyarch. This game is excellent. Call of Duty 3 is a solid first-person 
 shooter that takes place in WWII during the attack on Normandy.
  
  Gameplay-10.......... The gameplay in Call of Duty 3 is great. The analong works amazing, shooting 
 is simple and there's no trouble aiming, the interactive cutscenes (where you get attacked by an 
 angry German who whacks you with a gun) have easy controls, and there are really no points were 
 the game makes you suffer.
  
  Graphics-9.......... The graphics in CoD3 are good. Really, really good. There are a few points 
 where graphics fail and textures seem sloppy, but I don't care. The gun, character animations, 
 and explosion (I like explosions: ) makeup for that small problem.
  
  Story-7.......... I'm confused. One minute, your hearing "Good job Frenchy." and the next "Get up 
 Poland!" There are to many stories wrapped up in one. Why can't you just go through each story 
 seperatly. Oh yeah, then each campaign would only be four levels long. I know there a great war 
 story in this game just to many at once.
  
  Length-5.......... This ggame is short. Very, very short. I finished this game in a couple days. 
 The mission are each about 30 minutes long and there are 14 missions. You do the math. Great game, 
 just short. Yeah it has multiplayer, but for those of us who don't have Live or anyone to play 
 with, the multiplayer is just another useless feature. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xbox360progamer
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 28, 2008 10:17 am PT
Review:  The gameplay is the same as CoD 2, some of the minor differences are being able to wrestle with 
 a nazi, and beat him with his own gun, being able to drive a car, row a boat, and ride on the back 
 of a tank with binoculars and give coordinates where it shoots. 
  The graphics of this game are out of this world. It is so realistic, if I didn't have a control 
 in my hand I would think I was really in France shooting nazis. Call of Duty has great sound, amazing 
 graphics, the guns look great, the players and uniforms are identical to a life like person, the 
 movement of every little object in the game is realistic, and this all gives you the true overall 
 experience of how WW2 was.
  
  To any CoD series fan, this is a great sequel to the series, and is a must buy. For any shooter 
 fans, this is a great game to buy, and very easy to learn. BUT TO ALL THE ACHIEVEMENT HOES OUT THERE 
 THIS GAME ISNT THE BEST GAME FOR ACHIEVEMENTS
  
  Only complaints are:
  
  1. Still a little too linear... if there was a way to approach an area differently it would be a 
 little more fun.
  
  2. Voice acting is ok.....
  
  3. GAME ACHIEVEMENTS SUCKS IN MY OPINION COULD HAVE BEEN ALOT BETTER IN THAT DEPARTMENT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BoringGlorioso
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 20, 2008 11:48 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3 is definitely the best in the franchise. Who says WWII is boring? First start with 
 the campaign. Its all about the Normandy Breakout and features the American, British, Canadian, 
 and Polish forces.
  
  So first off the Americans. The first level of the game is basically traing where fellow private 
 Huxley challenges you, Private Nichols to shoot helmets with your Garand Rfile and chuck some grenades 
 into a barn for "basic training". Then "Fritz" attacks St. Mere Eglise I believe and you have to 
 push them back. Throught the campaign you are armed with Thompson SMGs, M1 Garand Rifles, M1903 
 Springfield Rifles, Trench Guns, and M1918 BAR's.
  
  British:
  Throughout the British portion of the campaign, you are a member of the RAF, and work with the 
 French Underground. Your companion is a loud mouth "Scot", and last but not least... the first 
 Brit level you drive a jeep, just like Call of Duty 1, and United Offensive. Your wepaons are the 
 MKII Lee Enfield, MKII Sten, the Bren LMG, and the scoped Lee Enfield.
  
  Canadians:
  As the Canadians, you aid the Polish most of the time, although you only play as them in 2 levels. 
 You are a private, and the first level you are in a Bren Carrier manning the gun. The second you 
 work your way up a river as a sniper. Your weapons are Bren LMGs, Lee Enfields (w/ w/out scopes) , 
 and Stens.
  
  Polish:
  Ahhh I love the Polish campaign! 2 levels sadly. You are Private Boahter, who mans a Sherman Firefly. 
 The first portion you kill the Black BAron I believe, after hunting him thru town and field. The 
 next level you hold back the Germans in your Tank, then retreat up Hill 262, as a sniper, Ant-Tank, 
 and Machine Gunner. The Canadians finally arrive, after nearly every Pole is killed.
  
  Overall, a must have! Exceptional graphics for its time, excelent multiplayer, and the best weapons 
 ever!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TX360
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 20, 2008 9:23 am PT
Review:  Most people think treyarch are poor developers but in truth they do have some talent when making 
 COD games and cod3 is a solid effort mostly because it plays just like cod2 and has a great MP 
 on top of that.
  
  Single player
  Not COD3 strongest area but at some stages its still a SOLID attempt with the smart AI, excellent 
 visuals despite a lot of stuff on the screen at once and the missions are pretty long.
  
  MP
  like all the cods this is the games strong area and treyarch have done well.
  The game 
 supports 24 players so you are thrown into large battles online with tanks trying to blow you out 
 of you camping spot or people attempting to capture the flag with a car and being chased by a tank 
 only to be blown sky high its a great MP you should not overlook.
  
  PROS
  solid single player
  also solid mp
  great visuals
  
  CONS
  MP not as fun as cod2s
  
 single player is good but well behind IWS
  maps probaly to large 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gAmEmAn69
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 14, 2008 11:14 am PT
Review:  Well back in the day I remember being tantalized and damn near mesmorized by Medal of Honor: Frontline 
 and Allied Assault. Ever since then there has been constant non-stop stories based in the WWII 
 setting that always come up short. Then came Call of Duty 2, which revamped the genre of FPS WWII 
 based games with brilliant graphics, sound, and gameplay. 
  
  Thinking and hypothesizing I was totally incorrect when we come to Call of Duty 3...
  
  Gameplay:
 
  Treyarch took zero intelligence and creativity from the prior Call of Duty when they implemented 
 only meek and feeble gameplay characteristics such as wrestling your opponent for a weapon, and 
 chucking grenades back at your foes. The same gameplay in a genuine sequel is not cutting edge 
 unless if it wasn't broken such as all WWII games seem to be following the same events and story 
 that took place well over 60 years ago. The gunplay is fun at first but a lot of it is similar 
 to Call of Duty 2, which relies on run and gun tactics and the cover system.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics are beefed up however in this sequel to say the least. Characters look 
 less stiff and ridgid and look more detailed. Especially on a soldier's uniform, and weaponry which 
 is somewhat impressive. The facial animations are decent, and the particle effects are just as 
 good and comparable to Call of Duty 2. 
  
  Sound:
  The sound in all Call of Duty and WWII games are phenomenal, and are a step below being on the 
 actual battlefield dodging bullets and losing hearing from a grenade blast. The hectic feel of 
 the guns and bullets zipping past combined with hasty character war cries is enough to make one 
 defacate in their undees. 
  
  Control:
  The control the 360 controller offers most FPS games including the Call of Duty series is more 
 than superb from slick aiming and firing, to the call of your grenades and duck and cover system. 
 Right on par with the previous game, and nothing has changed here. 
  
  Overall:
  If you're the type of person who can never get sick of repititous events of WWII FPS that emulate 
 intense gunfights and tactical run, duck, cover, gun system, then Call of Duty 3 may be right up 
 your league. However, if you require diversity in WWII games if they must be continued to be made, 
 then you'll find this sequel bland, tasteless and a cheap thrill at its best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rsattler
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 13, 2008 11:47 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game December of 2006 right after finishing COD2, which I thought was a GREAT game. 
 COD3's graphics are excellent and the game level mechanics and AI are well done. The weapons are 
 much more detailed graphically and game physics-wise compared to Call of Duty 2. The sound is fantastic 
 however the weapons all seem to sound alike.
  
  That said, I quickly lost interest in the game and went back to playing Gears of War due to the 
 broken and frustrating save system (read, there isn't one unless you count having to reach a checkpoint 
 a save system) . Recently, I decided to give the game another try so that I could finally finish 
 it and knock out a few achievements along the way. I quickly remembered why I put the game away 
 - but I did finish it and have played it more than a few times to see what each difficulty level 
 is like (I do this with most of my games) .
  
  In COD2, each and every mission (and sub-mission) were listed by name and difficulty played (Easy 
 to Veteran) . You could select the sub-mission and play it at any difficulty setting, which I found 
 particularly fun. Treyarch didn't feel the need to do this apparently, which I find particularly 
 frustrating when going back to play sections of the game in Veteran mode. There is no way to tell 
 what difficulty setting any mission was played at.
  
  Furthermore, I thought it was very annoying that you couldn't skip any cut scenes even when you've 
 played through that section already. It has been said that this is so that you don't "see" any 
 "Loading..." screens but after each cut scene there is a "Loading..." screen... So if you quit 
 the game and come back to continue where you left off, expect to see the cutscene for that mission 
 again.
  
  The MP is well done and and a hoot to play. The ranking system is pretty standard compared to games 
 made today. I played the MP only briefly though from what I played, it was pretty solid and very 
 fun. This alone is worth the price of admission (however COD4 is much better - but this is a COD3 
 review) . The tank driving parts of MP was fun along with the big diversity of weapons and stage 
 designs as well. 
  
  Overall, COD 3 is a good game, but could have been better. Much better with a better save system 
 and ability to view game progress like in COD2.
  
  So, why did I bother to write this review? I'm hoping that someone at Treyarch is listening and 
 when they make the next COD: World at War, they don't repeat the same mistake with the save system, 
 and give us the ability to view each level's difficulty setting (down to the sublevel as in COD2) . 
 And PLEASE give us the ability to skip the cutscenes - make us watch them once - after that let 
 us press a button to skip them like most every other game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sensei_hEnRY
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 13, 2008 11:49 pm PT
Review:  at the first time, i play CoD 3 on my old busted PS2. I was shocked with it! CoD 3 came not long 
 after CoD 2 Big Red One and Call of Duty 2 and that is entertaining. Plus, CoD 3 is at a new level 
 than other WWII game at that time (if i'm not wrong, the only competitor of this game was MOH: 
 Vanguard and EA didn't do a great job to fight Treyarch)
  
  Although Treyarch only have less than a year to build it from zero (it didn't use infinity ward's 
 engine on CoD 2) , they still come with a brilliant job! 
  
  And now, at last i can buy CoD 3 on xbox 360 and again, i'm shock! For a game that only took less 
 then a year to developed, CoD 3 is awesome! I've never play Infinity Ward's Call Of Duty 2 (which 
 is praised as the best WWII-based CoD by some users) but i'm sure, this is as good as that game. 
 
  
  The story now followed Allie forces trough the Normandy Breakouts. We fight through the eyes of 
 Nichols (US) , Doyle (UK) , Cole (Canada) and Bohater (Poland) . The story is amazing, dramatic, and 
 well scripted! Great story!
  
  The graphics are awesome! Shades, surfaces, lightning, everything look beautiful. The grass and 
 plants waving with the wind and that is beautiful! (even CoD 4 doesn't have this) . The environment 
 is quite destructible too (more destructible than CoD 4) . The shacking camera effect when we reload 
 our weapon is cool! (after CoD 3, that effect followed by EA on MOH: Airborne, infinity ward on 
 CoD 4: Modern Warfare, and EA DICE on 
  Battlefield: Bad Company) . Added part on gameplay section gives us a new experience on fps game. 
 New vehicles, mortar, and close quarter combats 
  through button sequences are new great things on this game. awesome gameplay! There are no new 
 weapon added to the game, it still the same thompson, m1 garand, colt 45, springfield, BAR, 30 
 cal., sten, bren, lee enfield, kar98k, mp 40, fg 42, mp 42, stg 44, panzerschreck, and gewerh 43 
 like those in previous Call of Duty.
  
  Activison's decision to published Call of Duty 3 in a short time after CoD 2 must be paid with 
 some lack on the game. Character's movement is poor (it seems that treyarch didn't have much time 
 to do more motion capture) , there are many low frame rate on the game (especially when there is 
 smoke and dust, or when we do fast movement to the left or to the right) . we can see some weird 
 things like flying weapon or jerries shooting each other sometimes. But it doesn't give any effect 
 for us to enjoy the game.
  
  So, CoD 3 is amazing! i can't wait for the next call of duty, world at war, i believe Treyarch 
 can do more with CoD 4's engine and make it as the greatest Call of Duty. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dmg051793
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 10, 2008 1:36 am PT
Review:  This is the worst in the series so far; only counting the main games. It felt nothing similar to 
 the 2nd game. The story, as normal WWII games, was basically just random missions, so you could 
 have been tired of these games by now. The levels weren't too exciting and very uninventive. The 
 sound was only average and my frame rate dipped quite a bit when the action started heating up. 
 The last level, which is always supposed to be the big sha-bang, was very disappointing. Although, 
 the multiplayer wasn't as terrible as the story. It was not as good as the 2nd games multiplayer 
 but it did have a few stronger points. There was the inclusion of vehicles, which to me was mostly 
 weak for a first impression. There was also the levels in the multiplayer which were faily decent 
 I'd have to say, so that's one good thing. I also loved the fact that you can play with a guest 
 by your side online, so that would be two. Anyways, the classes were sort of stupid because it 
 was too focused on teamwork when everyone would just run around on their own for the most part. 
 One other absolutely terrible thing was the voice chat in the game. Either nobody used their mics 
 or there was some sort of issue with the game. Basically though, no talking during the matches, 
 which ruins the teamwrok aspect and the classes too. I hated that people would glitch a lot too. 
 The gameplay did not compare at all to the 2nd game; this was much worse. Basically overall, just 
 rent it at best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jojowonderdog
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 19, 2008 2:08 am PT
Review:  It's amazing how quickly graphics and gameplay are replaced with the next great engine.
  Not so long ago I would have described this game as visually amazing and with engaging gameplay. 
 
  But as the 360 has progressed, so has Call Of Duty 3 fallen behind.
  
  The gameplay doesn't feel any differrent or unique when compared to all the other hundreds of WWII 
 FPS out there. Don't get me wrong, there are amazing battles that happen and you do occasionally 
 get sucked into 'the fight against the Germans'. 
  But these are heavily outweighed by simple 'run from A to B missions' or simply 'holding your position' 
 as a barrage of respawning troops head your way. 
  
  The soundtrack is amazing however, and if anything was going to make up for the lack of emotionally 
 engaging story and get you ready to fight then this is it. 
  
  As for the graphics, now that we've becomed accustomed to even greater realism in games it's very 
 easy to spot all the flaws and slightly more angular edges than before. 
  Although the game is fantastic for its time, the constant bleed through of guns in walls and jilting 
 camera angles when jumping down floors in a house means that this game has quickly dated.
  
  But heres the kicker, its still a fun game to play. It may take you a while to get involved, 
 and it does seem to end all too quickly, but for the budget price and engaging multiplayer, you 
 should seriously think about adding this to your collection.
  
  7.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fat_otter
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 15, 2008 9:37 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 was a somewhat surprise hit during the Xbox 360 launch when everyone expected Perfect 
 Dark Zero to dominate the launch sales. But a strong campaign and addictive multiplayer was what 
 made Call of Duty 2 such a success. But after its launch, Infinity Ward wanted to spend an extra 
 year on what would be Call of Duty 4 which is the reason Treyarch developed the third installment 
 in the Call of Duty franchise. Unfortunately, there isn't anything that makes Call of Duty 3 a 
 very original game. The single player campaign keeps the Call of Duty tradition of letting you 
 see the war from different perspectives. In this case, through the eyes of an American, British, 
 Canadian, and Polish soldier. The campaign focuses on the Normandy Breakout, which is basically 
 the events that place after D-Day with the allies trying to take back France. The missions remain 
 traditional with you completing various objectives on linear missions. Call of Duty 3 does manage 
 to let you see different types of combat, ranging from more traditional urban warfare as the Americans, 
 to the smaller scale commando missions as the British, to the firefights in France's rural farmland, 
 to the epic tank battles as the Polish. Call of Duty 3 runs off a great game engine that provides 
 excellent graphics with a framerate that is as smooth as butter. Ragdoll physics also make an appearance 
 as you see barrels and bodies fly through the air! The sound of Call of Duty 3 is excellent; making 
 it seem like war is in your backyard. The explosions are fierce, and the various weapons roar. 
 But the biggest change in Call of Duty 3, for-better-or-for-worse would be the multiplayer! The 
 player limit has been tripled from 8 to 32 players, the maps are larger, vehicles (motorcycles, 
 jeeps, and tanks) are now fair game, and a new class-based system has been added. You now get to 
 choose between various classes such as rifleman, light assault, heavy assault, scout (sniper) , 
 support, and anti-tank. The classes are well balanced and they all play out well on the battlefield. 
 The vehicles control relatively well, if not a bit arcady-feeling. And when you combine the multiplayer 
 with a solid single-player campaign, you have a sturdy gaming package that is Call of Duty 3! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rdwolf260
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 10, 2008 9:43 pm PT
Review:  So you've completed Call of Duty 2 and feel like there's so many more Nazis out there that need 
 killing? Well you're in luck, Call of Duty 3 picks up right where the previous title left off. 
 I don't mean that this is a direct sequel to the previous entry when it comes to the story and 
 characters, I just mean you ended the previous title slaughtering Germans and Call of Duty 3 tasks 
 you with the same objective. The missions and the characters might be different, but the gameplay 
 and game mechanics are pretty much the same. The developer gets props for attempts to add a little 
 innovation, but they are implemented extremely poorly, like the jeep driving segments. In fact 
 those segments are so annoying that I wish they were never added. Some of the driving missions 
 drove me nuts because they were confusing and disorienting and left me feeling that I was not in 
 control of the outcome. I understand that many soldiers survived WWII due to pure luck. Maybe the 
 developer thought that adding some skirmishes in the game that are so intense that you walk away 
 thinking "how am I still alive?" would lends some authenticity to the game. Instead they break 
 things up and leave you thinking that your skill and actions had no impact whatsoever on the outcome 
 of you surviving the battle. Overall this is an ok title but it feels like a step back from the 
 stellar Call of Duty 2 primarily due to lack of control in some sections. Multiplayer doesn't give 
 you anything new and exciting either but is serviceable. If you want to experience yet another 
 WWII shooter, this will scratch that itch, that's pretty much it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: connor52
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 10, 2008 5:24 pm PT
Review:  this game was by all means a great game but it was just not as fun and exciting the weapons the 
 atmosphere and the gameplay was fun but it just did not give you that OMG feeling if you know what 
 i mean however a sweet thing about this game was the FG-42 machine gun wich was used by german 
 paratroopers and the waffen SS during the end of the second world war i had a blast with this weapon 
 even though you can only use it about twice but you wil love it wile it lasts the graphics were 
 sweet as well even though its not as good as the others you will still have a  
 its also kinda short and short games really tick me  
 also planting charges is really fun so is useing the crane in the 6th level to knock down a  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ben399
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 26, 2008 3:51 pm PT
Review:  call of duty 3 is a realistic yet fun shooter with great multiplayer, good graphics, and good missions. 
 you get to play through the normandy breakthrough as a soldier from many different sides (you get 
 to play as a british, american, canadian, french. ect. soldier) . tanks are powerful, all the weapons 
 feel real, and so is the action since it only takes one or two shots to kill an enemy. the multiplayer 
 is good, you'll need to change your class depending on what your enemy's doing (if they are attacking 
 with tanks, might want to consider an anti tank class. if they are all charging you, try something 
 with a machine gun) . the environments are good (although indestructable) in both single and multiplayer. 
 if you like video games, have an xbox360, andd are a fan of WWII shooters, you should really get 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thrillyum
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 25, 2008 9:37 pm PT
Review:  As far as WWII shooters go, this was the most fun game i have played on a console. I started by 
 playing the story mode. It starts out with a tutorial, but after that it puts you straight into 
 a giant/ confusing battle. You are several different people during the campaign mode. You start 
 as an American and throughout you play as a British soldier, a polish tanker, and a canadian too. 
 Its a lot of fun and you get to use a lot of different weapons. The only problem i had with the 
 campaign is that there was little cover, and also, not so much ammo if you wanted to use an american/british/canadian 
 gun. You ran out extremely fast and i found myself having to use a german weapon throughout most 
 of the game. Which wasnt even that bad. This game looks great and has some really exciting and 
 fun levels. It wasnt really too hard although some parts got pretty frusterating. But that made 
 the game all the better. This is a really fun game and since c. o. d. 4 is out now, you can probably 
 find it for cheap out there, so i suggest that you go out and buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedneckGamer87
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 21, 2008 1:19 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Call of Duty 3 takes a bit of a different approach to the traditional COD world. Rather 
 than playing in token battles of World War II and switching from area to area all over the map, 
 Call of Duty 3 is based on one specific set of battles centered around the Normandy Breakout, working 
 up until the liberation of Paris just 88 days later. Taking control of each region represented, 
 players will jump from the American troops over to the Canadians and Polish, as well as the British 
 forces as they push against the elite German Panzer forces. In this installation, it has taken 
 some ideas from COD: Big Red One and added some cinamatic style stuff to it which is great. Also 
 during combat there is this new melee system where if you get to close to the enemy then you will 
 have this pushing match with your rifle. Of course there is also the usually multiplayer stuff 
 such as team deathmatch and things that most people are are familier with Call of Duty. 
  
  Graphics: I would have to say that the graphics are good but bad at the same time. Good because 
 the explotions, gun designs and buildings are really well done, but the character models I found 
 were not as well done as in Call of Duty 2.
  
  Sound: As Usuall the sound in these series of game are alaways amazing from the gun shots to the 
 rolling of the tanks.
  
  Value: All in all I though this was a good game but just felt to similer to Call of Duty 2 and 
 I think it came out a little to soon after Call of Duty 2. I would recommened playing this game 
 only when the price has gone down. I Give this game 8.5 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 6StringShredder
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 20, 2008 9:27 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty 3 is a great game. Especially considering its like 3 years old. The graphics are awsomerificle. 
 I noticed the troops look different according to the weather, if its raining they often will have 
 mud caked to there helmets and there combat uniform. If its hot out and your fighting in a city 
 the men will have just dirt and scratched weapons and scratched helmets. 
  The story line is kind of spacey but it revolves around multiple battles in which were the beginning 
 of the end to ww2. 
  And game play isn't terrifically real but its is still pretty fun, you will play in multiple army's 
 through out the game. 
  Other than all this I noticed that the men who fight along with you aren't the sharpest tool's 
 in the shed. But they don't kill the fun of the game. And some missions seem to be more of a solo 
 mission because you will start out with very few troops to help you. 
  But over all COD3 is a pretty fun game. And wasn't repetitive, the length of the game was perfect. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: premolight
Rating: 5.5
Date: May 10, 2008 11:02 am PT
Review:  This game is absolutely horrible. The graphics are terrible the story is bad the online play, well 
 for the online play i don't know where to start. So i won't start with the online play. The graphics 
 are boxy and very cartoonish. not once did i think i was actually there or actually one of those 
 guys. You got to know the characters a lot better than in other 1st person shooters ,but that should 
 take a back seat to graphics, gameplay, story line, plot of the story etc. The characters you found 
 out about told crappy, unrealistic jokes and the characters were very unrealistic. But now to the 
 worst part of all the online play. The physics were very far off and when you hit guys they would 
 fly through the air. If you shot someone in the head they would become a human flying rag-doll 
 in a zero gravity enviroment. overall i would not buy ,rent ,play ,or watch this game anymore. 
 I hope you heed premo's warning and don't associate yourself with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: no-scoped_jfk
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 9, 2008 12:22 am PT
Review:  I picked this game up off ebay for 13.50 (australia) and its provided with me with over 10 hours 
 of great gameplay. 
  
  im still playing it, the graphics are great for a 3 year old game, its got good story lines, not 
 just run and gun. There are different difficulties and a few different modes too. 
  
  the online is popular too. The acheivements are challenging but fun.
  
  Its a buy, especially 
 if you can get it brand new. Look around and you'll find it in a bargain bin. 
  
  Have fun
  
  Review by: no. scoped_jfk
  
  extra words for submission extra words for submision 
 extra
  extra words for submission extra words for submision extra
  extra words for submission extra words for submision extra
  extra words for submission extra 
 words for submision extra
  extra words for submission extra words for submision extra
  extra words for submission extra words for submision extra
  extra words for submission extra 
 words for submision extra 
::::::

::::::
UserName: S0mEGuY12
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 25, 2008 11:24 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:7.9/10
  Ummmmm.... Yeah. Self explanatory description. This game, is almost 100% the same as CoD and CoD2. 
 When CoD2 hit the 360, it hit it with a bang... More like WWII Nuclear bombs. CoD3..... um... Maybe 
 a frag grenade or two. I played CoD4 before CoD3, but i also played CoD the original... So its not 
 because i switched from an intense game to a weaker one, its just like i said. This game PLAYS the 
 same as CoD 1 and 2. Same weapons, Same objectives (almost) Same everything! Its certainly an awesome 
 game. It just needs work (This review is late, since CoD4 already fixed the problem, but im just saying...) . 
 I dont have to talk about NOTHING in gameplay, all i have to say is... ITS THE SAME!!!!! Multiplayer 
 is solid, but nothing special. Oh yeah, thats almost the same too. Almost. Also. Notice the difficulty, its 
 either just me, or the game. This game is ridiculously difficult on normal. I cannot count how many 
 times i died in just NORMAL. Big difference between easy and normal... Easy is too easy. Normal... God.... I 
 dont remember the CoD4 Normal difficulty being this punishing! Same applies to CoD 1. The Ai is 
 smart compared to other games, but i have seen the AI of the enemies do a LOT of stupid stuff, including 
 your allies.
  
  Graphics:9/10
  Well at least these changed. Really good visuals, though there is better, These visuals are stunning 
 and beautiful. They definitely put some work into the graphics, especially the models. 
  
  Sound:8/10 Yeah... Umm... Sound effects for explosions and stuff are improved... But... WTF HAPPENED 
 TO SOME WEAPONS?!?!?? I LOVED HOW THE M1 GARAND SOUNDED IN THE ORIGINAL!!! It was such an angry 
 sounding weapon when firing it! Now it just sounds weak.... Isnt this CoD3? Shouldnt they have made 
 it BETTER?
  
  Overall: Yeah. This game is the same as CoD 2 and before it. Its not a bad game, its just "Been 
 there, done that". Literally. If you love CoD (like i do) you may like this game. I mean, i like 
 this game. I just wished that they could have put a little more work into it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamehell321
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 25, 2008 5:25 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3, a classic war story straight outta hollywood. Memorable characters, pretty good 
 storyline, great graphics, (though a bit overdone) . The story focuses on the Normandy breakout, 
 nothing we haven't seen before. It has different perspectives, this time bringing in a slightly 
 different cast, such as, the Polish, and Canadians, as well as that dynamic duo, the British and 
 Americans, no Russians this time, seeing as we are in Normandy in Western Europe. The locations 
 are loosely based on real ones, but not much detail and authenticity was set forth in the game's 
 making. The Developers are the ones who brought us the rather unpopular Big Red One, this time 
 they were back to reclaim their title. The weapons are almost the same as those seen in Big Red 
 One, although overly shinny and too flashy and in-your-face. There are no real new weapons just 
 the typical Call of Duty formula, not too realistic or authentic, but still fun to use, the M1 
 Garand still is un-reloadable for some reason, the Tommy Gun is WAY too fake, the B. A. R is ok, 
 although it fires from a closed bolt, so operating the bolt after a reload is not needed, the MP-40 
 is still the standard weapon for the Germans, not the K98, (yes, it's backwards) , the rare K98 is 
 ok, though the safety is set to "safe" and not to "fire", so it wouldn't fire in reality, the rest 
 are pretty well done but not nearly as good as they could be. Multiplayer is rather good this time, 
 there are even drivable vehicles and quite a few classes to choose from, and pretty fun levels 
 to go with it. This is a good substitute while your waiting for something like the next GTA or 
 the Epic Brothers in Arms Saga to be released, it's nothing special or revolutionary just a more 
 story-related Call of Duty. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WikitClown
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 22, 2008 6:24 pm PT
Review:  Here we go again... another WWII shooter where Nazi's are abound and waiting to be killed. This 
 is a pretty good game but if it weren't for getting the achievements, I wouldn't have played it 
 as much. I've been playing the series since the first one came out and it's just the same old regergitated 
 stuff.... shoot some Germans, drive a jeep, drive a tank, hop on the 50 cal., kill some more Germans 
 and repeat. The graphics have definitly improved but that's about it. I'm so glad that COD4 has 
 steared away from this WWII shooter deal and done something progressive with the franchise. This 
 isn't to say that if the COD series went back to WWII shooters I wouldn't give it a go, just that 
 it's been done to death and we need a break. How about a WWI shooter? Give me something new... if 
 you can find this for under $20 than grab it but I'd stear clear if you've had your fill of killing 
 Nazi's for one decade. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: taino1128
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 28, 2008 7:02 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Outstanding visuals and sound. Incredibly improved multiplayer. Intense WWII infantry 
 combat is still intact. Same solid controls.
  -
  The Bad: The game as a whole feels more like an expansion pack instead of a sequel. Few flaws and 
 bugs in the campaign.
  -------
  By now, everybody has heard of Call of Duty. Everybody knows that it is the king of WWII shooters 
 and is one of the most popular FPS series out there. CoD2 made improvements over the original that 
 then made it even better and a lot more fun. So, you were probably expecting CoD3 to be the best 
 FPS ever right? I hate to disappoint you, but it's not. It's still a great game, but not as groundbreaking 
 as its predecessors.
  CoD's highlight has always been its extremely intense combat in its campaign. YES, CoD3's campaign 
 is intense. It's the same crazy firefights, same really smart AI on both teamates and enemies, 
 and same hearing gunshots coming in all directions when playing with surround sound. In the end, 
 that's all it is. There was not that much new added to the campaign. There were improved physics, 
 though. Instead of just shooting or punching your opponent and watching him fall back, they reacted 
 with the environment. If you shoot a Nazi in the back of the head while he is manning an MG-42, 
 he will then be leaning on the wall where he gun is. When you use melee attack your opponent will 
 fall back more realistically or go flying back. These new physics work great. There were also few 
 small things such as cutscenes and minigames that neither made the game feel better or worse. 
 
  The cutscenes didn't do anything because, as usual in CoD, there is no real storyline. It is just 
 soldiers talking about what they need to do on their missions. On the bright side, the improved 
 graphics make them look great. The minigames seem useless since they don't do anything either. 
 The hyped up one was the close-quarters combat. All you do is quickly tap the triggers on the gamepad 
 and press the face buttons when specified. It may be cool the first time, but afterwards it gets 
 uninteresting. thankfully, there is only about 10 in the entire campaign, so you'll be able to 
 just pretend that they are not there. Another minigame is when planting an explosive, you have 
 to rotate the right analog stick and press a face button and there is a mini-cutscene in the process. 
 Thankfully, there aren't that many of those either.
  I also wanted to point out that there are a few bugs in the campaign. There are times when one 
 of your teamates might be stuck running into a door or wall, keeping you from advancing. There 
 times when an event just won't trigger, forcing you to restart from your last checkpoint. Thankfully 
 there aren't enough bugs to destroy the feeling of the game.
  On normal difficulty, the campaign can take about 10 hours to complete. Series fans will want to 
 raise the difficulty, which then make the campaign longer. There are a lot more achievements tied 
 to both the campaign and multiplayer besides just playing through levels. There are things such 
 as throwing back 5 live live grenades, go through a level only shooting German weapons, have the 
 most kills on your team in team battle, and much more. 
  Multiplayer is easily the highlight of this game. CoD2's multiplayer caught a flak for only allowing 
 8 players in a game. CoD3's allows 24 players. The levels are also a lot bigger. Now when you choose 
 who you are playing as, you choose a class. There is Rifleman, Light Assault, Heavy Assault, Medic, 
 Scout, Support, and Anti-Armor. Each class has the weapons appropriate for that class. When you 
 are a Medic, you can heal wounded teammates and Anti-Armor soldiers can supply their teammates 
 with ammo. When you want to choose your class without having to be killed, you select your new 
 class and then select respawn and commit suicide. The levels also have drivable vehicles such as 
 tanks, motorcycles, and Jeeps. The tanks and Jeeps have .30 cal machine gun equipped for passngers 
 to shoot enemies. There is also a new mode called War in which teams must fight to take over certain 
 spots in the level. Now there is also a ranking system. There are a total of 3 rankings. You improve 
 your ranking by making accoplishments in ranking matchs. This is one of the most polished FPS multiplayers 
 ever.
  The graphics made a huge leap over CoD2. Everything is more detailed. The environments are react 
 appropriately to gunshots and explosions. The settings and scenery all look like postcards. When 
 you reload a gun, you see the amazing detail that is on it. You'll want to unload a round of bullets 
 into your enemy just to look at that beautiful weapon. And the frame rate never drops. The only 
 problem is that dead soldiers and dropped weapons still get caught in walls, but you'll get passed 
 that easily. And, obviously, HD will always make the game look better.
  Sound has never been a problem for the series, has it? The sound effects, surprisingly sound even 
 better than CoD2. Firing an MG-42 or a .30 cal is now louder than firing a weapons you're carying 
 around with you, that way it's supposed to be. And when you play on surround sound, you still feel 
 like your on the battlefield because of the gunshots coming from all directions. It also supports 
 Dolby Digital. Now there is also dramatic orchestra music in the background. It goes absolutely 
 perfect. It's a shame that there is no option to just listen to the music alone, it just sounds 
 that great.
  If Call of Duty hasn't attracted your attention before, CoD3 won't do much to change your mind. 
 If you haven't gotten sick of WWII shooters yet, this is easily the best one out there. This is 
 one of those weird games where you might probably have a better chance of liking it if you are 
 new to the series. Even though the campaign is mostly more of the same, its intensity plus the 
 amazingly improved multiplayer make Call of Duty 3 worth getting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cristaph
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 22, 2008 11:53 am PT
Review:  The game is based all around the Normandy break out and follows the story of American Pvt. Nichols 
 and his squad, canadian pvt col, British sgt. Doyle and polish cpl. Bohater. the charecters and 
 storys are linked through exellent and interesting cut scenes which, however at somepoints do get 
 cheesy. The game does inprove on one area, which call of duty 2 failed in, charecters. whislt still 
 not perfect or any where near brothers in arms it is and inprovment and certain charecters such 
 as lieutenant Robiechaud stick in my mind due to exellent voice acting and cut scenes. The weapons 
 still look, sound and feel great and there is the useal selection of allied and axis weapons. One 
 great idear are the one of one battles were germans unexpectingly jump on you. they are great but 
 only the first and second time you play the level but after that there a nuisance. There is also 
 two driving levels. One a, tank mission, is quite fun and makes a nice break half way throught 
 the game. however the other one envolves you driving a jeep to each of your objectives are boring 
 with bad- unforgiving controls. Also another anoying addition is the mini games you have to do 
 which clearly are meant for the wii and have been ported to the 360 and dont work. It also to me 
 just seems to be missing something that call of duty 2 had it just doesnt feel as good.
  
  I may seem critical but dont get me wrong this is an exellent first person shooter and is a must 
 buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Billiejoe415
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 17, 2008 5:23 pm PT
Review:  I own this game and I have played on both cam-pain and on-line. The game is about what had happened 
 after the allies had invaded Normandy. The allies had moved into Germany and France as the axis 
 tried to defend but could not. The game has alot to do about history and why our countries, Canada 
 and United States, are the best in the world! The online is a lot of fun, alone or with a friend. 
 My advice to you is if you have a friend or you are alone and are online, the best place to go 
 is in Poisson, on team battle, and make sure there is alot of other players because if there is 
 1-8, it tends to get boring fast. There is alot of hiding spots so you cannot see your enemies. 
 If you happen to like this game, related games are: Frontlines: Fuel Of War, Tom Clancy's Ghost 
 Recon Advanced Warfighter, and #2 of Tom Clancy's game above. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrhankeydinks
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 9, 2008 8:36 pm PT
Review:  (i apologize for any typos) 
  
  Have you ever been in a drought? Or perhaps not a drought, maybe you've experienced a flood. If 
 so, then you know what it's like to see another World War 2 game appear on the shelves at GameStop 
 or EB Games (which are one in the same) . The genre itself, World War 2 Game, can be broken down 
 into two types the FPS and then the RTS World War 2 Game. In both areas games struggle to be the 
 crme of the crop or at least stand out from the rest. The FPS that stood out for me, and most, 
 was the CoD series. Then of course our RTS father, or at least the mother of World War 2 RTS games 
 is Company of Heroes. Both of these games have a fine tuned game play mechanic that no one else 
 has been able to replicate. When I say no one, I mean even studios that have worked on the Call 
 of Duty series such as Treyarch and Spark haven't been able to touch Infinity Ward's quality, although 
 the former did it the best.
  
  Call of Duty 3 is another, run of the mill, World War 2 game. We know how it ends, America and 
 its allies triumph over the Axis of evil which includes Germany, Italy, and Japan, all the others 
 were really just little nuances in the overall picture. Let's mention the things I like about Call 
 of Duty 3 on the Xbox 360. It's more of the same; it's more of that tried and true formula from 
 Call of Duty 2. Now I replayed the single-player in Call of Duty 2 I'd say three to four times 
 and the single-player for around 60-Hours; it, to me, is the pinnacle of World War 2 games. Now 
 I am a bit late of playing Call of Duty 3 and submitting a review. Here's what I liked about the 
 game: 
  
  The graphics are well, they are pretty. Although some areas could be improved; a la texture mapping 
 maybe or scaling to widescreen. A lot of times I felt like the textures were stretched to fit a 
 16:9 aspect ratio or characters at times looked more so fat, or for lack of a better metaphor, 
 as if they took a duce in their pants and never bothered to go empty it into the closest lavatory. 
 The use of HDR and bloom is a nice touch, although, albeit a bit overdone in some areas. Perhaps 
 the most beautiful aspect of this game comes from when the action gets going and when the graphical 
 fidelity ramps up. With grenades going off and some motion blur kicking in, it reinforces the idea 
 that this is war, and it is hell. The guns are well modeled, although sometimes lacking detail 
 (a la MP44) and then the grass in the game. Let's not forget the grass. This is actually a huge 
 improvement over the engine that I would go prone just to be sneaking in the grass. I mean, who 
 doesn't want to frolic through the grass?
  
  In order to move on beyond mechanics and graphics or anything that is purely artificial in my mind 
 (it's a video game, what isn't?) , here is what I think about sound also. The sound is very well 
 done, some gun sound seem to have changed from what I remember. This isn't bad though, for some 
 weapons it makes them sound much better and then the other raises the question, "Why did you bring 
 a teddy bear with you to war?" Some added features would be them pausing the game for you to plant 
 explosives, turn a lever, or fight in hand to hand combat with those nasty Krauts. While this does 
 break up the monotony of the linear experience it feels a bit out of place; more so the pausing 
 to setup explosives and pull a lever than fighting Krauts. 
  
  The story itself revolves around, and too my liking, more than just the Americans, Brits, and Russians. 
 Although the Russians have been exempt this time around let's hope they make an appearance in Call 
 of Duty 5 (they already showed in Call of Duty 4, those bastards.) So you follow storylines which 
 follow Americans, Brits, Pols, French, and Canadians. It's nice to see three countries involved 
 in the war, although I could have sworn the Pols and French had decided to surrender when they 
 saw Hitler's mustache. Half way through the game you may realize something; it's following the 
 same campaign Company of Heroes followed. The Falsaise Pass and the cornering of Germans in Chamboise. 
 This is very nice to see and part of me wishes that Relic and Treyarch had cooperated on both games 
 and made the stories interlock with each other. So as usual you're running around destroying flak 
 cannons, driving tanks (which are still some of my favorite missions, and to be honest, are better 
 in Call of Duty 3 than 2 or the original.) So Treyarch did a good job. Although they took some 
 liberties with the series in adding a few quirks that at times don't feel right, the multi-player 
 isn't worth discussing as it leaves a lot to be desired when compared to 2's or 4's multi-player 
 experience. When you're done playing this game you'll feel a since of release and no need to replay 
 it. That lost point is sad. Also, at times, I felt like the stories or internal conflicts between 
 say the Pols and Canadians and Brits and French were clich or just not done in a general tasteful 
 or well put together fashion. 
  
  To sum this up. Call of Duty 3 isn't a buy. But if you have a friend, who owns the game, then borrow 
 it from them. Have some fun, the campaign I would venture to guess last between seven and ten hours 
 which are decent. So if you have an itch, like me, sometimes for a World War 2 game then check 
 this out. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RHCPfan24
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 28, 2008 5:06 pm PT
Review:  I loved this game. Emphasis on the past tense. When this game released about 17 months ago, I played 
 it until I beat it and then some. Wow, World War II is fun! Now, nearly 17 months later, I picked 
 it up again and realized, hey, this game is not what I remember it to be. 
  
  Perhaps I am spoiled by the nirvana that is Call of Duty 4, but Call of Duty 3, even without the 
 comparison, is merely average. First off, the story is really bad. And I mean really bad. Many 
 times people don't care about the story, but you will have to here, because all of the cutscenes 
 are unskippable. Even after you finish the game and want to jump in and take a mission for a quick 
 spin, you will have to watch poorly voiced and animated dialogue for about 5 minutes before doing 
 so. Also, while I despise the Nazis as much as the next American, can't we change it up a bit and 
 give us a little backstory on them so they are not one-faced Krauts who only serve the purpose 
 of target practice? World War II games need to grow up, or go away if this is the road we are taking. 
 Still, that isn't the worst part about the game. 
  
  Treyarch, the developer, decided to put in these corny 'battle actions.' If you have to plant a 
 bomb, you have to press a button, rotate a joystick, and press a button again, with the same animation 
 everytime. It gets quite annoying when you have to plant 4-5 bombs in one level. Also, there are 
 these times when an enemy (all scripted) will jump at you and you have to do another set of button 
 combinations. It is cool first, but repetitive as it goes on. 
  
  In addition, while the gunplay is classic COD, a few things hold it back. There are some bad hit 
 detection times when you aim and hit nothing, but times when you are extremely accurate. Additionally, 
 a huge pest on my playing session, the grenade indicator, will annoy even the most patient gamer. 
 A whole button ritual is required to throw an enemy grenade back, and don't they realize I am holding 
 a ticking time bomb in my hands? Hello? Well, you will eventually get the hang of it, but you will 
 have already died many useless deaths. 
  
  The objectives are tried and true, although they are sometimes monotonous and clichd. That is 
 typical of war games, but come on, maybe a little originality? 
  
  Perhaps the worst part about the game, the AI, is horrible. There are times when I get shot and 
 I am barely near any enemy, but there are also many times when I rush up to the Nazis and they 
 don't even notice me. This has happened a lot. In addition to the poor AI, there is a lot of sloppy 
 detection on the ground. For instance, your character will be running and will just stop for no 
 reason. Looking down, you will see a piece of wood sticking about 5 inches out of the ground. Is 
 that causing me to stop moving? Wow...
  
  To break up firefights, driving segments are put in. The jeep is way to easy to control, and the 
 map doesn't properly show where to go in a fork in the road until the last second.
  
  Phew, now that I vented, I will say all the GOOD things about this game. The graphics are great, 
 if a little dated. Actually, there are a few annoying bugs with movement, but graphics wise, this 
 is one of the best older 360 games. And of course, like typical COD fare, the sound is phenomenal 
 and will shake your sound system to its core. The game is very fun, if flawed and not perfect. 
 It is not a bad game by any stretch, just annoying.
  
  The brightest part of the package? The multiplayer. While not as impressive as COD4's, COD3's online 
 is actually really fun. You can drive and choose classes, and the ripsaw rate is pretty fast. In 
 addition, the maps are diverse and entertaining to roam in, and the general Xbox Live population 
 seems friendly and pleasant.
  
  In conclusion, Call of Duty 3 is a step back for the series, but still a good game. There are a 
 lot of stupid problems that shouldn't be there, but whatever. If you are reading this review, than 
 chances are, you have this game or want to buy it. A word of advice: Don't buy it; buy Call of 
 Duty 2 instead (it is A LOT cheaper and a bit better) or just buy Call of Duty 4, the best one 
 yet. I am quite concerned that Treyarch is going to be working on Call of Duty 5 with or without 
 Infinity Ward. If they take the same approach to that as they did to this, we are going to end 
 up with one of the biggest disappointments in gaming history. Then again, if they tighten their 
 game and put in the effort, they can make something that will really shine.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: titanic100
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 26, 2008 7:29 am PT
Review:  Call of duty 3 
  
  Call of duty 3 is a lot better than the previous call of duties 
  
  The game play again as the same as all of the other call of duty's you are this time a British, 
 American and Russians I think it is solider in the army you switch between them through out the 
 game and when you finish you are a American soldier fighting the same world war but I can't remember 
 if it is the second world war this time. 
  
  The graphics the graphics are amazing and a lot better than the rest of the call of duties and 
 you can see that every thing around you has certain realism to it and when you get shot it will 
 indicate where you have been shot so you can move some where else that you won't be shot but you 
 can still see the enemy and shoot them. 
  
  The sound quality is a lot better than the other call of duties and when a grenade goes off near 
 you the screen goes blurry this is the same as call of duty 2 and when you get back on you feet 
 everything is normal so you now can go and find the enemy that armed that grenade and through it 
 at you. 
  
  So this game is a very good game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lenny_ohpop
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 25, 2008 6:19 am PT
Review:  yeah.... so i bought this game about a year and a month or two ago
  Now i haven't played it recently but i still remember things about it
  
  positive: what can 
 i say... at the time this was the greatest game until a few months ago... i played this game for 
 about two or three months straight until my xbox live membership ran out..... just to let u know 
 i reached 300 in the world for capture the flag and heavy rifleman so yes im quite experienced 
 at this game. the graphics at the time were awesome...... it really set the benchmark along side 
 rainbow six Vegas and gears of war........ these in my opinion the giants of summer (in Australia) 
 of 2006-7. I really liked the game..... im never really into storyline where you have to do one 
 thing... like follow a path through a forest.... but it did a real good job at it.... i cant say much 
 on the single player as u can tell because i didnt play it much............ now onto the multiplayer..... which 
 by the way is in my opinion one of the all time greats in multiplayer games..... along side counterstrike 
 except for the obvious where counterstrike will never stop be played for some reason (i was playing 
 it today lol)
  but yeh the multiplayer was awesome...... from the great map..... possion was my favorite..... and 
 im sure many of u think the same..... to the 2 player online which was always fun...... but my advice 
 was that it could only be played on big hdtv. untill recentlly i have only had a 34inch shltty 
 old tv which i spend my days 10 cm from trying to play........ but yes the multiplayer had a great 
 replayability on it...... and even if it lagged u could still play...
  my opionion 9/10 i couldent find anything bad about this except .... sometimes it wouldent let 
 me join multiplayer games..... and the fact to me veteran.... and 8000 points online prevent me 
 from getting the gamerscore... oh and they made u pay for the maps.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luvfosurvialhor
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 19, 2008 2:55 pm PT
Review:  Hmm another Call of Duty, well I'm sure every one knows that theses games are very fun but with 
 the 3rd installment it bring backs old memories.
  the graphics in the game are good but nothing great. Voice acting is good aswell. Lets hope I dont 
 forget the weapons ^ ^ Loads of weapons and if you like WW games then this is a Must rent. The gameplay 
 is very simple (press button-fire push button forward-run) obvisouly childs play. The stroy line 
 of the game is fair and can get cunfussing at times and frustrating. The best part of this game 
 is multi, thought its not online the game is just plain fun with great levels. Overall with the 
 lame singal player but the amazing multi it gets a 7.5/10. But for a better game id Just get CoD 
 4 sence it has xbox live.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  says it need more words and i dont feel like writing and huge review atm..... so this game was ok.. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sludge15
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 17, 2008 12:46 pm PT
Review:  If you have Call Of Duty 2 and you have just completed it you will probably be looking for somthing 
 else to fill up your time....
  .... this game should be good enough for you.... however the game is not as good as COD2 it is still 
 a good game to play... the AI and Graphics just dont seem as good as COD2 but you will get used 
 to it...
  
  Gameplay:
  6.0
  Just as good as COD2 but thats the problem when you get a sequel you expect it too be better in 
 some way.... but it plays identical to COD2.
  
  A. I
  5.0
  The A. I on this game is terrible i stood in front of an enemy for 2 minutes on the first level 
 and he was just crouched in front of me..... completely disasterous....
  
  Graphics:
  8.5
  Stunning graphics and it is the only aspect of the game that is better than COD2...
  
 
  Map Design:
  7.5
  The map is completely linear.... however it is a suprisingly large and it is exactly right for the 
 amount of enemys COD3 has.....
  
  Difficulty:
  7.0
  Way too difficult on vet and the checkpoints are even more spaced out than COD2 however it does 
 keep you do get the same sense of achievement when you get 1000/1000 on this game.
  
  Overall:
  6.5
  However it does have its good moments COD3 was a let down for me.... as i just 
 finished COD2 on vet and got 1000/1000 on it i was hoping for somthing just as good.... but i was 
 disapointed...... although worth a buy for people who enjoyed COD2...
  
  For anyone that wants to talk to me about this game or any other games that i have speak to me 
 on....
  XBL... GT: Halobuster66
  Or MSN Add: Adam-Birch@hotmail. co. uk
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pete360gow
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 13, 2008 1:44 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3. By now WWll has been used about 50 times so this game is nothing special. But it's 
 the gameplay that counts. The A. I is horrible on easy and regular but it starts to get hard on 
 the higher levels. The shooting is average. The reason you're probably playing call of duty 3 is 
 because of the weapons. Every WWll weapon is in this game so it feels real and you'll really learn 
 a lot about the war. The first level is incredible and it really shows off the xbox 360's graphics. 
 Call of duty 3 has its moments such as some quick time events or driving scenes but call of duty 
 3 is still a average game.
  pros:
  1. all wwll weapons
  2. some nice graphics
  3. story mode will keep you entertained
  4. some nice sound effects
  
  cons:
  1. boring 
 shooter
  2. will get repetative
  3. STOP USING WORLD WAR ll
  
  overall: 7.0/10 - good 
::::::

::::::
UserName: walker1846
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 2, 2008 9:51 pm PT
Review:  call of duty 3 was a pretty good game in my opinion especially the first level where it was that 
 intense i died a couple of times as i hadnt played any of the COD games before, but the only thing 
 that got me angry with it was the fact that the campaign is too short and it can get a bit repetive 
 in later missions (clearing enemies out houses starts to get really old in this)
  but i certainly enjoyed it.
  
  PROS
  intense shooter, wicked graphics, awsome sound, multiplayer 
 is pretty fun.
  
  CONS
  can get repetitive, a couple of bugs, was too much of the same as the 2nd one.
  
  
  bang 
 bang bang ahhh ahhh boom boom boom boom 
  
  call of duty 3 is a fantastic edition to the series but going for the best in the series id have 
 to say that COD 4 is the best if i ranked them in order it would be COD 4, COD 1, COD 2 and COD 3. 
 even though i rated it fourth i still think it is a good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dookieball3
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 20, 2008 8:13 pm PT
Review:  I personally think this is a must buy for any gamer. If you have a 360 or ps3 or whatever get it!! The 
 brief sequences of fighting germans in hand to hand combat and wresiling them to the ground then 
 hitting them in the final blow lets you really feel the thrill of the kill and make you want to 
 do it again and again and again. Jeep part might not be amazing but are pretty good and have good 
 cinematics to make up for it. Ai is very good. Much better than the other call of duty console games 
 not to mention the multiplayer. The fact that you can drive vehicles in multiplayer is just great 
 much like united offensive for the pc yet somewhat better. They could have made the game much better 
 but still for a console game good job activision. Coming from a cod fanatic since the original for 
 the pc this is a great step towards good games and i hope there will be more like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PredadorPT
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 8, 2008 2:39 pm PT
Review:  If you were expecting an improvement of the last Call of Duty then forget about it, this game didn't 
 innovate anything, in fact it took one step back. Don't get me wrong this COD has nice graphics, 
 nice sound, etc, the problem is that is just feels hollow, unlike the other COD games, it doesn't 
 take you in a trip through history, instead it just makes you "run and gun" through the streets 
 of France, shooting everything that moves, in other words, it lacks substance.
  Like I said the game looks great, especially the first mission, which is just a treat to look at, 
 I mean, you'll forget you're fighting for your life, and you'll just stand there trying to see 
 the great fire fight between allied soldiers and the Nazis, you'll see bullets flying everywhere, 
 buildings falling apart, planes crashing, soldiers falling, etc. And as stunning as this battle 
 may sound, the rest of the game won't be like this, though you're going to be involved in impressive 
 and enormous battles, they won't look as gorgeous as the first one, and you'll be able to focus 
 on the battle instead of the graphics. 
  The sound does its job, and although it isn't great, you'll still be able to hear the shouts and 
 screams of agony both from your allies and enemies.
  The gameplay is a let down, it is filled with bugs and glitches and sometimes you won't complete 
 an objective, because some of your team mates got stuck on the geometry of the levels, or because 
 an event that was supposed to happen didn't happened. Apart from this, COD 3 introduces some interesting 
 mini -games to the franchise, an example of this is when you're planting explosives or when you 
 have to row a boat to cross a river. The AI isn't particularly good, which sometimes can be a little 
 frustrating; this won't keep you from enjoying the game manly because the enemy AI isn't any better 
 than the Allied AI.
  The multiplayer is definitely COD 3 best part, it is incredibly fun and competitive, this time 
 around you'll be able to choose a class, which will affect the way you'll play online, for example 
 you can choose to play as a medic which will make you avoid combat, in order to revive you team 
 mates. The maps are also much bigger, maybe because in this installment you'll be able to play 
 with up to 24 players over Xbox Live.
  In conclusion, COD 3 is just an expansion pack of COD 2, it has some interesting concepts that 
 aren't fully explored, it has interesting mini games, and the best fire fight that I've seen 
 in a shooter but when you come down to it, the meat and bone of the game is its multiplayer, and 
 this is the real improvement in what regards COD 2. Call of Duty 3 is a pretty good and basic shooter, 
 but it can't compare it self to the other Call of Duty games. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fossunit43
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 2, 2008 11:37 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3 is the second WWII game from the Call of Duty series. It has many of the same features 
 as number 2. The gameplay, graphics and controls are almost identical. You find yourself playing 
 as many of the allied forces on and off during the campeign and the story line is a bit random 
 but it keeps you some what entertained. There are levels in which you get to use new features and 
 machines also which is pretty neat. The objectives at times get some what challenging also, which 
 is not necesarily a bad thing though.
  This is my least favorite of the series. A couple glitches are found throughout the game but if 
 your looking for a solid first person shooter and a are a fan of the previous classic war games 
 this is a keeper. Also good multiplayer action for when your complete the game. Looking forward 
 to a new one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shootingrobot98
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 22, 2008 2:35 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty is a series of very good shooters, but in my opinion, Call of Duty 3 doesn't really 
 live up to its name. For starters, this game has terrible sound effects. The Thompson sounds like 
 someone clicking their tongue repeatedly and a computer sped the clicking up, and the B. A. R. fires 
 slower than an M1 Garand (so to speak) . The single-player is also rather flawed. With only fourteen 
 missions, this game is far shorter than its predecessor, Call of Duty 2. The missions get really 
 drawn out, and you usually end up doing an objective that is same to the last one you had. The 
 characters are very original, but they hardly help you at all. The enemies are incredibly stupid, 
 as they suicidally charge at you, and they hardly fire their weapons unless they are standing still. 
 Another thing that is also very frustrating is that if you are standing someplace and no enemy 
 is to be seen, bullets fly out of nowhere and hit you, even if there are no enemies. Your allies 
 are also like "supermen" because if they get shot, they fall on their knees and get right back 
 up. Some guy melees them, they fall on their knees and get right back up. A grenade blows up near 
 them, they fall on their knees and get right back up. A tank shoots a shell at them, they fall 
 on their knees and get right back up. Also, their use of ragdoll animation is extremely overrated. 
 The game's frame rate is also significally slower than CoD: 2 and it sometimes freezes during really 
 big battles.
  
  This game has some strengths, such as amazing graphics. The characters have textures on their uniforms, 
 and the enemies look great. The weapons look significantly better than those in the previous games. 
 However, these graphics also seem to wear down the frame rate.
  
  Despite all of these weaknesses, they are almost outweighed by the excellent multiplayer. The MP 
 allows you to choose your classes, and the ability to use vehicles and tanks is even more fun. 
 If you want a great multiplayer, you've got one here.
  
  Bottom line: CoD: 3 is awfully overrated and if you want a truely quality World War II shooter, 
 play CoD: 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Floyd500
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 21, 2008 8:44 pm PT
Review:  COD 3 is a very generic shooter, everything about it just seems cheap and forgettable. One of the 
 worst things about this game is on veteran your checkpoints are so far apart. And also the weapons 
 just don't feel right. And the story, I can some that up with one simple word LAME!! Do yourself 
 a favor and stay away from this game. Get either COD 2 or COD 4! I also heard Treyarch was gonna 
 be creating COD 5 instead of Infinity Ward so I don't think I will be buying that one, like I was 
 mislead into buying this ****
  This game does not belong in the COD Series. COD's are some of the best FPS ever, but with this 
 one they **** it all up!
  8.8, Gamespot what was you thinking, this trash scored higher than Mass Effect. What a joke.
 
  
  Infinity Ward  
::::::

::::::
UserName: reavesb
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 20, 2008 2:36 pm PT
Review:  COD3 was a complete disappointment. I've played through COD4, all of the MOH's and Halo's and COD 
 left me feeling cheated. Along with a weak story, COD3's playing structure was too regimented. 
 It was overall hokey. The effects were bland. The music was hardly there. There was nothing there 
 to immerse you into the game. Additionally, the handling of the weapons and the selection of weapons 
 was poor. I felt like Activision took a step back in FPS games, not forward. If you played COD2, 
 you'll find little more with COD3 in terms of story, game play, graphics, effects, music, weapons, 
 missions and adaptability. The A. I. spent more time getting in my way than fighting along side 
 me. The missions were predictable and simple and nothing new from the previous CODS or MOH. What 
 a disappointment! Skip COD3 and get COD4... you won't be as disappointed at all! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Madbhal402
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 6, 2008 5:13 pm PT
Review:  this game does not have much similarities with it compared to call of duty 2.
  it does not even have the same developer as call of duty 2. Is story is vauge and is not interesting. 
 you play as a american soldier and a britigh and a polish and a canadian soldier. i gets very cconfusing 
 with a setup like this. the graphics for call of duty 3 are good and are the bright spot for the 
 game. world war 2 is played out and should not be made anymore. how many times can we play the 
 same batles over and over again it just gets very annoying. wait for call of duty 4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coltspwn
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 5, 2008 10:57 am PT
Review:  Let's get some things straight. First off, why did this game get a rating of 8.8? One word: OVERRATED!! 
 If you play Call of Duty 2, then this game will be nothing new. TreyArch ruined this game. The 
 missions are drawn out way too far and are completely linear. The objectives are very repetitive 
 and boring. Also, the Nazi baddies can hit you from anywhere they see fit (Medal of Honor Airborne 
 comes to mind, but at least MOH has a lean mechanic) . One more thing I have to gripe about: all 
 the weapons sound nearly the same. I'm surprised that no one has mentioned that (at least from 
 the reviews that I have read) . If you want a good WWII first person shooter then go with Call of 
 Duty 2 or Medal of Honor Airborne. Or, if you're daring enough to explore the modern realm of combat, 
 get Call of Duty 4. Avoid this game at all costs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr-Elijo
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 3, 2008 4:20 pm PT
Review:  Once again Call of Duty have added a great game to the series. Although Call of Duty 3 is very 
 similar to Call of Duty 1 and 2 it adds in a few new things. One is the new arsenal of weapons 
 (Not many more but there still is a few new gun) . Another is the close-quarters combat (In several 
 parts of the game you will go head to had with a German enemy and you will have to tap Y to try 
 and take him out) . Some more great things about Call of Duty 3 is the weapons are much more detailed 
 compared to Call of Duty 1 and 2, the visuals are improved alot and look great and once again the 
 sound is fantastic.
  
  Now to the bad side of Call of Duty 3. I thought it was very annoying that you couldn't skip any 
 cut scenes even if you've viewed the already. Whenever I play a game I like to watch all of the 
 cut scenes but if I die, I don't usually watch them again. That is the problem with these cut scenes. 
 If you die you have to watch them again. Another problem is the shortness of the campaign. The 
 final problem is the multiplayer. I thought that the multiplayer was quite fun and addictive but 
 it lacked in quality because sometimes when you kill somebody they don't even die. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 09231991
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 30, 2007 1:03 pm PT
Review:  Call Of Duty 3 is a great sequel to COD 2 but its not near as good as it. COD 3 makes some new 
 attempts and leaps but doesn't quite fulfill some of them all that good. For example, the company 
 that made Big Red One made this game, which was a big risk because that game was a big disappointment. 
 The game's overall campaign mode is 13 missions total, which is a lot shorter than COD 2, which 
 I consider a big step backwards. The game's intensity is good, but it doesn't make the whole game 
 that much better because there are only a few intense moments throughout the games campaign. Now 
 onto the multiplayer aspect. The MP is well done and played out. The ranking system a cool idea 
 as well. I played the MP only briefly though but from what I played, it was pretty solid. The tank 
 driving parts of the MP was fun along with the big diversity of weapons and stages designs as well. 
 Overall, COD 3 is a good game, but could have been better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kombatmaster12
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 28, 2007 12:47 am PT
Review:  Yay! A good first person shooter game I finnaly go one. So this is a game that most people think 
 out of date just because 4 came round? Nope, it's perfect!
  
  Plot: It's world war 2 if you haven't already noticed. You take the role as soilders in certain 
 places in the war to help fight for that country. These soilders also help you beat ceratin acheivments 
 such as playing a certain side for two missions. You have to fight of the Germans like usual and 
 you will be going from famous to un -famous battlegrounds, fighting your way to your next objective!=
 
  
  Gameplay: COD3 is very easy to learn to play and I'm quiet sure that anybody can play it. You use 
 your 360 controler using mostly the shoulder buttons so it's kinda easy. You have to usually be 
 in close combat with guys alot. You get two weapons. Usually a type of assult rifle and a bolt 
 action. These come into play for not only fighting but for acheivments as well. Some of them have 
 ones only using bolt action rifles for one whole mission. Also if you don't like your weapons you 
 can go up to a dude, shoot him or melee him, take his gun using the X button and have it. But you 
 will drop your weapon you have selected. This is quiet good if your like me and may be agood sniper 
 but want to blaze through with an assult rifle. Speaking of which you can use in local play and 
 system, and online play modes wear you can play classic game modes in a Halo like way. The AI in 
 the gmae for your team really kinda is dumb and the enemies can usually mow you down in about 3 
 seconds if you don't take cover and hide until your health goes normal again. This means that you 
 will have to restart from the last checkpoint and having to fight through all the dudes again to 
 get wear you wear and pry die again. 
  
  Audio: Very good and loud along with perfect weapon sounds and good vehicle sounds makes the game 
 look and feel perfect.
  
  Music: Very world warish and thankfully not the whole "choir echo" type of music. Thats what I 
 like.
  
  Graphics: Even in the midst of battle the rocks, walls, dirt, grass, are all very well detailed 
 to make the game seem like you really are fighting in WW2. Hopefully you can appreciate the sheer 
 depth and detail put into each mission area.
  
  Conclusion: I like COD3 and am already almost done with it. I hope to play COD4. You will pry like 
 the whole fast paced shoot style gmaeplay. If not the game might seem a bit to intense for you 
 and you will easily hate the game for a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: klasco
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 27, 2007 6:01 am PT
Review:  for those of you that haven't played call of duty 2 and are want a World war 2 setting for a FPS 
 game this is the best of the best in its section...
  
  Positives:
  
  -All the great weapons of world war 2 with the sound to match
  -Action packed
  -over all a 
 fun game to play
  -good multiplayer, but no co-op
  -good graphics and environments
  -difficulty settings
  
  Negatives: 
  
  -been done before and isn't worth getting if you 
 are into good story and have played call of duty 2
  -might as well get call of duty 4
  -not really good AI
  -no co-op
  -feels tacky at times.. mainly during one-one fights with the 
 AI were you have to press certain buttons etc... not to hard either
  
  all in all good to get but best to buy when its cheaper and you haven't good call of duty 2 already 
 unless you want to buy it for a updated version of the older versions of the world war 2 games.
 
  
  8.5/10 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bossmannslim
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 21, 2007 3:05 pm PT
Review:  The game was a good add on from Call of Duty 2. There was not too much of a change in gameplay 
 compared to Call of Duty 2. I would definitely recommend this game if you are looking for a quick 
 shooter to add to your collection especially if you have everything else that is hot. One thing 
 that I thought made the game really fun was that it was easy to run out of ammo so it made you 
 choose your shots wisely and it stopped you from just shooting franticly. It also had a new kind 
 of struggle system on certain parts where you put you in a quick cut scene and you have to fight 
 with the enemy to steal the gun. The story is interesting but nothing different then what you would 
 see in any historical first person shooter. The graphics are a little better then what you will 
 see in Call of Duty 2. Even though it is a fun game and great graphics, you can also wait on Call 
 of Duty 3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jbdb1345
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 21, 2007 12:08 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3 another WWII game but this game actually impressed me.
  Yes its the same concept of all WWII shooters run, hide, kill nazis, repeat.
  But this one has some 
 nice changes such as not only playing as americans but also polish, french, and canadian which mixes 
 it up pretty nicely.
  
  The control set-up is perfect, the graphics are gorgeous, and the sound is great.
  One problem 
 is that you don't get an overshield (i was very used to halo 3)
  and the difficulty is pretty brutal. Also you probably will get caught out of ammo and being shot 
 at all while looking for a new weapon.
  The multi-player in my opinion is better the Call of Duty 4 and much better Call of Duty 2.
  
 
  
  And one of my main problems is that all you kill are nazis! There are just to many of them!
  
 
  Call of Duty 3 gets
  
  8 and 1/2 dead nazis out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lathan94
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 20, 2007 5:17 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3 lives of to the CoD name. Well for the most part. The single player is not as good 
 as previous installments in my opinion. Sure the fights can get intense but it dosnt have the large 
 scale feel of the other ones. The single player campaign is also to short so dont buy for the single 
 player. Buy it for the improved multiplayer which can have up to 24 players. The multiplayer isnt 
 a battlefield 2 but its fun since it can have intense battles with lots of explosions. You can 
 also drive vehicles ranging from motorcycles with side cars to giant tiger tanks. Buy this game 
 if your looking for an intense explosion filled multiplayer game. Its good buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: appl4s
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 19, 2007 6:11 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty 3 arguably the weakest of all the call of dutys.
  
  The graphics from stils seem amazing but the actual game is bad the animation is horible the frame 
 rate sucks and the characters do the weirdest things like walk against walls or even in them. It 
 isn't finished.
  
  The sound is off track. Riflles sound like dogs dying. SMGs sound like a cry for help and bazzokas 
 sound like throwing a tube.
  
  The gameplay is solid but repetative and after a short time boring. The brain dead enemies are 
 rediculously running around and shooting at the same time and your teamates fair little better. 
 Multiplayer is fun and filled with bugs. The lag fests online are really annoying and unless your 
 desperet and bored of every other game play this. And besides I'm writing this after cod4 came 
 out you are much better off buying that in stead of this. 
  
  AVOID THIS GAME UNLESS YOU ARE A DIE HARD COD FAN. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fbasque78
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 18, 2007 12:34 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3 continues the same excellent tradition of offering a very intense WWII campaign 
 that the series is know for. This time around the missions are more focused and follow each other 
 in a matter that makes sense, even if you get to play as 4 different country. The gameplay is somewhat 
 unchanged from past games except for certain things like being able to throw back grenades that 
 was thrown your way.
  
  The graphics are superb and are clearly next-gen. This game looks awesome! The amount of crap that 
 flies around is crazy. The models and level design is excellent and the game offers you a lot of 
 different locations even if the campaign is played in France only.
  
  The sound is just like any other COD game. Loud and awesome!!!! This is the first console of COD 
 which rivals the sound on the PC. The voice-overs are also great and the accents aren't too tacky.
 
  
  The gameplay is just like the other COD games but sometimes you'll get caught in some invisible 
 object or a teammate will get in your way as you try to shoot down the axis. Like past COD games... 
 this one has certain locations where the enemies have infinite respawns unless you pass some invisible 
 line. It wasnt that bad in past games but this game overuses it in some places. The campaign is 
 of a good length for a COD game.
  
  The multiplayer is great and will offer you a lot of fun. It's easy to learn but hard to master. 
 
  
  Even with it's frustration this game is recommend to fans of shooters. I always liked the COD games 
 and this game is no different. A great campaign! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raddhazard
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 17, 2007 4:20 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3 is a good WW2 shooter, but suffers from some issues that keep it from being immersive. 
 The game looks very good and the sounds effects are excellent. 14 chapters, each of them a good 
 length and challenging A. I.
  
  The main problems with this game are enemy vision and controls. By enemy vision i mean they can 
 spot you before you spot them. This leads to you being fired upon and you can't even see the guy 
 hitting you. More often than not, you just watch for muzzle flashes to fire upon. Then game forces 
 you to try and use cover to advance, but it just doesn't feel right. This version has some controls 
 issues such as collision detection, getting hung up in doors and on other objects. Overall, the game 
 just doesn't seem as polished as the other CoD games. Still, the game is dirt cheap now and is worth 
 playing for the $20 price tag.
  Just don't expect the same level of greatness as CoD2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ajarbuckle
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 12, 2007 5:53 pm PT
Review:  After playing call of duty 2 at my friends house, I decided to buy Call of duty 3. At first I wasn't 
 to impressed by the story line or graphics, but as the game progressed I became more and more immersed 
 into the back drop of the story. Also i noticed that the game makers mad the shooting more realistic. 
 Now even if you aim a head shot, the bullet might not hit its mark (like in the real war) , and 
 it takes mulitple shots to kill the enemy AI. I have played all of the medal of honor, and call 
 of duty games to date, but Call of Duty 3 is by far the most immersive and realistic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: M49907
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 11, 2007 10:57 am PT
Review:  Call of duty 3 does some new things to make the single player a little different. Short mini games 
 activate when you plant explosives or fight hand to hand with an enemy. Some of the actions in 
 these mini games are awesome, you put a grenade in someones pocket and throw them out of a window. 
 One thing i find anoying about this game, that i guess is with all COD games but this one most 
 of all, is there is just so much going on at once. The sounds are just straight noise explosions 
 and gunfire all blend into one sound, it sounds like puting cement into a blender. All of the action 
 makes the game intense but also anoying. The story is short but the vet. difficulty in this game 
 is extreamly hard. 
  
  I did not like multi player for this game. Some weapons have much more of an advantage over other 
 weapons. If you play this game and every time you die it is because of some guy jumps infront of 
 you goes prone and unloads a heavy machine gun on you then you should understand what I am talking 
 about. The machine guns in this game (not the mounted ones) have no disadvantage. The person walks 
 just as fast as with any other weapon, its strong, lots of ammo, and going prone takes no time 
 at all. If you cant beat them, join them. Worth buying if you are not looking for a great online 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zombieman666
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 8, 2007 9:38 pm PT
Review:  After playing medal of honor for a long time and finialy getting to play call of duty was a realy 
 different fun change but when infinity ward didn't make call of duty finiest hour i was a little 
 worried and was rite finiest hour was a terrible liniear game that didn't realy ofer much and big 
 red one was a little better but can there 3rd game realy be much better than the two before???
 
  
  The graphics. THe graphics in call of duty 3 are realy nice and has some realy breath taking visuals 
 and the broken down buldings and the complete chos in some parts look realy good in the game....
 
  
  The sound in call of duty is realy good the music when you pop in the game is realy nice and the 
 voice acting is prety great and everything around you just sound faniaminel........
  
  The gameplay.... It plays like finiest hour and BR1 it has a story and you play as several different 
 soilders from different countrys and none of there stroys are realy that great... But the actual 
 game has you behind cover alot and throwing smoke grenades to get to certain points and when you 
 figh it often has you looking down the sites and its realy fun just taring abunch of enimies apart. some 
 missions will have you sitting on a back of a vehicle gunning enimie soilders down other time you 
 will be driving away from things wich is prety fun and new to the series... another new thing to 
 the game play is when you are planting a bomb and you have to press a or b to arm the bomb are 
 when your guy is cought of card you will go in these action sequenses and its bassicly you doing 
 the same thing and killing the guy some way and it looks cool but doesn't realy work as well as 
 you would hope it would.... The multiplayer in the game is a blast you can do your ranked matches 
 but player matches are realy fun you can play up to 24 players in a match and you can play your 
 capture the  death match and a few others and in the maps there 
 are alot of vehicles to drive around in and some levels even have tanks wich are prety cool... in 
 multipalyer you can also select your class theres your machine gun guys your sniper and the medic 
 who is armed with a shot gun and he can go heal enimies who are dead and bring them back the sniper 
 can call in air strikes and the bassoca guy and the light machine gun can lay amao down for themselves 
 are there team 
  
  closing thougths. call of duty is a great game with a realitivly shor campaign but it is better 
 than FH and BR1 and playing call of duty 4 wich i love makes me apperciate this game alot more 
 its realy a fun experince and i recommend picking this and call of duty 4 up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkWatchman
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 11, 2008 10:37 pm PT
Review:  The Good
  It holds about twice as much people as CoD2 can hold. The maps are bigger so makes it easier to 
 snipe someone. The replay camera when you die ain't on this one so it don't give out your location. (Which 
 are the bad reasons about CoD2 and CoD4) Single player missions your soldiers are smarter and don't 
 die at the beginning like on CoD2.
  
  The Bad
  Most of the maps are overplayed (ELDER DAM \ POISSON) . Vehicles have strange controls and driving 
 feels weird.
  
  Final Decision
  In my opinion this game is worth buying at the price now. So go buy it if you want to get away 
 from Halo or other games. (I'm not saying halo sucks I'm just saying if you want to take a break 
 from it)
  
  Online Tips (XBOX LIVE ONLY)
  Don't try to snipe in spots where other people snipe cause you will get hit by someones rifle in 
 the back. (Stealth Kill) If you see a tank lay on the ground behind something or duck behind something 
 till he goes by. If the player in the tank sees you then you can try to running from it but don't 
 run across the street it's on try to run in a building or behind a building. Try create your own 
 strategies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Feedbackdrmmr15
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 22, 2007 7:09 pm PT
Review:  Released: November 7, 2006
  Publisher: Activision
  Developer: Treyarch
  Game Genre: Historic First-Person Shooter
  ESRB Rating: T for Teen
  ESRB Description: Blood, 
 Violence, Language
  
  Story (9/10)
  Call of Duty 3 remains in World War II, but focuses on the reclaiming of France, a. k. a. the Normandy 
 Breakout. The campaign switches between the Americans, the British, the Canadians and the Polish. 
 
  
  You start as American Private Nicholls. Along with Privates Huxley and Guzzo, you are in a squad 
 with a depressed sergeant, whose opening speech was "There are two rules you will remember. Rule 
 One: You're no good to me dead. Rule Two: Well, you'll probably all end up dead anyway."
  
  As the British you are Sergeant Doyle, in a squad with an annoying Scottish corporal. You meet 
 up with the French Resistance (that's an oxymoron if I've ever heard one) and run a bunch of crazy 
 rescue missions. In the Canadian campaign you are Corporal Cole. The Canadians are in a position 
 similar to the Americans; they are the brute force of the operation, often fighting in close-quarter 
 cities, going from building to building to clear the territory. Last but most entertaining are 
 the Polish. You control Bohater, a Polish tanker. 
  
  Gameplay (6/10)
  If I had a nickel for every time I tried to run from a grenade and found my teammates blocking 
 a doorway to a house, resulting in a painful shrapnel-filled death, I'd probably have around a 
 dollar and fifteen cents. I often found myself getting stuck on absolutely nothing. Whereas COD 
 2 ran smoothly the entire game, COD 3 took that and downgraded it from amazing to "Why am I getting 
 stuck on this pebble?"
  
  Checkpoints are much harder to come by, and shooting has become much more difficult because of 
 glitching. Many times I had my sniper scope on a still man's head, only to have my bullet pass 
 through without harming him. 
  
  On the positive side, live grenades can now be thrown back at enemies, although you have to throw 
 it quickly or it will explode in your hands. As the British you get to drive a Jeep, which is awesome 
 and suspenseful, and more of the environment is destructible. COD 3 gives a greater realistic feel, 
 but the glitching and difficulty dull it down quite a bit.
  
  Graphics (9/10)
  The graphics have also downgraded, yet maintain the smoothness of COD 2.
  
  Improvements (7/10)
 
  Previous Game:
  Call of Duty 2
  
  Durability (8/10)
  The campaign is shorter than COD 2, but there is also nice online play.
  
  Overall Score (7.8/10)
 
  
  Final Thoughts:
  Rent it. Don't buy it, even if it is used, because COD 4: Modern Combat is now out and the online 
 population has moved to it and Halo 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MYSTROW1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 9:01 am PT
Review:  call of duty 3 has a really good campaign. i completed it on veteren and you have too take cover 
 a lot and you can see how good the graphics are. when you look up the rain looks very real. you 
 do lots of different stuff in from blowing up tanks to driving tanks. the thing that lets this 
 game down is the multiplayer when you see a man sprinting it doesnt look very good and when you 
 are in a ranked match and some quits and you cant get a game. the good thing about mp is that you 
 can have 24 people in a game 12 on each side which can some times feel like a proper war. it is 
 a good game but the multiplayer lets it down a bit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blueyeboy97
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 20, 2007 10:57 pm PT
Review:  HAlo is the best game ever though. All of them are. HAlo 4 is the best
  okay, that out of my system
  this game's campaign play is really fun, but the storyline is a 
 little weak in my opinion. No matter though. Multiplaye makes up for everything. It is just such 
 a tight multiplayer game. its almost as good as halo's in the fact that you dont really get tired 
 of it. These are the types of games that you have to own because it is totally worth the money. 
 Ive heard from some people that Call of Duty 4 is dumb, and it does sound dumb with the whol "grenade 
 automatically drops when you die" thing. But this game is awesome 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kakakakaakkakak
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 20, 2007 5:35 pm PT
Review:  I walked into Call of Duty 3 with an open mind. Before I'd even bought it, I'd heard from some 
 of my friends that it wasn't as good as Call of Duty 2, so, on that point alone, I wasn't disappointed. 
 The graphics are superb. Character models and textures are done well, the detail in the rifles 
 and machine guns are outstanding and, overall, the game has a professional feel to it. 
  
  But there are some gripes about that. For one thing, I'd find myself getting hung up on something 
 that wasn't even that big i. e. the railing next to a staircase. I'd be running along, firing at 
 some enemies next to me or just running for cover, and I'd catch against this almost nonexistent 
 obstacle and I'd stop dead in my tracks, giving my enemies an easy kill. On the harder difficulty 
 settings, this can be extremely frustrating. Another thing is that my allies (and sometimes enemies 
 as well) would catch against something in the environment and get stuck running in place... or not 
 doing anything at all. Again, this is very frustrating when I'm relying on them to cover my back 
 (in hindsight, that's probably not too good to do on modes like Veteran...) . My last, and most 
 minor, gripe about the technical side of this game is that, if I'd shoot a German just right in 
 the head or upper torso, they'd fly up into the air. It's a good way of showing off the rag-doll 
 physics, I understand. But it looks very unconventional and breaks up that real war-time feeling 
 I get from this game.
  
  Now on to the gameplay. For the most part, it's almost exactly like Call of Duty 2. You find enemies, 
 fire at enemies, move on to your objective. It can be a little tedious at times but, for the most 
 part, the AI had me second guessing what they'd do half the time and sweating about whether my 
 back was as secure as I'd wish it to be. All-in-all, a very strenuous, tense and enjoyable time. 
 Most of my problems with the gameplay, however, stem from the Hard and Veteran difficulty modes. 
 It's frustrating to be tasked with several different objectives and then, when I'm almost done 
 with those objectives, to be killed and have to restart them all over again. Where are the mid-objective 
 checkpoints that COD 2 had? Sure, it's got a few scattered to and fro, but for the most part, I'll 
 go 4, maybe even 5, objectives without seeing a single checkpoint. I don't know if this was done 
 on purpose (to enhance the tension maybe?) or if it was just something the developers didn't notice. 
 Either way, it's extremely aggrivating and that's why this game didn't score higher in my book.
 
  
  I haven't as-of-yet been able to play multiplayer since my Live account ran out, but I've heard 
 great things about it so I'll let you be the judge on that. As far as sound goes, almost exactly 
 like COD 2. Explosions, gun fire, ally and enemy chatter during battles. It's good to hear stuff 
 like that, but it's nothing new. 
  
  Final Comment: If you're a fan of shooters, whether it be WWII shooters or what, I'd recommend 
 this game. If not to buy, then to rent. Because this game will certainly not be for everyone. I 
 enjoy it so much only because I get immense satisfaction from COD 2 and the most recent COD 4: 
 Modern Warfare. If not for that, I'd probably have sold it again already. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CommanderKenny
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 20, 2007 12:17 pm PT
Review:  CALL of DUTY 3 for the xbox 360 is an amazing game overal.
  
  single player - is fun, good story, funny charcters, lots of extras, and realistic sounds make 
 the single player fun.
  
  multi player - fun, realistic sounds, vehichles, classes and 24 people in game makes multiplayer 
 a war of its own.
  
  extras - the extras provides many things to enjoy while not in the mood for the actual game or 
 just to learn more about the game and WWII. nice concept art makes you really appreciate the game.
 
  
  not much more to say except that this so far is that this one of the best in the series and will 
 keep you in the games for many days. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bmaynard
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 7:09 am PT
Review:  This game has great visuals and sound, which should be a given with the power of next gen systems. 
 There would be no excuse for anything less. I think this game has a few flaws in it that I can't 
 ignore. For one thing, there is nothing more frustrating than getting hung up on a piece of debris 
 in the middle of a fire fight. Why can't I step over that piece of wood that is on the ground? 
 Why do I have to go around that rock, why can't I just step over it? Or better yet, jump over it 
 into cover? This happens a lot. I don't like the fact that you can't jump over walls and things 
 like that. Some of them you can, but you don't know until you get up to it. In COD 2, they had 
 a prompt for you to push a button and you would climb over. When you are getting shot at, you should 
 be able to hop over a wall to find cover. Very unrealistic for a war game. I do like that fact 
 they you can return grenades that are thrown at you, very cool to blow up someone with their own 
 grenade. The hand to hand sequences are a nice touch, but don't happen enough. But when they do, 
 they surprise you. Overall, not as pleased as I thought I would be with COD3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bokkie13
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 6:09 pm PT
Review:  Great game overall, especially for multiplayer... Single player is very similar to previous installments, 
 so with regards to the story-line not much is new, although it is good to see the war from a perspective 
 other than American, British or Russian... The graphics are exceptionally clean with the lighting 
 and textures being great... The learning curve is very quick for this game, and after 20 minutes 
 you're pretty much up and running... The only drawback witht he gameplay is how some of the controls 
 change for multiplayer, but aside from that minor distraction even those other controls are quick 
 to learn... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AssassinExDeus
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 15, 2007 11:25 pm PT
Review:  Well if you want a review if this I got 1 word... or is it 2? Hmm.... anyways:
  "COD 2"
  
  Yep. That about sums it up. WW2 games really feel the same now so it takes something special to 
 make them stick out. Obviously technology will make the graphics better so you feel more puller 
 into the action and that help but its still WW2 to some people. 
  
  In this as always ITS WW2. The missions were fun, I'd say more fun the COD 2s mission and really 
 thats about it. The controls were easy as always to get use to. The sound and music was really 
 good as with every COD game.
  
  The only thing that really stuck, once again, is the Multiplayer! I noticed alot of people didn't 
 like it this time around but I really enjoyed it. Trying to get a server to find was a pain but 
 once online it was a blast. 
  
  Short review but theres really not to say since its practically COD 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Carrion6
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 9:46 am PT
Review:  I'm actually obsessed with all the Call Of Duty games for consoles. I have all 3 so far, with the 
 4th to be coming real soon. I personally believe that WWII is the most fascinating an most badass 
 war of all time. And this game captures it's essance so well. The game play was amazing, and it's 
 fun to be able to jump around from the Americans to the Brits and Polish, it gives it diversity, 
 which is needed in many games. Multiplayer is very fun, Most of all I do enjoy playing the territories 
 game the most, it's challenging and the matches can go on for a bit, and short online matches can 
 be very annoying. Another good thing is that its all about team work. Two thumbs up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bone3593
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 10, 2007 5:46 pm PT
Review:  I admit I'm a Call of Duty fan. But these games seem to easy and too short. This game is amazing 
 with the sound and graphics but I beat this game in three days. I was a bit dissapointed when I 
 saw the end credits start rolling. The gameplay is like all of the Call of Duty games. The graphics 
 are a lot better than Call of Duty 2. This is a good game and multiplayer is amazing but it gets 
 old fast. Some people may disagree with me but this is my opinion! I would say rent this game because 
 its fun but it won't last very long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roxyg
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 10, 2007 5:44 am PT
Review:  Let's try to make this short, Call of Duty 3 is by far the worst main Call of Duty game. 
  The graphics are good, but the gameplay is just boring and bland. It's pretty much a nicer looking 
 Call of Duty 2, but not fun. Also, on the Wii it's the worst , because the gameplay is boring and 
 too hard and the graphics are horrible! 
  Treyarch did not do a good job at all following developer Infinity Ward's footsteps. With Call 
 of Duty 4: Modern Warfare just recently released being developed by Infinity Ward and being the 
 best Call of Duty yet, Call of Duty 3 looks like it was made by children. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StevenJWeir
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 8, 2007 1:53 pm PT
Review:  The first thing to notice upon completing Call of Duty 3 was how short the Campaign is. You'll 
 finish it in less than 8 hours on any average difficulty. The missions are relatively short and 
 have live-saving checkpoints after nearly all the objectives. Thats not to say the game isn't 
 tough, because there are several moments which will have you tearing your hair out... This brings 
 me to the difficulty issues. Many of the levels are fairly straight forward, go here, do this sort 
 of stuff, fight Germans along the way. But the fighting along the way can be excruciating in some 
 cases. For instance enemy soldiers when peaking around crates and such appear to be invincible 
 to your shots. The only way to take them out is by actually making your way too them, popping around 
 the crate and cracking them across the head with the butt of your gun. Doing this while under fire 
 is almost impossible, so you'll find yourself waiting a lot of the time for your own troops to 
 do something or for the hiding enemy to make a run for it, in which case you give him a couple 
 of rounds to the back. These balance issues drag the game down in my opinion.
  
  The actual level design is pretty good. You find yourself meandering through small alleys, broken 
 houses and through basements. One negative point about these ultra chaotic environments is that 
 there are many nooks and crannies for your character to get caught on, I found myself unable to 
 move a few times and when looking down, there was a small plank of wood on the floor which was 
 blocking my path. Your squad mates will regularly get in your way too, preventing you from escaping 
 enemy grenades. You can pick up grenades thrown at you with the X button, but if a squad mate is 
 in the way and the grenade is just out of reach, you're rat food! You'll definitely enjoy the final 
 levels of the game, you follow the Polish, Canadian &amp; British story archs into one final fight 
 in Chambois, France, having spent the entire game boxing the Germans in and forcing them towards 
 the Americans. The final level is epic; every element of the battle as it moves through the town 
 to the final stand is rich with dialog, explosions and emotion.
  
  One major driving factor in the emotion the game carries is via the music. During the intense battles 
 as you push forward, courageous music will start to play, almost willing you on to fight better, 
 be braver. The same can be said for the almost hopeless battles where you're surrounded and the 
 music playing is what you'd expect in a blockbuster war movie where the hero makes his last stand 
 and ultimately succumbs to the enemy. If you've got a decent sound system then Call of Duty 3 will 
 definitely shine for you. I would say half the experience is the sound effects. The sharp stings 
 of the rifle firing, the screams of soldiers on the battlefield, the explosions in the distance, 
 heard only through your sub woofer. It all adds up to a beautiful audio assault on your ears. Your 
 ears will be ringing for hours after you've finished playing.
  
  Without question, the best thing about Call of Duty 3 is the Multiplayer. Making a huge improvement 
 on Call of Duty 2's limited maps and modes, Call of Duty 3 blasts onto the scene with more maps, 
 more players on the server and adding vehicle combat. You can also increase your rank by earning 
 points, unlocking achievements as you go. Being trapped in a wrecked building fighting for your 
 life, alongside 'real-life' people, while you're being stormed by 'real-life' enemies is a rare 
 gem of intensity that a lot of online shooters lack. With all the maps, weapons, classes and vehicles, 
 you could play Call of Duty 3 Multiplayer for a long time without need for anything else. But with 
 Call of Duty 4 around the corner, that might just change....
  
  8.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: f4tb0i18
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 7, 2007 9:59 am PT
Review:  This game doesnt have such a great story to it but within the story theres alot of cool tweaks 
 added. like when you are planting a bomb, you have to do certain motions with the right analog 
 stick to twist the fuse. Or when you are on a boat you have to row using the analog stick. The 
 story is more character driven then it is a plot. Plot is Germans are attacking so fight back.. 
 You have a couple squad mates that have their own personalities. specifically your sergeant who 
 seems to be having mental issues because of past wars. hes not a likeable character hes actually 
 some what of a bad person. In this game the multiplayer is of the best. alot better than COD 2. 
 Not as great as COD4 but its fine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChestyMcGee
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 7, 2007 8:50 am PT
Review:  With Infinity Ward concentrating so hard on Call of Duty 4, CoD3 has fallen to outside developers... and 
 what they've done with it is sadly unsatisfactory to say the least.
  
  I'll put up some good points first and stay with the online:
  
  Firstly, the graphics and are 
 absolutely amazing and are much improved from Call of Duty 2. The explosions especially are probably 
 the best I've ever seen in any game. Ever. The best point about CoD3, however, is definetly the 
 multiplayer which has given me some great moments. One of the best things they've added is the 
 class system, which as simple as it sounds, adds greatly to the dull weapon selection in CoD2. 
 The best addition to the online though is the tanks which are absolutely awesome to use, thanks 
 again to the perfect explosion effects (or should that be tanks again - ho ho!) . As with all FPS 
 games, it's all about the guns and you won't be dissapointed with them in this game. The reloads 
 are fast and satisfying, the noises even more so and their firing animations full of life so much 
 you almost feel yourself being pushed back by them in your chair. This is something I'm very pleased 
 with as recent shooters (such as Half-Life 2 and Halo) have left me some what dissapointed with 
 the arsenal available.
  
  Alas, I must move onto the bad points, of which there are a few:
  
  Firstly; the singleplayer 
 is incredibly dissapointing considering how brilliant it was in the previous game. It seems to 
 be missing those CoD factors since the new developers took over like the amazing Stalingrad charge 
 in Call of Duty, the Al Elemein battle in CoD2 and the epic Point du Hoc landings in the same game. 
 The American levels in the game are fairly good and so are the tank battle levels but the Canadian 
 levels are dull and uninspiring and the British SAS levels are truely awful but luckily there are 
 only a few of them. They're so bad because the developers seem to think that special forces means 
 there has to be random driving sections and explosive barrels everywhere. Another bad point is 
 that the singleplayer is very short, which is a shame because I got up to the last level and thought 
 it was finnaly getting good (assuming I was half way through) and then the game ended quite abruptly.
 
  
  So, almost perfect multiplayer let down by a pathetic singelplayer. Let's hope CoD4 does better 
 back with Infinity Ward. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Adrizzle6969
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 6, 2007 1:24 pm PT
Review:  Good , but not as good as the first 2, it intense and everything, but nothing incredibly special, 
 feels almsot the same as COD2, same missions, same gameplay, a nice new feature is the grenade 
 cooking , thats pretty fun lol, for those of you who do not know what this is, its when you hold 
 down the grenade button, so the detonation timer on the grenade is started, and can throw it when 
 it is about to explode, for mid air explosions, thats fun, the multiplayer is pretty good, good 
 maps, good game modes, nothing new, but there done well 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmyre
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 5, 2007 11:09 am PT
Review:  First off, the game play is great and the visuals are right were they should be. Each mission has 
 it's own difficulty's and keeps you on your toes, the sounds of the game are unbelievable. But 
 like most games there are some down sides to it, the hand to hand combat feels like a stretch and 
 i hope they will address this in next years game. The story line is some what lacking. The single 
 player campaign plays almost the exact same as last year. But the good. The way they set the game 
 up being able to play as other countries was a great idea and this keeps the game fresh. Overall 
 call of duty 3 is a good game and if you have a afternoon to kill then just play this and get lost 
 in the game play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Burori
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 5, 2007 9:00 am PT
Review:  Well I'll start off by talking about the games game-play; it plays very well and the controls are 
 responsive. Along side being easy to get used to they are just easy to play with. I haven't got 
 any complaints about the controls besides that they change slightly between campaign and multi-player 
 modes. The fact that they change can get annoying from time to time if you were playing campaign 
 then at the start of playing against friends you use binoculars instead of tossing a grenade when 
 you have a good chance to or something along those lines.
  
  Next I will talk about the graphics; the game just looks great and the style of graphics works 
 well with the theme of the game. The graphics aren't trying to hard to look real, which is good 
 because when some games attempt that its obvious thats what the game designers were going for and 
 don't give as good of a feel as some other games visuals. It has a good use of colors and such. 
 Nothing is over animated (at least not from what I could tell) , and the weapon designs look very 
 accurate to what they should. Also graphics in game-play do not vary from cinema-tic graphics which 
 is good because they don't keep changing the animation style so they don't interrupt the feel of 
 the game visually.
  
  The sound in the game is good and always in sync. Sounds of gun shots, and explosions give a good 
 feel of you actually being in a war. The orchestral music works well in the game. The music is 
 not over used at all and is placed well. The style of music input into the game works well with 
 the WWII theme and gives the cinema-tics in the game a greater experience.
  
  The game has very great and fun multi-player. It has various game types which are all fun and enjoyable. 
 Usually the more people the better with this game because it makes it feel like more of a war.
 
  
  I would highly recommend picking this game up if you haven't tried it. Makes a great addition to 
 a video game collection and if you are a fan of other WWII games (not just COD) I assure you, you 
 will not be disappointed. So that was my review so good luck and enjoy life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: syorks1
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 1, 2007 6:49 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty 3 is a really good WWII game but i don't think its as good as call of duty 2. i think 
 this is probaly one of the best call of duties out. i think it has added a few new things to the 
 classic franchise like the new hand to hand combat but those get repetive and feel scripted really 
 fast. i think it is pretty cool adding a few new countries that u can play as but i hate that they 
 took out the Russian campaign which i thought was always the best campaign in every call of duty. 
 overall it feels just like a normal call of duty and if u played and liked any og the others i 
 think you'll definitely love this one. its great that they tried to add some new things to the 
 series but its too bad that they didn't really pull it off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: starjackerseth
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 1, 2007 6:17 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: 8/10. They are okay. Nothing much more special, not as advanced as it could be, but still 
 good.
  
  Sound: 8/10. I think the sound of gunfire fits each gun. The explosions are also good. It's also 
 realistic when you can't hear anything because of all this gun chatter and explosions. The sound 
 when your character gets hit and breaths, is oddly similar to the sound when James Bond would get 
 hit in Goldeneye 007, nor N64. I think that was funny.
  
  Gameplay: 7/10. What else do you expect from a WWII first person shooter? It's good, but there 
 are some things that aren't too good. Such as when you need to get to cover so you don't die. You 
 try to move just a little bit to the left or right, and one of you teammates (single player, now) 
 is blocking your way, and you don't have enough time to get up and move around him, thus killing 
 you. There are also a few bugs, but nothing too extreme to actually prevent me from enjoying it.
 
  
  Story: 4\10Again, what do you really expect from a WWII video game? We've seen and heard it all. 
 Although, this story was a bit confusing jumping around different nationalities. Not sure what 
 was happening, but it's not life threatening.
  
  Fun factor: 8/10. While it's nothing new, it's still pretty fun to play.
  
  Call of Duty three, 
 I never played the second one, and the first one I played some time ago. So I don't know what new 
 things were brought in, ect. But this is still a pretty fun game. I suggest it to anyone who likes 
 First person shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warlord20
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 1, 2007 6:24 am PT
Review:  After playing C. O. D 2 i was hyped to get part 3 but it didnt really turn out the way i expected. 
 Maybe i got my hopes up too much. It was entertaining for a bit but after completing it once i 
 never got the urge to try and complete it again and i had this game for a while now. In my opinion, 
 there is not as much freedom in this game as compared to part 2. The story was good, the guns were 
 as expected and i must say the graphics were definantly better than the previous one but that is 
 to be expected. If it wasn't then that would just be poor. I think i will give this game a generous 
 7 out of 10. But this is just my opinion. Many will enjoy it for their own reasons. ENJOY 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kano-619
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 31, 2007 10:15 am PT
Review:  i think this game is the best world war 2 game ever existed in the world , for me once i got the 
 kar98 rifle i thougt the game started to bore mesince im so good with it, the graohics of this 
 game are really cool, the wapons as well i loved most of them, i dont use machineguns but the rifles 
 are mama mia the best in a world war 2 game at leat give this game a rent even if you dont like 
 shooters. nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice 
 nice nice nice. the only reason im not bying this game is beacause the 4 is coming out in a month. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kwijiibo
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 24, 2007 5:44 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty has beat out Medal of Honor in the FPS set in WW2. We get it. But, the problem is......................... 
 it is just another WW2 game. Im done. After about what, 60million WW2 games are realeased they 
 start to run together. Im just not interested in these games anymore. Ive killed every Nazi and 
 won every battle and have won the same war about 28 times. its not bad. not at all. sound design 
 is perfect and graphics are good but singleplayer left much to be desired.
  
  +Perfect sound quality (explosions&amp; guns)
  +Great voice acting
  +Multiplayer is much improved
 
  +New countries to fight as (Canada&amp; france)
  
  -Another WWII game
  -Storyline wasnt that good
  -multiplayer has a lot of room for improvement
  -the stupid sequences 
 of constantly pulling the R and L trigger are annoying
  -the best part about call of duty 2 was the Russian campaign. They took it out and replaced it 
 with a french campagin...........? Why?
  
  ? Whose bright idea was it to add a French campaign but subtract a Russian one?
  
  Just not 
 as fun as the 1st two go arounds 
::::::

::::::
UserName: helesponto
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 12, 2007 3:16 pm PT
Review:  It looks like FPS WW2 games never end. Yet, i was compelled to take one more objective cleared 
 before shutdown.
  
  Menu Navigation: - Simple, easy to handle.
  - I have a 40 LCD TV and brightness has to be always geared up, otherwise i will miss details due 
 to the overall darkness of the playing game.
  
  Controls:
  - Easy to handle after a while.
  - Changing controls possible, not needed for the most addicted 
 players.
  
  Game Playing:
  - Good pace. Cinematic give a linear development sensation of the game action.
  - Enough WW2 
 history introductions included.
  - Too bad that after loading a previously saved game the introduction has no way to be avoided.
 
  
  Graphics:
  - Very, very good. Smoke, explosions, buildings, all the environment looks perfect.
  - Even the 
 simple scenario is beautiful to watch.
  
  Conclusion:
  - A very good game, however it feels a little bit short after finishing it.
  - This game added 
 value are focused on the graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikelshearer
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 10, 2007 1:26 pm PT
Review:  This was my first game on the 360 and I was very impressed with the graphics. I play it on a 23 
 inch HD LCD. Since it was my first shooter game, I did play it on the easy setting, I would recommend 
 a more difficult setting for the seasoned player. It was a little weird being different people 
 at different time of the game but you get used to it quickly. The most difficult part I thought 
 was aiming the big guns, 30 mm and the anti tank guns, and the mortars. You have to rotate the 
 joy sticks to raise and lower the barrel. There are enough guns lying around that I never ran out 
 of ammo, and you could change weapons almost at will. Playing it on a good sized high def screen 
 was great. You could almost see the sweat on the soldiers faces. Great game, I thoroughly enjoyed 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mjordan66
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 8, 2007 10:59 am PT
Review:  First time I got this game was in december for christmas since then I wouldn't stop playing Call 
 of duty 3 because it is so fun the campaign multiplayer xbox live its so fun and so addicting I 
 just won't stop playing I just can't wait till call of duty 4 modern warfare comes out....... For 
 my opinion its your choice wait till cod 4 comes or just buy cod 3 because cod 3 is a very good 
 game probably the best game I've ever played yet because everything is realistic about this game 
 and cod4 well it 's not out but when it comes out you can rent both games see which one you wanna 
 buy until then its your choice but cod 3 is a very good game never sell  
 time I got this game was in december for christmas since then I wouldn't stop playing Call of duty 
 3 because it is so fun the campaign multiplayer xbox live its so fun and so addicting I just won't 
 stop playing I just can't wait till call of duty 4 modern warfare comes out....... For my opinion 
 its your choice wait till cod 4 comes or just buy cod 3 because cod 3 is a very good game probably 
 the best game I've ever played yet because everything is realistic about this game and cod4 well 
 it 's not out but when it comes out you can rent both games see which one you wanna buy until then 
 its your choice but cod 3 is a very good game never sell it.......................... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: floridajoe03
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 12, 2007 1:26 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3, in my opinion, is the greatest War game ever made to date. The first thing i noticed 
 when i got this game was the amazing graphics and sound effects. Everything looks and sounds so 
 real, I felt like i was in the middle of a battle scene.
  
  The Game starts out in St. Lo, the bloodiest battle in the whole war. After being helped over a 
 wall by a comrade, you are immedietly in the middle of the most intence battle of the whole game.
 
  
  I suggest this game to any major multiplayer fan. Theres a unique class system. And the best new 
 game mode, War. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mjordan1
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 6, 2007 2:37 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the most improved games i've ever seen it has good game play, good aim. The 
 most fun part about it is multi player the maps are really big more space to play in and more fun 
 for example Mayne's bridge is probably the most funnest mission in the game ever because that mission 
 has so many people firing so many tanks and bombs this game is one of the most good addicting games 
 ever not like i'm saying thats a bad thing. From my experience you should get this game! This game 
 is one of the most improved games i've ever seen it has good game play, good aim. The most fun 
 part about it is multi player the maps are really big more space to play in and more fun for example 
 Mayne's bridge is probably the most funnest mission in the game ever because that mission has so 
 many people firing so many tanks and bombs this game is one of the most good addicting games ever 
 not like i'm saying thats a bad thing. From my experience you should get this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: about_blank
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 5, 2007 5:47 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3 is an awesome game, with great graphics, animations, and hours of you life spent 
 infront of the tv. The single player game is interesting. You dont play as just one person all 
 the game, you fight for many different people, in many different squadrans. The visuals are awesome 
 to. Stuff like smoke grenades have vastly improved since COD2, same with the explosions. Online 
 play can keep you entertained for hours. There is a new game mode called war. basically, to make 
 a longe explanation short, you take the points selected on the map, until you force the other team 
 into not having any more points. kinda rough, sorry. Overall its an awesome game. I would recomend 
 it to anyone looking for some authenticity in their WW2 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brandonthesaint
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 3, 2007 8:17 am PT
Review:  I bought this game a while back and I also bought COD 2 when the 360 launched and I literally fell 
 like I'm playing the same game, but different levels. The game is fun and there is nothing really 
 bad about it, but it just isn't fresh at all if you are looking to buy this game then don't and 
 wait for COD 4, but if your a huge COD fan then you should pick this up. The game revolves around 
 the same game play mecanics and puts you in the shoes, er... boots of different men fighting for 
 there country. It's fun but repetitive and I don't support the game it just dosen't come togther 
 at the end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Condor23
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 25, 2007 2:03 pm PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY:
  A WW2 game has never been as intense as this, except maybe Brothers In Arms, but this one is full 
 of action, around every single corner. Once you climb over that wall on the first level, you'll 
 see numerous explosions and bodies being launched into the air. You must take cover, cause if you 
 don't, you'll regret it, trust me. The AI is also stunning, taking cover wisley, throwing grenades 
 all the time. Multiplayer is a blast too, but it's not as intense as the campain.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  Wow! The best graphics i've ever seen in a war game. With the best paritcle effects, 
 and destructible enviroments. The charatcer models are textured wonderfully too. They actually 
 look so real! But then again, you'll see some low spots.
  
  SOUND:
  Feels like you're being bombed in your living room. Thanks to terrific voice acting, and terryfying 
 explosions everywhere you go. It doesn't get better than this!
  
  VALUE:
  Singleplayer is a lot of fun to play twice, because of the difficulty levels you get to choose 
 from. Xbox live is loads of fun too, and can be just as fun as singleplayer. So overall, this game 
 is a must have if you have a 360! I don't have a 360, so it sucks for me. I played it at my cousions 
 house! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steamboat109
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 24, 2007 7:14 pm PT
Review:  Almost everyone knows about the call of duty series, it fun and addictive. They almost always have 
 a good single player campaign, except for call of duty 3. Even though it done from a unique part 
 of world war 2, it isn't as intense or as fun as the call of duty's made by infinity ward. Treyarch 
 put a unique twist on the multiplayer by adding a class based system and including vehicles. It 
 is highly addicting and fun. My favorite new type of game mod , War. Its probably the best addition. 
 My conclusion is that call of duty 3 is a great purchase if you have xbox live because of the multiplayer 
 but if you don't you might want to rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thomass60r
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 24, 2007 3:39 pm PT
Review:  since all that happens in reviews are people telling you everything about the game im just going 
 to pass on how much fun i had
  
  24 multiplayer
  
  very fun and theres tons to do and theres nice cars and tanks to drive and the game modes are just 
 as fun as cod2s just not as fun but worthy.
  
  single player
  
  explosive as it gets its a fantastic campaign with a lot of memorable moments and nazi killing 
 has never been this fun.
  
  ps
  sorry for short review
  
  verdict
  excellent nazi killing long lasting multipayer and top notch sound its still worth picking up and 
 adding to your 360 collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agubna
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 21, 2007 9:08 pm PT
Review:  I loved call of duty 1 and 2 and this game was no exception. This game is really cool. It's fairly 
 long, although you could beat it pretty quickly. Its still a really fun experiance when you are 
 playing it. This call of duty has button sequences which I find are very fun and add something 
 cool to the game. The variety of weapons are very good, and you ca play as 4 different types of 
 soldiers from 4 different countries which are, America, Canada, Poland, and Britain I believe. 
 Also in this one (not sure if its in the others) you actually get a shotgun called the trenchgun. 
 I think its a wicked strong and useful gun to have. So I would totally recommend this game to anyone 
 who like 1 and 2 for sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XxSteveSlatonxX
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 21, 2007 1:47 pm PT
Review:  Through the eyes of four Allied soldiers, Call of Duty 3 brings players closer than ever to the 
 fury of combat as they fight through the Normandy Breakout, the harrowing offensive that liberated 
 Paris and changed the fate of the world. In Call of Duty 3, new close-quarters battle mechanics 
 bring you face-to-face with your enemy. Fight hand-to-hand, disarm traps, improvise explosive devices 
 and execute a host of other battlefield challenges that require cunning and swift reflexes. Next-generation 
 level design provides multiple attack routes that let you decide how to confront the enemy. Each 
 choice you make requires you to use special tactics, from sniping and demolition to straight out 
 frontal assaults. And in online multiplayer battles of up to 24 players, gamers battle it out as 
 a variety of player classes, including riflemen, infantry, scouts and others. Multiple-occupancy 
 vehicles let you coordinate attacks with friends, driving while they fire a mounted machine gun 
 from the turret 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hunter410
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 8, 2008 7:56 am PT
Review:  *** REVIEW OF COD3 *** [CONFIDENTIAL] What a game! When i first went on it I thought it was brilliant 
 graphics compared to many games! The missions are gr8, the cutscenes are gr8, i thought it was 
 gr8 puttin POLAND in it, because... well u never see the Polish in any games! When i first went 
 on multiplayer i thought i was goin to be rubbish and everyone was a pro but.... they weren't i 
 have an average of comin 2nd already and i only bought it this time last week! I have to give this 
 a 9/10 overall! 7/10 for single player but 10/10 for multi! The multiplayer was a gr8 idea, the 
 way they assigned different skills and weapons to different types of soldiers.... but the best 
 skill must be the medic, there's one problem with it though........ and thats...... the SHOTGUN.......... 
 It must be the most annoying weapon in the world! SHOTGUN IS A BIG NO NO the noobs are everywhere! 
 If u want to get this game, just buy it second hand, now that many other games have came out, its 
 still a brilliant game!
  
  
  ***EDIT*** WARNING I GOT BORED OF THIS GAME VERY EASILY I CANNOT BELIEVE I GAVE IT A 9 OMG IM SUCH 
 AN IDIOT
  
  PLAY THIS GAME IF UR ABOUT 12 OR 13 ARGGGGGGGGGGGGGGH!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unityskate
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 19, 2007 3:36 pm PT
Review:  This is the best world war 2 shooter games i have ever played. The story mode is extremely well 
 made. The graphics are top of the line with amazing visuals. The sounds are very well done. The 
 best part of all though is the online multiplayer. The multiplayer levels are all very fun in thier 
 own way. Also the fact that you can play games up to an hour with more people than most online 
 shooters. The only few things i find bad about this game are the fact that you cant choose your 
 weapons except in a package. Another plus though is that you can swap your pistol for another primary 
 weapon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: garykool3
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 18, 2007 10:09 am PT
Review:  I love this game a lot, i bought it for $29.99 and i rented it a lot. I am really good at this 
 game, if your good at it buy it. The multiplayer never gets boring. The single player is ok at 
 first if you played for the fisrt time. But veteran mode is a little impossible. You have to take 
 cover in order to beat it on veteran mode. I say this is an instant classic game, and highly addictive. 
 The veheicles are fun to ride and there are a lot of classes to choose from. My personal favorite 
 is support. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdknight21
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 17, 2007 7:25 pm PT
Review:  The multiplayer may be good, but it can't save this buggy, redundant experience.
  I really wanted to like this game and didn't estimate that Treyarch could drop the ball so bad, 
 but they dropped it Romo style for a title that was on the rise, and it is (see Call of Duty 4 
 beta user impressions) .
  The difficulty was basically such because it suffers in a first person view, and you take damage 
 in cover that bullets usually shouldn't make it through and there is usually a large supply of 
 enemies that shoot very well to go along with that. I didn't mind the later, though. I haven't 
 played the game on normal settings, but it just seemed that for some missions on veteran difficulty 
 that the difficulty felt very gimmicky and too luck based. It should also be noted that the A. I. 
 could on occasion fire through boxes when you are at a significant lower elevation from them. Normally 
 I would just chalk it up to good aim, but I was able to view this visual bug on a few separate 
 occasions.
  The game didn't feel clunky, but it felt bland after playing other shooters leading up to it with 
 more features. I would suggest passing on this until you can find it in the $20-25 price range. 
 It is worth playing, but not at premium price.
  As for the graphics, like gameplay this is another area where I disagree with the site reviewer 
 as well. It looked like a good first gen 360 game and had some framerate dips when explosions and 
 tanks start to show up with charging enemies. The smoke effects are probably the highlight.
  The shining light of this game is pristine surround sound and musical scores. There really isn't 
 much to say, except it has immersive surround and good orchestrated music that helped give the 
 game a little more 'feel'. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rome_212
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 16, 2007 2:24 pm PT
Review:  Where to begin? First of all I really like first person games, especially shooters. I love the 
 Call of Duty series, and I already think this one is the best in the series because I own the PS2 
 version and I loved it. But I was also curious of how owning the X360 version would feel, so I 
 bought it without hesitation. The minute I whacked this baby into my X360, it was already beyond 
 impressive. You'd really feel like you're in WW2. The weapons are so authentic and feel awesome 
 everytime you fire at an enemy with it and the aiming is beyond realistic when you hold down the 
 left trigger to get a clear shot. The MG42 turret is amazing, but I find it the most obsolete weapon 
 in the game 'cause you don't really get to use it. I was able to use it against enemies in only 
 one part. I really liked the driving 'cause it feels so real and fun, especially in the first person 
 view. Blowing up stuff in a tank couldn't have been any better, brilliant.
  
  The graphics? Beautiful. It can make you feel like you're watching a movie. Everything is done 
 to the last detail, and all running at an amazing 60 fps, and I don't even have a high definition 
 TV! I'd love to see how the game would look in a high def TV.
  
  In addition to looking amazing, the game has super realistic sounds. The weapons sound just like 
 they should sound, explosions are great, our character gets deaf for a few seconds, wow! The voice 
 acting is also splendid.
  
  To sum it all up, this is one hell of a war game that shouldn't be missed. It may be short, but 
 it has some replay value and some pretty good multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Valentin_69
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 15, 2007 11:12 am PT
Review:  This game has picked all the good things from the older call of duty games, and put in the good 
 things from other successful first person shooter game and now have a wining game. online gaming 
 is great! lots of fun! the un-lockable achievements really work for the game, and make it even 
 more interesting and more challenging when you beet the game. all in all like i said a fun game. 
 i can't wait for call of duty 4. I'm sure that from what i have seen for this series that the next 
 call of duty game is just going to get better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WVU_Snowman
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 13, 2007 6:03 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty makes it's return after a successful run with Call of Duty 2. The third installment 
 was not as popular with the Call of Duty community. One major thing was the loss of the kill cam 
 for multiplayer. I thought the single player mode was fun, not incredibly challenging on the easiest 
 modes, but almost impossible on Veteran. There were some new cool achievements for XBOX 360. However, 
 the multiplayer lost some fans with almost all new game play. Personally, I found it to be very 
 fun, but I didn't play Call of Duty 2 online very often. The achievements for reaching higher ranks 
 online was fun, but didn't keep many people occupied long. All in all, I found the game to be a 
 pretty good buy. The single player mode was decent, and I liked the multiplayer. Overall rank scores 
 an 8.0 in my book. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sharpshot94549
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 12, 2007 3:50 pm PT
Review:  I am a big fan of the CoD's and was happy to finally able to fix my computer and write this review. 
 I, personally think that the game is only some-what smiler to the predecessor. the graphics are 
 about 5 times that of CoD 2 and the long awaited feature of being able to use vehicles on multilayer 
 is awesome. just getting in the Tiger tank and blowing the F**K out of the opponent is just Great. 
 if you like CoD 3 and are a Xbox live gold member, go and download the CoD 4 Beta NOW. also, if 
 you are a Xbox live gold member, goto www. xboxlivediamond. com, register for free and get discounts 
 from 20-70% off at a vast number of places 
::::::

::::::
UserName: awoneillz
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 12, 2007 1:44 am PT
Review:  World War II may have ended in 1945, but that hasn't stopped the axis and allies from waging war 
 against one another on the video game front. Call of Duty 2 was one of the Xbox 360's best games 
 when the system launched last November. The game made use of the console's power to generate outstanding 
 visuals and sound, immersing players in combat like never before. With Call of Duty 2 developer 
 Infinity Ward having moved on to other projects, the series has been placed in the hands of Treyarch, 
 the developer behind Call of Duty 2: Big Red One. It did not disappoint. Call of Duty 3 plays every 
 bit as good as its predecessor, and it has improved multiplayer and visuals, too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leakybubbles
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 17, 2007 2:25 pm PT
Review:  You feel the intensity of war as soon as you pop the game inside your Xbox 360!!!
  
  Reload, aim, and fire away!
  
  Call of Duty 3 really succeeds in being a very fun and realistic 
 war simulation and what really makes it shine is that you don't have an stupid shields or anything. 
 It really is about skill, strategy, and aiming.
  
  From controlling tanks, to sniping, and just blowing the crap out of germans. In Call of Duty 3 
 everyone can find something they like!!!
  
  The campaign is only the begining is Call of Duty 3. The multiplayer is crazy fun and addictive. 
 Show your skills and truley become a great shooter.
  
  The cinimatics are great, the story is real and you feel the passion of the war and you feel bad 
 whenever an American dies. Explosions everywhere! Fight for your life! Give Call of Duty a try 
 and experience war!
  
  I give Call of Duty 3 for the Xbox 360 an 8.0 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Freezeryder
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 11, 2007 9:37 am PT
Review:  Movies, books, songs, videogames - we know it's wrong and silly but apparently we just can't get 
 enough of the damn thing. Humans are deeply fascinated by war in one form or the other. Is it the 
 danger? The intensity? The legalized mass-murdering aspect of it all? - who's to say.. we just 
 seem to be drawn to it like moths to a burning candle and you don't see any Ghandi simulators out 
 there. It's quite disturbing actually - I mean - how would an old scarred war-veteran feel about 
 his nightmares being recreated in the name of fun? And how come the censorship is totally cool 
 with it all, but make a game where you can actually make love to a woman and the bells start ringing. 
 It's odd and quite unexplainable. But we are who we are and we like war unless it's happening in 
 our neighbourhood. Well, Call of Duty 3 is all about that - WAR!
  
  Designer: So, tell me about war.
  
  War-veteran: No, no! This haunts me in my dreams make it 
 go away!
  
  Designer: Interesting.. what haunts you?
  
  War-veteran: Oh the chaos, the yelling, the smoke, the constant frag-attacks, and the bodies of 
 my best friends all over the place..
  
  Designer: I see - please go on..
  
  War-veteran: And everywhere I look someones trying to kill me, so I must shoot first or stick my 
 knife in them or anything I can muster just to survive.
  
  Designer: Sing it to me baby!
  
  War-veteran: And suddenly, I'm on the ground with ears ringing and silent mouthes worthing: 
 Are you ok, buddy? Are you okay?? 
  
  Designer: Alright! I'm digging this like women dig magazines about women!
  
  War-veteran: Wait 
 a minute... who are you anyway?
  
  Designer: I'm a game-designer and everything you just said is going right in there, W-Money!
 
  
  War-veteran: What? I thought you were my visiting-volunteer - that's what they told me!
  
  Designer: Haha! I lied! I just needed the scoop from a front-liner to create my latest war-game 
 - Call of Duty 3!
  
  War-veteran: Why you sonova- ... You know, I never cared much for army food - so one day me and 
 my friend Bull snook over to the cantina, You like beans? asked Bull and I said - and get this 
 - They don't call me Bean-sucker McGee for nothin' , then Bull said: Why you crazy basta- Designer: 
 Whops! That's all the time I have - see you later, pal! Thanks for the info!
  
  Yes - Call of Duty is a very nice representation of war to be enjoyed from the comfort of your 
 own favorite chair, couch or - if you're a pothead - beanbag. It's just you on the frontline trying 
 to make it through. No squad commands or teammates - just you in the madness that is war. You play 
 as several different Allied characters.. American, Canadian etc - heck - even Polish which is a 
 bit of change from the regular 1. person shooter, where you are usually The Man, trying to win 
 the war all by yourself. Here you are The Men, trying to win the war from different angles. It 
 doesn't change anything though, since the game is so intense you never have the chance to think 
 deeper about who you are and what you're doing. You kill nazis - that's the point.. On foot, in 
 tanks, sniping, grenading (is that a word?) or just duking it out close-quarter style. And it's 
 fun. A lot of fun. It may not be the most challenging game around but when it comes to recreating 
 the experience of war it doesn't get much more in-your-face than this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sam_2006
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 4, 2007 3:15 pm PT
Review:  call of duty 3 does indeed sound and feel like its predecessors in almost every aspect, yet it 
 stillplays and feels good as ever. you have intense battles, different soldiers (polond, british 
 ....) and eventually different weapons and levels to play through. the graphics are awesome and 
 they have noticabely improved from last CoD ( great light effects and inhenced textures as well 
 as great levels and presentation) . the game plays similarely to any CoD that came before, you take 
 cover, shoot germans and move on , there are some new additions, though; you drive a jeep, you 
 take the wheels of a tank and finally you help your friends on a small boat to get to the other 
 side of the river. there are also some sequences where you fight germans in close quarter combat. 
 however, those few additions do not change much the way CoD plays, for they are momentary and sometimes 
 they get a bit boring. the sounds are terrefic and ecah weapon has different sound and feel to 
 it as well as the soldiers you fight with show some interesting personalities through the voice 
 acting. even the explosions sound real and authentic, even with a SDtv built-in speakers.
  
  on the whole, CoD3 is a game worth playing because it won't let you down if you are interested 
 inthe genre !! it plays great, sounds terrefic and feels good !! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: austinmuckelrat
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 3, 2007 8:41 am PT
Review:  The Gameplay from Call of duty 3 is to short. Buts its still a fun game to play. It has 14 levels 
 in the campaing. You play with 4 solders in this game. Americans, Canadians, British, Polish. The 
 Graphics are top notch. The Graphics beat call of duty 2 graphics. It looks realistic.
  
  The Sound is really realistic in my fact. The Guns sound real.
  
  Value is only 40, 30 are 
 less.
  
  This is one of the best world war two games ever made for now.
  
  Ps- This is a good game to play until Call of duty 4 comes out for any console.
  
  Pss- Call 
 of duty 3 is still a game to play for now. It's a awesome game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pikemoney21
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 31, 2007 9:36 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty 3 has great graphics but it doesnt have such a great multiplayer with the fact that 
 u wait so much in the lobby then when the game starts everyones connections are lost but the upside 
 is that the story line was great with allowing you to play as 4 different nations overall a great 
 game (^__^) 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 
 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: inuyasha360x
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 28, 2007 7:07 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3, along with its predecessor's, is based on World War 2.
  
  First off lets talk about the campain mode. It has a long and intertaining story, that changes 
 from Americans to British, and even Polish Tankers. The campain is very good, but there are some 
 flaws... Such as when you are playing the campain you seem to get bored in that mission. But even 
 on the normal setting this game becomes challenging, which is very nice.
  
  Now the multiplayer is another story. I personlly have never played the multiplayer against your 
 friends. But I have played xbox live. And let me tell you, it owns! The player matches are just 
 so fun, that is if you can join one. I always seem to not be able to join matches = [ . But the 
 ranked matches are totally different! The system to join a match is horrible! Most of the time 
 there are 7 players with you ready to play, then they all disapear and it starts again! It gets 
 very frustrating, so I would advise just to play the player matches...
  
  The last thing I feel i need to talk about is the achievements! If you are the type of person who 
 wants all the gamerscore points you can get. Call of Duty 3 is NOT a good game for you to get them! 
 The only way to get all the achievements from CoD3 is to play the game nonstop for like, EVER!! 
 You get 85 for completing the single player. And thats all you really can get, unless you really 
 try to get more. Theres some that call you to use only certain weapons during a whole mission. 
 Like one called Close Quarter Combatant . It is quite easy to get. But my point is there arn't 
 easy ones to get like Gears of War. Where you get 1 for completing all the acts of any difficulty. 
 But also almost all the achievements you get during online play, and of course only in ranked matches, 
 which I mentioned before are hard as hell to get into.
  
  All in all Call of Duty 3 is a great game! And im not saying if you want achievements don't get 
 this game. I'm just saying your not going to get alot unless you really play this game! This is 
 by far the best Call of Duty game to date. Which should change 11-5-07. Which if no ones playing 
 attention is the release date for Call of Duty 4 Modern Warfare... Which is going to be awesome! 
 Anyway if you enjoyed any of the other Call of Duty games you will love this one 50 times better, 
 simply because it is better! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homes225
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 28, 2007 2:05 pm PT
Review:  Story: Your killing Nazis in France. Again.
  
  Graphics: Nice.
  
  Audio: Sounds good.
  
  Missions: Kill Germans, Plant Charge, Kill Germans.
  
  Controls: 
 Average 360 FPS controls.
  
  Features: Just over the top Gameplay.
  
  A. I.: VERY HARD at times. Very Smart.
  
  Loading Times: A little Long and too frequent.
  
 
  Multiplayer: Great, Battlefield style with each class having their own perks.
  
  Requirements: A 360.
  
  Weapons: No M1 Carbine : ( But most of the others like M1 Garand, Thompson, 
 BAR, Etc.
  
  The Good: The Graphics and Gameplay. Solid.
  
  The Bad: Play time, less than 10 hours... come on guys.
  
  The Ugly: Veteran Achievement. Very 
 Very Hard.
  
  Replay Ability: Low to Medium/
  
  The Bottom Line: Decent follow up but doesn't top Call of Duty 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpaceBananas
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 27, 2007 4:08 pm PT
Review:  The game was quite amazing. Like all COD's it puts you right into the heart of the fight as your 
 follow around your respective character through the action and danger that was WWII. The visuals 
 were amazing and the sound was one that could be marked as epic. It's controls weren't as tight 
 as I'd hoped but my preference could be marred by other FPS's that I've played and gotten comfortable. 
 The level design was amazing in this game. The shattered buildings and wore torn urban enviornments 
 really let you feel the chaos that was going on throughout the game. Each map was expansive enough 
 to have you leaving your commrads after a firefight to go and explore the city or country side. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigb89
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 27, 2007 4:26 am PT
Review:  Single Player
  
  The single player is modeled after the Normandy breakout, where the British, Canadian, Polish, 
 American, and French Resistance forces pushed into the city of Chambois, France, also known as 
 the Falaise Gap. Unlike most other games in the Call of Duty series, the events in Call of Duty 
 3 are based on a single combined campaign, with the player being switched between the four nations 
 and their respective characters for each leg of the story. There are 14 playable campaign missions.
 
  
  In the American missions, the player assumes control of Private Nichols, recently arrived in France 
 and eventually attached to the 29th Infantry Division. Nichols and his squad participate in the 
 capture of Saint Lo. After that the squad is transferred to the 90th Infantry Division and sent 
 to secure the wooded area of Saint Germain-Sur-Seves, where intense hedgerow fighting took place. 
 Later, the unit is transferred to the town of Mayenne, where team mate Pvt. Huxley is tasked with 
 defusing bombs planted on several bridges. Huxley is wounded before he can carry out the order, 
 and Sergeant McCullin, the unit leader and also a former combat engineer, volunteers to defuse 
 the bombs. McCullin successfully defuses the bombs, but is mortally wounded; Corporal Dixon assumes 
 command of the unit and is promoted to sergeant. The squad is later tasked with clearing out a 
 forest and finding the engineers sent in before that have not been heard from. The squad participates 
 in going to a nearby town to clear it out, Dixon is wounded here, but recovers. The unit is then 
 sent to defend the town of Chambois in a brutal battle. Private First Class Guzzo, another member 
 of the unit, performs the suicidal task of laying colored smoke grenades on German positions while 
 under heavy fire in order to direct air support. He is wounded, but is carried to safety by Dixon. 
 While treating Guzzo, Dixon is shot. He passes on the final words of McCullin, as well as his own, 
 to Guzzo, who then assumes command of the squad. In the final cutscene, weary soldiers walk by 
 the destroyed city back to camp. The characters are seen boarding a truck and reenacting the first 
 cutscene; with Guzzo playing the role of McCullin and Huxley the role of Dixon.
  
  In the British set of missions, the player controls Sergeant Doyle, a returning character from 
 Call of Duty: United Offensive and member of the British Special Air Service. Doyle participates 
 in a night landing in France led by Major Ingram, also of Call of Duty: United Offensive fame, 
 and meets up with members of the French Resistance. Doyle and members of the Resistance search 
 for Major Ingram, after which they proceed with eliminating several German positions. Later, when 
 they perform a combined assault on a fuel plant, Major Ingram is lost and tensions flare as Corporal 
 Keith accuses one of the Resistance members, Marcel, of collaborating with the Germans. Against 
 the advice of the Resistance, Keith and Doyle perform a dangerous rescue operation, later assisted 
 by the Resistance. However, after rescuing and escaping with Ingram, they discover the Maquis are 
 being rounded up and executed. They rush to save as many as they can, but in the process the Maquis 
 lose one of their significant members, Isabelle DuFontaine, who is killed after planting an explosive 
 charge on an armored car. Marcel is distraught by her death, and is comforted by Corporal Keith.
 
  
  The Canadian aspect of the campaign is centered on Pte. Cole, led by First World War veteran Lieutenant 
 Robichauld, who demonstrates a proud and often haphazard style of leadership, often making assaults 
 and completing objectives beyond his assigned mission at the risk of his own men. Robichauld commands 
 a Canadian infantry unit, capturing an industrial area and successfully defending it from superior 
 numbers of German infantry and armor. In further missions, the unit clears a forest near the Laison 
 River, during which Robichauld berates the young radioman Pte. Baron over his lack of combat participation. 
 Tension builds between the two, and Baron insists that he is not a coward. Robichauld dismisses 
 him and assigns him to act as radio contact for a Polish unit. Robichauld proceeds to clear a town 
 to rescue some Canadian prisoners, but rather than withdraw with the rescued servicemen he decides 
 to assist in capturing the whole town. The unit plants demolition charges in a German ammunition 
 dump, but when Callard checks to see if the charges were defective, the squad is decimated. Robichauld 
 and Cole are wounded, and Sgt. Callard is killed. Robichauld decides to nominate Callard for the 
 Victoria Cross and promote Cole to corporal.
  
  The Polish campaign revolves around Lt. Bohater, a tank commander in the Polish 1st Armored Division 
 (incidentally, Bohater translates as 'hero' in Polish) . Bohater participates in a Polish sweep 
 across the French countryside, engaging German armor and defeating the Black Baron, an infamous 
 German tank commander, after a furious duel in a small town. The Polish later move into position 
 at the base of Mount Ormel, which is assaulted by the Germans on all sides. Bohater and his crew 
 eliminate many German tanks, but eventually their tank is damaged and the crew abandons it. They 
 join in the battle alongside the Polish infantry units and other tank crews, holding off the ferocious 
 German attack while waiting desperately for the Canadian reinforcements. The Canadian radio operator, 
 Baron, arrives to call in artillery, but is overwhelmed with personal grief over his cowardice 
 and is killed when he exposed himself. Several members of Bohater's crew are killed by a tank while 
 holding off a German assault. Retreating to the top of Mount Ormel, the Poles fight desperately 
 until they are finally relieved by the Canadians.
  
  Multiplayer
  
  In addition to the single-player campaign, Call of Duty 3 features a wide range of multiplayer 
 modes for players to participate in - each team allowing up to 24 Players in a single match, three 
 times the limit that impeded Call of Duty 2 on console platforms, but three times smaller than 
 that allowed on the PC version of Call of Duty 2. This is only in the online mode. All team game 
 modes feature the soldiers of the Allied nations (Specifically the US forces only. Canadians, British 
 SAS, and Polish forces are not featured in MP) versus those of the Axis (Germany) .
  
  Xbox 360
  
  As with many other Xbox 360 games, Call of Duty 3 divides its multiplayer aspect 
 into Player and Ranked matches. Player matches allow players to invite other players into their 
 games, but do not contribute points toward the leader board or unlock achievements. Ranked matches 
 pit the player with and against teams of random players, and contribute towards player points and 
 allow players to unlock achievements.
  
  While the Xbox 360 supports up to 4 players on the same console (splitscreen mode) , the PS3 is 
 currently only able to support only one player online at a time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gatermag
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 26, 2007 8:29 am PT
Review:  This is one of the same old World War games. It takes place in different areas but every thing 
 seams like deja vue. The shooting is good and realistic. It is a great game for people who havent 
 played many WW2 games, but for people who have its the same old thing and it gets pretty boring. 
 The thing that saves this game for me is the multiplayer. It has great maps and many different 
 places to hide and fight. There seems to have a pretty good network because i have had games with 
 a lot of people with mediocre connection and it ran smoothly. Overall its a good game with not 
 many new features. So if u bought the last one dont buy this one and if u havent it should be worth 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hogowagh
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 25, 2007 9:03 pm PT
Review:  This game is fun and you learne in this game I never new learning can be this fun for real. I have 
 to say this one is beter then 1 and 2 but thats not for long until 4 one comes out thats true. 
 I think the best part of the game is the explosions realy. Next time youre teacher ask you to rithe 
 about ww2 buy this game or if not read a nice long book. No for real now go buy this game it rocks 
 alot you be playing as americans english candian and polish. If you are geting tawf get this game 
 you are going to be hapy that you got it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mjordon
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 24, 2007 6:24 pm PT
Review:  the a. i in this game is realyyy bad. the story mode is not so fun and interesting. it is almost 
 same as call of duty 2 but extra features not so much of a difference and the graphics are a little 
 better. some missions arnt so good but some rock. the bad part it is u cant ride in tanks or planes 
 yet. the multiplayer is awesome tho really fun. the game rent it or try it first before you buy 
 the game. the online play is the same as call of dutys 2 no difference they made there also. thats 
 all i have to say. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zunarutze
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 24, 2007 6:15 pm PT
Review:  For those who never played call of duty you don't have to play the others first. Call of duty has 
 a fourteen levels in story mode fun to kill nazis. But the xbox live is even better with ctf and 
 lots more. It's a fun first person shooter if you like the other call of duties and haven't played 
 this one i feel srry for you. Theres lots of glitches that some people can tell you. About 6 diffrent 
 men you get to be on xbox live from riflemen to anti-armor. You won't be to impressed but's still 
 fun. There's lots of download able maps trailers to have more fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EXxile
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 27, 2007 1:24 pm PT
Review:  COD 3 like I said is not a bad game at all, nor close to one. But if you have number 2, you've 
 pretty much got the jiff from this game as well. Unlike COD 2, they didnt really improve too much. 
 When COD 2 released it was a drastic improvement over the first.... but then again it didn't come 
 out a year after the last. Considering its pedigree as well as the new development team (team behind 
 the Spider-man games) they did a well job. They improved the multiplayer which feels more like 
 part of the game rather than tacked, and the graphics while still beautiful are only marginally 
 better than the last installment. While the game offers some intense war action that does indeed 
 immerse you into the game, the story however, has no part of it. The story is very bland compared 
 to COD 2, and considering you have to rewatch them every time you continue your save (they're not 
 skippable) makes it worse. The little sequences that have you upfront and personal with a nazi 
 trying to wiggle your way out is pretty cool, but doesnt really add nothing new to the table and 
 it gets old fairly quick. However, considering how much i loved COD 2, do realize that there is 
 not much different from that one; which helps it and hurts it. And the only reason I marked it 
 down was due to the fact that its not real different at all. But really it is indeed a great game, 
 and don't think I'm bashing it cause I'm not. COD 3 offers intense war action with some beautiful 
 explosions that can be found no where else but here and in GRAW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xgamer367
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 23, 2007 12:23 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3 is the best in the series so far. It has excellent graphics, sound, and voice-overs. 
 The mulitplayer framerate is pretty bad, though. CoD 3 plays out a lot like CoD 2, but this game 
 is better. The story mode is decent, but not great. It is far too repetitive, and the cutscenes 
 are long and boring, and you can't skip them, even if you've seen them already. The best part of 
 CoD 3 is it's mulitplayer. If you Xbox Live, this game is a lot better. It's just plain fun to 
 play with your friends and kill eachother, but there are a few glitches in multiplayer. CoD 3 is 
 the greatest WWII game to date, and a must have for any fans of WWII shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HiiperDrive
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 23, 2007 3:25 am PT
Review:  Thoughts On -- Gameplay.
  Fantastic Campaign with a enough missions to keep you satisfied and on the achievement front is 
 the of the best i've seen and the multiplayer just pulls you in from the word go and can be stuck 
 in it for hours at a time.
  
  Thoughts On -- Graphics.
  Quite nice for the 360 with some really effects that add to an already very satisfying gameplay, 
 overall nicely executed by the developers.
  
  Thoughts On -- Sound.
  Undoubtedly one of the best factors about this game, all noises from your grenade launcher to the 
 movement of the tank turret, always great to admire.
  
  Thanks for Reading..
  HiiperDrive Out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nimmow
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 22, 2007 5:18 am PT
Review:  Your back in American boots on french soil and this time it's to liberate Paris from the Nazi war 
 machine. Of course it wouldn't be a Call of Duty game if you didn't experience the war from the 
 eyes of different allied nations to help bring together the WW2 experience. Aswell as playing as 
 Americans and british you will also play as the Polish and the Canadians each with their own missions, 
 locations and weapons. However one thing I will point out is unlike Call of Duty 2 you won't be 
 informed by the actual WW2 footage with a narrator talking about what will happen as you progress 
 but rather something like Medal of Honour where it tries to create side stories with the characters 
 you meet in the game with cutscenes powered by the engine and for me it doesn't improve the Call 
 of Duty series but rather the game feels like less fact and more fiction with character interaction.
 
  
  Gameplay has always been important and Call of Duty 3 keeps the original working formula aswell 
 as adding new things to improve the game. You can still iron down your sights for those all important 
 headshots awell as throw grenades with the RB and smoke grenades with LB. But this time you can 
 catch enemy grenades by picking it up with X when prompted and throwing it back with RB. Also for 
 the first time is vehicles that you can drive and act as point man on a tank when you're giving 
 co-ordinates to blow up an MG nest. Vehicles play an important part in CoD3 and for the most part 
 they're fun.
  
  Few things I have to complain about though is those whole CQC moments in the game where a Nazi 
 jumps at you and wrestles you for your gun. It's nothing but button mashing that doesn't make me 
 break a sweat and it really is uninteresting. Also you have to manually set up C4 on objects by 
 pressing buttons and rotating the right stick and this to me is unnecessary and a waste of time. 
 As for AI your allies do nothing but get in your way and get themselves killed and the enemy don't 
 do anything to make the combat interesting. Playing on higher difficulty doesnt improve the AI 
 it just means they take more bullets and dish them out harder and it really is annoying when you 
 thought you got a headshot only to have the guy get back up again.
  
  Graphics wise it definately looks better than CoD2. Iron down your sights to see all the fine small 
 details on your weapons like engravings and things like that. Character models look fantastic and 
 the lighting is spot on especially in the rain levels where the shine on your weapons when wet 
 looks spectacular. Explosions look great also aswell as smoke effects. Hand models don't look that 
 great though but it's not that big of a deal.
  
  Sound is another great aspect. The orchestra playing in the background and voice acting are good 
 with each nationality speaking with their own accents. However sound gets really repetitve especially 
 what characters are screaming out where they will say it over and over again until you do the right 
 thing and it really is annoying. Guns sound authentic when fired so no complaints there.
  
  Although campaign wise I prefer CoD2's I feel what CoD3 has going for it and what you will keep 
 coming back to is multiplayer. It supports up to 24 players and it's a lot more fun and hectic 
 that way. Sometimes the atmosphere is intense and while other times and you will feel like there 
 maybe another player from the other team nearby and so you will tread cautiously with your sights 
 ironed down. Vehicles are also available though I do complain that the tanks are way to easy to 
 access and therefore makes the game feel one sideded when a newcomer starts rampaging and getting 
 all these kills. And there's sure to be a class like rifleman or scout or machine gunner that you 
 will favour. Levels are fun to play through with a few that you will definatley love and game modes 
 are both interesting and fun.
  
  So is Call of Duty 3 a worthy sequel to Infinity Ward's award winning Call of Duty 2? Well if you 
 love multiplayer then this will definately be a game for you otherwise the single player is interesting 
 but you might find yourself going back to CoD2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pjohnwil
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 22, 2007 4:49 am PT
Review:  COD 3 is the best WW2 shooter that i've played to date. Well...... online anyway. The single player 
 is better is COD 2, but the multiplayer is by far a lot better than it is in COD 2. Don't get me 
 wrong, the single player is still good (particulally the very end) , and it lasts a fair bit too. 
 The multiplayer though has 7 differnt classes of soldier for you choose from every time you respawn, 
 from medic to sniper to just plain old rifleman. Also with many achievements (such as comleteting 
 a mission with out firing a single round) there is plenty to do and it'll keep you busy. If you 
 have xbox live though, you will spend most of your time playing it in the multiplayer. I must coment 
 on the graphics as well. They are quite something and some of the best to date on the 360. The 
 fire effects and the explosions are certainly the best i've seen. The sound too is very good if 
 you have a decent set of speakers.... the explosions sound amazing! One of the main things that 
 let's it down is you have to watch the same cutscenes over and over again if you redo a level. 
 There are no way of skipping them. Even if you are on the last checkpoint in a level and about 
 5 mins from finishing it, if you save your progress and quit, when you go back into it, you have 
 to watch the cutscene again that let's you know what's happened after the last misson! This is 
 very frustrating! However, the good points by far out outweigh the bad and if you own a console 
 that this is on, then it you should definately consider buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chaosjak93
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 22, 2007 4:23 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 didn't have the flaws that this game has like you can't skip cut-scenes or the credits, 
 bad tank controls, and everything else is just bad, the cut-scenes are stupid to watch and stupid 
 to listen to because it's just so annoying that you can't skip, the credits get boring to listen 
 to for about 5 minutes, when your in the tank the moving turret gun turns so slow that when your 
 almost dead you try to aim at the enemy tank the moving thing turns so slow that oh to late your 
 dead, the achivements are worth getting but they may seem to easy to collect, the online multi-player 
 is bad because the game gets laggy and confusing, also buying the maps on Xbox Live Marketplace 
 aren't even worth it because the multi-player is so bad, this game may be the good sequel to WWll 
 series but Call of Duty 2 is better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Silent -- Death-
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 21, 2007 1:14 pm PT
Review:  Infinity Ward ftw! Infinity Ward ftw! Infinity Ward ftw! Infinity Ward ftw! Infinity Ward ftw! 
 Infinity Ward ftw! Infinity Ward ftw! Infinity Ward ftw! Infinity Ward ftw! Infinity Ward ftw! 
 Infinity Ward ftw! Infinity Ward ftw! Infinity Ward ftw! Infinity Ward ftw! Infinity Ward ftw! 
 Infinity Ward ftw! Infinity Ward ftw! Infinity Ward ftw! Infinity Ward ftw! Infinity Ward ftw! 
 Infinity Ward ftw! Infinity Ward ftw! Infinity Ward ftw! Infinity Ward ftw! Infinity Ward ftw! 
 Infinity Ward ftw! Infinity Ward ftw! Infinity Ward ftw! Infinity Ward ftw! Infinity Ward ftw! 
 Infinity Ward ftw! Infinity Ward ftw! Infinity Ward ftw! Infinity Ward ftw! Infinity Ward ftw! 
 Infinity Ward ftw! Infinity Ward ftw! Infinity Ward ftw! Infinity Ward ftw! Infinity Ward ftw! 
 Infinity Ward ftw! Infinity Ward ftw! Infinity Ward ftw! Infinity Ward ftw! Infinity Ward ftw! 
 Infinity Ward ftw! Infinity Ward ftw! Infinity Ward ftw! Infinity Ward ftw! Infinity Ward ftw! 
 Infinity Ward ftw! Infinity Ward ftw! Infinity Ward ftw! Infinity Ward ftw! Infinity Ward ftw! 
 Infinity Ward ftw! Infinity Ward ftw! Infinity Ward ftw! Infinity Ward ftw! Infinity Ward ftw! 
 Infinity Ward ftw! Infinity Ward ftw! Infinity Ward ftw! Infinity Ward ftw! Infinity Ward ftw! 
 Infinity Ward ftw! Infinity Ward ftw! Infinity Ward ftw! Infinity Ward ftw! Infinity Ward ftw! 
 Infinity Ward ftw! Infinity Ward ftw! Infinity Ward ftw! Infinity Ward ftw! Infinity Ward ftw! 
 Infinity Ward ftw! Infinity Ward ftw! Infinity Ward ftw! Infinity Ward ftw! Infinity Ward ftw! 
 Thank you for reading my very lame review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: james28893
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 21, 2007 6:14 am PT
Review:  The campaign is short, with the new feature (mini-games (from hand to hand combat to setting a 
 bomb) ) quickly becoming an annoying, tedious and ultimately pointless act of thumb and index finger 
 ballet. The driving sections are average. However some moments in the story are genuinely enthralling 
 and you really feel as if you were part of some huge assault. The multiplayer is a fantastic experience, 
 with maps to fit every player. With a max of 24 players the battles can be massive. Larger maps 
 have tanks, cars and motorbikes. Most think that tanks would probably make you invulnerable, though 
 they can be taken out by anyone with a grenade, simply by going behind them and mantling them (throwing 
 a grenade into the cabin. As you probably know there are different classes, all of which are relatively 
 balanced and here they are:
  
  Rifleman-Has a bolt action (Axis) or semi-auto (Allies) rifle and can use a rifle grenade
  Light 
 Assault-Has a light sub-machine gun and an anti-personnel mine
  Heavy Assault-Has a heavy sub-machine gun and an anti-personnel mine
  Medic- Has a shotgun and 
 can revive dead team-mates Scout-Has a sniper rifle and can call in an artillery strike
  Support-Has a light machine gun (very inaccurate unless set up) and can re-supply ammo Anti-Armour-Has 
 a bazooka and can re-supply ammo Each of these abilities is upgraded when you become a Corporal 
 and then a Sergeant (done by killing enemies, reviving and re-supplying) . The multiplayer experience 
 really does make this game special; otherwise it would probably be just another war game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shawn7324
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 20, 2007 1:51 pm PT
Review:  Over all multi-player is okay. The vehicles role on the battlefield was not important and almost 
 useless unless you want to mess around. The vehicles is only helpful in Capture the Flag games.
 
  
  Single-Player
  
  Single player is entertaining but quick compared to other games. Veteran mode is still some-what 
 difficult.
  
  Over all I thought Call of Duty 2 was a much better put together both within both Online &amp; 
 Offline game play. Its one of those things you can't really put into words, just know that you 
 were much more into Call Of Duty 2 than you were playing through this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Huntar12345
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 20, 2007 1:42 pm PT
Review:  Im not saying its a bad game or anything but if you have to choose between this one or CoD 2 for 
 the 360 choose CoD 2 but you should play the first one on computer thats the best one. ok sure 
 you enter the game really cool start lots of grenades and stuff is flying every were just plain 
 cool fire fight.
  If you havent played the others go ahead buy the game BUT if you have played the others its not 
 worth it its the same thing but with better graphics.
  
  good:
  nice graphics
  Awesome battles (as usual)
  CoD games are always fun
  
  bad:
  its the same thing as the 
 other two!!
  kinda hard to see the enemies sometimes
  you get really annoyed when you dont see that a grenade is right by your feet and you die and have 
 to do some hard part all over again
  
  i gave it 6.5 its good but the other CoDs are better 
::::::

::::::
UserName: king_loei
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 18, 2007 9:00 am PT
Review:  Hm. Call of Duty. We've come to expect great things from the series, and we've rarely been disappointed. 
 But as much as I enjoyed CoD 3, I must point out it's few flaws. The game itself had wonderful 
 graphics, I loved the weapons and how they felt to use, and the battles were quite intense and 
 immersive. But so were the first two CoDs. So it wasn't too much of a change for me aside from 
 a major graphics upgrade. Yes, there are a lot more AI on screen at once. It' pretty cool how big 
 some of the battles were. But they just didn't master the sense of enormity I got from the first 
 two CoDs; The ferry crossing at Stalingrad, the cliffs at Point du Hoc, and the mad street fighting 
 throughout all of it. Don't get me wrong, CoD 3 had some INTENSE fighting. And the visuals were 
 stunning, especially in a night level I fought my way through. I charged in and took control of 
 a factory and then had to hold it against the German counter attack. Ahhhh.... bliss. The last 
 thing I couldn't enjoy about CoD 3 though, is that the levels were all similar with few exceptions. 
 The country side was the same, and their was little variety. I just didn't find myself playing 
 the game over and over like I did with the first CoD. Multiplayer though left little to be desired. 
 It is AWESOME. Intense street battles against friends, and riding through the countryside on a 
 cool little motor-cycle with a side car. Overall, I'd say CoD 3 is a must buy for fanboys and those 
 of us who enjoyed the past CoDs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PC_JOE_9
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 17, 2007 6:11 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3 is a very innovative world war II shooter. It is extremely fun to play and can deliver 
 an absoulte thrilling experience not only due to its gorgeous visuals, but its absolutely amazing 
 sound. It's sound is of high operatic quality and a great experience. It's feature of looking down 
 sights is truly quite amazing. It provides and excellent in depth experience. The story mode is 
 great and can be either very tense, or either very calming and satisfying. Achievements are hard 
 and can be challenging. Overall, i reccommend this shooter to anyone. THe genre is not DEAD! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jamin261
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 16, 2007 11:20 am PT
Review:  COD by Activision is one of the best ww2 shooters on the market. This is because of the fast paced 
 adrenaline fueled action that is accompanied by the best graphics on a first person shooter and 
 the best sound to date on any console.
  The game has a typical COD story, you are a selection of allied soldiers attacking Germans in France 
 with the usual weapons like the Thompson, Sten gun, M1 Garand etc. In this installment you can use 
 mortars, drive jeeps and some grappling with Gerries but this isn't particularly exciting and feels 
 like its been thrown in at the last moment to make it better, it would be the same without. COD 
 3 is like it's prequel in almost all respects in terms of gameplay, which is not a bad thing for 
 those who want more from the Call of Duty 2 but if you want a different shooter then it isn't for 
 you.
  Also an annoying aspect of the game is that the cut scenes are unskipable, this makes the replay 
 of the missions a drag because they can last forever but otherwise the replay value is great ,eventhough 
 there are no bonuses or incentives to do so. I would have liked to have seen unlockables other 
 then the ones you get as you progress the first time, like little side missions or cheats to replay 
 missions in a different way.
  In spite of this, this game is a must have for 1st person shooter fans who like fast paced action 
 with top sound and Graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arab-man666
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 16, 2007 11:11 am PT
Review:  Wow, this developer hit the spot. Great game, basically call of duty 2 with updates and upgrades. 
 I'm happy about the story, you definatly feel more like a solider who matters in this game. Graphics 
 are awsome, gameplay is smooth as expected. No framerate issue, and I love the slowmotion you go 
 into after taking near-death damage. It helps you aim, lol.
  
  Let's hope 4 borrows from 3.
  I love the throw the gernades back feature. No longer do I scurry 
 away from them, taking the chance is much more rewarding. Even if no one dies, saving the team 
 and seeing the gernade exploading in mid air flying away from you is a beautiful sight. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hightimes420
Rating: 6.6
Date: Aug 14, 2007 1:23 pm PT
Review:  Ive seen some horrible things in war... people dying all around, explosions blooming to the left 
 and right... And also men doing back flips during death, jumping 20 feet out of windows, Trucks 
 seemingly impervious to gravity flipping softly through the air, and countless other strange war 
 phenomena.
  
  Call of Duty 3 is an all around decent game, Ill give it that, however I cant help but find it 
 to be apparently rushed and based on time old war game stereotypes.
  
  The good: Smoke looks amazing. Im sure this has been said many times, seeing as its a strong point 
 of the game. Smoke simply looks spectacular, and one could only wish it lasted longer. Theres something 
 eerie about throwing a few smoke grenades, and blindly rushing into almost face to face combat. 
 Or laying it down as cover and watching enemies materialize only to meet bullets.
  
  The gun play is also pretty decent, although nothing new. Reloading shakes your screen around nicely 
 and helps make things feel more authentic. Some guns though (like the mp40) seem strangely underpowered, 
 but other then that, I didn't notice anything really remarkable about guns good or bad.
  
  So all in all we have pretty decent fighting, some amazing smoke affects, and also to be added, 
 amazing explosive effects from barrels. The Bad:
  
  For starters I want to mention my main problems stem from my expectations in Next Gen gaming. I 
 believe for a game to be shipped with obvious bugs for a console (therefore unpatchable) is a scam 
 on the consumer. Especially for a franchise that is trying to take itself seriously (i. e. the bugs 
 stand out far more then in say, dead rising)
  
  Seeing people flip around in the air, cars and trucks ignoring the laws of physics, and being unable 
 to jump over certain simple obstacles, or to get stuck in a dropped gun, just ruins the pace completely.
 
  
  Driving is also pretty horrible. They get one thing right with turning (it feels realistic as if 
 you were really turning the wheel in order to turn, and moves accordingly) but thats it. Otherwise, 
 it feels far to serene, like your just out for a Sunday cruise. Sure explosions are going on left 
 and right, but every things groovy in the car. Those are some excellent shocks.
  
  Synopsis: Call of Duty is a generically good shooter, however doesn't meetup to next gen standards, 
 nor feels like a completed game.
  
  At least theres the new Brothers in Arms to look forward too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dazer1234
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 14, 2007 3:24 am PT
Review:  cod use to be the best ww2 of the xbox world now its gone in to the modern to can kinda tell y 
 if u look at call of duty 2 and call of duty 3 there sorta simular and it tells u there runin out 
 of ideas but the graphics r pretty gd and better then the last also the gameplay is ok but some 
 levels r quite borin and long the sound is gd they hav researched the sounds well it can b easy 
 or really hard dependin on wot setting u hav it on it only took me the trainin to work out the 
 basics of the game over all its a gd game and im sad to see it leave ww2 behind but i think it 
 wont be as gd but something different will make a change from the sane cod we use to no will it 
 be better only time will tell 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nevernight490
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 13, 2007 10:16 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3 has been set on the Normandy Breakout Campaign, where the Allies began on the road 
 to liberating Paris, France from the Nazi-Germans. I expected to see a Battle for Paris level, 
 but I was not so lucky. The singleplayer is same old Call of Duty 2 and 1. No new features to make 
 the game better and it can get old and boring. The story doesn't really keep you playing either. 
 This series is my favourite WW2 shooter series, but Call of Duty 3 singleplayer did not impress 
 me, I have owned both Call of Duty for PC and Call of Duty 2 for 360.
  
  However, the multiplayer kicks in to save the day for Call of Duty 3. With some interesting maps, 
 a new game mode and vehicles. Let's start with the maps. First and foremost, good ideas were put 
 into the maps and vehicles enchanced them greatly. Some maps promote runnin-and-gunnin while some 
 promote patient snipers. The fps class system, which is new to the game, has finally been added 
 and forces some teamwork in the game. The modes of play are the same except for War, which is like 
 territories on Halo, but this game didn't need new multiplayer modes to be good. Vehicles in the 
 multiplayer maps were supposed to be the newest and coolest feature yet and left fans of the series 
 drooling when it was announced. However, this turned out to be its Acheilles (sp?) Heel. Not all 
 maps contained vehicles and when a map had tanks in it, all other vehicles became obsolete. Jeeps 
 and motorbikes are pointless if your playing to win, but if you want to have fun by all means go 
 ahead and get in them. Otherwise these are death traps. The rank system which allows you to advance 
 from private to sergeant during the course of a multiplayer game was almost pointless aside from 
 the extras you recieved for ranking up, considering that the next game you would be reset to private. 
 Thats all for multiplayer.
  
  The graphics were good, but had some flaws. Not much more to say.
  
  Overall this game has 
 been a fun way to stay up till 3 a. m. and I am waiting for the 4th game of the series to be released 
 in November. If your looking at this game, rent first and also remember that the game is better 
 with Live Multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BWT31
Rating: 5.8
Date: Aug 13, 2007 8:14 pm PT
Review:  This game contained many Pros and Cons that i found through out the gameplaying and multiplayer.
 
  
  Multiplayer...
  Pro's: Probably the best part of this game by far is the multiplayer action. it allows the game 
 to be played in many different ways in large amounts of players that may leave or come without 
 lagging the server unless you are on some of the worst connections.
  
  Con's: The multiplayer ranked matches took quite alot of time to load and the playing was alot 
 of the time very unbalanced on skill wise. The other problem i found is that many of the guns weren't 
 very fair as far as how much damage they would do per shot and much of it made no difference on 
 wear you shot it (except on the sniper) .
  
  Single player...
  Pro's: There wasn't much to get to excited about during the single player missions but for first 
 timers to gaming to fps they would probably find it an exciting game because of the little amount 
 of skill level needed.
  
  Con's: It was too easy for experienced and mediocore gamers except for the veteran mode which proved 
 to be a pretty tough challenge. the gameplay and storyline didnt seem anymore exciting then the 
 other CoD before it just playing through the game as a bunch of people that our mutes and u arent 
 able to help down teamates. it would have atleast improved it by adding a ability to play multiplayer 
 campaign.
  
  Overall after playing the game and hearing about all the hype it got before its re; ease i foun 
 it was a extremely overated game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Karmacodelc18
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 12, 2007 4:06 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty has always been my favorite WW2 shooter. It sucks you right in with fantastic music, 
 amazing sound effects, and a gripping story. And Call of Duty 3 is no different delivering what 
 you expect from the franchise and adding an addictive multiplayer that with up to 20 guys all trying 
 to blow each other to kingdom come can get pretty crazy! I have minor gripes like those situations 
 where your attacked by an enemy soldier and your mashing the shoulder buttons to get free... those 
 were completely unnecessary and only God knows why Treyarch thought it was a good idea.
  
  Oh well that is it for this review give some feedback tell me what ya think. Later tater! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nekimoto
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 11, 2007 10:05 pm PT
Review:  Now don't get me wrong, this is a good, soldi game... But where's the PC version? I will say right 
 away, this game would have been so much better on PC. Anyway, besides that, this game brings back 
 vehicles from Call of duty United Offensive, which is awesome. But it was missing the best game 
 mode that made Call of Duty 2 great, Search and Destroy. It doesn't matter, every Call of Duty 
 game should have a search and destroy, period. Other than that, this is a good solid game that 
 and 360 shooter fan should pick up. I'm sure this game could have been better, but for what there 
 was, I was happy with my purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metalhead164
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 11, 2007 8:28 am PT
Review:  This is not a bad game at all and whoever doesnt like and says it sucks is a tool.
  Call of Duty 3 is uber awesome pwnage to the max and this is highly addictive and so hard to put 
 down. With amazing graphics and amazing multiplayer Call of Duty 3 is my favorite game for the 
 360. It has great sound also improved multiplayer. The new maps are bigger and way more fun. Call 
 of Duty 3's multiplayer has new ways to get your opponent and bring him down with pain! What is 
 new is back in Call of Duty 2 you could only play with 8 people now you can play with 24 with is 
 a nice improvement.
  
  The single player mode is great though it may be shorter than Call of Duty 2 they made the guns 
 look way nicer and and work way better. But the new thing were you get attacked by germans and 
 you have to get away is a new but very small addition. the game is great and definetly a must own 
 for your 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 18198305
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 8, 2007 10:57 pm PT
Review:  this game is awesome when u play it on the campaing mode killing nazis and all that it was fun 
 but when do we get to see hitler lol...
  The game is fun good graphics good controls, but when i try to play online i couldnt because i 
 cant play COD 3 if i have a router so i did it and my family was mad because they couldnt use the 
 computer other than the game is awesome. i dont like that the french women dies at the end. And 
 that veteran is so hard to past c'mon dont u think they are making it to hard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lebbin
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 8, 2007 8:24 pm PT
Review:  The game has some good ideas, but they don't make this game better than Call of Duty 2. The single 
 player has it's moments and is super intense, but the objectives and level design make it only 
 as fun as Call of Duty 2. The contact-sensitive 1-on-1 fights are cool though, and some end really 
 neatly. But planting bombs with the contact sensitive button sequences are cool for a little bit, 
 but they get old quick and you'll much rather plant them using only one button. There are also 
 other contact-sensitive moments that are frustrating. Rowing a boat, and firing cannons takes a 
 little getting used to and the game makes them not fun. The first tank level is super fun and going 
 around corners in a village only to see an enemy tank is scary and cool. The Corridor of Death 
 level is my least favorite level becuase it is full of bugs and glitches. The Forest is my second 
 favorite level becuase it has sniper rifles and shot guns. The first level is the best level becuase 
 it is the most intense, the most emotional, and the most fun. The cut scene before the battle was 
 well made. However, none of the other cutscenes are fun to watch. They are full of boring characters 
 doing boring talking and they are talking about boring things. The worst part is that you can't 
 skip them. I usually check my achievements when they are playing. Now for the multiplayer. They 
 are fun for alot of players, but aren't fun for split-screen. In split-screen, the enviroments 
 are so big that it is a chore to play. The graphics are amazing and are the best i've ever seen. 
 Overall, this is a great WWII shooter that's not as good as it's last installment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the13slayers
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 6, 2007 11:58 am PT
Review:  i say this is easily the best game i have in my collection... i only have 10 games but i say its 
 the best game i have and the best call of duty game there is, great graphics for the xbox360, great 
 motion, real sounds effects, great accents, and i love the tanks, those are the best, im not a big 
 fan of driving the jeep things, i say its very challenging, but very fun i recommend this game 
 to everyong who loves graphics, war/ shooting games, and just having great fun, if i had xbox online, 
 id be playing call of duty twenty- four seven, but i rate call of duty: 3 a twenty out of a ten 
 but since i cant do that a ten out of ten! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sooshy
Rating: 7.4
Date: Aug 5, 2007 9:26 pm PT
Review:  As a fan of the series, I loved the way Call of Duty 2 would put you in those intense firefights -- designed 
 so well you forgot you were playing a game in your mother's basement. Call of Duty 3 tries to accomplish 
 the same feeling, and it almost does, but a couple crucial flaws do detract from the overall experience.
 
  
  Something Call of Duty 2 was praised for was how it gave players the illusion that they were in 
 open environments, even though is was a pretty linear game. It seems as if Treyarch overlooked 
 that clever design choice, because all I could think about is how limited the levels were. You 
 might want to go one way just to get around a building, but there would be knee-high pieces of 
 debris blocking your path. Later in the game, though, it lets -- and by let , I mean makes --you 
 jump over an object waist-high so you can continue down the path.
  
  The other thing that holds the game back is that there aren't ever really any WOW moments, and 
 any small resemblance of one doesn't have any effect because you've seen it all before.
  
  With that said, CoD3 is still a lot of fun most the time. Upgraded graphics and cool ragdoll physics 
 help it feel like war is really going on, and it gets pretty intense at times. It may not be as 
 strong of a game as everyone was hoping for, most people will still find a lot to like, and it's 
 totally worth checking out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rontor
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 5, 2007 7:04 pm PT
Review:  I bought Call of Duty 3 knowing that it wasnt made by Infinity Ward this time around so I had a 
 feeling that it wasnt going to be as good. The game starts out like any other Call of Duty and 
 the single player campaign is really boring. I found myself turning the game off during the single 
 player because I got bored. Eventually I checked out the Multiplayer stuff and man, what a shock. 
 The Multiplayer of this game is really what stands out from any other Call of Duty before it. It 
 reminds me alot of Battlefield 1942 which is a great seeing that no one has ever been able to capture 
 that experience on a console. The only reason Call of Duty 3 falls short from an awesome game is 
 its single player. Treyarch didnt follow through with that enough but the mutliplayer is spot on 
 and very fun. I highly recommend the game if you are looking for alot of fun online.
  
  -Kyle B.
  AKA Rontor (World of Warcraft)
  and Kyleboom13 (On Xbox Live) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shufu7-11
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 5, 2007 6:39 pm PT
Review:  As far as game play goes, Call of Duty 3 is extremely fun, but it does not really give you anything 
 you haven't seen before. You can carry two weapons at a time, you have the ability to cook a grenade 
 before throwing it, and you can quickly pick up and throw an enemy grenade back at him before it 
 explodes. The LOS (line of sight) feature is a good idea but it is pretty much useless unless using 
 a sniper rifle. The presentation in COD 3 is top notch. The story is presented in a very cinematic 
 fashion, making you feel as if you're at the movies. The graphics are amazing and the musical score 
 and sound effects are very well done. You won't find anything new in Call of Duty 3, but it's a 
 great experience for any fan of World War 2 fps games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xombie5
Rating: 8.1
Date: Aug 5, 2007 10:14 am PT
Review:  Now, in videogames, everyone knows by now that the gaming industry has been overrun with WWII games, 
 be it RTS's or FPS's or whatever, and I can honestly say that I have not played many WWII games 
 in my 15 years. Now, just to get it out of the way I love Call of Duty 3, but for different reasons 
 that Call of Duty 2. Call of Duty 3 is very pretty and has great audio work but some details got 
 lost in the shift of developers from Infinity Ward to Treyarch ( correct me if I'm wrong) . To start 
 off this review everyone knows what World War II is. Allies versus Axis. America vs. the Krauts, 
 The Gerrys, the Germans, etc. and Call of Duty 3 is exactly the same. Allies versus Axis. Pretty 
 much cut and dry WWII, but although I have not played many WWII games in my day I didn't really 
 care that much and I still don't but I'm trying to make a well rounded review. Call of Duty 3 focuses 
 on the Normandy Breakout in which the Allies liberated Paris from Germany...... So that's pretty 
 much the story. The campaign is composed of 14 chapters ranging from St. Lo to Chambois, and I 
 have no idea where those places are, but nonetheless they are there. The game has you play as four 
 different people in the campaign, an American infantryman, a Canadian Highlander, a Polish Tanker, 
 and a Frenchman. And there are achievements! w00t! Achievements! The mission are not that challenging 
 on the Normal difficulty but amp it up to Veteran and it's like one hit kill. It's not really anything 
 new like in the WWII games we will be seeing later like Medal of Honor Airborne and Brothers in 
 Arms Hells Highway. Those games have innovating new features that set it apart from the others. 
 The Gameplay is exactly the same from Call of Duty 2. The R trigger shoots, the L Trigger uses your 
 Aim-Down-Sights, the R Bumper throughs frag grenade, and the L Bumper throughs smoke. The multiplayer 
 controls are somewhat different from the campaign in that you can sprint by pressing and holding 
 the Left Thumbstick.
  The Multiplayer is what gives the lasting power in any game, I believe. And Call of Duty 3 is no 
 exception. There are many modes, Battle which is a deathmatch, Team Battle, team deathmatch, Single 
 Flag CTF, self explanatory, CTF, self explanatory, Headquarters, King of the Hill, and War, where 
 both teams must try to capture 5 points on the map, that 's it. There are many multiplayer maps, 
 with many available for download. Some of the maps are good and fun but some are not. Some are 
 cramped and most people just camp at a high place and watch the flag or the Headquarter or the 
 point of capture, which does not make it any fun for anyone else. But that's only in ranked matches, 
 player matches are much more bearable. The weapons are pretty standard, you have your M1 Garand, 
 your Kar98K, your BAR's, MP40, MP44, your Trench Guns, Thompson, your Support guns, Bazooka, and 
 Panzerschrek rocket launcher. And that's all the weapons, I don't think that's enough but what 
 are you gonna do?
  The graphics are standard fare, they aren't great. I think this is a good time to bring up the 
 detail issue that I mentioned in the beginning. The guns in COD2 look more detailed and realistic. 
 in COD3 the Trench Gun for example looks a tube with some holes in it, while the same Trench Gun 
 in COD2 looks much more detailed, it was very distracting.
  The sound was okay. And that's it. the voice in the cutscenes was okay but the guns sound better 
 in COD2.
  Value really depends on the type of player, people who really multiplayer will get lasting power 
 like me.
  In conclusion, COD 2 is better for technical issues and detail, while COD3 is better for better 
 multiplayer and fun. So own both. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xXSN1PERXx
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 5, 2007 12:42 am PT
Review:  Ok this is the game that got me HOOKED on WWII games! with its beautiful graphics and crystal clear 
 sound it had me hooked from the moment i turned it on... then the gamplay which like call of duty 
 2 (which i played afterwards) consisted of going through villages clearing out houses blowing stuff 
 up.. so it was very similar.. but it is world war 2! nothing else much happend so it would be pretty 
 much impossible for the game story designers to have made much of a difference without escaping 
 reality! the controls in this game are perfect!! very smooth and easy to determine in moments of 
 carnage! i cant really think of any cons about this game to be honest.. it does get a little bit 
 repetative but other than that its ALOT of fun... now online play? EVEN BETTER!! i played online 
 quite alot with this game and its alot of fun! the people online are pretty cool.. u get the occassional 
 noob but u have to expect that.. the maps are great and big so u will never get bored and the infintry 
 u get to chose from is also pretty incredible! each rank had its different abilities from being 
 able to call in an airstrike to healing a wounded team mate. all in all this game is a MUST for 
 any WWII enthusiast and a MUST for anyone who wants to experience the best WWII games have to offer! 
 the only bad thing about this game now i think about it is it didnt come to pc!! sellouts lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trystkl1826
Rating: 9.9
Date: Aug 3, 2007 8:55 pm PT
Review:  Spectacular. All elements of the game were married perfectly to provide not just a game but an 
 intense experience. An experience that blew me away (pun intended) . I found myself sometimes wanting 
 to sit back and watch, as if it were a movie. But no sir. No spectating here. You were part of 
 a team and your part of the mission had to be completed. The game did not allow you to be a coward. 
 Your team did not move on or succeed without you. You move through your fear of running out of 
 ammo at the wrong time. You move knowing that you didn't hear a d_ _ _ thing the platoon leader 
 said. Nor did you read the captions. Too busy trying not to die.
  It is Intelligent, with its quotes between missions and its musical score to fit the scenes, and 
 your possible emotions. The soundtrack is one of the most cohesive and powerful elements here. 
 As I felt relief, the music provided the calming sounds of relief. Unexpectedly touching. When 
 your men die, it sucks. For this reason you fight harder, move faster and shoot more accurately. 
 Toward the end you really kick a_ _. And you're completely immersed. Swear words roll off your 
 tongue when a shot is missed. All you need to see is a piece of a helmet and you pick your enemy 
 off. And you rush more of them for a more intimate beat down.
  The ending is bittersweet. You're happy it's over because you died three times in the last mission. 
 And you're a little bummed because now you have to wait for the next installment, Call of Duty 
 4. And by any means necessary that game will be in your collection. HOORA! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: capretta
Rating: 4.3
Date: Aug 3, 2007 7:29 am PT
Review:  linear like medal of honor, this whole game revolves around reaching programmed trigger points 
 so your squad can kill enemies. glitchy as hell cause germans shoot you through walls regularily 
 and if you run too fast you might find youself stuck outside the game and the thing freezes. The 
 save points are annoyingly spaced out so some times you might repeat a part of a level to the point 
 of tediousness just so you can learn spawn points of enemies. and how do they ramp up the difficulty??? 
 by everlasting enemy spawns! how intelligent! dont even bother on legendary if you value your sanity. 
 play through on easy for gamer points then give it to a child you hate... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ccstrauss94
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 2, 2007 9:01 am PT
Review:  Every Year there is always a new call of duty or medal of honor .But call of Duty three beats them 
 all by a long shot. I am really impressed on how activision and Treyarch really worked on the game 
 from the graphics to notch to the they way online play is. This game is the best. Ok now lets talk 
 about online play. Just like war its very intense from driving tanks driving cars geting hit by 
 tanks. It just makes you want to play more and more every time. If I were to rate this game an 
 A +++++++ an 10.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxbababooeyxx
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jul 31, 2007 6:31 pm PT
Review:  The single player campaign is so terrible and poorly done i wont even waste the effort to write 
 about it. Online is a diffrent story however. This game online is alot of fun, hours and hours 
 of fun but yet there are problems. There are so many glitches in this game and ways to cheat its 
 almost laughable. plus barely anyone uses a mic so theres almost no communication between players 
 and little if any actual team strategy. team killing runs wild and you cant boot those people out 
 of the game. The actual playes online are not that skillfull either. this game is for avearge FPS 
 players. The vehilces are awesome and so is capture the flag. However if you are like me and are 
 a serious FPS player and want to really test your skills and coordinate strategy with other players 
 on your team then skip this game and go get Rainbow 6 vegas instead Rainbow is far superior to 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frantic190
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 31, 2007 2:52 pm PT
Review:  Whenever you think of a Call Of Duty game you think guns, action and tanks. Thankfully Call Of 
 Duty 3 lives up to its previous titles and has all of these things packed into a nice singleplayer 
 and multiplayer game. The game itself is set during world war 2 during the german invasion of paris 
 and as with all the previous Call Of Duty games, after the tutorial you are quickly given a gun 
 and are forced to go through some nice and detailed levels. Throughout the game you are switched 
 between certain countries fighting for the french in the war and although this can make the story 
 a little confusing at times it does give the story some variety as you are put in different situations. 
 Although the levels are fairly straightfoward they are far from linear and the graphics make the 
 french countryside look great. The graphics are certainly not Gears Of War standard but they certainly 
 reach their mark. Some times there is a lack of variety in the main storyline as most objectives 
 only ask you to defend positions destroy tanks or clear out a certain area but thankfully these 
 objectives are quite fun anyway even if they are slightly overused. Overall the main storyline 
 is longer then most others in the genre and should keep you busy for quite a while. The music and 
 sound effects in COD 3 are also fantastic and are definatly one of its strong points. Another excellent 
 part of Call Of Duty 3 is its excellent multiplayer. Generally players can either participate in 
 a number of team based games like capture the flag or participate in all out everyman for himself 
 battles. Generally there was not too much lag and there were lots of games to play. The multiplayer 
 aspect of the game will keep you occupied for quite some time after the main storyline is finished. 
 Another thing to note on the multiplayer side of things is that unfortunatly there is no co op 
 which is a bit of a letdown. Overall, if you are a fan of the other COD shooters or even first 
 person shooters in general then this is a game that you shouldn't miss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nymets819
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 31, 2007 12:30 pm PT
Review:  The best Call of Duty game made yet. At this rate, COD Modern Warfare is going to be fantastic! The 
 best Call of Duty game made yet. At this rate, COD Modern Warfare is going to be fantastic! The 
 best Call of Duty game made yet. At this rate, COD Modern Warfare is going to be fantastic! The 
 best Call of Duty game made yet. At this rate, COD Modern Warfare is going to be fantastic! The 
 best Call of Duty game made yet. At this rate, COD Modern Warfare is going to be fantastic! The 
 best Call of Duty game made yet. At this rate, COD Modern Warfare is going to be fantastic! The 
 best Call of Duty game made yet. At this rate, COD Modern Warfare is going to be fantastic! The 
 best Call of Duty game made yet. At this rate, COD Modern Warfare is going to be fantastic! The 
 best Call of Duty game made yet. At this rate, COD Modern Warfare is going to be fantastic! The 
 best Call of Duty game made yet. At this rate, COD Modern Warfare is going to be fantastic! The 
 best Call of Duty game made yet. At this rate, COD Modern Warfare is going to be fantastic! The 
 best Call of Duty game made yet. At this rate, COD Modern Warfare is going to be fantastic! The 
 best Call of Duty game made yet. At this rate, COD Modern Warfare is going to be fantastic! The 
 best Call of Duty game made yet. At this rate, COD Modern Warfare is going to be fantastic! The 
 best Call of Duty game made yet. At this rate, COD Modern Warfare is going to be fantastic! The 
 best Call of Duty game made yet. At this rate, COD Modern Warfare is going to be fantastic! The 
 best Call of Duty game made yet. At this rate, COD Modern Warfare is going to be fantastic! The 
 best Call of Duty game made yet. At this rate, COD Modern Warfare is going to be fantastic! The 
 best Call of Duty game made yet. At this rate, COD Modern Warfare is going to be fantastic! The 
 best Call of Duty game made yet. At this rate, COD Modern Warfare is going to be fantastic! The 
 best Call of Duty game made yet. At this rate, COD Modern Warfare is going to be fantastic! The 
 best Call of Duty game made yet. At this rate, COD Modern Warfare is going to be fantastic! The 
 best Call of Duty game made yet. At this rate, COD Modern Warfare is going to be fantastic! The 
 best Call of Duty game made yet. At this rate, COD Modern Warfare is going to be fantastic! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hwoarang12
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 31, 2007 11:16 am PT
Review:  62 years have passed since the World War II has ended and the whole world remembers those heroes 
 who were fighting for the freedom of their countries and the whole world.
  Im very glad that Infinity Word didnt forget about the other countries which were fighting against 
 the Nazist.
  
  Gameplay: In the previous Call of Duty we had three campaigns  American, British and Russian but 
 now, in Call of Duty 3 we will not play as Russians and I think its very good because they are 
 not heroes in my opinion. Of course they were fighting against the Nazist but before it in 1939 
 when the Nazist attacked my country Poland the Russians have helped Germans. Germans attacked Poland 
 from the west and Russians from the east so they were also murders. Stalin and Hitler had a deal, 
 it was the beginning of the World War II. Russian soldiers have murdered Polish soldiers. Later 
 Russians have changed sides and they have started fighting against the Nazist and thats why I 
 think its very good that we are not playing as the Russians because they have helped the Nazist 
 in 1939. Here, in Call of Duty 3 we have four campaigns  American, British, Polish and Canadian. 
 There are also French soldiers but we cant play them because France didnt have as great army 
 as USA, England, Canada or Poland in that time.
  The action in the game is intense, the shots, grenades and the fog are all around everything and 
 you SOLDIER are in the middle of this hell. All you hear is noise and screams. You will get orders 
 to rescue prisoners of war, destroy enemys tanks, defense your base, destroy enems base, you 
 will have to ride a tank as the 1st Polish Armored Division and more. This wont be easy but you 
 can do it. This title gives you an amazing experience. The new and cool thing in Call of Duty 3 
 is close combat when we have to fight with the Nazist soldier one on one. The triggers of the pad 
 are very helpful. Unfortunately a lot of things from the environment are not destroyable, like 
 lamps.
  
  Graphics: We can see that Call of Duty 3 for the x360 is a step forward to the Call of Duty 2 because 
 the graphics is a lot better. The explosions, the fog, weather effects are looking superb and very 
 realistic. The trees and grass are moving because of the wind. We can see the chaos which is all 
 around. The character textures are good and the environment looks really cool but I can see that 
 there are a lot of things in this game which could look better, especially from the closest look.
 
  
  Sound: The music in Call of Duty 3 incourages us to fight for the freedom of the world. All other 
 noises in the game are great. The sound of the shots, explosions are very realistic. Voice acting 
 is very good, the conversations and each soldiers scream is a well done job.
  
  Overall: Call of Duty 3 is that great because we can play new campaigns that we never played before. 
 The Polish and Canadian campaigns are great and Im proud that finally someone appreciate that 
 Polish soldiers were also fighting for the freedom of the world and they had really experienced 
 soldiers in the armored division and in the aviation. Call of Duty 3 is the best in the series 
 so dont waste your time and buy this title. MOVE IT SOLDIER, MOVE IT! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anteraan
Rating: 6.4
Date: Jul 27, 2007 9:10 pm PT
Review:  LOS, or line of sight , has been a problem in a number of games in recent years, but I have found 
 that COD3 has the worst LOS problems since Dark Age of Camelot (where players were able to melee 
 through reinforced doors) . I have placed myself in cover many times in the single player campaign, 
 only to find myself being shot through large rocks, solid vehicles, etc. Strangely, this wasn't 
 a major problem in COD2, but it is definitely a pain in COD3. As for the multiplayer, I'm glad 
 it went to a BF2 type of format (no surprise, look at the devs) , since BF2 for the PC was/is a 
 magnificent game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elite29
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jul 27, 2007 9:05 pm PT
Review:  Why do they let Treyarch keep making Call Of Duty sequals? Didn't Activision learn their lesson 
 from the crappy games on the original Xbox? In reality, they don't care. You see, as soon as COD2 
 made a ton of money their were already planning the sequal. And I use the word sequal VERY lightly, 
 as this is bascially the same game you just played a year ago except worse.
  
  I understand how the industry works, as most gamers do. COD2 was succesful. So of course, they 
 come out with a sequal in about a year's time and want to shovel it down our throats while they 
 tell us it's a new game. In essence, this is CO2 all over again. And when you have a retread, cash-in 
 title in a genre (the WWII FPS) that is already been flooded over and over, it only makes it worse.
 
  
  The game does look great and sounds even better. The problem with the game is that it feels like 
 a rehash and it actually does several things WORSE than the game it's trying so hard NOT to copy. 
 COD3 has glitches all over the place.
  
  For instance, you will routinely get shot through walls. The AI of your squadmates is atrocious 
 to the point of yelling at your TV. They shoot through the walls at the enemy when they should 
 never know they were there. They get in the way of your shots all the time, getting themselves 
 team killed (which makes you load a checkpoint) . Characters get clipped into walls and the enviroment 
 a shocking amount of times. I saw a soldier running at a building I was in and his legs weren't 
 even moving. The AI of the CPU is also terrible and it seems Treyarch tried to make up for this 
 by giving you a zillion germans to shoot. If you die in this game, it's only because you ran out 
 of ammo and are overwhelmed by the sheer number of enemies. It's not because the CPU A. I. was smart 
 or did anything strategic. There is a severe lack of checkpoints in the game that had me yelling 
 at my TV, once again. The game is so linear, it's not even funny. The storyline tries to make you 
 care, but you won't.
  
  Maybe the most annoying thing about the game is that if you turn it off and load up your checkpoint, 
 it makes you watch the opening cut-scene (for that mission) all over again since there is no way 
 to skip it. And for some reason, if you change the brightness of the game, it will not carry over 
 to the next mission's opening cut-scene. The game also gives you a weird moment when you fighting 
 with your team one minute, and the next they are magically teleported to the rally point (or the 
 point where it advances the level) as soon as you finish off the last enemy. It's really jarring 
 when you are going through a house, room-to-room, and you open the only door leading the backyard........ and 
 your squad is already back there waiting for you when they were just ouside the front door waiting 
 for you to clear the house?!! I even got killed by a pair of floating arms holding a german MP44. 
 The rest of his body was on the other side of the wall, apparently unable to clip as well as his 
 arms.
  
  I could go on and on, but those are just off the top of my head. Some of these are just stupid 
 glitches that should have been fixed before the game was let out the door. This is sloppy game 
 development at it's best. But what else would you expect from a company like Treyarch, eh?
  
  Thankfully, the multi-player fares somewhat better. You can now play with over twenty people 
 online at once and it has it's benefits. The game has turned into more of a chaotic game similar 
 to something like EA's Battlefield series. While it's fun for awhile, I prefer more strategy to 
 my shooters. And it just lacks something that I can't put my finger on that, apparently, makes 
 me love the Battlefield series but not this. But if you are in for some crazy, online shooting 
 action, then COD3 just might be your thing. Just be sure to expect many dropped games and the some 
 of the same glitches that hinder the single-player game rear their ugly head here.
  
  So why on earth would you want to own this game? Well if you can overlook the fact that you are 
 buying a BLANTENT cash-in game that was NOT developed by Infinty Ward and the problems I mentioned 
 won't bother you, then give this game a shot. Especially if you loved CO2. The game looks and sounds 
 just as good, if not better. And depending on your tastes, the multi-player may actually feel like 
 an improvement. I just found it funny when I heard that even Infinity Ward calls their newest game 
 (COD4: Modern Warfare) , COD3 in the office. It seems even they can see that this game has no business 
 having a '3' at the end of the title and fails to be even a good 'expansion pack' to COD2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: covenant_dude
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 25, 2007 4:43 pm PT
Review:  This Call of Duty is good, but not as good as the previous game, Call of Duty 2. I mean Call of Duty 
 3 isn't all that bad, it has improved multiplayer that is very fun to play, but as for the Single-player 
 Campaign, its alright. Call of Duty 3 can be qulifed as a great game. Call of Duty 3 has you shooting 
 and throwing grenades and taking cover once again with its smart A. I. and Hard Campaign. Call of 
 Duty 3's sound is amazing, two ways to test that out is in its Single-player and multiplayer. Call 
 of Duty 3's multiplayer is tons a fun though, with its original Allies Vs. Germans battles and new 
 gametypes make multiplayer worth while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bjmage16
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 25, 2007 11:27 am PT
Review:  Everyone knows what Call of Duty is. It took what made Medal of Honor so popular, and made it better. 
 More action packed, more realistic. More fun. Now, it's a huge franchise, with a ton of sequels 
 and spinoffs, each of which is pretty darn good.
  
  CoD 3 is no exception. The gameplay is almost identical to other CoD games, which is good, though 
 it would have been nice to see some enhancements.
  
  CoD is all about fast paced, constant action. Guns are always firing away, artillery shells go 
 off nearby, stunning you. Machine guns supress you and your team. It's fun. It plays sort of arcady. 
 But it still gives a somewhat authentic feel to WWII. There is no gore, no limbs being blown off, 
 which in my opinion is good. The sounds are authentic, being recorded using the actual weapons. 
 And the uniforms look fantastic, and are easily the best looking feature of the game. Sadly. Explosions 
 are dull, animations are kind of stiff, etc. There's a physics engine, but it applies to just a 
 few different objects. Most are stationary, and don't move at all. And the environments aren't 
 very destructable.
  
  The AI is terrible in this game. Just... bad. There are times when you are walking up a hill, and 
 you encounter resistance so you fall back. But when you go back, there's one of your squadmates 
 RIGHT BEHIND YOU, so you can't go back, and the don't get out of your way! Sometimes they steal 
 your cover. Sometimes they walk in front of you when you're firing at an enemy, and you fail the 
 mission due to friendly fire. It's just plain stupid. And the game is also frustrating in that 
 the enemies go out of their way to kill YOU, even if it means completely ignoring your squadmates 
 so they can get to where they can see and kill you. They'll even throw a grenade to you, a lone 
 soldier. It's ridiculous. You'll be dying A LOT in this game.
  
  But if you can get past those, you get to play a very engaging game. You play as the Americans, 
 British, Canadians and the Poles. All of which have a different flavor, and are all fun.
  
  Multiplayer is fun, but gets old quick. Some players are so good, they just sit back and pick people 
 off, which isn't any fun. But it's a good way to pass the time, if you don't have R6 or GeoW.
 
  
  Anyway, I recommend the game. It's a fun diversion. Nothing to take too seriously, and nothing 
 as amazing as GeoW, but it's still really good. I'm looking forward to CoD4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IOUOneGalaxy127
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 28, 2007 8:34 pm PT
Review:  Well we're back in World War II and Call of Duty 3 takes us back into Europe. The first thing that 
 I noticed about this game was that it looked really, really nice! I think one of the things that 
 impressed me right of the bat was the fact that when you lie down in the grass, it is actually 
 bent over and can see where enemies were. The only thing is... I don't think I've actually ever 
 looked at the grass during battle and followed it to an enemy. So it was basically a nice effect 
 but I personally thought they could've done more with that. Anyway, let's get the actual game. 
 The game has a nice story put together and you do at times actually feel like you are a part of 
 the team. You play as many different characters from many different countries a range of environments. 
 The environments were not as diverse as they were in Call of Duty 2, however, they are still very 
 nice looking. One thing that always seems to catch my attention with the Call of Duty games is 
 actually the sound. From the firing of the guns to the crawling of the tanks... it's spot on. Nothing 
 in the game is more frightening than sitting in a house hiding beneath a window hoping that the 
 tank crawling by didn't see you through the window.
  
  The single player campaign is fun but does have some annoyances. The one thing that got to me was 
 the fact that you can't skip the cut scenes. The first time you go through the game, they are definitely 
 great to watch, however, when you go back to a level for the third time and want to play it again 
 and have to continually watch the cut scene... I think I would actually rather just see the word 
 *loading* instead having to watch an entire scene. Well, as I digress... let me get to the real 
 fun in the game which is the multiplayer. This is what I find myself always coming back to. I do 
 play a level or two from the campaign from time to time but the multiplayer is where this game 
 shines. For me, nothing is greater than jumping into a 24 player match and trying to flank MG-42's, 
 snipers, and not to mention, jumping on a tank and chucking a grenade inside. In conclusion, if 
 you're looking for a pretty solid World War II first person shooter, this game will definitely 
 hold you over for some time. Wonderful gameplay, beautiful graphics, fantastic sound, but what 
 truly sells it for me is a very addictive multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kieranjoyce
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 24, 2007 2:20 am PT
Review:  This game is for the people who just like to blow the hell out of everything its not really a tatical 
 game its just a go in shoot get out type of game but it is a very good game i would say buy it 
 or at least rent it. single player is enjoyable the diffuculty setting make a big differnce which 
 is good if you want to see how good you really are. to player is very good hours of fun with that. 
 this game would be perfect if it had a co-op campiagn. but then again if your looking for a game 
 which is set apart from all other ww2 this isnt it im affaird the only differnce is the missions 
 but buy it very good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LTZH
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jul 23, 2007 7:30 pm PT
Review:  Before I start off I would recommend renting this game before buying It.
  
  PROS: Sound and graphics help put you into the shoes of a WW2 soldier, action is fairly good, is 
 fun for the first 10-15 hours. Story is fair as well.
  
  Cons: The game play gets boring for me so fast, Its just like every other WW2 shooter out there, 
 story could have been better, the action was kinda dumbed down in my opinion, not worth $50-$60 
 if you ask me.
  
  Before my final paragraph I would like to say I did not play on Xbox Live, therefore I am grading 
 the game on the SP not both.
  
  Final Words: The game is fun to rent, But i couldn't see myself buying this game at all, In my 
 opinion BF1942 for the PC is still more fun then this game is. But that is a hard game to beat, 
 and I don't think anyone will. I do not know how the MP is in this game, so it would be wise to 
 try it out by renting it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PointlessFool
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jul 22, 2007 4:19 pm PT
Review:  I'm sorry, but COD 3 is nowhere near as good as the first two games in the series.
  
  The graphics are spectacular. Serious improvement over COD 2.
  
  The sound is still excellent, 
 as it was in COD 2.
  
  Where this game falls apart is in gameplay. The controls, while adequate, do not feel as tight 
 as they did in COD 2. To make matters even worse, none of the weapons feel real. The Thompson and 
 the MP40 feel EXACTLY the same when used, and while it wouldn't be so bad if the Russians and British 
 were here, they aren't.
  
  Multiplayer is a step up from COD 2, but the gameplay is inferior to COD 2, so what's the point?
 
  
  This game HAS sat on my shelf since my little brother bought it, but he won't trade it back in. 
 If you loved COD 2 as I did, avoid COD 3. The wait for COD 4 is almost over anyway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Pro_310
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 3, 2007 1:01 pm PT
Review:  I got this game a week ago, and the first difficulty I played on was Veteran, as I wanted to get 
 my Gamerscore up a bit faster. But what I got was also a likable and well structured game.
  
  I'll break this review down to Gameplay, Graphics, Sound and the overall verdict. (unlike most 
 of my previous reviews :P)
  
  Gameplay:-
  
  It is (quite hard not to see) a WW2 FPS. There are many of them out, but this is one of the most 
 recent ones, which stands out from the crowd. There are 14 missions for you to get through, all 
 with simple objectives to follow, such as helping an Ally blow up some tanks through Radio and 
 clearing a house to rescue a prisoner. The clearing the house objectives begin to become slightly 
 annoying, especially on the harder difficulties, as having to go up the stairs with the risk of 
 Gerry firing at your back and from somewhere you think they can't see you. But things like that 
 are simple trail and error, a few more restarts and you're onto the next section. Another annoying 
 thing is that you have two types of allies. Those that can't get killed (unless it's a cinematic) 
 and those who can get killed (just the regular soldiers) . The regular soldiers often run in and 
 get mowed down as well as running into your grenades (FF, restart checkpoint : () , while you other 
 friends just sit back and watch, even though they will never die. It ends up to be frustrating 
 when you are slowly going forward trying not to get shot when they are yelling Cover me, Doyle 
 from about 20 meters away in a cleared out trench, while you are also getting blown to bits by 
 grenades. Also, sometimes people get in your way, ending up in the enemy getting an easy shot at 
 you, and also (supposed if you are prone) you may start glitching and sliding around the floor, 
 not a grenade in sight, although this happens rarely. One last fault, when you get killed by a 
 grenade, maybe if you didn't pick it up because there was a rifle for you to pick up right over 
 the grenade, the game says You were killed by a Grenade and then goes on to give you a damn tutorial 
 about how to throw a grenade which I find nearly insulting. On a lighter note, I liked the driving 
 sections. Short and sweet. Graphics:-
  
  Very good, not much to say here, although sometimes when you are sniping someone hiding behind 
 a wall, there seems to be an invisible wall in the way of their arm and shoulder sticking out waiting 
 to get shot. Sound:- Also very good. During the last battle, the music kicks in just while you 
 destroy the last two tanks. It really makes you want to give it your best shot. But when near German 
 radios, you hear the same pattern of voices coming from it (after all, it is a game, so I'm not 
 too fused) from a room which you can't open which is annoying when you are slowly moving forward 
 to get a shot at the enemy in the landing above the stairs. Also in buildings, you hear what seems 
 to be someone (obviously a German) trodding around upstairs which gives a knock knock sound. It 
 sounds as if they are walking around unaware of the enemies below them. Overall:-
  
  COD 3 is a good, solid game for any FPS fan, although it does have its faults as mentioned. I also 
 never said anything about.... Xbox Live! A FPS on Live is going to be great, although there are 
 those annoying noobs doing annoying noobish stuff. Also, I HATE THE AUTO TEAM BALANCE ON RANKED 
 MATCHES!!!!!
  
  SO ANNOYING!!!!!! Makes me want to f**king sue Activision. All your hard work for your team just 
 goes when you get sent to the c****y noob team!!!!!!!!! I completed this game in a week on Veteran 
 doing a few missions each day and getting all the Single Player Achievements, which I suppose I 
 enjoyed, although I began to slightly lose interest in the later missions. I'll definitely be getting 
 COD 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SlimShadee10
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 20, 2007 9:36 am PT
Review:  Ok So I Am On The 4Th Chapter And Already I Think This Is The Best War Game I Played Since Call 
 Of Duty 2. The Single Player Is Long And The Levels Are Also Long So This Is Not A Quick Game. The 
 Online Play Is The Best Ive Seen Since Gears Of War .You Can Have Up To 12 Players On Your Team 
 Which Means 24 Altogether And Not Many Games Have That Many People In A Match. So If Your Looking 
 For A Great War Game With Good Online This Is The Game To Have For Your Xbox 360 Collection And 
 Probbaly One Of The Best For Your Collection 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mayormoose
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 9, 2007 2:54 pm PT
Review:  I give this masterpiece a 10/10. The weapons are managable, powerful, and accurate. Every character 
 from Huxley to Marcel has their own unique personality. The levels are diverse, quite large, and 
 full of nazi forces. In the single player campaign mode you are placed in the position of a different 
 hero in different allied countries. There are hundreds of nazis on each level to ensures constant 
 action. The multi-layer is even better. There are seven very different character genres. These 
 are rifleman, light assault, heavy assault, medic, scout, support, and anti-armor. With a max of 
 twelve people per team there is great potential for two very powerful armies. The theme song is 
 very heroic. Once again, I give this masterpiece a 10/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TMontana1004
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 18, 2007 8:35 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty returns with its third installment in the popular franchise us war gamers all know 
 and love. This time Call of Duty takes place during the Normandy Breakout and your objective is 
 the run those axis **** out of France. The gameplay is of course the same Call of Duty gameplay 
 it has always been except there are some improvements. The developers tried to add some interesting 
 new surprises in the gameplay to make the game more immersive but unfortunately there were only 
 a few brief moments where you actually experienced them. Some new surprises include an axis soldier 
 sticking his weapon in your face, being able to plant a bomb like you would in real life, or even 
 getting to fire mortar strikes and other heavy weaponry. You may only experience those memorable 
 momets once or twice, but there are other things that you will do frequently in Call of Duty 3 
 that will never get old like firing from the gunner on the back of a vehicle or throwing a smoke 
 grenade to flank the enemy. Also, I must commemorate the multiplayer because this is definitely 
 the reason why I didn't return Call of Duty 3. Some things that impressed me were being able to 
 plant a land mine, driving a tank, calling air strikes, and of course the ability to revive a downed 
 teammate. Not only was the gameplay a satisfying factor of Call of Duty 3, but the sound and graphics 
 were unbelievable! The campaign levels were very detailed along with the multiplayer maps. Also, 
 the weapons were very lifelike and enemy fire and explosions looked and sounded so real! In summary, 
 COD 3 is a very immerisve shooter with great gameplay and multiplayer and outstanding sound and 
 graphics. Any Xbox Live gamer should not miss out on the Call of Duty 3 experience! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nicko_mearsy
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 18, 2007 6:33 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3 is the third installment in the Call of Duty video game series. It has been released 
 for all three seventh generation video game systems: the Xbox 360, PlayStation 3, and Wii. It has 
 also been released on the PlayStation 2 and Xbox. It will not be released on PC. Call of Duty 3 
 is the only numerical sequel to date to have been a console-exclusive game alongside its side-story 
 games like Call of Duty 2: Big Red One and Call of Duty: Finest Hour before it. It was released 
 on 7th November 2006.
  The single player is modeled after the Normandy breakout, where the British, Canadian, Polish, 
 and American forces pushed into the city of Chambois, France, also known as the Falaise Gap. Unlike 
 most other games in the Call of Duty series, the events in Call of Duty 3 are based on a single 
 combined campaign, with the player being switched between the four nations and their respective 
 characters for each leg of the story. There are 14 playable campaign missions.
  In the American missions, the player assumes control of Private Nichols, recently arrived in France 
 and eventually attached to the 29th Infantry Division. Nichols and his squad participate in the 
 capture of Saint Lo. After that the squad is transferred to the 90th Infantry Division and sent 
 to secure the wooded area of Saint Germain-Sur-Seves, where intense hedgerow fighting took place. 
 Later, the unit is transferred to the town of Mayenne, where team mate Pvt. Huxley is tasked with 
 defusing bombs planted on several bridges. Huxley is wounded before he can carry out the order, 
 and Sergeant McCullin, the unit leader and also a former combat engineer, volunteers to defuse 
 the bombs. McCullin successfully defuses the bombs, but is mortally wounded; Corporal Dixon assumes 
 command of the unit. The squad is later tasked with clearing out a forest and finding the engineers 
 sent in before that have not been heard from. The squad participates in going to a nearby town 
 to clear it out, Dixon is wounded here, but recovers. The unit is then sent to defend the town 
 of Chambois in a brutal battle. Private First Class Guzzo, another member of the unit, performs 
 the suicidal task of laying colored smoke grenades on German positions while under heavy fire in 
 order to direct air support. He is wounded, but is carried to safety by Dixon. While treating Guzzo, 
 Dixon is shot. He passes on the final words of McCullin, as well as his own, to Guzzo, who is in 
 charge of the unit and its replacements by the end of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattlom03
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 17, 2007 7:51 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game, but im getting a little tired of ww2 shooters. But that didnt stop me from 
 enjoying this game. I think treyarch did a good job and it shows. The graphics look cool and the 
 guns are shiny. More importantly is the gameplay. Its great. I had a great time with the multiplayer. 
 You can get some pretty crazy battles going. I recomend adding this game to your collection of 
 ww2 shooters. I recently traded this in for something more to my liking, but if I had had the money, 
 I would have gladly kept this game. Thanks for reading my review of Call Of Duty 3, I hope this 
 has inspired you to buy or at least rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Migsten
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 17, 2007 4:04 pm PT
Review:  Yet another World War 2 game has come out, but I must say this is one of the best I have played 
 so far. The graphics are excellent. There is extensive detail, great lighting and shadows. However 
 the overload of frame rates is little hard for me to bare, there is just too much frames per second 
 in this game, it gives me a headache. Aside from that the rest of the game is good. I have not 
 played the multi-player for this yet but it might be worth a try. The game-play is very interactive. 
 There are a lot of different things you might have to do to complete a mission and you get to do 
 it yourself; like arm a bomb, paddle a boat or drive a jeep. The fact that you might even find 
 yourself fighting for your life face to face with an enemy soldier is a cool feature. In my opinion 
 for someone who does not mind playing World War 2 games; you will most definitely like this game. 
 I have had my fair share of World War 2 games therefore I am no longer interested in playing them. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lazyazndude90
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 16, 2007 10:02 pm PT
Review:  call of duty 3 has a solid gameplay. the campaign isnt' anything new, it's back in world war 2 
 like a lot of the other games. The graphics are really good. online great. but it's actually really 
 difficult. in the player matches the connectivity is kind of bad, for myself and some others. but 
 the connectivity in the ranked matches are excellent. the ranked matches makes the game very hard. 
 i'm generally really good at shooters but i have yet to be consistent with solid performance. communication 
 is important so if u dont' like to talk then don't get this game. most of the achievements are 
 easy to get but some are really hard. example, go a whole level using just melee and grenades. 
 or the online achievements in which u have to get your multiplayer score to 40,000. very time consuming 
 but fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: npili
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jul 16, 2007 6:34 pm PT
Review:  I was a huge fan of COD2 and was eagerly waiting for this follow-up. After a bit of time playing 
 it, I realized that this just didn't feel like a true sequel. The game doesn't do anything wrong. 
 But, it doesn't anything great, either. The graphics are step up and the action does seem to come 
 at a faster pace than COD2. However, the missions are broken up in a seemingly random way as you 
 play soldiers from different countries (sometimes you are in a tank brigade, too) . Unlike COD2, 
 you change between these characters every chapter and to me, it felt a little too out of sequence. 
 Also, the game just doesn't feel as fun as COD2 did. Maybe it is because the sheen of next-gen 
 graphics is already growing on me. Maybe it is because it is a different developer that produced 
 this one. Maybe I'm sick of WW2 shooters. Whatever the case, this one didn't capture my heart like 
 COD2 did. Again, this game is not bad. Far from it. But, I don't have any need to replay it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpclEd-HelpDesk
Rating: 4
Date: Jul 15, 2007 11:04 pm PT
Review:  Not that I expected much out of this game, since I thought the first one was a rip of medal of 
 honor: allied assault, which predates the first COD by a good two years. Exact same formula, storyline, 
 mission scenarios. Play as different allied fronts, this one taking place circa 1944, with the 
 combined efforts of the US, British, Polish, French, and Canadian fronts to save France from the 
 SS control of Western Europe. I'm a wwii fanatic but it is good to see that cod4 will be different, 
 and by the trailers, will provide a new direction for the company. If you've played MOH or COD1 
 or 2, you will be happy if you're expecing the same exact scenarios. If of course you've never 
 plaed any of them, then get this, as it is the best production valuce, solid gameplay -minus the 
 dozen or so times my character would be stuck, and I would be forced to reload a checkpoint. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sieler081
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 15, 2007 10:13 pm PT
Review:  I've played every Call of Duty Game so far. This one was the most boring one for me. All it is 
 you shooting some Nazi's OVER and OVER again. It has an okay storyline. But after shotting the 
 200th Nazi its a little tiring for me. Thankfully This is the last game of the Series! Please don't 
 buy this game. Stick with the first two Call of Duty's. There are way better FPS's out there, with 
 a better story line. I love WWII games, I just thought that this game was a little to Repetitive. 
 Basically this game is just an Average WWII game. nothing sticks out and WOWS you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jono8192
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 28, 2007 7:05 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3 in my opinion is only worth buyigng if you have Xbox Live. The single player campaign 
 is very linear with some quite uninteresting levels. Once having completed it, you probably won't 
 rush to do it all again.
  
  The bulk of the gameplay comes from the multiplayer on Xbox Live. Each match can support up to 
 24 players (a minimum of eight players is needed to play any macth) . You can choose from different 
 soldier types which are Rifleman, Light Assault, Heavy Assault, Sniper, Medic, Support Gunner, 
 and Anti-Tank. Each class has its own special ability eg. rifle grenades, or being able to call 
 an artillery strike. There is five different online game types. The brand-new War mode, and then 
 ones which you will have played before (Capture The Flag, Headquarters, Battle, Team Battle) . The 
 game is very good value for money if you have Xbox Live. Once you have got past the learning curve 
 of the hectic online action you will have hours of fun and will not be dissapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: glassjawbox
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 13, 2007 11:42 pm PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY: The single player gameplay was very enjoyable. It kept me focused into the progression 
 of the game. I didnt want to put the game down. Vehicles where added into multiplayer giving it 
 some gameplay advantage over CoD2 as well as larger maps. The only downside is i could not find 
 KILL CAM anywhere in multiplayer, big let down!
  
  GRAPHICS: The graphics and smoothness of the last call of duty 2 were replaced with somewhat more 
 muddy graphics in split screen multiplayer modes. Although in single player screens the game looked 
 great! I spent a lot of time playing split screen though so the graphical issues were a major let 
 down. (call of duty 2's split screen was much cleaner)
  
  SOUND: The sound was great as any war game should be, ambiance, explosions in the distance, guns 
 firing next to your ear, on and on...
  
  VALUE:
  High replay value. For example, replaying the missons at various ranks (difficulties) and one of 
 the best multiplayer experiences out there.
  
  GREAT GAME, yet CoD2 was better in several way. If you have already played CoD2 theres no reason 
 not to pic up CoD3 and play it. You will enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Driver2020
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 13, 2007 10:37 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3 is a great game but then again so was call of duty 2.
  
  There are slight improvements over cod2 like for instance the weapons seem to have a much more 
 realistic feel to them.
  The big plus however is the multiplayer aspect of call of duty 3 that allows upto 24 players playing 
 against each other and this is a huge achievement over cod2 which only allowed a maximum of 8 players. 
 Also a great inclusion to the multiplayer is you get to drive tanks, motobikes with sidecars, and 
 cars. (great fun!)
  
  To be honest if it was't for the great onilne play on cod 3 then you would basically be buying 
 whay you all ready had on cod2.
  
  So if your into online play then this is a must buy, if not and you already own cod2 then don't 
 bother as your buying very much the same game.
  If you don't own any of them and don't know which one to buy then to be honest it's got to be cod3 
 as it has a good single campaign like cod 2 but it's the super online play that makes it greater........
 
  
  Although i highly recommend both games in their own right. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ViVaLaMaTT
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 13, 2007 8:43 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3 is definitely a buy for War game enthusiasts. It offers a large multiplayer for 
 maximum 'war-like' experience with up to 24 players and gorgeous graphics, notably the lighting.
 
  
  The game can suffer from lag pretty bad and doesn't exactly have the least cheap gameplay in multiplayer. 
 Also, there are numerous glitches on most levels that are VERY cheap.
  
  For singleplayer it's basically the same all way through and it's pretty short. Is definitely not 
 anything to cheer about. Yep.... that's about it. Oh, and the grass gets crushed down when you go 
 over it.... err... yay?
  
  The sound in this game sounds great and is pretty realistic and gives a good war-like impression.
 
  
  In a nutshell, this game is practically Call of Duty 2 with slightly improved graphics and a larger 
 multiplayer. I would still recommend buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: newtruegunner
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 11, 2007 8:32 am PT
Review:  An outstanding game. a must buy for all 360 owners. available for as little as &pound;18. the storyline 
 is easy to follow and the gameplay is unbelievable. i would rate this 10 out of 10. this is a perfect 
 war game and uses the power of the xbox 360 to the max. it is also quite a long game so it will 
 be worth your money. the online play is great but can become boaring that would be my only fault 
 with this game other. while playing online you experience little if any lag and there are online 
 and offline achievements. this is my 4th favorite xbox 360 game after gears of war and forza motorsport 
 2 and harry potter and the order of the Phoenix which i also rate as 10s 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slapshotsaint
Rating: 5.2
Date: Jul 10, 2007 9:28 am PT
Review:  This is the buggiest game I have ever played. My first gernade the guy flew in the air and stayed 
 suspended and spun like a windmill indefinately. Guns, troops just hang in the air all over. You 
 can see all the bad guys behind walls because there head and guns stick out. So linear that for 
 the most part you dont have to shoot anything and the never ending respawning troops gets boring 
 in minutes. All you have to do is walk from one point to another and not shoot much of anything. 
 The graphics are ok except that I took a tank and fired it point blank at a wall and it didnt leave 
 any mark what so ever. You wont find much of a report when shooting except for fire out the end 
 of the gun, nothing destructable in the game so you might as well shoot in the air cause it looks 
 about the same. It also forces you to watch level changing movies no matter how often you finish 
 a level. This game is poorly made and is quite boring. Not reAListic at all. YOUR REAL REVIEW! 
 Thank You.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bubear666
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 10, 2007 1:54 am PT
Review:  This game has to be the best in the series of COD games. From the start of the game it throws you 
 straight into the battle as soon as you get in the truck which gets mortared straight away you 
 are then ordered to jump over a wall into a graveyard which is under fire from MGs and Jerries 
 all around. Playing this game is like watching a Spielberg directed war film. All the characters 
 are great when your the Americans and British. You got the Sarge who goes section 8 and the fat 
 scottish guy who heates the french. All characters are well done and the game is based in a small 
 date range compared to other war games which shows how long the war really was. When playing as 
 the Polish you are in tanks and the graphics really shine there. When going through fields you 
 can see all the grass getting churned up and all the building crumble when getting hit by tank 
 shells. I was a big fan of the original game and really enjoyed the second one but this is one 
 of my top games now and I would reccomend to any fan of War Games and FPS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: macman1978
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 9, 2007 1:20 pm PT
Review:  when this game initially came out i bypassed it for another game. what a mistake. this game has 
 everything a first person shooter gamer needs. the single player has you playing for the good guys 
 to defeat the world's menace. each mission is non stop action that makes you feel as if you are 
 in ww2. the single player may give you fits but every time you pass a mission it gives you a sense 
 of accomplishment. the graphics are great and very life like. the sound is nothing short of real 
 gun fire and explosions. the multi-player is really fun and i must admit i was very surprised. 
 all the boards are very well put together, that does a lot for the multi-player. i am also a big 
 fan of any type of game that allows you to pick your class before you spawn. this game offers 6 
 classes to each side that allows you to pick a player to suit your style of play. big battles or 
 small the action is always fast and very fun. if your thinking about picking up this game i suggest 
 you do so you'll have a great time on both the single and multi player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hmking04
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 8, 2007 12:36 pm PT
Review:  Once Halo 2 online got old and I realized how much I hated Gears online, I went into my local Gamestop 
 looking for a new online shooter. In the end I decided to go with Call of Duty 3, because it was 
 cheap ($40 for the used collector's edition) and I like WW2 games. I'm glad I did. First off, theres 
 the single player. There's a brief tutorial mission and then -bam- you're thrown into combat. The 
 controls are great and the missions are different enough that you don't feel like you're doing 
 the same mission over and over again with a different story. Unlike most games, this game doesn't 
 stick with one group of characters throughout the whole game. You play as various countries all 
 heading toward the same goal: stopping the Nazis. My only real complaint is that you can't run. 
 Which is annoying if you've played a bit of multiplayer (in which you can run) because the control 
 for run in multiplayer is the control to pull out your binoculars in single player.
  
  Next there's the multiplayer. Aside from the occasional 12 year old with a high pitched voice and 
 some jackass who thinks glitching into a building and shooting down everyone with his 30 cal, online 
 is pretty much awesome. The only real problem with it is that the odds are a bit stacked against 
 the Axis. The reason being that 1. their helmets are silver, which makes them MUCH easier to spot 
 from a great distance 2. the rifle is terrible. You have to reload every time you shoot. That being 
 said, its the same gun as their sniper rifle (although with a scope) , so you sacrifice speed for 
 shot power. 3. it seems like the Axis yell a lot when they're running around killing. so if you're 
 sneaking up on a group and you take out one, thanks to the involuntary screaming the rest knows 
 you're there.
  
  All in all, Call of Duty 3 is a great game. It's usually accused of being basically the same as 
 CoD2, but I've never played CoD2 so I don't really know. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BINGOCRASHER24
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 8, 2007 12:24 pm PT
Review:  World War ll was the worst war in history, and the Call of Duty series has really brought this 
 alive in it's games. I've owned and completed every game in the series and set high expectations 
 for every sequel that comes out, and Call of Duty 3 met them in almost every way. The graphics 
 and sound were two HUGE overhauls and improvement from its predeceser, Call of Duty 2, who was 
 the most succesful starting title of the 360. As far as the single player, and as I said above, 
 the graphics and sound were outstanding. Yet there was something missing. I was at first dazzled 
 by the graphics, and still am, but after the first few levels it just lost some of it's glammer. 
 And it did play similar to COD2 with a few new featuers, like coming face to face with some Nazi 
 which was just too easy as all you had to do was some button mashing. But the multiplayer was the 
 biggest improvement from Call of Duty 2 (while this is VERY contriversal, for some reason) . I don't 
 see how you could compare with the second. I left a list below of the major improvements.
  1. More Players in one room (24, COD2 only had 8)
  2. Larger maps
  3. Better graphics
  4. 
 Ranks (Higher the rank, more ammo, grenades, ect.)
  5. Classes (rifleman, light assault, heavy assault, medic, scout, support, anti-armor) Although, 
 since there are so many people on one team, there is less 'team work' and strategy (as there is 
 always those select few who teamkill and not really contribute to the team) . That being said, I 
 have only a few friends I've met through COD3, due to the low communication between individuals. 
 (I don't like to crowd my friends list list with people I don't know too well. And of course, there 
 are little tweaks in the third installment, such as laying mines, calling in artillery, dropping 
 ammo, and healing teammates. You can also commandeer any stray vehicle such as tanks, jeeps, ans 
 even motorcycles. SUMMING IT UP Single player was a good but not great expierence, mostly being 
 held together with outstanding graphics. This game carries one of my favorite multiplayers of my 
 collection. If you don't have Xbox Live, I suggest renting first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reeve92
Rating: 5.9
Date: Jul 7, 2007 6:02 pm PT
Review:  wow what can i say herd this was good bought it and wow i loved it until i played single player 
 gettin stuck on walls getting shot by tables chairs and bushes you read that right tables chairs 
 and bushes with no narzi about its just the typical unreal engine 3 piece of crap that engine is 
 a rubbish engine belive me people shoudl stay away although it got a good multiplayer with many 
 teamkillers and nade spammers and air strike spammers and tank spammers dum de dum de dum de dum 
 de dum rubbish game that can be fun at times cod 2 is much better 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameslover12
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 7, 2007 7:36 am PT
Review:  The release of call of duty in 2003 gave gamers a superb chance of experiencing the intensity of 
 world war II on their pc's. It had decent graphics, engrossing gameplay and top-notch sound. Call 
 of duty 2 for the pc and consoles also did not disappoint ,but had better graphics and some new 
 features which everyone relished. I must say call of duty 3 does not only live to the standards 
 of this immersive series, but also improves on it!
  
  Call of Duty 3 has got eye-catching graphics: the character models are nicely executed, animations 
 are fabulous, textures are mind-blowing and the most glittering feature is the rain and lightning 
 effects... You believe me the sight of lightning falling on your squadmates and weapons is simply 
 undescribably awesome. For this reason, i personally prefer playing the island level where these 
 effects can be most well seen, though graphics look best in the morning and after noon levels. I 
 would prefer its graphics over that of gears of war due to full anti aliasing, sharper textures 
 and more detailed and life-like character models.
  
  Sound-wise, COD 3 is as excellent as COD 2. Just turn your speakers' volume to near maximum and 
 you would feel as if some people are firing bullets right next to your gate!
  
  Gameplay of COD 3 also supports its marvelous graphics and sound. Almost identical to the gameplay 
 of COD 2, it has few new features which include close-quarter combat, driving a car and new armies 
 like the Canadian and Polish Armies
  
  Overall, COD 3 is a fabulous game with breath-taking visuals, highly addictive though sometimes 
 repetitive gameplay and sound effects rarely heard in any game. For fans of the COD series or historic 
 fps freaks, this game is a must-play! Thus, don't miss this one out. You would regret in the future. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mntnbkr
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 6, 2007 8:27 am PT
Review:  The next outing for the Call of Duty series has us, once again, fight off the Nazis during WW2. 
 I have been a fan of this series since it was on the PC. I got interested in the game after it 
 had been out for a while but caught up quickly. The basics of the game are still intact but little 
 things here and there have been added to make the gaming experience a little better and more hands 
 on. Soon after starting the game you will find yourself frantically driving vehicles with explosions 
 and gunfire all around. Also, as you place charges, it isn't only a matter of hitting X like before. 
 Now there is a sort of mini-game involved that has you twirling the joystick and hitting buttons 
 to match the button colors/letters that pop up on the screen. In the heat of the battle that is 
 easier said than done but definitely not impossible. Another addition has you going one on one 
 with a lucky soldier and the winner is the one who gets to walk away. While I'm not sure if it 
 is a random thing or something that happens when you are too close to the enemy the mini-game finds 
 your character with his gun in both arms out in front of him trying to keep the enemy soldier from 
 killing you. By hitting the two trigger buttons on the control you will eventually push the soldier 
 off of you and take him down. Again, not much but to me sometimes it is the little things that 
 can make or break a game and I love these new additions. The games strong point is the fact that 
 when you are playing there is so much commotion going on that you can't make heads or tails of 
 a situation. Just a simple task like poking your head out gets you shot, going to the left or right 
 gets you shot as well. What do you do? It is these situations that have the game shine the most 
 to me. I have never been in war so I compare these experiences with what I have seen in TV and 
 movies and compared to those, it is very realistic in the fact that you sometimes are bombarded 
 with so many things that you have to retreat or just sit back until there is a opening in which 
 you can get a shot or two off. It is little things like those that keep me coming back for more. 
 I consider this game a definite buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kyleiscool99
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 6, 2007 8:20 am PT
Review:  Call of duty 3:
  
  Sound: Excelant sound feels like your there in the war expecially when tanks fire but it could 
 be alot better Gameplay: Superb a very hands on game a great feature to the game, its just fight 
 ater fight just absoulutely insane :D
  
  Graphics: Great graphics but could be better a shame that you cant make your charactor and different 
 fases but apart from that its great
  
  Value: Good value for money stil reducing in price
  
  Tilt: great tilt look around change angel 
 a great feature to the game
  
  Multiplayer: In my eyes i think multiplayer (XBL) is absalutely insane :D
  Including great maps 
 and cool wepons also drivable vechiles like jeeps tanks also when you play there are modes like 
 .........
  
  Team battle
  Battle
  Capture the flag
  Headquarters
  and more.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scarymovie5
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 5, 2007 3:13 pm PT
Review:  This game can be very fun and exciteing but it just can' t compare to some 360 games. I had been 
 playing this for about a week and enjoyed it but then my friend came over and we played Gears of 
 War. Now I can't stop Gears of War again. Now we all know GOW is above average but same same thing 
 happens when I compare COD3 to Lost Planet and F. E. A. R. I also found it a bit easy, but if you 
 liked COD2 and COD then this will be fun. I'm not saying the game is bad or boring, it just doesn't 
 have the wow factor. My advice would be to rent this fun but average game before buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Meto_360
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 3, 2007 9:21 pm PT
Review:  Tha third installment of tha reall good Call Of Duty series.
  Call of Duty is based on WW2 oviously... and it tkes place during Paris. And it hard 2 explain 
 so i'll say u play as an American, British, Canadian, and Polish soldier. And WW2 has great stories 
 about soldiers and thier brotherhood wit there comrades. And this is a average-rate story. Wit 
 a plot that has been done over 100 times. And we all know that Hitle was defeated and tha Axis Powers 
 where done.
  Tha gameplay is pretty much tha same . U go around shootineem' and getitng 2ur object. S there 
 isn't really anything new. But u'll love tha weapons u'll use. From tha Sten to ta Bren and to 
 tha M1 Grand and tha Thompson. Tha achievements r pretty simpe but take a while 2 do. Most f it 
 is beating tha game and doing it again on Veteran. And also doing stuff like throwing greanades 
 back at enemys or using only German weapons during a mission or not getting shot mor than 30 times.
 
  Tha graphics r what u can ask from a xbox 360. Perfect 10. Tha game looks very real grahpic wise. 
 So Call of Duty 3 is a good WW2 game. But there is nothing new. And thank God that Call of Duty 
 4 is breaking awy from WW2. Cuz that whole WW2 theme is getting boring. But i perfer this game 
 if ur looking 4 tha best WW2 game up 2 date. Cuz i thnk Medal of Honor Airborn is gonna be good 
 but not better than Call of Duty 3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peoplesmeat
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jul 3, 2007 5:42 am PT
Review:  OK, just to clear this up, as far as ww2 shooters are concerned im pretty much a n00b (Medal of 
 honour Eueo Assault &amp; COD 2 only) . As far as FFS are concerned, an old pro.
  
  I've read a few reviews about COD3 that harped on about the story line but I have to say, compared 
 to game play and graphics it really did'nt matter. I did notice some lame racist dialogue but only 
 when I played the same level through again and again to unlock acheivments.
  
  OK here we go, i'll sum this bad boy up with bullet points
  
  Pros
  
  - Lots of action, 
 lots of Nazi's
  - Amazing game play &amp; graphics
  - Never got stuck or bored
  - Fairly good replay value
  - Awesome lag free (Australia!) online mode
  - Nice even achievements
 
  - Driving tanks
  - Burns COD2
  
  Cons
  
  - Some buggy AI
  - Poor introduction to levels
  - Cant skip cut scenes
  - Pretty poor story line but not all 
 that that bad
  
  Time to finish - 7 hours
  
  Oh well, it's my first review. Live with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnkil11
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 2, 2007 1:40 pm PT
Review:  This game is fantastic. The single player is good with an interesting story and good graphics but 
 the best thing about this game has to be the multiplayer! It is amazing!!!! Out of my1 2 xbox 360 
 games i have played the multiplayer on this more than all of my other games put together. The maps 
 are brilliant. You keep going back for more. When you get this game try out war on merville and 
 team battle on poisson. Be a scout on both. Also the graphics on the multiplayer are of the same 
 quallity of the single player. They look great! The detail inside all the buildings and in the 
 ruined houses are just fantastic. If you have xbox live, you must get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: assbubbles
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 2, 2007 8:27 am PT
Review:  Having played through Call of Duty 2, there were somethings about that i liked, and much that didn't 
 like. The way the weapons sounded, how it was obvious where the enemy A. I. in single player was 
 spawning and respawning from, the feel seemed a little off from what WW2 was. The multiplayer was 
 a joke. 8 people, on a lag server, and, using a atomatic was pointless, every one just used rifles 
 because they were all one hit kills. (That's fine, but it takes away from the diversity of gameplay.) 
 However, in Call of Duty 3, all these problems have been fixed, and in my opinion, this game is 
 MUCH better than it's predecessor. First off, the look of the game is much more chaotic, and more 
 war torn. The gameplay is fluid, while not much changes from the original, it works better with 
 the look and feel of the weapons and items and maps given to play on. The Ability to blow away 
 most cover just add's so much more to the experience and atmosphire to the game. The completely 
 revamped multiplayer is incredible. Playing the new game type war, using classes, and piloting 
 several different kinds of vechiles couldn't be any more fun. Weapons are balanced gameplay wise, 
 and the artillery strike alone adds much to the team play of the game. Not to mention i was able 
 to play a full server of 24 players LAG FREE! Unlike COD 2 were 8 people lagged a server to no 
 end. In short, this game is incredible, a must own. So much better than the original, and worthy 
 of being part of the Call of Duty franchise. While maybe not the best shooter of the year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Jaminson
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 2, 2007 1:15 am PT
Review:  Right away in the game it is clear what the game is trying to do: provide a complete first-person 
 shooter experience that is easy to pick up and play. In my opinion it is the mission length and 
 overall simplicity of the controls that make this possible. For the gamers who like a good story, 
 this has one as it tells the story of an infantry division from Poland, Canada, France, England 
 and the United States through the eyes of one specific soldier for each country as they attempt 
 to defeat the powerful German army. It is told in a really interesting way because throughout the 
 game you will play one mission as one soldier and the next will be in a totally different location 
 as a soldier from another country with a completely unique objective. The gameplay is essentially 
 in a typical first-person shooter style, with the trigger to shoot and the analog sticks to look 
 around and move respectively. These elements, however, are done extremely well with a WWII flare 
 to some of them such as the grenades and the types of longer range rifles that you can use are 
 not nearly as efficient as guns of the same genre are now. Everything just ties in together quite 
 well. The graphics are almost as good as you could possibly expect them to be at the point it was 
 released. The character models are very detailed, each soldier, if you peek below their helmets, 
 are different. The principal characters are especially distinct. The environments were not taken 
 lightly either. The plains and towns you are usually fighting in really do appear to be war ravaged 
 and destroyed. Some details such as enemy tanks and soldiers moving in the distance are not always 
 necessary, certainly provide a lot more depth to the backgrounds. Also, from what i know, the guns 
 look quite accurate to their real-life counterparts.
  
  The sound is possibly the most memorable aspect of this game, even more than the visuals simply 
 because you always feel like your in the middle of a war. There are yells, gunshots, and even explosions 
 in the distance that make the experience that much more complete. On top of that, the voice acting 
 was generally very good too, with maybe one or two mild exceptions. The music was very well used 
 as well. So basically Call of Duty 3 fror the Xbox360 is well worth the relatively short campaign 
 alone. But along with that are achievements, multiple difficulties, and a solid multiplayer mode. 
 On very rare occasions you may think it could have had a little more substance , but these are 
 definitely far enough apart and scarce that they wont matter even a bit in the final product. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadowfox626
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 30, 2007 3:45 pm PT
Review:  The game was just a bit over dramatic and fun a bit challenging the gameplay was superb. a little 
 bit over rated and over judged the game wans'nt that bad. just a bit blood and i heard some language 
 but i think its over rated. the multi player was really fun. a game really worth your time and 
 is on my list for sure. but for beginners i suggest renting first. the best in call of duty and 
 in shooters guaranteed. the difficulty was a little easy and and a little hard and the game really 
 stood out. it took me somewhere around ten to twenty hours to beat it three times 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DonutTrooper
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 30, 2007 3:10 pm PT
Review:  This games visuals are awesome. The graphics are amazing with all most every part. The multiplayer 
 of it is the best. One of the best features of this game is that you can play with 4 people at 
 a time online on the same console while playing online. The games singleplayer falls short though. 
 The singleplayer isn't much variety from the others besides hand to hand cutseen combat parts and 
 the planting bomb parts. The singleplayer otherwise is the same even though you play as different 
 people its still just something like defend the tower or Storm the building and take out the fuel 
 tanks . This game's multiplayer is great. Usually nothing wrong except they aren't enough good 
 maps. The maps that are good are so fun though that you never even need to go to a different map. 
 Overall this game is great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Greyfox-101
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 30, 2007 10:35 am PT
Review:  Well another Call of Duty game. I found CoD 2 to be extremely enjoyable. With the intense missions 
 at Pointe-Du-Hoc and the blood-pumping hill charges how can you top that? Well, you kind of can't. 
 The best part about Call of Duty 3 is either the graphics or the multiplayer.
  
  Gameplay: It is essentially the same as Call of Duty 2 but they just added a few things like the 
 first person one on one hand combat. The multiplayer is kind of fun though. It was sort of like 
 United Offensive with next-gen graphics. The only problem I found was that people would always 
 start games and then leave having only like 6 players total on huge maps. The single player portion 
 isn't nearly as memorable as CoD2s was. I found most of the missions, quite frankly boring.
  
  Graphics: The graphics look pretty good especially when it is raining or something like that. 
 The gun models are pretty accurate and the models looks good as well.
  
  Sound: The sound design is good and captures the ambiance of battle.
  
  Closing: I would rent 
 this game like I did. I was excited for it but it just didn't live up to what CoD 2 was. That could 
 possibly be becuase it wasn't developed by Infinity Ward. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilhawkkid182
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 16, 2007 8:00 am PT
Review:  My first experience with Call of Duty 3 was on the Ps2, the graphics were terrible, and the single 
 player felt a dumbed down version of Call of Duty 2. The multiplayer was somewhat fun, but it didnt 
 stop me from playing Call of Duty 2 on my high-end PC. And I guess that is what should really determine 
 whether or not you pick up Call of Duty 3 for the Xbox 360. If you own Call of Duty 2 and you have 
 a high end graphics card or just have it for the Xbox 360 then you will be set, and you will probably 
 just want to rent Call of Duty 3 first to see if it is worth buying. If you don't do any PC gaming 
 then you need to buy this game and get Xbox Live, because the single player just is not that much 
 fun as the other games in the series. I know that this is a short review, but whether or not you 
 should play this game all comes down to whether or not you have played CoD2 on the Xbox 360 or 
 on the PC. If you are like me and you have chances are you might be disappointed with the whole 
 been there done that feel of the game, but if you have not played CoD2 then by all means go out 
 and pick up this game and have a blast online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stewmodulecod
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 25, 2007 9:44 pm PT
Review:  COD3 is a game of high and low. I'll begin with the low: single player, it is heavily lacking in 
 story, it's a simple story you would buy from the 7-11 down the block. The gameplay is fun, shooting, 
 sniping, throwing grenades, and battle actions, the true bane of the entire game, it seems a little 
 corny to reduce what should be a gritty fistfight, or arming a bomb on German artillery while under 
 fire into simple button pressing. I can't feel affected by a face to face fight with a grizzled 
 German soldier when I have to press a few buttons to beat him. Otherwise single player is a good, 
 simple ride from start to finish. Multi player is truly the crown jewel of the game, the constant 
 chaos of snipers, tanks , and gunfire makes you really feel like you're in the Second World War, 
 although team killers can be horrifically prevalent, even they can't ruin one of the best multi 
 player games to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: imperial_agent
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 25, 2007 11:57 am PT
Review:  It's hard to make CoD a bad game.
  
  CoD3 definately is worthy of the CoD fame. The Bad:
  
  There are some minor glitches in the game that can get annoying. Your objective marker on the 
 mini-map sometimes doesn't update, leaving you wondering where you supposed to be going or doing 
 next. Once, I was ON the marker, but the event wouldn't trigger. I kept running around the level, 
 backtracking, and I killed some Nazi I must have forgetten near the start of the level. When I 
 got back to the marker, the event finally triggered. Another time, the marker was waay off the 
 map, and didn't update until much later pointing to the next objective. Little annoying things 
 like that. Graphically, it's slighty underpar from CoD2. You'll see some sharp turns and edges 
 around organic things, such as the flow of a stream and trees. The environments have fewer polys 
 than they did in CoD3.
  
  The guns have a slightly different, not necesarrily bad, but different, feel to them than CoD2. 
 The Good:
  The game is a little bit easier than CoD2. CoD2 was insanely hard if you wanted to unlock those 
 achievements. But CoD3 makes them less stressful to get since a lot of the achievements don't require 
 Veteran difficulty. Another advantage CoD3 has over CoD2 is the auto-aim. When you aim down your 
 sights, your gun will typically snap to an enemy that's within a certain proximity of your marker. 
 This makes ducking-firing-ducking much easier and more natural as well. You'll rarely find yourself 
 in a situation where you're pinnned down behind a box, and you have to pop-out, aim, duck, fix 
 your aim again, then shoot. CoD3 simplifies that and makes it much easier by automatically aiming 
 on a bad guy when you aim down the sites. I love it. Thanks Treyach!
  
  Overall, the game looks darker than CoD2. The artists at Treyarch must have had their monitors 
 on too bright, because all the assets are kinda hard to see. It's still a great game tho, and the 
 mulitplayer kicks butt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlueScreen
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jun 23, 2007 4:55 pm PT
Review:  The game looks great but not much better than COD2. That might have been OK were it not for the 
 incredibly annoying story. I wished they could have just shut the f up and let me shoot people 
 and blow stuff up. COD2 had a little story to it and true, it was kind of silly at moments, but 
 it didn't really get in the way too much. In COD3 it tries to make itself into a war movie you're 
 watching instead of playing. Not cool, unless you get some really great writers and make a compelling 
 story that is developed by the action and not just a distraction. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShovelshoT
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jun 23, 2007 3:47 pm PT
Review:  For anyone who has ever played a World War II shooter, let this be your last. Since I havent played 
 one in quite some time I was expecting far more from a next generation game. Although this game 
 is as good as a WWII game can get, the genre itself needs to be laid to rest. The computer AI is 
 very linear, at best. There was nothing new in this game from past games of this type. You can 
 basically run right through the levels, stopping occasionally to take care of a few enemies. The 
 on-line multi-player is the only really great thing about this game. The on-line maps were laid 
 out nicely for combat friendly matches. Unless you enjoy on-line game play, dont waste your time 
 with this game just for its single player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grassgreener12
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 23, 2007 9:06 am PT
Review:  COD 3 is the sequel to COD2, which came out as a launch title for the 360 and was definitely the 
 best of all the launch titles. it had great graphics, fun multiplayer, and an intense campaign. 
 COD3 is an excellent follow up to it and is easily much more intense than COD2.
  
  Gameplay ---the gameplay is very similiar to the previous call of duty games.... you still have to 
 use the sight and u cant take a lot of damage.... the game is still fairly linear. the controls 
 haven't changed much at all. there are still the vehicle sequences where you take control of a 
 tank and blow up other tanks, which is still fairly fun. the game is very intense, especially on 
 the hard and veteren difficulty modes. the close quarters confrontation is a pretty lame feature, 
 because its basically button mashing and there are only like 10 in the entire game
  
  Graphics ---the graphics are absolutely superb for a 360 game! Treyarch has done a good job and 
 set a new standard for graphics. there are individual grass effects, great explosions, and great 
 character animations. the guns look great, but are awfully shiny for some reason. Sound ---the sound 
 is amazing.... Treyarch and Activision have cooked up an excellent orchestral score that fits the 
 game..... the gun sound effects are great and you can hear bullets whiz by your ear. if you turn 
 your speakers up on high, it sounds like someone is actually shooting at you, which is really neat.. 
 the characters have good accents and sound realistic..... americans sound like americans, brits 
 sound like brits, etc. Value ---this game is highly replayable in the excellent multiplayer. while 
 a little awkward at first for those who have played COD2, it's really cool. this time, there are 
 24 players in 6 different modes. vehicles are also added such as jeeps, motorcycles, and tanks 
 for a different experience. there are character classes which add a lot more depth... there is 
 a lot of fun to have with the COD3 multiplayer suite..... go buy this game if you are a FPS fan!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zekere
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 23, 2007 12:50 am PT
Review:  Chances are that you've played Call of Duty 2, which was the best launch title for the X360 . Comparing 
 both games is not something I will do in this review . Call of Duty 3 or COD3 as it is called in 
 gamersworld is a first person shooter set in WW2 . You play the role of different soldiers of the 
 allies forces in their quest to free France of the German invasion . Each faction has a storyline 
 tied to it but you'll soon notice that you don't care so much about it and find it rather annoying 
 . The main reason for this is the fact that each time you resume the game you'll have to see a 
 lengthy cutscene that introduces you to the mission . These are interesting the first time you 
 see them, but become tedious when you see them for the seventh time or so . The first thing you'll 
 notice when starting the single player quest are the incredible graphics . These are among the 
 best you've seen on the 360 and in my opinion only passed by Gears of War . The animation of the 
 soldiers is nice, the environments are beautiful and the explosion and smoke effects are top notch 
 . Soundwise, you must have Dolby 5.1 (or better) to really enjoy this game . The sound effects 
 of bullets flying around your head and cannonfire coming from behind add a lot to the amazing atmosphere 
 this game has . The music compositions are all classical (in real WW2 style) and can be enjoyed 
 in a game like this . It makes me smile to hear the chan&ccedil; ons of Edith Piaf playing on a 
 grammophone when you enter a building, searching for hidden enemies . Atmosphere is another great 
 element this game has to offer . The missions are dripping with atmosphere which make you live 
 the experience instead of just playing it, that is, if you choose a high difficulty but not the 
 veteran setting . The game is quite long ( 14 single player missions) and each new mission feels 
 different than the previous . But the game is not without flaws . The first is the veteran difficulty 
 setting that real COD veterans will play the game on . Enemies keep respawning all the time and 
 you'll have to move forward in order to cut this chains of enemies . This is a real letdown for 
 people who enjoy sniping . Secondly, it seems as if bullets are hitting you through cover and out 
 of nowhere, which becomes frustrating if you retry that last checkpoint for the 50th time . And 
 now that we are mentioning it, the checkpoint system is the greatest flaw in the game . Some parts 
 are too long without checkpoints and become tedious to replay completely from beginning ( you WILL 
 remember the forest )
  Also the missions half through the game are simply dull to play through . The only thing that made 
 me through them was the veteran achievement and the fact that you had already passed such a difficult 
 trial . Lastly, the single player experience is extremely linear . Soldiers keep saying the same 
 line of text in the same spot each time you play . This leads to memorable one-liners which you 
 will repeat in synch with the soldiers when you hear them the 60th time ( we gotta get across this 
 road !! and we're not gonna lose this hill !! are great examples) .
  But all in all, I liked the Call of Duty 3 campaign (even on veteran) , although I don't remember 
 another game that I burned when I completed it . And if you still have need for more COD after 
 the campaign, you can always play multiplayer games on live or local . Multiplayer is great, with 
 good balanced maps and lots of modes to play . It's also nice to see that the achievements are 
 done well, although getting 100 points for completing a mission without firing a bullet isn't fair 
 compared with the maigre 150 points you'll achieve for completing veteran . Conclusion ? COD3 is 
 a great game that isn't without flaws but has a number of outstanding features that makes it worth 
 the Call of Duty franchise . No, it's not so good as part two but still manages to deliver a great 
 experience . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yofer32
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 22, 2007 9:24 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3 plays mostly like its predecessor. The main difference being vehicles, and bigger 
 online maps. Most first-person veterans will breeze through the single player campaign with ease 
 on low difficulty levels. The game takes on a whole new life once you bump up the difficulty though. 
 The online modes are pretty run of the mill with CTF, Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, and Headquarters. 
 A fresh new mode online is War. The point of War is to take strategic positions on the map and 
 hold them. It is very entertaining. All around this is a great game worth your time and money. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: buying1999
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 21, 2007 12:28 pm PT
Review:  This game builds on what activision did right on COD2. The single player mode really makes you 
 feel like you're there during some of the most fierce battles of WWII. The graphics are something 
 to see and the visual effects have a great production value to them. The controls of the games 
 are spot on. The A. I is very crafty, trying to flank and take cover when every possible. The A. I 
 characters play similarily to what you may see when playing against a human opponent. I am disappointed 
 in a couple aspects of the game. First is the sniper rifle in the multiplayer games. There's just 
 too much lethality for the sniper rifle. Basically you hide out and shoot those that are looking 
 for a place to hide out. Secondly is the lack of the ability to mantle. This was a feature in COD2 
 that really enhanced the gameplay but is missing in COD3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Clonetrooper911
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 19, 2007 7:20 pm PT
Review:  For Call of Duty 3 I found that the gameplay was basically the same which I like personally, but 
 the Teyarch team added a little fighting scene thing that allows you to battle with your ends of 
 the rifle. At first its kind of stupid but once you get the hang of it you start to like it and 
 want to do it more. The enemy AI can be at times stupid. For instance they will run right into 
 the fire of your gun, and some of the enemies dont like to use cover to save themselves. Honestly 
 this game is solid with a few bumps. When this becomes smoother the guys at Bungie should watch 
 there backs!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: STJam
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 19, 2007 2:16 pm PT
Review:  An amazing single player campaign and a brilliant multiplayer just keeps you hooked for hours!
 
  
  MULTI-PLAYER:
  
  On XBOX LIVE there could be thousands of players on at any one time it's that good! Mow your enemies 
 (or allies, woops) down with many vehicles including jeeps, motorbikes and tanks!
  
  Loads of different weapons like rifles, sub-machineguns, MGs, bazookas, heavy-machineguns, snipers 
 and shotguns just help you rack up the kills!
  
  Place mines to cover your flag or base! Take out a tank by throwing a grenade in it's cockpit! 
 Fire a rifle-grenade down a corridor and take out most of their team with one shot! Call air-strikes 
 on the enemy base to absolutely anihilate their whole team!
  
  SINGLE-PLAYER:
  
  PLay as an American, British, Canadian or Polish soilder trying to retake France from the Nazis!
 
  
  Breath-taking battles that are so intense that you feel like you are there yourself! See bullets 
 whizz past your had and hear a scream of one of your comrades as he drops to the floor! Hear the 
 explosion of a tank shell and watch as your men run for cover!
  
  I think that this is the best FPS ever both for it's single and multi-player!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamesrojao
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 18, 2007 5:08 am PT
Review:  This game is insane. Im a big first person shooter fan and this game delivers. From the opening 
 scene your intensity level is high. The graphics are amazing and compare to call of duty 2 their 
 arent that many differences except a desire to play more. The game also holds a 24 multiplayer 
 on x box live and that can get out of hand. The series just keeps gettin better and better and 
 I can't wait for the 4th installment of this series. The game also looks crisp and nice on the 
 High definition it feels like your on the goddamn battle field fighting for your life agains those 
 pesky nazis. The A. I is also a lot more deeper and harder to kill the second game i would just 
 run around and merk everyone out, thihs time im actually strategizing behind a wall while shots 
 from a machine gun are flyin over my head. If first person shooters are your thing this is a definite 
 keeper 
::::::

::::::
UserName: russruss1234
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 17, 2007 6:56 pm PT
Review:  I will start off with the positives in the game. The graphics are very good in this game, probably 
 some of the best on the system for shooters. It makes it very realistic and helps bring you in 
 to the atmosphere a little more. Also, the guns are great, I have not experienced any problems 
 with them and they all do what they should very well. Also, you can now throw back grenades! This 
 is a plus as you no longer have to run or escape corners. The multiplayer is very fun as well, 
 although it is kind of like a downgraded Battlefield 2: Modern Combat. It is still very fun and 
 a blast to play with friends or in ranked. Also, I found the campaign to be a good long length.
 
  
  Now for the downside, my biggest beef with this game is the fact that you can't skip the intro/endings 
 to the chapters, which means I have to watch them every freaking time, and usually they are terrible. 
 They try to give you more insight into the characters which I thought to be very shallow, this 
 is a video game after all not a movie, and it should remain that way. Also, the single player is 
 a little more paced that CoD 2, which some may like, but I personally did not. It was also a little 
 repetitive at times. (You have to plant about 25 charges through out the game, in which you must 
 press random buttons and turn your analog stick. This is incredibly annoying.) My biggest beef 
 with the multiplayer which is REALLY detracts from the game as a whole is the fact that it feels 
 the need to boot random people who are lagging down the game. I personally know for a fact that 
 my connection is superb and hence I am confused as to why I would get booted every other game, 
 (but I see that I am not the only one, as about a third of the people are booted every game automatically.) 
 This is a shame considering it takes about 5 minutes or more on average to actually get into a 
 game...
  
  Overall though it isn't bad, it isn't quite worth 60$, but if you are a CoD fan or a fan of WWII 
 games in general I recommend it to you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: w4rgasm
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 17, 2007 9:54 am PT
Review:  Due to reviews with a lack of negativities, I am going to make a short list of all the flaws I 
 found in the game. But don't get me wrong, it is still a miraculous game to play.
  
  
  
  Flaw No. 1
  Some bugs hinder your movement and/or can freeze your game.
  Example) The terrain 
 in the background did no load and all I saw were floating figures to shoot at.
  Example 2) Some places are not meant to go to in single-player... Wander near those locations, 
 and you may find yourself trapped and in need of a grenade to kill yourself.
  
  Flaw No. 2
  The close-quarters combat is definitely not intense, and is definitely not worth 
 anyone's time. What happens is the Germans attack you with a melee attack randomly throughout the 
 campaign, and (with your amazing reflexes and ingenuity) you catch his weapon and face-off between 
 him tugging the gun back and forth. But in video game controller standards, all this means is that 
 you tap between the left and right bumpers until it tells you to press A to knock him out. Very 
 very dull.
  
  Flaw No. 3
  There were times when I wish there were more stealth missions or solo missions. You are always 
 with your squad, and if you want to sit back and snipe, it doesn't work. You can snipe, but not 
 in a stealthy manner.
  
  Flaw No. 4
  The enemy soldiers constantly go through the same pattern to kill you. And they will always be 
 in the same positions.
  Example) Say you are playing through a level, you get to a bunker with a soldier behind a crate 
 and another soldier near a pillar. They catch you off-guard and you die. You restart at the last 
 checkpoint and get to the bunker again. One enemy soldier will be near the crate, and the other 
 near the pillar. This will never change. So if you memorize the campaign, you could simple have 
 your trigger aimed at those locations to put them out in a flurry of bullets. I wish they randomized 
 the orders and made it a little more spontaneous (like the war) .
  
  Flaw No. 5
  This isn't particularly a flaw, but it was a bit of a nuisance to me. When you wish to plant an 
 explosive, instead of just planting it and running, you have to sit at the explosive and rotate 
 the analog and press a couple buttons in order to set the explosive correctly. Though this is more 
 realistic, I would have preferred to just disregard it and move on. I'd rather kill people than 
 sit at an enemy artillery twisting the analog to detonate an explosive.
  
  Flaw No. 6
  Again, nothing much of a flaw, but more of a nuisance. When watching the cut-scenes for the first 
 time, you will sit back and gape at the astounding details and graphics (although some of the voice 
 acting is a tad cheesy from time to time) . But the second time around, when you are watching that 
 same exact cut-scene... you are going to want to click a button to skip it, right? Right. But you 
 can't. You have to sit through that cut-scene to the very end. Annoying? Yes. Can you survive? 
 Let's hope so.
  
  
  And that's about it. I may have forgotten some things here and there, but overall the game is amazing. 
 This review was to point out the flaws because I'm sure most of you have already read 100 different 
 times why this game is great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spetznazsoldier
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 16, 2007 7:33 pm PT
Review:  quick and after you get bored it's hard to come back to it. graphics and sound are probably the 
 best to date but this WWII genre is getting beat down year after year, companies really have to 
 mix it up make it more modern or really old like vietnam or something, just not anymore WW2 games, 
 they are getting to played out!!!!!  
 gh ghv hgv hgvhgvghvvghv hgv hv ghvgh v hgv hv v ghv vhgv hv ghv hgv ndfjkvdfjkvsdf jkndfsvndfvndf 
 fhvfjkvdf vdjkfvjkdfn dfvndfvndfv dfjkvdfjkv dfjkvnjkdfsnv dsfkjvndfjkvn  
 vdf v fv df vdfjvn dfvnjkdfvn dfv kdfjv dfjkv fdjkvn  
 fhndf fndjkhsdfhurf nbjkdsf fnsdjkfn sdf kjehhe ehejhfjkefndfsjldfsd hkhdsfhsuioehutop ther te 
 dhshs erhkjsdbncsnsjkdnfnfjkghsdf 
::::::

::::::
UserName: death_zone
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 16, 2007 3:36 am PT
Review:  Attention:
  Soldiers, strap your rifles and grenades with you, leave your computers and xbox live off your field 
 packs and pouch, coz this review is only meant for the Single Player Mode!
  
  Call Of duty series has always remain as one of the best FPS for a World war 2 Genre. In fact its 
 the only Best FPS for a world war 2 game, and now, it still remains as the Best First Person Shooter. 
 How i wish i could add another one more star on the cover box below the Number 3 and make it to 
 four stars instead of just three..
  
  Starting off.. as usual, you're a private.. and the game takes you to some basic course training lettin 
 you to know more bout the controls of the game for bout 3-5 minutes... and after that, you're on 
 a ride and ready for action!
  
  What caught my eye first was the visuals... Especially in the first mission after your training 
 level, i have to say... aww!! awesome! the graphics are fantastic (With HDTV of course) ! The environments 
 are well adapt, and chaos brings this game to reality... explosions all around.. soldiers firing 
 everywhere.. bullets spreading from every angles till you don't know from where it came from to 
 hit u!! And that will just make you sit on the edge of your seat getting ready to wipe away your 
 sweaty wet palms..
  
  Aww!! thats wat i said earlier rite?... But after a few levels of playing, i've decided to say Oh! 
 oh dear.. what happened here.. the graphics looks like current gen all of sudden. The beauty visuals 
 that you saw in the first couple of levels are gone..
  And that's because of the night missions... The Night Missions in call of duty 3 wont give you an 
 eye poppin moment.. it looks dull... and plain due to lack of ligthins and Blue colour like darkness... But 
 not to worry, coz the day will come once the sun start to rise again. Lightin effects are well used 
 in the day missions.. gun models looks good.. so does the crisp uniform the soldiers are wearing. 
 YEAH!! the Uniforms look Damn pretty good in COD3 till i got mixed up with the enemies and my own 
 squadmates..
  That's right... Sometimes.. it's hard for you to notice who are who.. quite a number of time i take 
 a shot.. and guess what? Friendly Fire Cannot be tolerated.. and what are you waiting for?! Load 
 Back From the last saved checkpoint Soldier! you've just shot your friend! it's not acceptable..! 
 That's one of the annoyin part.. it's an accident.. so why can't i just move on?
  
  Treyarch's Officer: That's because your A. I Teammates needs to be Alive you fool! Can't you see?! 
 look at Your Weapon! what weapon are you holding onto?!
  
  Player: It's Mp40 sir! oh wait... Oh no! where's my M1 Garrand?!
  
  Treyarch Officer: Private! 
 You A. I Teammates won't be dead unless you shoot em! SO don't think about seein your Teammates 
 being shot to death by your enemy! And for the Most of the times, Dont think about using your own 
 type of weapons.. you'll be using the German Weapons when you run out of ammo Got it!
  
  That's what happened in COD 3.. you'll be spending most of your time holding the german weapons... But 
 that wont stop you.. The pure fun and intensity level will keep you goin no matter what weapons 
 you have in your dirty bare hands! And it's hard to see your teammantes beeing shot to death except 
 for certain missions.. but which they will eventually respawn back and move on the same spot that 
 they are being killed... funny! and dumb...
  
  Player :HEY!! What are you doin?! can't you hit the target whose just one metre away from you?! 
 And why instead of shooting you whose standing right in front of them, they are shooting at me?
 
  
  Teammates: Sorry i can't! you are the player! so you should take him out! i'm just standing here 
 to fill up the envirionment!
  
  The above dialogue.. shows you that your teammates dont actually plays a big role in the game.. you'll 
 be doin most of the killings and shootings.. so don't expect much from them. It's good though coz 
 as a player.. you want to play the game in every aspect the game is bein made.. But the realism level 
 isn't there that much during combat due to your teammate Awareness level..
  
  Player: How the hell you hide being those covers and walls?!! How do you lean your back against 
 the walls and peek of it??!! Tell me!
  
  Teammates: Dont ask me how! ask treyarch! they're the on who develops these features for us! I 
 guess yoiu have to wait till call of duty 4 or 5 to have these upgrades on you!
  
  Call Of duty 3 still haven't got any cover system or at least a lean or peak move that your player 
 can do.. sometimes it's hard to fight against enemies around corners.. I hope it's being implemented 
 in Call Of Duty 4...
  
  So what additions do call of duty 3 really add? It's not a fun game without these features and 
 that kind of A. I level...!
  
  Well you are wrong!... in call of duty 3.. u're a big bully! U alone.. will kill hundred of German 
 Soldiers.. You're more than a rambo! Carrying two different weapons at a time.. and 4-5 smoke and 
 coockable grenades! Rambo uses frag grenades,, but yours is a coockable one!
  
  Treyarch Officer: Listen up soldiers! This Grenade is called a Coockable Grenade.. when you pull 
 off the pin, you have 5 seconds to throw it, or else you will be glad to see your helmets sittin 
 on your neck without your head!
  
  Player: Woah! this is dangerous! But i'm happy that this time around.. we as players can throw the 
 grenades back at the german soldiers who have just threw it to us..
  
  That's right.. In call of duty 3.. you can simply pick a grenade that has just been thrown.. and throw 
 back at your enemy.. so u don't need to worry or look for a cover if you dont have one.. But beware... it 
 has timing too.. but it's a fun addition to keep the intense level high...
  
  Call of duty 3 also adds some driving levels this time around.. But i think it's kinda lame.. driving 
 arent as good as other driving games.. and at times.. you will feet that you're actually flying instead 
 of driving... it'll be a great addition if Treyarch would fix the phyhsics of the driving... Tank 
 levels are here again.. it's kinda boring too.. level design arent spacious.. u might just find your 
 tank stuck at alleys and roads.. and please.. TURN ON the crosshair during your tank missions.. it's 
 freakin difficult to hit your target without it.
  
  Teammate: Quick!! Place the bomb on the Flak GUN!! Player: hold on! this aint call of duty 2 or 
 graw 2! i need to see my button sequence first!
  
  this time around.. instead of pressing and holding the X button to attached the bomb to a tank or 
 AA Flak gun, you have to follow some button sequence that are being displayed on the screen and 
 press it accordingly... It's good to have these button sequence when placing a bomb.. it adds like 
 a minigame to it.. but too bad,, it'; s too repetitive.. and you wont feel the intensity when you were 
 placing the bomb as you will hear your heartbeat as the most loudest sound,, and don't know what 
 is happening around you..
  
  Player: I know theres an anemy behind those wall! he's alone! but can i not fight with him hand 
 to hand? coz it's taking to long! i might just shot him in his head!
  
  Treyarch Officer: This game is scripted.. Like it or not.. u have to go thru him and fight with him!
 
  
  Another addtion to the series.. is this new cutscenes look alike fights... where you will go one 
 on one with a german soldier.. he will hide behind somethin, and suddenly attack or charged you from 
 the side.. from there.. you will be needed to press some button sequences on screen.. and beat him 
 down.. A unique feature.. but i think some of the fights are too long.. will be repetitive too once 
 u've play it after completion..
  
  That's the few additions that has been made since call of duty 2.. So whats so good about call of 
 duty 3, and whats the bad part?
  
  Well, call of duty 3 wont be as intense as call of duty 2, but the standard gameplay is still there.. Go 
 around and kill germans.. shoot them mercilessly.. and it's always fun to shoot them! It has an acceptable 
 speed yet well paced.. a good button configurations and it easy to use in terms of controlling your 
 character around plus with vibrations makes the game feels real... You can expect the same standard 
 as call of duty 2, but this time around.. your player will move more slower pace than COD2... It feels 
 a little bit realistic when moving your character forth and back.. depending on how hard you push 
 your left analog stick.. the more you push.. the faster your character goes..
  there are no sprinting in call of duty 3..
  
  Just like COD2, Call of duty 3 is divided into 
 three campaigns... US, British, and Canada.. The US campaign is the most intense and nicest level 
 to play on! the British one arent as good.. as it involves more into room to room clearing and driving.. the 
 canada missions aren't bad too...
  Depending on how you play, this game might last up to 8-12 hours...
  
  The story arent that 
 well driven.. as you switches between characters, just spoils the concept of the story.. also.. you 
 can consider the cutscenes as loading times.. coz you cant skipped the cutscenes... most of the cutscenes 
 are lame to watch.. too much talkin and walkin.. but yet so little shooting... so don't expect much 
 from the cutscenes...
  
  SOund level is average... of course.. the sound of reloading of weapons and shooting just will burst 
 you ears.. but the voice acting are weak.. you would just sleep listenin to them... not much effort 
 was bein put in the gameplay voices too... as it tends to get repetitive soon... But forget about 
 tuning the difficulty level.. you're one in a million if u can beat the game in hard or veteran 
 mode..
  
  And one last thing.. it is very scripted.. and i really mean verrrry scripted.. you will face the 
 same thing on the same spot if you played that mission again... dont believe me? try it.. everything 
 from start to end.. u will start and finish the game the same way... well.. it's just like a movie.. everythin 
 just looks the same when u watch it again and again...
  
  But most people stick with it because of the multiplayer.. for me.. i've stick with it a couple of 
 times.. because it's always fun to shoot the germans.. the game is filled with actions most of the 
 time.. and u wouldnt wanna leave a single german troop standing alive... The impact of the grenades 
 explosions are great, its fun to watch how your enemies fly off being hurt by a grenade...
  
  Animations wise.. arent that great.. running of A. I still looks weird.. their feet never really 
 corresponds to the ground.. some death animations arent interesting..
  
  But overall.. i still consider COD 3 the best FPS i've ever played.. Action filled pack shooting 
 game, with nice visuals and intense level.. I gave COD2 8.7, because COD 2 feels fresh and better 
 compared to COD 1 and for COD 3, there not much changes bein made in game.. Some Bugs arent necessary 
 to be there which they can fix to make the game more accessible will make the game better...
  
  It's easy to play... and it's for everyone.. u dont need skills to play COD 3.. all u need is 
 your senses,,, and of course an Xbox360 or PS3... just leave your PC aside for COD 3...
  
  COD 3 is a must get for FPS fans... but after times.. things will just feel old in the SP mode... so 
 i recommend you to rent it first... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AuBfAn0578
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 13, 2007 10:22 pm PT
Review:  One of the best war games ever created. It's up there with Halo. I can not wait until the next 
 one comes out. The graphics are the best I've ever seen as well in this game and the game play 
 is incredible. It is the best game that you will ever play. As well as the best multi-player game 
 that you will play. The multi-player game is really intense and is fantastic. Ok well i don't know 
 what else to write to i'm just going to put down some other things. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darklink67
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 11, 2007 2:37 pm PT
Review:  This was my first game forx-box 360 it also determind if i was going to like it or trade it in 
 for a wii or ps3 witch it really impressed me and my friends and family.
  
  Gameplay- Out standing just awsome on x-box live and single player. Even know there are to meny 
 snipers on live witch are over talented but once you learn how to counter them it becomes fun. 
 Single player offers a somewhat of a ditailed summary of world war 2. Never play this game on vetrean 
 until you get very skilled at this game. There are alot of gun's from world war 2 and aim just 
 like they would but my question is why are the german weapons so under powred also why are the 
 trench guns so unrealitic?
  
  Now on to the graphics. When i first saw this game i was amazed on how detailed and how realictic 
 this game is. I liked how when you went up to an alley and you good see the threads of there suit's
 
  
  Sound- The sound was very persice on what it would sound like if a bullet hit a wall or a bomb 
 went off. The guns are what it would sound like if they fired so.
  
  Value-This game is very valuable in my eyes.
  
  By all this game is amazing. the end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Keith4Chelski
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 11, 2007 8:47 am PT
Review:  If you havent completed the game its best you dont read this.
  
  Simply one of the best first person shooters out for the Xbox 360 the game includes a good story 
 line where you get to play as the Polish, American, British, and Canadians each country has diffrent 
 weapons to choose from expect from Canadians and Americans they use pretty much the same weapons 
 the game will take you into all kinds of situations you will have to assault a Nazi base and to 
 Defend your Allied base you also get some choices whether you assault left right or down the middle 
 and the new fighting sequence is a bit pointless but still it doesnt harm the game you will be 
 playing in diffrent parts depending which country you are currently on for example with the Polish 
 they are mainly using the Tank the Polish missions are pretty easy so to make it harder make sure 
 you try it on the hardest mode and all the rest are just shooting, playing this game on the easiest 
 mode is pretty much pointless id advise any good first person shooter to try it on the second hardest 
 setting or veteran mode.
  The graphics are very good not much bad to say about them all the things that you cant drive looks 
 like you probably could but you cant :- (.
  Their is plenty of gameplay you will find yourself playing mostly on the multiplayer because once 
 the singeplayer is done theirs not much else to do than prove how good you are against real people.
 
  The problems about this games are the glitches its very annoying when people decided to use them 
 it means they can hide inside a wall and shoot you whilst you cant even see them thats the massive 
 downfall about this game people get to use a glitch freely and theirs nothing been done to fix 
 it the final problem is just a minor one it might annoy people who are wanting to get into the 
 leaderboard it takes a very long time to get a ranked match started unfortunatley but dont worry 
 too much about the glitches their are plenty of maps where these cheaters cant take advantage of 
 the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Metalhead8282
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 11, 2007 7:45 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3 is an excellent additional to the Call of Duty series in every way that a sequel 
 can be. The single player campaign was outstanding from the first mission to the last, the game 
 constantly bombards you with a level of non-stop action that never seems to feel old or repetitive. 
 The musical score for this game adds to the action by playing what feels to be the right music 
 for the right setting at the right time.
  
  The only negative about this game was it's multiplayer component. I've played may times on multiplayer 
 only to find it was way too easy to kill and be killed which took away from some of the fun of 
 the game.
  
  Overall, Call of Duty 3 is a excellent game that is worth adding to any true FPS gamer's library. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wpbsmoka
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 11, 2007 7:25 am PT
Review:  I feel that the multiplayer gameplay would be the biggest area of improvement. You can have something 
 like 24 players with super easy access to player matches (drops you right in the middle of action, 
 Battlefield 2 style) . Tanks, Jeeps and Motorcycles, c'mon, what more do you want? A variety of 
 terrain on the maps. Single player is sick as well, with some decent difficulty compared to games 
 like GRAW2. No complaints about the graphics here. Sounds are superb. Gameplay is a little more 
 chaotic than COD2, but fun none the less. Might hit a glitch where you get stuck on objects, just 
 keep crouching and jumping until you get out. All in all more bang for the buck compared to COD2. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RebornInFlames
Rating: 8
Date: May 4, 2008 2:33 pm PT
Review:  If you own any Call of Duty game, particularly CoD 2, you know what to expect here. You and your 
 squad will move through various locales shooting Nazis and completing objectives while trying not 
 to eat any German lead. This game is made by a different developer than the 2nd game, Treyarch, 
 but gameplay differences are negligible. Ballistics are still spot-on amazing, enemy AI is pretty 
 good, and adept at flushing you out with grenades and maintaining cover. Your friendly AI is better 
 than before and gets in the way of your shooting much less often. They are essential for surviving 
 fights on Veteran difficulty and the key is to advance them by reaching cover ahead yourself. Even 
 if you keep your head down the whole time, they will advance to where you are and lay down fire. 
 A couple of small gameplay changes have been made - you can now throw back enemy grenades that 
 come your way, and you can cook your own grenades, something that is very handy as the Germans 
 will try to toss your frags back as well. Another thing that has been changed is the focus-blur 
 effect that appears while aiming down the sight of your gunl and the motion blur if you aim down 
 the sight and move around. These effects are much more noticeable now. Graphics are great, and 
 you only notice issues when you are hiding in brush and can see the low-res leaf textures up close. 
 The locales however are less varied than in CoD 2, and environments are mostly the ubiquitous countryside/small 
 town combo. The story also feels disjointed as you bounce around from different characters. The 
 first 2 missions you are american, then the 3rd you are british, then you go back to american etc. 
 One thing I think they could have done is include more things for the AI to say. I'm sick of hearing 
 'Germans in the open #o'clock' and the nazi phrases are very repetitive as well. Multiplayer is 
 a blast, although I think it would be better if you could take more damage. The class system works 
 very well, and maps are well designed. The action truly feels like a war, with airstrikes coming 
 down, medics running out to save people, and snipers prowling open fields. If you enjoyed CoD 2, 
 buy this game. If you haven't played any CoD games, this is a good place to start as it has the 
 best multiplayer and a very solid single player campaign. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crypto-236
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 10, 2007 2:59 am PT
Review:  Graphics: Overall the presentation is a step up from Call of Duty 2, character models and guns 
 are very good. The annoying thing is that a majority of the textures seem fairly low resolution, 
 leaving a muddy appearance especially when it comes to the environment. Often times these things 
 are covered up with a nighttime setting which helps somewhat.
  
  Gameplay: For what its worth the guns are fantastic, they sound great, shoot well compared to their 
 counterparts. This really shouldn't be a surprise since this is the third time around. Cinematics 
 and the missions themselves are fairly unique, giving you a much different experience from previous 
 CoD's. Unlike CoD2 or even the original, CoD is littered with infinite enemy respawning. This really 
 isn't a problem on normal difficulties, but if your playing on the harder difficulties, the respawns 
 actually make it near impossible. By the time you take damage, kill an opponent, then wait for 
 regenerative health, the enemy has respawned another and taken up his place again. The only way 
 to stop the infinite loop is by passing a scripted invisible line to advance the game.
  
  Instead of rewarding the cautious approach, it penalizes and encourages rushing tactics and hoping 
 your scripted allies will take some of the attack. Sadly, in some situations I found my allies 
 bugged, aiming at the cement instead of engaging in action happening 10 feet away from them. Don't 
 expect your buddies to do much in the way of damage, their better off as cannon fodder.
  
  Multiplayer is one of the saving graces of the game. Instead of relying on faulty AI, human competition 
 is a great alternative. The modes and maps are well thought out, with a number of places a person 
 can hide out when holding an objective or avoiding gunfire. Even better is the decision to have 
 classes that play very distinctly from each other. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ishan316
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 9, 2007 9:28 pm PT
Review:  I don't know about the liberation of Paris, I don't know what went down at Normandy, but one thing's 
 for sure, CoD 3 put me RIGHT THERE...!
  
  The game throws class I visuals right into your face, with a vengeance, and keeps you begging for 
 more. The soldiers of four different countries, I'm sure, didn't have a good time out there, but 
 it is simply pleasant and fabulous to control them through lavish green battlefields, with life-like 
 rain wetting the burning grounds and grass flowing in all its embrace. The graphics in this game 
 are simply off the hook!
  
  The sound leaves you spell-bound, you don't even need an all-surround Dolby system, but make sure 
 you get a bass-enabled TV to experience the real next-gen audio excellence.
  
  The AI is perfectly right in place, enemies are strong, clever and ruthless like they've never 
 been before in a WWII shooter, even at normal difficulty levels. They'd catch you unsuspecting 
 and even flank you from multiple directions, so you cannot afford to go guns blazing in their face, 
 albeit you want to get killed, but don't worry, you'll start from the nearest checkpoint. The only 
 lowdown about the game is the character control. I don't know if only I was the one who encountered 
 all the flaws but, personally I think the movement system is completely devastated and needs a 
 major revamp.
  I have no complains with vehicle control, but sometimes, my character on foot wouldn't just goddamn 
 move... can you believe that? The stupid would get stuck at places near say, sandbags, gravel, 
 small gaps. At times, I would reach a particular place crouched and can't come back, even prone, 
 for example, beneath a staircase. Even my idiot squad mates would block the way multiple times. 
 And that would lead to annoying deaths due to continuous exposure to enemy fire, and I'd die just 
 seconds before completing my current objective, and will have to play over again.
  
  But just like I said, you ignore all this when you get a beautifully designed solid masterpiece 
 of an FPS, and I hope it just gets better with CoD 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blitzkrieg10
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 9, 2007 11:25 am PT
Review:  This game is just amazing in both its single player campaigns and multiplayer capabilities. The 
 single player campaign is just brilliant with high level graphics, sounds and storyline and, best 
 of all, it is all historically accurate. I am a World War II historian and it is quite clear to 
 me that every operation in this game, from St-Lo to the taking of the Falaise Gap is true. The 
 multiplayer component of this game is just absolutely spectacular with its large variety of games 
 and maps. I absolutely love playing this game on Xbox Live and I enjoy the variety of features, 
 including the classes and vehciles that this game provides. That is why I give this game a perfect 
 10 rating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 281538960
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 9, 2007 9:17 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3 is a first person shooter that puts you in the shoes of a regular soldier in WW2. 
 But don't step away from the game just there, this is unlike many first person shooters out there. 
 The scale is massive this time around, and makes you use cover and grenades a lot more this time. 
 Smoke grenades are actually useful, as you're going to be running through open fields taking tons 
 of fire. Call of Duty 3 looks great and next gen, but not perfect. I've seen some collision problems, 
 and the Call of Duty 2 engine is starting to lose its sharpness. Awesome sounds will make you happy, 
 and a new gameplay feature where you can go toe to toe with a nazi and whack him in the face with 
 his own gun sometimes . Some destructible environments and grass that gets pushed down are what 
 helps sustain the graphics engine. Over all, CoD 3 is an experience which you should not miss, 
 and if bought alongside GoW (Which I too have, add my gamertag lumpacidshadow) , you will have a 
 game combo that will fill your cup of tea until Halo 3. Great Stuff. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Everon22
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 9, 2007 5:10 am PT
Review:  Graphics: Overall the presentation is a step up from Call of Duty 2, character models and guns 
 are very good. The annoying thing is that a majority of the textures seem fairly low resolution, 
 leaving a muddy appearance especially when it comes to the environment. Often times these things 
 are covered up with a nighttime setting which helps somewhat.
  
  Gameplay: For what its worth the guns are fantastic, they sound great, shoot well compared to their 
 counterparts. This really shouldn't be a surprise since this is the third time around. Cinematics 
 and the missions themselves are fairly unique, giving you a much different experience from previous 
 CoD's. Unlike CoD2 or even the original, CoD is littered with infinite enemy respawning. This really 
 isn't a problem on normal difficulties, but if your playing on the harder difficulties, the respawns 
 actually make it near impossible. By the time you take damage, kill an opponent, then wait for 
 regenerative health, the enemy has respawned another and taken up his place again. The only way 
 to stop the infinite loop is by passing a scripted invisible line to advance the game.
  
  Instead of rewarding the cautious approach, it penalizes and encourages rushing tactics and hoping 
 your scripted allies will take some of the attack. Sadly, in some situations I found my allies 
 bugged, aiming at the cement instead of engaging in action happening 10 feet away from them. Don't 
 expect your buddies to do much in the way of damage, their better off as cannon fodder.
  
  Multiplayer is one of the saving graces of the game. Instead of relying on faulty AI, human competition 
 is a great alternative. The modes and maps are well thought out, with a number of places a person 
 can hide out when holding an objective or avoiding gunfire. Even better is the decision to have 
 classes that play very distinctly from each other. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shummie123
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 8, 2007 11:05 am PT
Review:  This was my first experience with Call of Duty since the original on the pc, so it had a lot to 
 live up to and it hasn't done a bad job. This was also my first experience with FPS on a console.
 
  
  The start of this game was one of the best opening levels I have ever seen. You start off with 
 a simple tutorial, introducing you to basics such as throwing grenades. Then, after a short truck 
 journey, you are being put over a wall into one hectic battle. Grenades are going off, people are 
 dying, dirt flying and smoke everywhere. This battle shows you what to expect from this game. The 
 graphics are smooth and clean and the sound is immense. The game is based around you leading the 
 charge into battle, mainly shooting down as many Germans as possible and then moving on to the 
 next spot. It's broken up in places with tank battles and driving and this makes a nice break from 
 blasting through groups of Germans.
  
  The game ends in the same way it starts, with an epic battle, holding off the Germans until back-up 
 arrives. This once again creates a thrill of being there and winning the war. Obviously I'm sure 
 this wasn't quite true for the people of the actual war. From what I remember from the PC version 
 the story was great and kept you playing, infact I think I finished the game in one sitting. However 
 this game doesn't quite capture that great story telling, and its quite easy to just save up and 
 come back some other time. The game is also quite short, but this is fine for the more casual player, 
 and the online play more than makes up for this. The most frustrating thing I found about this 
 game was the inability to skip cut-scenes. You don't notice this at first but when your playing 
 again on the hardest difficulty it becomes frustrating, especially as the story doesn't grip you.
 
  
  The single player has a decent replayability level. The hardest setting is great fun, as you a 
 bombarded with grenades if you try to hide and are confronted with an aggressive German unit. The 
 achievements provide more game play as well, trying to complete a level without dying or only using 
 a rifle adds to the fun. The split screen multiplayer mode also offers more game play as you and 
 three friends can wonder around the maps in a deathmatch styling, provinding great post-pub compitions. 
 However the maps are quite big, meaning that the action is always that great. Some smaller maps 
 with be a great addition here.
  
  The game then moves onto the online multiplayer element. This will provide hours of fun with upto 
 24 players. There are different options to play, including team deathmatch and capture the flag. 
 There are also different roles for you to take on, such as providing ammunition or being the teams 
 medic. Vechicals are also included in the online play and provide some great moments, such as scoring 
 a headshot at an oncoming jeep driver.
  
  Overall this game will provide you will plenty of fun, whether it be the single player, playing 
 with your friends or online trying to get that flag. I wouldn't expect too many more WWII shooter 
 to provide more fun than this will 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goughy2k4
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 7, 2007 1:40 am PT
Review:  War shouldn't be fun. It really shouldn't. Carnage, chaos, death, destruction - these are the things 
 of nightmares, not exhilarating evening-and-weekend leisure pursuits. In the games industry, however, 
 war means big business, while for gamers it offers an unparalleled level of epic entertainment. 
 And war titles don't get much bigger or better than Call of Duty. This won't be Call of Duty quite 
 how PC and Xbox 360 owners remember it, though. Indeed, keyboard-based players will have to wait 
 until next year for a new CoD game altogether - for the latest in the series, Call of Duty 3, has 
 been entrusted not to the brand's PC team Infinity Ward, but to console specialists Treyarch, makers 
 of last year's PS2 and Xbox release Big Red One
  
  Controversial? Perhaps - CoD originated on PC, so to have no home computer version this Christmas 
 will be a blow to the franchise's loyal followers. We find it difficult to feel disappointed though; 
 While Infinity work tirelessly into 2007 on an impending future classic, Treyarch have served up 
 a scintillating WWII shooter that goes far beyond being just a festive-season appetiser, giving 
 their eager fanbase the best of both worlds.
  
  And from an audiovisual point of view, this really is the series' current high point - especially 
 on Xbox 360, where the game engine excels. From the moment proceedings kick off proper - boosting 
 you over a wall and into the most hectic, frantic and at-times downright frightening low-tech battlefield 
 you'll find on any console - you'll be awed by the sheer amount that's happening before your eyes. 
 Smoke plumes, bullets ricochet, brick walls crumble, grenades erupt in a shower of sparks, and 
 fellow soldiers fly across the landscape with some of the finest ragdoll animation we've experienced 
 in an FPS; It's an altogether powerful presentation - atmospheric, explosive and above-all immersive.
 
  
  Even with so much going on on-screen, Call of Duty 3 is, much like its predecessors, an unmistakably 
 linear experience - though you'll often be hard pushed to care in the midst of such a frenetic 
 battlefield fiction. Despite moving directly from one objective to another, progression retains 
 the previous game's habit of opening out from narrow pathways into expansive bullet-torn environs, 
 with every major conflict really giving that feeling of being a part of a full-scale war.
  
  In fact, compared to CoD2 it's significantly less arcadey; the gritty nature of the game's 
 aesthetic and panic-inducing action lending COD3 a significantly edgier feel - this, even in a 
 year packed full of high-quality balls-to-the-wall gun games, will have you feeling positively 
 drained after a long play session in the best possible way.
  
  If there's one drawback, it's that such firearm-focused gameplay can sometimes start to get a little 
 repetitive; most objectives in CoD3 tend to involve obliterating every enemy in the area, moving 
 to the objective point on the HUD map, and well, that's about it. Granted though, Treyarch have 
 done their best to break up play with a few selectively interspersed set pieces - some of which 
 feel like novelties, while others enhance the war-like feel.
  
  Thankfully, the novelties are easily overlooked. Battling an enemy soldier up-close and personal 
 with some rhythm-action style mashing of the trigger buttons, for instance, will often surprise 
 without ever really leaving you on the edge of your seat. On the other hand, instances where you 
 sit atop a tank and direct its shells towards enemy gun emplacements, or face a barrage of enemy 
 fire to lay explosive charges, break up proceedings, adding a variety which proves welcome. Controlling 
 vehicles themselves isn't one of the game's strong points, sadly, but again adds an extra element 
 to the campaign, while the ability to pick up an enemy's grenade and throw it back is one of the 
 game's more ingenious, though incredibly nerve-wracking improvements, adding diversity and depth 
 to CoD's basic gunplay.
  
  Treyarch's refinements with CoD3 also extend to the multiplayer mode, which benefits from an especially 
 well-produced online option - one of CoD2's weaker elements, fans will remember. The 24 player 
 limit is impressive, trumping Xbox Live's current number one online title Halo 2 by a good eight 
 people, and tripling the eight-player games pumped out by Gears of War.
  
  The lag issue too, we're pleased to report, is less prevalent this time - even on the biggest of 
 the game's nine initial maps, while the class system for characters is also intuitive; lending 
 multiplayer matches a real element of teamwork, with medics, for instance, rushing around to revive 
 downed comrades. On top of that, the game also supports four players online in splitscreen fashion 
 through a single system, and for 360 gamers there's also the all-important Achievements to consider, 
 dotted about through both the single and multiplayer modes, ensuring you'll want to spend time 
 enjoying both equally.
  
  With so much going for it, there's a lot to recommend CoD3 - though it's by no means a flawless 
 FPS. As far as telling a story goes, the singleplayer campaign is somewhat lacking - throughout 
 the game you'll control a single soldier in the American, British, Canadian and Polish armies, 
 which can't help but dilute the overall narrative value; this certainly is no Halo 2 or Half Life. 
 In fact, Halo players will likely also find fault with the game's somewhat flimsy jump controls, 
 and the occasional invisible wall around certain areas which sometimes prevent you from flanking 
 enemy positions the way you'd wish.
  
  But that's only a big issue due to how very immersive the rest of the game proves. Sure, when you 
 reach a waist-high wall your character is incapable of climbing over, it will grate - but purely 
 because you'll desperately want to join your comrades in the distance kicking Nazi ass. The script 
 may be far from engaging, then, and you may even feel a little disjointed from the overall objective 
 of liberating Paris - but the setting, set pieces and unrelenting sensory assault are never anything 
 less than exceptional.
  
  Sadly, at 8-10 hours, it's all over far too quickly, and the lack of a co-op option is somewhat 
 disappointing. However, for hardcore players the Veteran difficulty setting will double the length 
 of the singelplayer mode, while the much-improved online play rounds off the package with a pleasing 
 sense of longevity, making this amongst the year's finest FPS offerings, and a truly worthy sequel 
 to the series' superb second outing. We still maintain that war really shouldn't be fun, of course 
 - but Treyarch's endeavours with Call of Duty 3 have proven so downright satisfying, that this 
 is one guilty pleasure we're happy to indulge in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sytzepunk
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 6, 2007 10:33 am PT
Review:  CoD3 is the third game (not counting expansion packs) in the Call of Duty universe, it wad rather 
 dissapointing to hear that Treyarch would be making the game, but it wasn't that bad after all 
 since the game hangs on to its root.
  
  The things that made CoD such a great game was the feeling you was part of one huge army, the atmosphere 
 was perfect, and graphicwise all games look great! This worked for CoD and CoD2, and it actually 
 does work for CoD3 to.
  
  Gameplay/AI:
  You'll be playing in one of the four campaigns, each campaign will let you fight with another soldier 
 who is coming from a different country, you'll be fighting mostly along French enemy lines this 
 time, each campaign will give you different weapons, basing from what country there are, all the 
 games recoil, damage and accuracy are actually duplicates from real WW2 weapons, this adds to the 
 realism of the game.
  
  The game will have have some new features, like instead of sticking stickybombs onto places, you'll 
 have to go thru a whole process to set one, which can be annoying if you do it alot, you'll also 
 encounter missions where you have to row you're boat and close-combat fight by pressing trigger-buttons 
 fastly.
  
  Enemies AI mostly is defensive, they'll mostly seek shelture behind anything possible and take 
 shots every now and then, they'll also man mortars and stuff, the same counts for allies, that 
 will run along you everytime you move forward to.
  
  Theres you're handy compass that'll show you the way you need to go, and ofcourse smokegrenades 
 that'll let you have advantage over the field.
  
  Another addition of CoD3 is fastly improved Multiplayer, you can battle it out with 24 players 
 at once with realisticly detailed map and vehicles like motors, armed jeeps and tanks.
  
  Graphics/Sound:
  All CoD games had realistic graphics and the best sound in the world, and CoD3 
 got both things right again, All maps are different character models and vehicles look extremely 
 detailed, weather has effect on envoriment, as in rainy maps helmets of soldiers start to shine 
 and can blind you in certain angles.
  
  Sounds are the main attraction of the game, everything is so great about the sound, from hearing 
 germans and allies screaming commands, from the vehicles and explosions, and all the effects sounds 
 great and adds to the amazing atmosphere.
  
  Story:
  Typical WW2 story, you'll be guiding 4 different soldiers to victory by playing them on different 
 locations and weapons, there will be a diary of the players etc.
  
  Is it a good FPS:
  One of the best on the Xbox 360 and the Wii right now, its great atmosphere and the probably the 
 best sound for every videogame makes this game a musthave for FPS fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowblade110
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 6, 2007 10:10 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3 is an excelent game if your into FPS War games. It offers many different weapons 
 to choose from, and vehicles.
  
  The general gameplay on CoD 3 is acctualy simple, if your new to the game you will have no trouble 
 at all with the controls. The single player campaign is very good as far as war games can go, you 
 have your typical start off in the middle of the battle with bullets flying past your head, but 
 that just gets you into the game even more, and you want to aid your fellow allies to victory. 
 I don't have much tosay about the single player campaign, it's alot like Gears of War in the fact 
 that it does get boring after a while. Never the less don't let that put you off, because there 
 are other things to make up for that.
  
  The on-line play is just absolutley amazing, it's by far the best war game i have played online 
 befor. Call of Duty 3 offers many different game types such as Capture the Flag, Teambattle, War, 
 Signel Capture the Flag, and others. Capture the Flag is just basicaly what the name says realy, 
 storm through the enemies base with your allies, and take their flag, oh and of course, take on 
 all of the enemies (the best part imo) . My personal favourite is Team Battle, mainly because the 
 only objective is to kill, kill &amp; kill..
  Wether your the more calm and patient type, sitting down in the corner of the map, sniping off 
 your enemis 1 by 1, or if your the more aggressive type and go head to head with bullets flying 
 every where, then this is deffinatley the game for you. And with the added bonus that when you 
 totaly make a fool out of the enemy you have just killed, then you take pride in T-Bagging them, 
 and watch them try get revenge on you ;) .
  
  Hmmm ok the weapons, a few different types of weapons, Rifle, Light/Heavy Assault, MG, Sniper, 
 Rocket Launcher. Yeah theres not to many different type of guns but it's enough. Both teams have 
 different guns but in the same catagories, so the best thing to do is experiment, find your favourite 
 gun and go pwn some people! There are also many different abilities that you get along with your 
 chosen class. So if you use the rifle you get grenades that clip onto the front of your gun, these 
 are realy good if you need to take down an enemy real quick. With the Light &amp; Heavy Assault 
 guns you get mines, this little beauties work wonders on maps with alot of grass, theres nothing 
 better than watching the opposing team run straight into your mine like an idiot &not;&not;'. The 
 best thing though is the Artiery Strike that you get with the sniper, wait untill your enemies 
 are all together, you the co-ords and fire away and watch the fireworks. Gone on abit for this 
 section so i'll stop now.
  
  Ok moving onto the graphics, well what to say realy. they are not the best of graphics in general, 
 but for a war game they are very good. The main surroundings have alot of detail into them, 1) 
 making the game seem alot more real, and that you are in a battle fighting for your life, and 2) 
 the fact that it does make you seem more envolved in the game, if you udnerstand what i mean. In 
 general the game is one of high quality, a deffinate must buy for those who want to play on-line, 
 those who want to play single player, i would recommend borrowing or renting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dfoboost
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 24, 2007 4:04 pm PT
Review:  I got this game as soon as it came out, reason being i had, had cod2 and loved it, cod3 was totally 
 different and in a good way. I played the game twice, once on normal difficulty and another on 
 veteran which is on the highest and even though it took me a long time, i couldn't stop playing, 
 just so good. The secret with this game is perseverance and patience because on the veteran difficulty 
 level it does get hard, but something keeps you playin, it has a great variety of parts to play 
 in the single campaign and allows you to have fun doing so. jeeps and mortar guns are just some 
 of the features, you even get to drive a tank over the desert shooting at well whatever you like.
 
  
  When i first got this game i was on it for a long time and even came off shaking once because i 
 had played with the lights of and the gamplay and graphics really grapped me, sad i know but just 
 shows the excitement you can have on a game such as Call Of Duty 3, cant wait for number 4, bring 
 it on! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Panzerkampwagen
Rating: 4.4
Date: Jun 2, 2007 9:11 am PT
Review:  This isnt a horrible game but not a great game. the game has a very lame singleplayer mode, and 
 the mission are very linerir and noting changes. once the snigleplayer has been played once its 
 basicly worthless. the only thing that makes this game even worth buying is the mulitplayer. the 
 mulitplayer is probaly the worst in the serois. its plagued by glitches, almost everymap you can 
 spawn camp, and the spawn points are infavor of the allies. in mulitplayer the weapons have a tendonces 
 to be very favort to the allies. the B. A. R the heavy assult and the allies soppourt. are basicly 
 automatic sniper rifle. while the axis weapons can barly get someone across a bridge. this game 
 is basicly a letdown. the new devolper of the game does a horrible job, and this game is absoltly 
 the worst game i have in my collection. after 100s of houirs im jsut waiting for the next one too 
 come out. totaly skip this game if you can its not wort it. its basicly a sucsu becuase of the 
 COD name. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IonManV
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 1, 2007 2:54 pm PT
Review:  a beutiful looking, overly linear, WWII shooter.
  in short no story. generic. but still manages to be kinda fun.
  
  Obviously people like this 
 game. but my simple statement really does sum it up. I will however give it this. when the **** 
 hits the fan the game does get really fun, if however briefly.
  
  The graphics are fantastic, great lighting. the smoke looks great. particle effects are good,
 
  The Sound effects are good. just like most games.
  the controls are fairly standard.
  theres not much of a story. but they do manage to make the charecters more interesting this time 
 around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carddude
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 30, 2007 6:03 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty is a fun fps which almost anyone will find fun. Set in WW2, you fight as many different 
 soldiers from different lands. It is set in france. The gameplay is very fun, though somtimes challenging, 
 but worth the extra minutes. This game is a bit bloody, but only in up-close combat which takes 
 place rarely. The fellow sokdiers do have a bit of a mouth, so keep away from young, but I'm sure 
 that 8+ year olds can handle it. The game is short with only 14 missions. Definately not worth 
 the money unless it is $20 or you rent it. Multiplayer is fun, but if you own other fps titles, 
 you will probably play the multiplayer on them. It does have system multiplayer, but it is not 
 worth playing unless you have 3+ people. The graphics are very good, but it is very dark in the 
 game which makes it feel a little scarier than it is. Final verdict: fine for young if you moniter 
 them, rent it or buy it cheap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattmermel
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 30, 2007 10:32 am PT
Review:  Good: Outstanding Online Play, Great controls, Decent Single Player
  
  Bad: A few of the missions are dull, and it isn't too uncommon to find yourself running around 
 with no clue what to do.... This doesn't matter that much but I would of liked this game to be based 
 in the Pacific, considering Call of Duty 2 and Call of Duty Finest Hour were set in Eurasia and 
 Africa.
  
  Gameplay: Amazing. The controls are fairly easy to handle, but not so easy that you don't have 
 to work for your kills.
  
  Graphics: Very good. Call of Duty 3 takes advantage of the 360 capabilities to give this game very 
 realistic visuals.
  
  Sound: Great. It sounds like you really are running into battle beside your fellow Britts, Poles, 
 Canadians, or Americans.
  
  Value: 60 Bucks for a game I have played since November.... yeah, that's pretty good.
  
  Tilt: 
 The most important part of any game, and Call of Duty 3 Nails it.
  
  Verdict: If you have Online, buy this in a heart beat. If you don't, consider it. The campaign 
 is good but nothing great, and while you will definitely have fun, you will get bored of this game 
 much quicker. Overall, it is an outstanding game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toldale
Rating: 9
Date: May 30, 2007 5:52 am PT
Review:  I got this game as soon as it came out, reason being i had, had cod2 and loved it, cod3 was totally 
 different and in a good way. I played the game twice, once on normal difficulty and another on 
 veteran which is on the highest and even though it took me a long time, i couldn't stop playing, 
 just so good. The secret with this game is perseverance and patience because on the veteran difficulty 
 level it does get hard, but something keeps you playin, it has a great variety of parts to play 
 in the single campaign and allows you to have fun doing so. jeeps and mortar guns are just some 
 of the features, you even get to drive a tank over the desert shooting at well whatever you like.
 
  
  When i first got this game i was on it for a long time and even came off shaking once because i 
 had played with the lights of and the gamplay and graphics really grapped me, sad i know but just 
 shows the excitement you can have on a game such as Call Of Duty 3, cant wait for number 4, bring 
 it on! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wpagel
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 30, 2007 2:40 am PT
Review:  Note: I won't be touching much on the Single Player portion, if at all, since it is this game's 
 weakest point. The real fun lies in the Multi-Player.
  
  Gameplay: Some minor tweaks from Call of Duty 2. One noticeable alteration (from the PC version, 
 as I haven't played the 360 version of CoD2) is the removal of the single button ledge and obstacle 
 interaction. You can no longer press a button to vault yourself through a window or lift yourself 
 onto the edge of a trench. This hurts the immersion somewhat, and its removal irks me a bit. It's 
 not major, but it does hurt it. The Multi-Player gameplay has been altered, as well. For the better, 
 in my opinion. The Multi-Player portion of the gameplay now resembles the battlefield series a 
 bit with the selection of a kit, instead of a starting weapon. However, you are free to switch 
 weapons with those dropped by fallen comrades or enemies, so don't worry about being unable to 
 handle yourself in a certain situation. For example, you spawn with the Anti-Armor kit, thus getting 
 yourself your army's anti-tank weapon (the German's Panzerschrek or the Alliance's Bazooka) and 
 your army's pistol. You can switch out the pistol (or the launcher) with any weapon you find on 
 the battlefield. However, each kit also has two special weapons/abilites which are triggered by 
 the right and left bumpers. These special abilities cannot be swapped out for others unless you 
 select another kit for your next spawn. All kits get at least one grenade type: smoke, hand grenade, 
 potato masher (Stielhandgrenate) , or sticky grenade. Four of the kits have a special ability which 
 recharges over time. The Scout (sniper) is able to call in an artillery strike by using his binoculars, 
 the Medic is able to revive fallen enemies using a syringe (which somehow makes a man with 20 bullets 
 in his gut ready to go in no time flat) , and the Support and Anti-Armor kits both get ammo crates 
 that they can periodically drop onto the battlefield to replenish either an ally's ammo supply 
 or their own. The remaining kits have one grenade type and one unique weapon. The two Assault kits 
 (Main and Heavy) get AP mines that they can place on the battlefield to take out an unsuspecting 
 enemy that's running too carelessly. And, last but not least, the Rifleman kit receives the rifle 
 grenade, a sort of one-shot grenade launcher that explodes on impact, making it devastating at 
 short to low-medium ranges.
  
  They have also simplified the Multi-Player a bit, as well. You'll find that there's only about 
 half as many weapons available in Call of Duty 3 as in Call of Duty 2. This is simply because you 
 never play as either the Russians or the British, and thus are not given access to any of their 
 weapons. Each weapon is associated with a kit, and so you have the 6 kits for each side and the 
 two pistols. 14 weapons available in Multi-Player. Definitely not a small amount and it doesn't 
 deter from the gameplay in any way, but it's definitely worthy of note that they'd take out so 
 much between the games.
  
  All-in-all, the Multi-Player portion of Call of Duty 3 is absolutely amazing. The battles are intense, 
 game types are just as fun as before, and the points that the developers took out don't remove 
 from the game's potential for ownage in any way. In its own way, simplifying the gameplay helped 
 to focus it on what the CoD series has always done amazing at: intense and action-packed matches.
 
  
  9/10
  
  Graphics:
  
  Stunning. Absolutely stunning. The lighting effects, textures, gun models, character models, etc 
 have all been vastly improved since the second installment. One thing you'll notice is the added 
 camera movement during reload and chambering rounds in bolt-actions. This helps make the rifles 
 a little less efficient, thus favoring longer range combat since the riflemen find it harder to 
 aim at the exact spot they were after they had chambered another round in their bolt-action. It 
 also makes the game more intense and immersive as your camera will shake around a bit every time 
 you reload, following the motions of the actual reload.
  
  Another added effect is focus-blurring. While using the series signature Aim Down the Sight mode 
 (ADS) , objects will blur when you are not looking directly at them. If there is a tree in your 
 line of sight, for example, it will blur if you are aiming at something closer or farther away. 
 And if you aim at the tree itself, objects in the distance will blur a bit. Again, this really 
 allows you to become much more immersed in the action.
  
  An impressive feat of CoD3 is the frame-rate. It stays at an extremely fluid 60 FPS almost constantly. 
 The only times the frame-rate ever stutters brings it down to shocking 40-50 FPS only.
  
  10/10
  
  Sound:
  
  The gun discharges sound very realistic, and you will come to dread 
 the sounds of a tanks treads on gravel during some of the maps -- unless of course you're playing 
 with the Anti-Armor kit. The only complaint I have with the sound is that the American's get a 
 slight advantage with the automatically voiced chatter of the infantry. While dropping an ammo 
 pack as an Anti-Armor or Support kit, your character will shout Ammo! thus signaling nearby allies 
 to come and pick some up. As a German, the automatic chatter is, most of the time, obviously German. 
 So unless you speak German, it won't help you much.
  
  Also, I find myself wishing for the distance effects that a few games have employed because of 
 the size of some of the maps in CoD3. Take Half-life 2, for instance. You fire a rocket at a distant 
 target, and it SOUNDS like it's distant. You get the faint pop and the echo of the explosion. This 
 is not to be found in many games, unfortunately, but it continues to be my wish that more games 
 choose to employ the effect.
  
  9/10
  
  Value:
  
  I originally got this game through GameFly. I rented it, expecting to play through the single player 
 campaign and send it back. Then I tried out the Multi-Player and was instantly hooked. I've been 
 playing solely the Multi-Player for a while now and I must say that it is EASILY worth the $30 
 I paid for the pre-played copy from GameFly. Brand new it'll cost $50, which is less than most 
 pay for worse games. Basically, if you don't already own this, remedy the situation and go buy 
 it. Buy. Don't rent.
  
  Overall score: 9.5/10. In summation, this game rocks. Go get it. That'll be all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: foller21
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 30, 2007 12:27 am PT
Review:  This game has great graphics, Has good overall gameplay is fun it has great in between cutscenes 
 it's is a great game but it could help if you are a sergeant or liuetenant that you could give 
 oders to soldiers with less ranking than you that might make it more tactitical and more interesting 
 if you are like me you would like thid game it is awesome and more ammo for weapons like the bar 
 or more fg42 and if could use more weapons but nothing outside the real thing. I like this and i 
 hope activision makes a forth one with a feature that you can order soldier if you are higher ranked 
 than that soldier because it can be as good or greater than gears of war. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: georgiaboy329
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 28, 2007 6:09 pm PT
Review:  This game is incredible and is very intense in both single and multi player. The game play on this 
 game is great. Both single and multi player are great but the thing that really stands out to me 
 is the multi player. The battles are so intense it's almost indescribable. They are so much fun 
 to play in and the team matches require a lot of teamwork and skill. There are many different maps 
 that you can play on and there is one Bonus map called Champs which is a pretty dun map. You can 
 play either Ranked Matches which are competitive matches that you can play to get you true skill 
 rank up and get the points achievement, or you can play Player matches which are unranked matches 
 to play just for fun. The single player is pretty intense and is usually pretty fun. You fight 
 as the Polish, Canadians, Americans, and the French. You do many different things in the levels 
 such as ride in tanks and thinks like that. It is usually a game where you go from a to b to c 
 etc. but sometimes you can choose which path you want to take which can be fun. The achievements 
 on this game are pretty good except for the online achievements. They are basically impossible 
 unless you play Call of Duty every second of your life. The graphics on this game are great. They 
 are some of the best graphics on the 360, up there with Ghost Recon: Advanced Warfighter 2. There 
 are a few glitches though but they don't really effect the game play very much at all. The players 
 and guns are very detailed and look incredible. The sound on this game is flat out breathtaking. 
 You can be playing in a multi player battle and hear the battle chatter from the soldiers on the 
 game screaming and bantering at the Nazis. The guns also sound excellent. Overall, this game is 
 a must have for your 360 and if you haven't gotten it yet then I am very surprised and you need 
 to go out and get it right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adolfobaja
Rating: 9
Date: May 27, 2007 7:23 pm PT
Review:  Like the other games in the franchise, Call of Duty 3 presents the battles of the Big One from 
 a number of different perspectives. This time out, you'll play as an American soldier, a British 
 commando, a member of a Polish armored division, and a Canadian highlander. The action takes place 
 during the Normandy Breakout.
  Basically, if you've played any of the other Call of Duty games, you know exactly what to expect 
 here (although there are a few gameplay additions) . The action is intense from beginning to end, 
 and the grand set pieces are almost cinematic in their presentation. Call of Duty 3 also features 
 a few in-vehicle sequences, something that Treyarch brought to the table while developing the current-gen 
 iterations in the series. During some of the missions, you'll be tasked with driving from point 
 to point while one of your squadmates handles the mounted weapon. These segments aren't particularly 
 challenging (unless you're counting the handling, which feels a bit off) , but they do keep the 
 action feeling fresh. The tank sequences are enjoyable, too, and they feel a lot more authentic 
 than the ones in Call of Duty 2 for the Xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MightyJosh
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 27, 2007 1:02 am PT
Review:  Having played COD3 on the Wii when the launch came out last November I grabbed COD3 with my Wii. 
 After playing the game and giving it a poor review I gave up traded it in and considered the Call 
 of Duty Series thinking it lost forever.
  
  Recently buying an Xbox 360 I noticed that COD3 was on sale for 50% off so I decided to give it 
 ago the 360. And from the start it is clear to see that the 360 does a better job at handling the 
 graphics and game play then the Wii. The Wii couldn't compair to the power that the 360 and PS3 
 put out in performnce for this game. The graphics are what you would expect from a next generation 
 console, with great sounds and very smooth frame rate that makes the game play so well.
  
  The game plays like most other games in the series and with a few more features that are new in 
 this title Call of Duty has been restored in my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CheekSqueaker
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 26, 2007 1:32 pm PT
Review:  Now with that heading, I'm not bashing COD3. COD3 is a fun game, haven''t finished the single player 
 game but so far this is the strong point of the game. The single player is done well, lots of action 
 and lots of stuff going on all at once. The hand to hand combat opportunities don't come along 
 often (thankfully) which in a nice touch but gets old after the second time you do it. Since signing 
 up for Xbox Live, I find myself enjoying the multi-player more than single player games and find 
 myself buying games strictly for the on line play. The online play is done well for the most part, 
 only with a couple of complaints. Some maps, in my opinion, are too big. You re-spawn on the opposite 
 side of the map and spend most of your time getting back to the action. They tried to make up for 
 it by being able to run until you get tired, but because of this you can only run in short spurts. 
 I thinks doing this so many times in a game bores people and they start doing stupid stuff like 
 team killing and other things that end up ruining the fun. This leads me to my other complaint. 
 Up to 24 people can play at once, 12 per team and that's too many people. With so many people per 
 side, you end up bumping into each other the whole game, or stepping on a team-mates land mine 
 cause you are trying to get around people. This also leads to people taking the game all to casually, 
 goofing around in the game more than capturing the flag or any other objective. Game has good points 
 too, and is worth getting but just because more people can play at once, it isn't always a good 
 thing. Get this game but don't forget about cod2 which is great and tons of people are still playing 
 it on-line all day long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Riddle015
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 26, 2007 9:12 am PT
Review:  I love this game where should I begin. First of all it has great graphics which really enchances 
 the fun you have. I really get into it and it has a terrific story. I like how it tells a story 
 of all the allies ( U. S, Canadians, French) . In the beginning you start out as an American and 
 you get a little bit of training before going into combat which is pretty useful. Each character 
 has their own personality. The gameplay is very solid, as I haven't experienced any glitches and 
 it just looks realistic. This game makes you feel like you are in the game. It is challenging if 
 you don't play on the easy level (Easy, Normal, Hard, Veteran) which makes it very exciting. It 
 sounds great. The last level is really fun It took me a while to beat the last level on Hard but 
 I enjoyed it a lot. If you love WWII or first person shooters period then you should definetly 
 get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wigglebutt32
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 26, 2007 3:18 am PT
Review:  Let's go liberate France! Yep, this one we're going into France. It's amazing it's like your actually 
 in the field. The sound the rush, this is a World War II game for you. No doubt best in the series 
 so far. In this game you can be the Canadians, the Polish, the English (with some french) , and 
 the Americans. Has a very touchy heartfeld story with every nation that you are. Still the same 
 weapons, and the blabbering Germans, but its still the same great game. One flaw is though, is 
 that the stories all jump around. It still works pretty well, but its also good the stories ends 
 all at the same time. Overall, I'd suggest to look out for the next COD game, Modern Warfare... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yoyo462001
Rating: 6.9
Date: May 25, 2007 9:49 am PT
Review:  Im going to focus on the multiplayer really, but the single players is alrite not as good as cod2 
 but still acceptable. its rufly the same length campaign as cod2.
  
  treyarch made this game and they messed up the multiplayer big time, they must havet thought they 
 needed to copy other games like BF2 and include classes and such. what made cod2 a great mulitplayer 
 to date was the ability to just go on an online game, choose axis or allies and then choose your 
 gunand you were ready to go. but in cod3 you have to choose class, with the mindset of knowing 
 the special abilities, type of gun grenades and so on. it gets worse, no kill cam, bascially campers 
 paradise and the maps are so big and so many people on it that you get one guy sit it the fields 
 and camp and take the whole team out again and again. different devs means totally different gameplay 
 from cod2, e. g. the garrand one of the most powerful weapons sounds and feels as powerful as a 
 pistol, this is the same for the kar, and all snipers. one thing that was amazing is the graphics 
 imo the best on the Xbox 360 at the moment.
  
  basically this is a good game if you hated cod2 online because this is far from it and really should 
 not have the same name. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dattylawnglaygz
Rating: 9
Date: May 24, 2007 10:50 pm PT
Review:  Before I begin let me start by saying... I hadn't played this game right away like most people... not 
 because I thought it was weak but because I was fed up with the whole WW2 games thinking enough 
 already but to my surprise COD3 delivered on every scale possible. The graphics were probably some 
 of the cleanest I've seen ever and thats saying a lot. The sounds were on point and crisp, the 
 gameplay was very good, at times late in the game, I noticed I'd get stuck on stupid things and 
 couldn't move but all in all I had quite an experience playin this game. Plus I liked the fact 
 that it was a little lengthier than most of the games out at the time. Must buy... definately... go 
 out and get it!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gmanpluto
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 22, 2007 12:51 pm PT
Review:  The xbox live game play is easy to handle.
  I other games it takes a while to load the multiplayer stuff, but with call of duty three it's 
 easy and quick to start playing online. I would recommend it to first person shooter people and 
 anyone looking for a good online player game for the 360. If your parents only aload teen games 
 this is #1 on my list. If you do not like it try getting me. please at lest rent it. It is a great 
 game for parties and Lan-parties. It is key, for a historic game. If you fail to enter one online 
 game it will load of game or a list. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAMODA
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 21, 2007 8:01 am PT
Review:  Got this game with my 360 and wasnt disapointed, its good gameplay and thats what counts in a game, 
 the graphics are great and controls are easy enough. the sound of the guns are excellent and the 
 stages are good fun! got the game online and was instantly hooked! its fantastic online, talk to 
 other players do allsorts, play team modes work togther the lot, the maps are good too, although 
 could do with a few more but never the less a great game, if you enjoyed the medal of honors and 
 other call of dutys i really recommend this! top game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: juanito500
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 18, 2007 9:34 am PT
Review:  good game if you play it with  
 game if you play it with  
 game if you play it with  
 game if you play it with  
 game if you play it with  
 game if you play it with  
 game if you play it with  
 game if you play it with  
 game if you play it with  
 game if you play it with  
 game if you play it with  
 game if you play it with  
 game if you play it with  
 game if you play it with  
 game if you play it with  
 game if you play it with  
 game if you play it with  
 game if you play it with  
 game if you play it with  
 game if you play it with  
 game if you play it with  
 game if you play it with  
 game if you play it with  
 game if you play it with  
 game if you play it with  
 game if you play it with  
 game if you play it with  
 game if you play it with  
 game if you play it with  
 game if you play it with  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andorhal
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 17, 2007 7:31 am PT
Review:  The story line for this game is ok, it serves its purpose but isnt anything special. Like the games 
 before it it involves battles from WWII like 1 and 2 but none really knows them as much as normandy, 
 it involves minor battles from around france.
  
  The controls are simple, normal FPS fare with little twists for certain parts of gameplay with 
 little mini-games involving setting up C4 and fist fighting natzis.
  
  The graphics are good with nice explosions and detail, the best detail is close up though. The 
 guns look crisp and clean with shots looking realistic.
  
  The sound is nothing special with normal souding gunshots and explosions with shouting Natzis.
 
  
  One of the best reason for buying this game is the fact that it introduces vehicles.
  
  If your looking for a fun multiplayer game online with good everything based on WWII with good 
 graphics this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: demondeano
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 17, 2007 1:21 am PT
Review:  Got this game with my 360 and wasnt disapointed, its good gameplay and thats what counts in a game, 
 the graphics are great and controls are easy enough. the sound of the guns are excellent and the 
 stages are good fun! got the game online and was instantly hooked! its fantastic online, talk to 
 other players do allsorts, play team modes work togther the lot, the maps are good too, although 
 could do with a few more but never the less a great game, if you enjoyed the medal of honors and 
 other call of dutys i really recommend this! top game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 11cairborne
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 16, 2007 5:42 pm PT
Review:  this game was so cool , i played it for about 5 hrs of story then i played it for about 6 more 
 hrs on online and tryed to beat it on harder difficulty well this game isnt really something to 
 talk about because well the game sums it up itself exept the multiplayer isnt really fun because 
 everythings the same and not so many ppl play it anymore so it takes for ever for ppl to fill the 
 game up. so this is my review of a very good game with not such a good multiplayer. yea so if u 
 want to get this game u should definetly get the game . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RE4manonline
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 14, 2007 8:46 pm PT
Review:  Well to start off there are some ups and downs from previous COD's Comparing COD2 to COD3 COD2:
 
  
  Pros: 1. Good multiplayer
  2. not too complex
  3. Good graphic for the time
  4. Good missions
  5. Good replay value
  6. GREAT SOUND
  
  Cons:
  1. Achievements SUCKED
 
  2. some physics were aweful
  3. No story
  4. Some parts are almost impossible on Veteran
  
  COD3:
  
  Pro:
  1. AMAZING GRAPHICS
  2. GREAT MULTIPLAYER
  3. Great cut scenes 4. 
 Good Achievements
  5. Great sound
  
  Con:
  1. Too easy
  2. Doesn't feel free at all
  3. made by trearch
  4. online community sucks
  5. just doesn't 
 seem at home, almost like an other game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedStarStrife
Rating: 7.1
Date: May 13, 2007 9:40 pm PT
Review:  The game starts off as a great reminder of how intense and immersive the single player is from 
 the Call of Duty series, sadly this feeling fades away as you continue to play the game, soon you 
 realize this is no true Call of Duty game, just another average WW2 FPS. Gameplay gets repetitive 
 and uninteresting contrary to what the previous installments of the series did.
  
  Then my worst fear about the game came true, the multiplayer does not live up to the experience 
 that Call of Duty UO gave us. It obviously downgrades from it and I dont understand why so many 
 reviewers say best in series......
  No more sprint, the zoom in on the sniper is RIDICULOUSLY zoomed in, they should not add the rifle 
 grenade in any authentic WW2 for it was not widley used and just in experimentation. The maps do 
 not compare to the awesome levels and map design that CoD UO gave us, very disappointing multiplayer
 
  
  Graphics- Definatley an upgrade from the previous installments
  Sound- Thankfully it still gave us the Call of duty intense sound scores that has always been with 
 the series, however still didnt reach the overall intensity that was the battle of stalingrad or 
 D-day missions in previous installments, but the first level was outstanding!!
  
  replay value- No true replay value since hte multiplayer was a huge disappointment
  
  overall 
 i rate this game as fair 
::::::

::::::
UserName: walbeb
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 13, 2007 7:15 am PT
Review:  Hmm i want to put something here to explain this game W/O cursing. Well for starters singleplayer 
 stinks, you go from egypt to like russia to all over the place in the lack of singe-player, and 
 the multiplayer feels like they tried way to hard to be like battlefield, note to activision if 
 i want to play a battlefield type of game i would play battlefield, compared to the second one 
 the multiplayer feels like as i just said they tried to clone Battlefield, and there is no doubt 
 in my mind that if COD 2 had a bigger # like 8-8 which seems reasonable for that game, and you 
 could have a guest sign on there wouldn't even be many people playing COD 3, and there would still 
 be addicts to the 2nd one. And another thing, split screen online in this game is TOTAL BOGUS, 
 if you try to go on live with a guest good luck being able to see, i had this hooked up to a 54'' 
 T. V. and i still had to squint and on top of that people can't hear you when you have a guest. 
 Why you ask, well i have no idea. I was amazing at the 2nd one as an russian and a german and now 
 they take away the country's to give me class's? Maybe i want to use the kar9k with a scope instead 
 of a springfield well i'm out of luck i guess, and not only that if your great and the 2nd prepare 
 to be raped in the 3rd because they are way to differnt to be even in the same catagory, snipers 
 suck, you will get 4 idiot who just lay down support fire for no good reason and too many people 
 just rocket launch each other. The only thing i can say i like better about this game are the beatiful 
 visuals. That's it and the horrible thing is i'm being totally honest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XxTMETODOWORKxX
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 8, 2007 10:55 pm PT
Review:  A first person shooter where you play as American, French, and Polish soldiers fighting against 
 the Germans in world war 2. The controls are easy to get used to and the graphics are great. The 
 campaign is a long and addictive one that will keep you playing for hours at a time. I have not 
 yet played the multiplayer, but with how fun the campaign is i can only imagine that playing the 
 awsome shooter on xbox live can only make it better. I would suggest this game to anybody that 
 likes shooters or war games. It may not be as good as call of duty 2 but it is right up there close 
 to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nick_manthe
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 7, 2007 4:08 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty 3 is a solid WWII shooter. I t is slightly more challenging than the last call of duty. The 
 graphics are great and have improved. The multiplayer is awsome supporting up to 24 players. Though 
 having the vehicles in multiplayer can be very frustrating sometimes. You can also be a medic and 
 revive players who are down on the battlefield or you can can supply allies with ammo. The multiplayer 
 achievements for this game will keep you playing for months. In the single player you play as an 
 American infantryman, British commando, Canadian highlander, and a Polish tanker. The single player 
 is the same except it's more challenging but the single player chievements are pretty easy except 
 beating single player on veteran is a lot harder than call of duty 2 veteran. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: etiennec9
Rating: 7.2
Date: May 7, 2007 6:18 am PT
Review:  I like this game, more than most, but I cannot stand getting stuck on the environment, especially 
 when I'm trying to kill Nazis, but I do, and then I die. And the tire or random bit of rubble I 
 got stuck on is something I should be able to step over. Make my character unsteady for a second 
 as he steps over this low crumbled wall, but don't cement me in place wondering which way I have 
 to move to pull my guy out alive. I'm under fire and getting stuck is just frustrating. And if 
 you've got one version of a gun with a scope and another version without a scope, why isn't the 
 ammo compatible? It's the same gun with the same name, only one has a scope. Come on! That said, 
 I really like throwing grenades back at the enemy, and the overwhelming forces really got my heart 
 racing. Some of the details in the game, like the guy coming out of the outhouse during the 'flak 
 88' mission make the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockermm2
Rating: 10
Date: May 6, 2007 8:11 pm PT
Review:  i am so hooked on it but its a shame it will go bad when call of duty goes to modern warfare i 
 want WW2 back shooting NAZIS is fun, the game moves nicely the full affect of war and very exciting 
 action great ending as well it had me on the edge of my seat in my case they should stay with WW2 
 even though alot of ppl dont believe that. This is a great game and multiplier changes every single 
 time u will never to matches that play the same, but i would of like custom players and u could 
 rank up like Rainbow Six Vegas that would of been a nice touch for all the hard work 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gbird991
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 6, 2007 6:18 pm PT
Review:  Unlike some of the jaded editors in the office, I'm still a big fan of World War II games. I remember 
 my first time storming Omaha Beach in Medal of Honor: Frontline, and I was hooked. But, after a 
 while, you can't help but get the been-there, done-that feeling about WWII shooters. Throughout 
 the years, however, the Call of Duty franchise has managed to recreate historic battles, many of 
 which are relatively unknown to the average gamer.
  
  Which brings us back to the Normandy Breakout, which happens to be the Allied campaign following 
 D-Day that resulted in the liberation of Paris. Whereas COD2 was spread across Africa and France 
 and Russia, COD3 is much more localized. As Americans, British, Polish and, finally, Canadians, 
 you'll liberate Paris from four sides, which helps to bring a cohesiveness to the single-player 
 game that COD2 lacked.
  
  Although Treyarch took over for Infinity Ward, the gameplay mechanics remain largely the same. 
 With a regenerating health system, you fight your way from objective to objective and through a 
 variety of scripted moments -- what COD does best. Although the missions are fun and well laid-out, 
 including vehicles as well, the gameplay mechanics are getting a bit stale. COD3 is fun, don't 
 get me wrong. But after playing Rainbow Six Vegas and even Gears of War, both with outstanding 
 cover systems, I can't help but wish something like this would be applied to a WWII game. In the 
 end, the single-player missions feel more like an expansion pack to COD2, which is not necessarily 
 a bad thing. It's just that this franchise needs a breath of fresh air.
  
  Fresh air is exactly what the multiplayer game received however. Completely revamped, COD3 plays 
 like a next-gen Battlefield 1942, complete with classes of soldiers and a ton of vehicles. Scouts 
 can call in artillery strikes; medics can inject their miracle needle to save a re-spawn, and support 
 gunners can lay down the .50 cal and obliterate people. In short, the COD3 multiplayer is outstanding, 
 a complete overhaul on the mediocre mode in COD2. With a ton of game modes and huge, sprawling 
 maps, COD3 could jump on top as one of the most popular multiplayer games this holiday season.
 
  
  Clearly Treyarch put the most focus in overhauling multiplayer, and the effort has paid off. With 
 a decent, more focused single-player campaign and an excellent online mode, COD3 is a great WWII 
 shooter. Still, this series is in need of something new, be it a whole new campaign outside of 
 Europe or even WWII.
  
  Oh, and COD3 has the best looking grass of any game in history. Snap! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: splintercell93
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 6, 2007 5:52 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3 is a fantastic game in all aspects. I just beat the game about 2 hours ago and i 
 am already playing it agian on the hardest diffuclty, for a shooter fan this game is a must buy. 
 there arnt many negative notes on this game excpet i didnt liek how at the end of a misson if u 
 quit it made u watch the video agian small but i coudlnt figure out how to skip it. Graphics r 
 great not the best but still very good and sound is great. the multipalyer is fun and exciting. 
 great game over all 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d_cjay13
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 6, 2007 4:11 pm PT
Review:  This is easily the best Call of Duty in the series. It retains the old control schemes but adds 
 in a little new content such as bomb secuences, where you place a charge, rotate the analog stick 
 and press a button. But the best new content are the melee fights. These are button sequences that 
 are sprinkled throughout the game where an enemy attacks from a hidden area, and you must pull 
 of a seguence to defeat them. Each one is different, so it keeps things interesting. The only problem 
 is is that there are very few of these sequences throughout the game. The game itself isn't that 
 long either, with only 14 levels. The levels are, however, all completely different, different 
 locations, layout, and weather. The levels are very nicely detailed, partially ruined houses, bombs 
 and gunfire in the distance all adds the the experience. It is not free roam levels, but the game 
 delivers it in a way so you don't really feel restricted as to where you go. The voice acting is 
 very well done and the music and effects are absolutly great to hear. The graphics are amazing, 
 and the soldiers will often get mud and dirt on their clothes in realistic ways when they crouch 
 or go prone. The rag doll physics are very nicely done. All in all, this is a great game, very 
 much fun and with multiple difficulty settings. I definitely recommend it to anyone with a 360. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: freebones
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 6, 2007 11:19 am PT
Review:  call of duty 3 is call of duty 2 with updated graphics and more nazi killing levels. i particalarly 
 like this game because for one i thought that the achievements were right on, none (on single player) 
 too hard to get although some can be too easy i found myself getting achievements i didnt know 
 exised actually witch isnt bad but, havent really had that happen alot. now for the online play 
 i actually trieds to join a few matches after beating the game but it gave me a hard time and the 
 online achievements take alot of devotion considering half the time it dosent work. and i played 
 multiplayer locally and it wasnt really good anyway so, not much to say about online play. well 
 thats call of duty 3 for ya and overall its a good game i would say rent it, not buy it (i finished 
 story in a few hours) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Antonius86
Rating: 7.7
Date: May 6, 2007 5:11 am PT
Review:  If you fans like Call of Duty 2, then you'll sure will like Call of Duty 3. The graphics I think 
 have improved a lot, showing more wrinkles in their uniforms and more details on the characters 
 and the environment. The visuals is simply breathtaking because it does look and feel like you're 
 actually in the middle of the war. Playing the first chapter surely shows what the Xbox 360 can 
 do. You'll see smoke floading to the air, grenades exploding all around, screen shaking after every 
 huge explosions. With all of these things happening at once, it sure brings realism to the game.
 
  
  The gameplay controls are the same as Call of Duty 2, but now you can pick up live grenades and 
 throw it back. This can become a learning experience, since you have to do it really quick. The 
 weapons have improved a lot from the graphics to the sounds of the weapon firing.
  
  The mutliplayer is really dull at the moment where as the Ranked Matches are currently not working 
 for most of the users. But the programmers of Call of Duty 3 are working on a patch to fix that 
 problem later this or next week. Playing on the Player Matches, it was quite fun, but there are 
 not a lot people are online playing due to the problem with Ranked Matches.
  
  The only thing that really bugs me the most in this game is the fact that a. i.'s on the veteran 
 difficulty are so stupid (talking about Allies a. i.) . because i was doing this one mission where 
 i have to kill the enemies in the trench, for going so far, the allies will stay one place leaving 
 me alone to kill 8 or 10 enemies up ahead. This is not what i call team work, the Allies should 
 be there with you helping you kill the enemies, not leaving me doing the dirty work. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: insanepyro6
Rating: 9
Date: May 5, 2007 9:30 pm PT
Review:  If you like a storyline, be prepared to be dissapointed though. The story is the same as usual, 
 a common footsoldier doing amazing things. What to expect?
  
  The producers REALLY improved the graphics though. COULD be better, but the graphics are good enough.
 
  
  The sound, as usual, is amazing.
  
  My favorite part of the game is the XBOX LIVE Mutliplayer. Don't buy this gam without an extra 
 fifty bucks. You will NEED Xbox Live for this game. The multiplayer is the only part i bothered 
 to play. BUT, for the multiplayer is why i gave this a 9.0
  
  Overall, Multiplayer lovers ; Buy this game now. Otherwise don't bother. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baseballkid7
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 4, 2007 3:36 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3 is an all around great game. Very fun to play, with great multiplayer as well.
 
  
  Graphics- Some of the best I've seen on the 360. They will definitely wow you.
  
  Sound-Also some of the best sound effects and voice acting you will hear in a video game.
  
 
  Value-This game will keep you busy for hour upon hour. You can play for America, Canada, etc.
 
  
  Gameplay-You won't regret playing this, there's never a dull moment with all the differnt types 
 of environmsnts, guns, and missions. I also thought the achivements were pretty cool. I reccommend 
 this game to anyone with an Xbox 360, espicially if you're a shooter fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: egomez3
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 4, 2007 12:10 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3 is a great game to play. I wouldn't really call it an improvement to Call of Duty 
 2 but this game is still very fun. The graphics in my mind were excellent. Better than Call of 
 Duty 2 in that aspect but not an overwhelming difference. My problem with this game is that it 
 really did seem much shorter than Call of Duty 2. Grenades seemed to be harder to aim and always 
 end up goin farther than you want them to. Multiplayer was not that great either. But overall I 
 loved how good this game felt. Aiming seemed a little less complicated even with the focus factor 
 they put in. I liked this game a lot and its not a bad game to buy at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Old_Gooseberry
Rating: 8
Date: May 3, 2007 11:04 pm PT
Review:  COD 3 is mostly improved over the second, but there are things that bugged me. One thing is when 
 you were starting up from a last checkpoint you saved at, it forces the cutscene to play through 
 again. And no way of stopping it. I thought it was even harder to tell apart germans from allies 
 in this game in some missions. Their uniforms were hard to tell apart.
  
  I'm not sure about these WW2 games, I think they should just hold off them until they make some 
 better gameplay changes. It's not much different form playing one after another. Theres a lot of 
 stupid things that bug me I won't mention but after playing them you begin to see.
  
  I do like COD3 more than COD2, but it is impossible to tell them apart, and buggy save games I 
 don't like to repeat. After playing COD2 and COD3, I'm pretty much WW2'd out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Heavenz_Reject
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 1, 2007 4:17 pm PT
Review:  When i first started playing the game I didn't even start playing the actual campaign, I went straight 
 to the multiplayer. When I first heard that the game had 24 players online in one match the sparks 
 stsrted flying. But besides the online play being totallly kick arss the campaign was suprisingly 
 good. The sound affects and explosions were awsome but the Germans could have used a little bit 
 more dialog and lines to say. Overal the game was fun and kept me glues to the xbox 360. I hope 
 just as much hard work in the next onem, if not more! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kile22
Rating: 7.2
Date: Apr 28, 2007 3:56 pm PT
Review:  At first I was amazed at how nice the game looked and the most action pack first mission of any 
 game I've played in a long time. Having different nations this time around is neat and all. But 
 the actual game itself sucks. The little mini games are dumb. I met a couple of bionic Nazis, completely 
 unaffected by grenades. The friendly AI are stupid, they just get mowed down one after another. 
 A one point when planting a charge on a flak gun, they pinned me against it, killing all of us. 
 Another thing that really makes my mad are invisible walls. I tried to take cover with one of my 
 men and there it was a giant invisible wall. So prepare to die a lot, because with a stupid AI 
 and the invisible walls, you do a whole lot except die and hope that it doesn't happen again.
 
  
  Another thing is the button setup. The button to throw back grenade is the same button that reloads, 
 I don't think I need to explain what happens when you don't have a full clip. Also you have to 
 reload before you can plant a charge, which is very annoying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nyoe
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 27, 2007 9:22 pm PT
Review:  First and foremost i'd like to apologize for spelling and grammar Cod 3 is a beautiful game to 
 look at (especially reloading animations and rainy levels) and now thats out of the way we can 
 start the criticisms. Cod3 was developed by tryarch the same dev team that made big red one which 
 was the last gen versions of cod2 and unlike infinity ward (cod, cod2) tryarch has gone on a more 
 story based approce to the ww2 series atempting to make you feel for your pixilated allies by making 
 lengthy un skippable cutscenes at the beginning of every mission which the first time around might 
 be fun to watch but after your 4th time watching them they just become so tedius and in the end 
 the story is pretty half baked as not all of the characters have enough time in the short span 
 of the game to be completely characterized. The gameplay is the same you'd expect from the series 
 with a few minor tweaks and that dont really add much to the experience like the mele minigames 
 which are a cool prospect but are far too easy to leave an impact on you. Unfortunately though 
 some of the best things about cod2 were lost in translation with the dev swich most importantly 
 the checkpoint system which in cod2 was dynamic and would save whenever the game found it neccessary 
 in cod 3 however they are all preset and in bad places making for some incredibly frustrating hours 
 of replaying the same parts over and over aside from this the AI is still the same if not a bit 
 better. perhaps the biggest change between the two games is multiplayer which has gotten a complete 
 face lift and now rather than the ol' run and gun of cod 2 (which i still really like) plays more 
 like battlefield 1942 with vehicles and different troop classes all with special abilities and 
 whatnot. All in all cod 3 is a good game but is somewhat harder to get into because of its structured 
 story driven gameplay than cod 2 is but is still really fun and if your an acheivement whore (like 
 me) youll find that the acheivements are more diverse and not obtainable in one playthrough of 
 the campaign (seeing as how there are online acheiments) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Lone_Czar
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 27, 2007 6:13 pm PT
Review:  COD 3 though it has a great single player, lacked much of what it was supposed to have. As a sequel 
 it should have been better than COD 2... but it wasn't. There were a few bugs and glitches here 
 and there, but the biggest problem was the wait. It takes almost forever to load a ranked match, 
 im sure its an exxageration but you shouldnt have to wait 5 minutes for one match. Also i wish 
 there could have been more variety in online mode. The two same races made it boring because of 
 the same guns repitive actions. But on the upside, the story does offer a better view to WW2 showing 
 new fronts and new weapons. The introduction of vehicles is also something new. COD 3 is a good 
 game, but i expected so much more from the franchise 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pasirris
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 26, 2007 5:22 am PT
Review:  Although it may have had some bad things sad about it, CoD3 is really fun. The sounds are better 
 and multi player is a 100 times better. It has a slower pace due to the size of certain maps and 
 the addition of vehicles and tanks.
  
  Single player is also awesome, with some battle actions that require you to press certain buttons 
 for an action to be done. Teyarch did an awesome job, I really love CoD3 a lot more than CoD2. 
 It's all about the small things that make it better than CoD3, also much better graphics and rifle 
 grenades rock! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rafarmer
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 25, 2007 5:25 am PT
Review:  A lot of people have made negative connections with this game's predecessor. Well, I managed to 
 miss out on COD 2 (though have fond memories of the PC incarnation of the original) , so aren't 
 able to view this game through those particular rose-tinted glasses.
  
  Therefore, on its own merit, COD 3 is a wonderful game. The single player mode is tough as nails 
 but superbly fair - you'll die often but it'll always be your fault. It falls into the trap of 
 so many supposedly next-gen games in that it still feels like it was made by people with an in-built 
 rule book about what has to make up a 'game' - I'm taking things like invisible barriers, being 
 ferried from waypoint to waypoint whether you feel that's the best course of action or not etc. 
 These are the same bug-bears that make the likes of Gears Of War, Dead Rising and Lost Planet seem 
 like pretty updates of older game styles rather than the true revolutions I think we've all secretly 
 been longing for (fingers crossed for Mass Effect!) .
  
  However, I digress. Let's get to the meat here...
  
  Multiplayer. Xbox Live. That's what this 
 game is about. Like a beautiful hybrid of Battlefield 1942 and relatively little-known Day Of Defeat, 
 this is online gaming perfection. Each map is superbly balanced regardless of what play mode you're 
 in, the weapons and classes compliment each other better even than the designers themselves could 
 have expected, and the thrill of snatching victory from the jaws of defeat is right up there with 
 the best there is.
  
  I cut my online teeth on the mighty Counter-Strike Source, and for me this pips even that. Less 
 close-quarters twitch gameplay than that mammoth, COD3 has mulitplayer that lets you plan your 
 shots strategically, use your sniper rifle sight to gain the lay of the land and - provided you 
 get on a friendly game - rewards teamwork better than any game I've played. Hiding behind a broken 
 wall while an enemy tank rumbles by unseen, preying not to get spotted and waiting for that chance 
 to pop a grenade down the hatch... gaming heaven!
  
  Dangerously addictive, this is not to be missed - especially now that many retailers are discounting 
 it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danbouk
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 22, 2007 12:41 am PT
Review:  If your looking for more of the same with other COD games you'll find it here with a few fun extras 
 once you get used to them, although the game follows a more linear path than the previous COD game.
 
  
  The first level you start with some basic training before you set off. Before you get into the 
 action someone offers you a foot up over a wall, you look over and what you see is on of the most 
 intense battles taking place ever in video game history. Sadly this is the only part of the game 
 where you will see action on this scale, but it is still quite a sight to behold.
  
  Basically the game is set over 14 missions, where each mission you play the part of a soldier in 
 either The US army, Candian Army, Polish Tank Division or British SAS (With SAS label on Shoulder) .
 
  
  Whilst playing the game you'll be presented with little sub-games like battling with a German, 
 Planting A Bomb, Using A Motor Cannon, Rowing A Boat and a few more. These may seem like they do 
 not fit in at first but after a while or on a second playthrough you'll feel like they are part 
 of the game.
  
  Though the game doesn't seem as intense as COD 2 some parts can be pretty tricky and some just 
 dam annoying like the odd indestruable Nazi who can't be taking out.
  
  The game offer a fun package with some good shoot outs and real tense and exciting momments, my 
 only really gripe is the game is too linear, your teamates take all the cover and run into bullets 
 and the cutscenes you have to watch at the start of each level, and I mean every time you start 
 the level or turn your Xbox on and restart from a save point.
  
  Now the Multi-player, if at all you are interested in on-line gaming then I couldn't recommend 
 this game highly enough as for me in nearly four years of playing Xbox live this is the best game 
 on-line I have played thus far and offers the best game mode I have ever come across War.
  
  The Graphics and Sound are both top Notch and Value wise if you like other COD games I would 
 buy it but don't expect it to be a better game than COD 2, if you like on-line gaming the game 
 would be worth double at least as you will have endless hours of gaming available here and I believe 
 the game will be played by a lot of people for months to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: funkytaco44
Rating: 7.7
Date: Apr 21, 2007 11:30 am PT
Review:  Wow almost no change from COD2 except for a new smaller HUD, sights on weapons, bullet noise, and 
 lack of ability to chose your campaign. This is only a letdown due to the fact that so much could 
 have been added. Needs new weapons and more use of them other than the  
 **** weeeeee  ee eeeeee eeeeeeer rrrrrrrrrrrrr 
   ttttttttyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyy 
 yyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyy yy yyyyyyyyyydf gawdfouiasiashdfu iashdfuiabsdfkablsdfuhlsdfuisd sfaudfhasdf 
 asdb fsf f f f f f f f f f f f f f f ro or or or or or or or or or or or or or a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rbbdrooger
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 19, 2007 10:25 pm PT
Review:  Over the last ten years the gaming market has been flooded with World War II FPS games, and it 
 doesn't seem to stop any time soon.
  Call of Duty 1 and 2 are examples of excellent games in this genre, and fortunately, the third 
 installment doesn't break the trend.
  
  Call of Duty 3 doesn't do much different in terms of gameplay (except for a few minor tweaks) , 
 but the presentation has dramatically improved. Both the graphics and sound design are a big step 
 forward from CoD 2.
  Storywise, the game no longer leaps around Europe, but rather focusses on the libaration of France, 
 seen from the perspective of different countries doing their part. You play as different soldiers, 
 from an American footsoldier to a Polish tank operator. The storyline isn't bad, but it hops around 
 too much between the different soldiers to get immersive enough for you to really care. My only 
 real complaint is the length, although it's about the same as the previous two games, clocking 
 in at about 10 hours depending on the difficulty level.
  
  As I said, the gameplay is pretty much the same as in the first two installments, with a few improvements. 
 Most importantly, you can now throw grenades back at the Germans, meaning the grenade indicator 
 actually becomes your biggest friend. The developement team also implemented a few  
 minigames like melee attacks or planting explosive charges. These minigames are very easy and don't 
 add much to the gameplay, but It's a nice way to break up the action every now and then. I also 
 noticed a nice little blur effect when switching to your scoped view, which adds to the realism. 
 The vehicles are decent. The controls for the jeep are a bit too 'loose', but the tank action is 
 pretty exciting once you get the hang of the controls. Multiplayer is also a big step up. The game 
 supports 32 players and has a nice range of maps and gamemodes. It's nothing groundbreaking, but 
 it ticks all the right boxes.
  
  Call of Duty is an excellent game. It looks and sound great, has that 'small-part-in-a-big-war' 
 feel and features a good multiplayer mode.
  It could've used one or two more levels and the storyline isn't very interesting (althoug not boring 
 either) , but the solid gameplay and beautiful presentation make up for most of the minor flaws. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: buff_nerd12
Rating: 7.3
Date: Apr 19, 2007 12:34 pm PT
Review:  great graphics, ok gameplay, good sound and yet it just dident seem to satisfy me... it was far 
 to short for $50, and it was to much like Call Of Duty 2. hated when you thought you killed them 
 all and suddenly some nazi runs up behind you and kills you. altough there are new guns and you 
 get to be different countries, the game just dident change much fron cod2, the gameplay gets boring 
 after about 2 hours, and then you just want to forget about it in some corner. the sound was good. 
 the graphics where great, but some how just to flashy. I would have to say that this game was definetly 
 not worth the $50 Canadian. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pulledabooth
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 19, 2007 7:06 am PT
Review:  Lots of good improvements, vehicles are useful, online feels like your in WWII.
  loving it, this is definitely the best of all 3 in the COD series.
  
  Although campaign does 
 lack some content as it does tend to reflect on the 2nd COD campaign details and theres nothing 
 new here... But thats not why i bought. ONLINE saves the day yet again making this game pretty damn 
 good.
  
  Controls are excellent and weapons are very effective. they pack a mean punch! Each soldier has 
 different attributes which is new and very useful.
  
  Graphics are very colorful and realistic. Sharp and clean.
  
  Compared to newer shooters out 
 there such as Rainbow Six Las Vegas, GOW and GRAW 2 its a little outdated.
  
  I recommend this game for newer players just to get the feel of the controller and online on the 
 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: serenityveteran
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 17, 2007 6:57 am PT
Review:  Okay, I'll get this out of the way - I love the Call of Duty series. I got hooked on CoD for the 
 P. C, survived the Battle of the Bulge in United Offensive and grinded my teeth in frustration with 
 Vet difficulty in CoD2 for the 360...
  
  Having said that, my first impression of playing CoD3 is that it is not a CoD game. In title, yes. 
 In gameplay and style, not one iota. That's not to say it's not fun, because it is. It's just a 
 different kind of fun.
  CoD2 made me feel like ducking my head, like every patch of earth won was a victory in itself... 
 I didn't feel like I even came close to dying once in numero three. Granted, I'm on normal difficulty 
 at the moment and I understand that will change on Veteran. But this is a war! Could I at least 
 be afraid for my life in combat?
  
  I don't want this to sound like a huge complaint about the game. Seriously, it's fun. It's graphically 
 spectacular, intense in scope and the sound is fantastic on my 5.1 system.
  But still... It just isn't a CoD game.
  
  Feel free to flame me. Point out that this has all 
 been said a thousand times before, please. But understand that I paid my $60 for this game, just 
 like I'm sure you did. So I feel vindicated enough to post this.
  
  BTW- I would have made a few comments about the online play, but I can't since I couldn't connect 
 to one single game. Apparently, this isn't uncommon. Yeah, I can't get my NAT off strict in spite 
 of following my modem/router manufacturers instructions, nor through any other guidance offered. 
 But I could connect to any MP match I chose on CoD2. Strange, eh? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luckypool04
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 16, 2007 12:27 pm PT
Review:  You will hear many great lines in COD 3 such as - Today we're on a secret mission to get coffee 
 and donuts. In Call of Duty 3 every krout every Gerry is just around the corner. Its true what 
 people say that its allot like COD 2 but I think some ways its even better. Although it is very 
 true that this is a by-the-numbers release and some people wonder why their is a 3 in this COD 
 rather, because its kind of like an expansion. STORY: Starting in the blasted and burnt city of 
 Saint Lo which is flying with bullets and the fog of war. You hurry with your quick training recap 
 and then get strait into the action next. You will find yourself being riddled with bullets and 
 avoiding blasts that blow the buildings away. There was really never a dull moment in this game, 
 which could be seen in the first one. ENTERTAINMENT: Constant firing of rifles and smgs everywhere 
 is between you and your goal in COD 3. PROS: Beautiful Graphics of chaotic events that ensue in-game, 
 amazingly Realistic sound, upgraded multiplayer.
  
  CONS: Plays almost exactly like COD 2. The story could have been more engaging.
  
  OVERALL: 
 Although it has many similarities to COD 2, Call of Duty 3 becomes a massive amount of fun once 
 you start playing. Many of the cut scenes are well done and make the game allot better then COD 
 2, because of it. Hopefully the next installment will be more inventive but for now this is a great 
 game and deserves a little credit for being in a constant state of vigilance. Deffinfantly worth 
 a buy if youre a fan of WW2's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WillKing
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 14, 2007 10:24 pm PT
Review:  I have to admit killing Nazis is pretty fun but killing Nazis on the xbox 360 is a lot more fun 
 then you would expect with some of the most mouth watering graphics that the world of gaming has 
 ever seen on a first person shooter. One of the more noticeable improvement for COD3 is a more 
 coherent story that COD2 did not have.
  
  COD3 takes it up a notch and focuses distinctly on France right after D-day during the 6 brutal 
 weeks that led to the liberation of Paris. You'll bounce between American, British, Canadian, and 
 Polish troops, but your progress is all tied to to the same goal freeing the French. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lokiisback
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 13, 2007 8:51 pm PT
Review:  I don't know what there is to say about this game. For those of you out there who own a 360 and 
 Call Of Duty 2, then all I really need to say is, same BASIC game, but with vehicles in it, and 
 less accurate guns. Most of you who haven't yet played Call Of Duty 3 yet are probably thinking, 
 well GREAT... Same old, and vehicles now too!... WRONG, with the addition of vehicles, it completely 
 throws the game off. The game starts to resemble Battlefield, with its vast maps, and many vehicles. 
 The Call Of Duty I know was, me running around with a G-43, getting head shots at anyone in my 
 path before they knew what hit them. With Call Of Duty 3, all the weapons are now much less accurate, 
 and your driven to use vehicles, especially since almost all maps are so huge, that you couldn't 
 cover the whole map in a 30 minute period. Now, for those of you who don't care what kind of game 
 it is, you just want a good game, don't expect too much from Call Of Duty 3, yes it stands out 
 from most, but I wouldn't ever compare it to Call Of Duty 2. It's turned into a vehicle game, and 
 to be honest, its not all that fun in the vehicles. The game has its moments, but it just gets 
 boring quick. The story isn't all that great either. The only thing I liked about the story, was 
 that they didn't have you using the vehicles as much as you will be doing in the multi-player. 
 The story its self was just another history lesson that we've got over the years over and over 
 again from the other 10,000 WWII games out there. All in all, the game is fun yes, but it more 
 closely resembles Battlefield 2: M. C., than it does Call Of Duty 2... And I'll have you know, I 
 traded in my copy of Battlefield 2, and I still have my copy of Call Of Duty 2... Still debating 
 on weather or not Call Of Duty 3 is worth keeping around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cammonag
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 13, 2007 4:59 am PT
Review:  Call Of Duty 3 is the third game of the series and is a typical world war shooter and the game 
 starts in typical dramatic fashion where within the first 5 minutes of the game you'll be flung 
 into a gun fight with the nazi's and you must regroup with your team .
  The single player is worthwhile and one that you might have seen coming if you had played Call 
 Of Duty 2 . The multiplayer over xbox live is a whole different kettle of fish as in my view , 
 it could rival even Gears Of War as there can be up to 24 people in one game mode either fighting 
 with or against you.
  The tetures and graphics of the game are superb and this truely is the best looking Call Of Duty 
 and maybe best looking war game of all time .
  If they do indeed make a Call Of Duty 4 , only a few changes would have to be made in my opinion 
 like getting rid of cheaters online . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wilzy_ccfc
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 13, 2007 4:29 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3 is very similar to COD2 but with a few differences. The campaign is played only 
 in France. Its still as large and enduring as COD2's campaign was, especially on veteran, but doesnt 
 have as much variation to the locations as its predecessor has. Its still great however and portrays 
 excellently the feeling of war. The atmosphere is truly awesome, and one of the best created ever, 
 as you really feel part of a war, something Gears of War failed to do. The graphics are again stunning 
 along with the unmatchable sound. The multiplayer has the most changes however. Firstly the maps 
 are noticeably bigger, much bigger. You can stroll around in war-time bikes, tanks and jeeps, which 
 is refeshing seeing as the maps are larger. heir are now weapon classes which also adds a new dimension 
 to the formula. This is another immaculate war game from activision but is too similar to COD2. 
 But if you were impressed by COD2 then this is another fantastic production that you shouldnt miss. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slick_Mike
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 13, 2007 1:29 am PT
Review:  I really appreciated the little things they added to this Call of Duty to pull you into the game. 
 I liked wrestling with an enemy once in awhile. I enjoyed having to think about planting a charge, 
 not just pressing one button and having the rest happen for me.
  On the other hand, it wasn't so different or so much better than COD2 to stand out in my mind. 
 In fact, the missions seemed less compelling. The best mission had to be the last one, driving 
 the Germans out, but even then it wasn't too difficult for a finale mission.
  It was a good game, I just wish I could have played it on my PC. I would have saved ten bucks, 
 and maybe gotten a better experience (no need for any auto-aiming when you have a mouse) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ArcTrooper3827
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 12, 2007 6:07 pm PT
Review:  What is there not to say about this addition to the Call of Duty series! This game comes at you 
 with the force of a tank shell burst, This game from beginning to end was great I liked how the 
 developers put some of the Cod 2 qualities in this game like driving the tanks and jeeps, but also 
 the fact that they incorporated new features like the malee with the hidden German soldier around 
 the corner of a door way how you have to use a certain combination of controller keys to beat back 
 the soldier also how now when you set a charge to destroy something you do it manually, not just 
 hold down X that was fun for me because it made you feel like you were in the game. This CoD had 
 alot of action, more gun play and also the enemy seemed to be alittle more intelligent not just 
 run and disperse. The one down thing in this game is that I noticed myself getting caught the some 
 strange objects in the middle of a battle examples would be jumping over a fence I would some times 
 get caught and could not more, getting stuck in a hole in one level..... etc..... But all and all 
 this game is a sweet addition to the Call of Duty series and i am looking forward to more great 
 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Graffclyde
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 11, 2007 1:59 am PT
Review:  I am so stoked at this game, the weapons the multiplayer (split screen) and veihcals. This game 
 have everything you ever wanted in a war game, smoke granades, powerful realife-looked rockect 
 launcher and the powerful tanks.
  
  The game play on this i awesome, leading you through houses to fight through your way into the 
 battlefields. The sounds are perfect, sounds real good like it does in real-life (spicing up the 
 game) . The graphic is good, see it perfectly and real-life war feeling added to it.
  
  The weapons are really unbeliveable, smoke granade is my favourite becouse i could throw on out 
 in the feild between us and the bad guys and let it go up into the air and jump in shoot randomlly 
 everywhere u can, which was fun. The normal granade was awesome aswell because it had a really 
 good effect on the opponents funny enough to see them fly away from the blown granade. The sniper 
 rifle could do a little better, zooming in and out wasnt there (i think) but still awesome to snipe 
 out the other guys. The rockect launcher need a bit more time spending on it, the effect were not 
 that good but funny sometimes (that the person can run into you and you shoot and you both die) . 
 Well alot of these weapons are good and so others aswell.
  
  The game is reconmanded for war specified type of games if your into them like me and other people 
 in the world.
  
  -Graffclyde 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrAnderson582
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 10, 2007 4:09 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3 is a great game no doubt, but there are some things that just make it cheesy. If 
 you go prone... you can go through people! At least in Gears Of War you can push people... not go 
 through them. Anyway, sometimes when you throw a gernade next to a wall (I said next to a wall 
 not at a wall) it hits an invisible thing (the game thinks that its a wall... but its not) . But 
 other than that and a few other things, Call Of Duty 3 is a great game and anyone who likes the 
 series will love this game. The game play is good, and the sound is also good., This can be a pretty 
 cool game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bighawk911
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 8, 2007 2:42 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3 has some great battles and I think is better than COD2. Compared to other shooters 
 it is realistic in the fact that you can sit back and stop shooting once in a while like it were 
 an actual war. In this way I think the game is better than Gears of War or a lot of other shooters. 
 The grenades and smoke bombs are both crucial to your offensive and defensive strategy. Activision 
 tries to tone down the violence to make it more honorable I guess. Not that I need a lot of blood 
 but I think intestines and other organs splattered on the ground would make the graphics and game 
 feel more like an actual war. It should at least be an option to have the graphics look real. The 
 levels get better as the game goes on, like a good shooter should. The final challenge is actually 
 kind of stupid compared to the other levels getting up to it. I would say this is a must play if 
 you own an Xbox360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperSlideTail
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 6, 2007 2:00 pm PT
Review:  The next game in the COD series continues its success under a different developer, Treyarch. COD3 
 plays virtually the same as its predecessor. The HUD, controls, and weapons are all for the most 
 part the same. So there is no learning new controls or anything like that, just jump right in and 
 feel right at home.
  
  The main game modes are single and multiplayer. The single player campaign this time around keeps 
 you in France and the fight to free the country of German control. The main objective is a city 
 called Chambois and you play as an American, British, French, Canadien, and Polish forces to try 
 and recapture that important city. The Polish missions have you driving a tank in trying to take 
 out a squad of German tanks and its leader. Most of the game is just like COD2's combat and the 
 type of missions you need to complete. However I think in this game there are a lower amount of 
 checkpoints which can be frustrating on harder difficulties. The farther you progress in the single 
 player, bonus material is unlocked. You can unlock information on the soldiers you fight with, 
 allied and axis vehicles and weapons.
  
  The multiplayer, probably the most important aspect of the COD games, is still very fun. You have 
 the option of playing ranked and unranked matches with the choice of the same gametypes as COD2. 
 The player classes also help to keep the game fresh. Rifleman, light assault, heavy assault, medic, 
 scout, support, and anti-armor are available to play. The only downfall I came across was that 
 there was a bit of unbalance in games because the game gives you the option of being on the Allies 
 or Axis. Most people seemed to prefer the Ally weapons so that caused an unbalance in a lot of 
 games. For the most part even with that problem, the online play was still a lot of fun.
  
  The graphics and sound in this game are still outstanding look pretty much the same as COD2's. 
 Achievements in this game are more varied than they were in COD2. Not to mention, there are multiplayer 
 achievements that add more to the overall value.
  
  The COD series continues to show that these games are must haves for Xbox 360 owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shane2k7
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 5, 2007 9:47 am PT
Review:  call of duty 3 is the best in the series because it has beter grafics than all the other call of 
 duty games, it has better gam play than the rest of the call of duty games, and it also has a better 
 xbox live lobby than the rest of the call of duty games.
  
  call of duty has one of the easisest sets of controls to understand in the world. because if you 
 dont want to know all the controls, you only need to know that the right trigger it to shoot and 
 the left and right thumsticks and to move and look around.
  
  in call of duty three you are a british, american, polish, and canadian infantry solider and you 
 have to fight in some of the most ferocies battles in world war two. while you fight through the 
 battles you can allso drive jeeps and other vehicles. on xbox live in my opinion call of dutyu 
 is one of the most impresive first person shooters on the shelves today, you can drive tanks; moter 
 bikes; tanks and many other vehiclesfromworld war two.
  
  to date i have played on call of duty three for atleast 2 weeks but i completed it within the first 
 week. so i have been playing on xbox live with it and i think that its is a lot better on xbox 
 live because the enamy is unpredictable.
  
  if you have a xbox 360 you should definatly get call of duty 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wh1te_m4trix
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 4, 2007 9:22 am PT
Review:  Im gonna review this game by the following components:
  
  Sound: As always makes an amazing experience to play COD 3 with the best sound quality so far on 
 the xbox 360. The explosions are shattering, the sound of the tanks getting closer to you on the 
 multiplayer amazing, If you listen closely enough you can hear the enemies getting closer to you 
 in the single player and multiplayer. Thats why I gave sound a 10/10.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay makes the game really interesting, the few minigames it has makes up a great 
 experience. The game is long enough to keep you playing for 4-5 days and the multiplayer is amazing 
 and will keep you playing for a long while, Ive been playing it since december and it has a great 
 variety so I dont really get bored of it. The vehicles on the multiplayer are the following: The 
 panzer IV ( standard German tank) , The HORCH 1A / KFZ 18 ( standard German wagon ) , Willys Jeep 
 ( standard Allies wagon ) and the Sherman VC 1 (Firefly) . The single player has 14 chapters playing 
 as The American forces, The British , The French resistance, The Canadian and The polish tankers.
 
  
  Graphics: The graphics look next-gen but are not as impressive as other xbox 360 games out there 
 right now. If you have an HDTV it makes for a pretty good experience but with a standard tv its 
 not as amazing as another games like Battlefield 2, GRAW 2, Oblivion and Saints Row.
  
  Weapons: This game has a huge library of weapons including 4 classes for MP: The Rifleman: M1 garand 
 or Kar 98k , Colt .45 or P-38 and a grenade launcher.
  
  The Light Assault: Thompson M1A1or mp40, Colt .45 or P-38, Sticky grenades and anti-personnel mines.
 
  
  The Heavy Assault: BAR or MP44, Colt .45 or P-38, Frag Grenades or Stielhandgranate and Anti-Personnel 
 Mines.
  
  The Medic: M1897 Trench Gun, Colt .45 or P-38, Smoke Grenades and the special ability to revive 
 allies.
  
  The Scout: Springfield M1903M4 or Scoped Kar98k, Colt .45 or P-38, Frag Grenades or Stielhandgranate 
 and The special ability to call an artillery strike.
  
  The Support: Browning M1919A6 .30 cal or MG34, Colt .45 or P-38, Frag grenade or Stielhandgranate 
 and the special ability of ammo delivery.
  
  The Anti-Armor: Bazooka or Panzerschreck, Colt .45 or P-38, Sticky Grenades and the special ability 
 of ammo delivery.
  
  That covers all the arsenal for Multiplayer.
  
  The following weapons are available for Single player: (please be aware im only listing the weapons 
 you can use on the game)
  
  Allies: M1 Garand, Springfield M1903M4, Lee Enfield NO. 4, Lee Enfield NO. 4 with caliber .303 
 bolt action rifle with scope, B. A. R, Winchester M1897, BREN, Thompson M1A1, Sten MKII, Browning 
 M191A6 .30 cal, Browning M2, Vickers K, M9A1 Bazooka, Frag grenade, AP mine, Colt .45.
  
  Axis: Kar 98k, Scoped kar 98k, Gewehr 43, STG 44, FG-42, MP40, MG34, MG42, Panzerschreck, 8.8 cm 
 Flak 36/37, Granatwerfer 34 (mortar) , Stielhandgranate 25, Walther P-38. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Romayo83
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 4, 2007 7:44 am PT
Review:  Lovin it, this is definately the best of all 3 in the COD series.
  
  Although campaign does lack some content as it does tend to reflect on the 2nd COD campaign details 
 and theres nothing new here... But thats not why i bought. ONLINE saves the day yet again makng 
 this game pretty damn good.
  
  Controls are excellent and weapons are very effective. they pack a mean punch! Each soldier has 
 different attribultes which is new and very useful.
  
  Graphics are very colorful and realistic. Sharp and clean.
  
  Compared to newer shooters out 
 there such as Rainbow six las vegas, GOW and GRAW 2 its a little outdated.
  
  I reccomend this game for newer players just to get the feel of the controller and online on the 
 360. This game came with the system when i bought it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Meteor7
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 4, 2007 1:15 am PT
Review:  Everytime a new Call of Duty game comes out it gets better and better. The game's storyline is 
 really good, the multiplayer rocks, weapons are powerful and beautiful, tanks and cars deadly, 
 graphics great, enemies actually are smart. The Call of Duty series never lets people down. What's 
 there not to love in this game. Even though D-Day was not included in this one it still was a new 
 challenge. The multiplayer is a really cool thing choosing class and vehicles. Some people don't 
 like Call of Duty because they think WWII sucked. Really this game beats most of the WWII games 
 out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: punisher68
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 2, 2007 4:47 am PT
Review:  sorry for world war.... no.... i should be sorry for myself.
  i hope i could never played call of duty 3...
  there is nothing new in the game... everything 
 is like call of duty 1.
  except that face to face fighting (which is really silly) and driving the car (that we had seen in 
 so many games) the game doesnt show anything special. some says that the graphics are fantastic... i 
 say a next generaion game like cod3 must have Graphics like this....
  but cod3 have so many bugs in its Graphics that can dedtroy the value of playnig the game...
 
  in the end... lets just say that cod3 isnt sth new...
  imagine cod2 with higher graphics... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brhisawsome
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 1, 2007 12:29 pm PT
Review:  -=|Storyline|=-
  its your typical ww2 story, yet non of the overl used battles. the cool thing is it tells the story 
 from 4-5 diff factions -=|Gameplay|=-
  the gameplay is blast and extremely intense. the only bad thing is the game uses the health mechanic 
 where you dont have any potions or anything and if you get shot enough your screen gets more and 
 more red until you die, but you can duck behind cover and resupply your health, wich is makes the 
 games very easy. a new addition to call of duty 3 is these cinamatic fight scene things, where, 
 you'll just going along and this guy will pop out of nowhere (its kinda freaky) and he tries to 
 kill you, but after some button mashing you kill him. yea they seem tacked on but are rare and 
 fun all the same -=|Graphics|=-
  top notch the best i've seen, although the explosions are kinda lame -=|Sound|=-
  awsome explosions 
 and yelling in battle making levels very intense -=|Acheivements|=-
  my favorite thing of this game are the awsome acherivements that consist of interesting missions 
 like completeting a level using only enemy weapons -=|Pros|=-
  acheivements, awsome graphics, intense battles, good audio -=|Cons|=-
  small glitches, on the 
 easier side 
::::::

::::::
UserName: F_A_H_A_D
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 1, 2007 3:20 am PT
Review:  this game has some great sounds and excellent graphics. Call of Duty 3 is better than other action 
 games and it doesnt make you feel bored or it doesnt have features that irritates you. It has more 
 weapons and has great graphics and sound of this game on XBOX 360 or PS3 can not be made more better 
 than this. It has lovely graphics too and it think that u should buy this game as soon as possible. 
 Call of Duty is much better than Black on PS2 an Medal of Honour Vanguar or Medal Of Honour Airborne 
 because of weapons, map, sound, graphics, gameplay and also because it is on next generation consoles 
 like XBOX 360 and PS3 or Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamer4life95
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 30, 2007 1:22 pm PT
Review:  call of duty 3 for the 360 has good graphics and great gameplay but it's not what some people want 
 in cod2 you get to go into an aircraft and bomb ship's just like cod2 your playing in WW2 but the 
 year dosent change and you do not get to do the fun stuff you did in cod2 but besides that their 
 are new fun things you can do as such driving tanks cars but in the end you are almost always but 
 in my opinion the gameplay is to short if your a hardcore gamer they'll beat in in about 2 days 
 the main reason of this that the graphics are great you get to do new thing's and one of the best 
 part's your playing as the french and poles instead of just playing the american army 
::::::

::::::
UserName: COD3RULER
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 30, 2007 5:10 am PT
Review:  this is a great game whith EXTREMLY! GOOD GRAGHICS one time i got up a pic of cod 3 on the internet 
 and showed my gandpa (he was in ww2) and i asced him is this real war or jus a game he said it 
 was real pic thats how good the graghics the story line is unbelivble you can realy hear the emotion 
 in the charecters voice guns have every little detail of the real thing very amazing trust me this 
 game will be stayin in ur tray for a long time when those jerys come at u whith there knife and 
 ur tryin to hold em back you can realy feel the madnes in his face 
::::::

::::::
UserName: manuele1
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 28, 2007 3:57 pm PT
Review:  This was a major disappointment, I thought it was going to be a big thing then I was like What 
 the heck happened? . There is so many bugs online, also you can't jump over ledges and things like 
 that anymore. I was hoping you could use any weapon in the game online, but you only have a few. 
 It would have been cool if you could use anti-tank weapons, not counting the RPG/Bazooka. Thats 
 another thing I hate most of the time if you hit someone straight on with a bazooka round, they 
 stay alive like nothing happened. I was also disappointed with the explosions, I think Graw 2 is 
 way better.......... you can't really compare since it came out 13 days after COD3. But I think 
 its an ok game with a few glitches/mistakes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: j2johnson
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 27, 2007 6:13 pm PT
Review:  I was truly amazed by Call of Duty 2 (see my review, I'll try not to repeat) . Call of Duty 3 is 
 nearly identical. Is that good or bad? I can't really think of a reason to say it's bad. It's a 
 WWII series, and by far the best ever made IMO. They really nailed it in CoD-2, so why would we 
 want it to be any different? Just give us more of the same, right? Well, that's exactly what they 
 did. But they still managed to slip in a few small improvements here and there. Now, if grenades 
 land close enough to our position, we can pick them up and return them to their rightful owner (s) . 
 We also have a new hand-to-hand combat mini-game, which is kind of cool. Somehow they managed to 
 make the weapons look better, along with just about everything else ... somehow? It's not drastic, 
 but it's definitely noticeable (graphics, that is) . It's stupid, I know, but I just can't help 
 thinking that Activision really should have called this installment Call of Duty 2.5 instead of 
 3. I also can't help thinking of all the Splinter Cell fans who were wishing Ubisoft would have 
 done this very sort of thing for SC3: Chaos Theory. (I'm glad Ubisoft didn't.)
  
  WWII themed games (especially if they're this good) can keep the exact same gameplay throughout 
 various installments and get away with it. Small improvements stand out and are generally enough 
 to keep us interested. But games such as Splinter Cell that involve underlying narratives are kind 
 of forced into evolving through time.
  
  So, should you get this game? Well, if this will be your first run with the Call of Duty Series, 
 then YES! Absolutely, get this game! But, if you've already played the 1st &amp; 2nd installments 
 of Call of Duty, well then YES! Absolutely, get this game! Why wouldn't you? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: russianlegion3
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 27, 2007 4:01 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3, is probably the best in series. The graphics are amazing, and pay a lot of attention 
 to detail. In this game, you can finally ride tanks and vehicles in the multiplayer, and have one 
 killer game of call of duty. It also brought in medics, and special abilities for each class, like 
 making artillery strike calls, to giving people ammo on the field. The story, wasn't to great, 
 but involved some close range action with the enemies, but wasn't to great of a feature. If you 
 are thinking of buying this game, I would recommend it to anyone that has a 360 or PS3, cause it 
 has one of the most intense online gameplay I've ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evios
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 27, 2007 3:36 pm PT
Review:  This was a great game. Offline you get to be one of five different countries in the 14 missions 
 (Polish, Dutch, British U. S, and Canadian.) You would be a soldier fighting against the Nazi's 
 in World War two. While in the game, you can here your seargants and other squadmates talking and 
 telling you what to do, and in cutscenes, you can move your head around and look at stuff, pretty 
 cool actually. Out of all 3 games, I'd have to say this was the best one by a mile. The online 
 play of this game though is a little tricky, because of all of the people that play this all day, 
 but other then that they gave the online play some unique acts. You can drop ammo pickups and med 
 packs for the rest of your team and other things too. Overall this game was well made, and it is 
 a game worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JDUB_x
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 25, 2007 5:30 pm PT
Review:  After a strong offering with Call of Duty 2 for the PC and XBOX 360 launch, Activision has returned 
 only one year later with another high quality entry to the series.
  
  If you have played Call of Duty 2 in the past, Call of Duty 3 is instantly accessible. everything 
 from the controls to the regenerating health system has mostly remained the same. A few additions 
 such as vehicle based driving situations and context based action events have been added for mostly 
 good measure.
  
  You play a four countries; America, Britain, Poland, and Canada, each having their part of the 
 Allies vs. Axis conflict in France. You switch between nations frequently and each have their own 
 characters and story lines.
  
  The Missions if CoD3 are very linear, But it's easy to see why this is the case. The sights, sounds 
 and Immersion of CoD3 is of a truly incredible scale and scope. There are so many explosions, raging 
 bullets, tanks, soldiers, and scripted events on screen, that you can tell why the player is contained 
 in a linear path.
  
  New to the game are context based up close and personal encounters with Nazi troops. At scripted 
 moments an Enemy will catch you by surprise and grab you and you will have to press a combination 
 of the R triggers and face buttons to escape the Nazi grasp and ultimately end the confrontation. 
 Also new to CoD3 are instances where you drive jeeps and certain mechanics such as placing explosives 
 on a target has been added with a context based mini game a lot like the close counter battles 
 mentioned above. The graphics in CoD3 are incredible. Everything from the lighting effects to the 
 character models and even most of the textures are highlighted with the power of the 360. From 
 a artistic point of view, the visual power is also illustrated through the many Explosions and 
 just plain atmosphere of a enviornment has has truly been through a war.
  
  The sound is equally impressive and the Rumble of the 360 controller really adds to the immersion 
 of the overall experience. Call of Duty 3 is a fantastic game that should not be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ymalkov
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 25, 2007 1:28 pm PT
Review:  as a brand new 360 owner I was pleasantly surprised by the playability of the game as a single 
 player wich was my preferred (and only) meathod of playing with all my previous consoles. the minute 
 I connected to xbox live things took a dramatic turn to the better. when you are faced with 24 
 angry german soldiers and have 23 american gi joes covering your back the game takes on a totally 
 new and exciting aspect to it.
  the game runs very smoothly on most internet connections and the addition of a microphone will 
 greatly increase the pleasure of team games (although just shooting anything in sight is eaqually 
 as fun) .
  the regular additions of downloadble maps keep the edge and interest even though the graphics and 
 sound are not as good as some other games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: icybl00d3d
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 23, 2007 9:16 am PT
Review:  Its so fun playing this game ive played almost every single first person shooter for xbox 360, 
 you name it, and i thought COD2 was the best game ever but when i played COD3 everything changed. 
 The game play, graphics, sound Its much much more interesting and more fun playing this game knowing 
 there is no other game thats better than this out there. The only thing that i didnt like about 
 this game is the small glitches that happen like getting stuck somewhere or your gun not shooting. 
 Online is simply very fun its kind of like battlefield MC. but in old version with old guns and 
 stuff. The weapons are ballanced and you can spend a very long time playing on Live. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RLJSlick
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 17, 2007 9:13 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty has become the best running war series in my collection. Thats a collect with the 
 likes of Brother in Arms, and Medal of Honor. MOH being my favorite until the COD series started.
 
  Call of Duty 3 is the first of the series Ive played on something other then a PC. My thinking 
 is, if it doesnt have a keyboard and mouse, it not gonna happen. But, as always I was wrong, 
 and COD 3 Gold Edition came out at a lower price of $49 for the 360 and just like the Tool that 
 I am, I jumped on it. This is another amazing game in the series, and as everyone else have said 
 its very similar to the other games in the series, and to me thats not a bad thing. If its not 
 broke blah, blah, blah . The graphics are as good if not better then the PC version, with seemly 
 better details and color. Treyarch really spent a LOT of time on details in this game, you can 
 really tell, the animation is amazing. The sound here is even better then before, and I didnt 
 think that was possible but they are, in 5.1 Dolby Surround Sound its just incredible to hear. 
 Talking about sound this is the only think I really hate about the video game version of these 
 type games, I CANT TURN OFF THE FREAKIN MUSIC!!!! I really hate playing shooters with music playing 
 in the background, I want to hear what they hear, but there isnt a way to turn the music score 
 down or off, albeit that its very well done, I dont want to hear it. I had to take off a few 
 points for that.
  The game isnt very hard to play either, even on the harder level it seem to be pretty forgiving, 
 but I dont mind that, just seem to be a little odd, since in real life with bullets flying everywhere, 
 it would be almost impossible to live long. I made it almost half way through the game without 
 being killed once on the harder level.
  The multilevel play is very cool and seem to be pretty fast, but as always I find fools on the 
 server that didnt want to really play, just going around shooting people in the backs. The single 
 player is pretty short but very action filled. This may not be a must have game, but if you really 
 enjoy the other games in this series you will enjoy this. I took a few points off for only being 
 on New Gen systems and not the PC; I think that is pretty lame. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d3r7y
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 22, 2007 9:24 am PT
Review:  Just like Call of Duty 2, Call of Duty 3 raises the bar. Yes it does play similar as the one before, 
 but if its not broke then dont fix it. Now you head out and fight the good fight in other parts 
 of the world, and now as other soldiers from around the world as well. Of course you still play 
 as an American. There are some new features, the melee attack seems to have been improvised greatly 
 with combos of some sorts. But my favorite thing that you can do now is throw those damn grenades 
 back at thoughs damn nazi's! The graphics are just as crisp and clear as the one before if not 
 better. This Call of Duty is hands down by far the best in its series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilsimon04
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 21, 2007 3:02 am PT
Review:  I have played all of the COD's and i have loved every single one of them. So if you love like Call 
 Of Duty 2 then i promise you will love the 3rd one. Once i first started playing it on xbox live, 
 it kinda scared me the first time cuase there is a whole lot more action going on than in the 2nd 
 one. For example calling in air strikes, guys driving around in vehicles and tanks, it can look 
 a little scary at first. But after you play it for a little bit then you will get used to it, llike 
 a walk in the park ha. But yea the graphics and sound quality are terrific. The thing i love about 
 this one more than the 2nd is the fact that you may drive vehicles, like a couple of different 
 jeeps (which can hold 3 people, someone driving, a passenger, and a guy in the back using a mounted 
 machine gun) , tanks. It is a FREAKING blast 4real. So anyone who loves war game or loved COD2 then 
 this game is most definately a must have. Enjoy! any ever wanna play on xbox live with me then 
 just add me, my gamertag is (simon sayz so) . ENJOY!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: METALgearJES
Rating: 6.8
Date: Mar 19, 2007 6:02 pm PT
Review:  I am a big fan of WW2 shooters. Medal of Honor Frontline was my first foray into the battlefield 
 and loved every minute of it. Brothers in Arms was also an awesome take on WW2. Finally Call of 
 Duty 2 on the Xbox 360 was a great introduction to next-generation World War 2 fighting. The gameplay 
 here is all the same folks. Been there, done that describes this game in a nutshell. The major 
 differences from number 2 is that you can toss grenades back and these gimmicky close encounter 
 assaults in which you must push a sequence of buttons. Aside from that you have a toned down version 
 of Call of Duty 2. The thing is, if they copied the previous installment layer by layer than the 
 game could have been just more of the same which at times can be good. COD3 feels a little different 
 than 2. The firefights don't seem intense and the action is just move forward, shoot those guys 
 so we can move more forward, wait now we got to move forward but up a hill. The graphics and sound 
 is pretty top notch, but that is pretty much expected. Graphics are better than COD2 and so is 
 the sound. But some of the guns do not sound much different than others. The game does feature 
 a multi-player mode for up to 24 players. It is pretty much like Battlefield but less cohesive. 
 It is pretty good upgrade from COD2s but nothing that feels all that new.
  
  Overall this game is more of the same, and the fact that it was not developed by Infinity War my 
 contribute to why this game does not play as good as COD2. Overall its a cheap thrill to those 
 looking for more of the same tired gameplay in WW2 shooters. Hopefully Infinity Ward is looking 
 to wow us again with its next installment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boricuafirez3
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 18, 2007 8:01 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3 brings an all new WWII style of gameplay
  You get to play as four nations of the Allies: the US, Britain, Canada and Poland
  Not to mention 
 that the weapons are sweet and realistic and the sound is the closest it could ever be to real 
 war
  The only game with better graphics than this is Gears of War
  The gameplay is smooth and the achievements are very fun to obtain
  The multiplayer is at times 
 perplexing but overall pretty fun
  This is the best WWII game I've ever played
  If you play it, you'll enjoy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lexvold
Rating: 6.7
Date: Mar 18, 2007 4:17 pm PT
Review:  I've played the previous games in the series and while the graphics and sound are very impressive, 
 I found the game lacking. There is very little to draw you into the game and you don't really care 
 why you are going from point A to B and the linear nature is obvious and confining. I was bored 
 by the second part of the first level and things don't look much better for the rest of the other 
 parts. Perhaps if you never played the series, this one might be a good introduction, but there 
 are so many more superior games out there for the 360, I would recommend spending your money elsewhere 
 or even better, rent it and see how tired you will be of it a few hours into the first day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: imfeelinpanda
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 18, 2007 3:36 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty 3 doesnt bring anything new to the series but is still a fun game to play. There isnt 
 any diffrence between 2 and 3 and a really gammer would no. So it doesnt realy madder what game 
 u buy ur getting the same value. This is a must have in ur collection for ur 360. The story mode 
 is st6ill in WW2 but u can play as at lest 5 diffrents country as U. S, Britin, Frence, Canida, 
 polish and there migt be more. The multepl; ayer is not as fun as most things and dont recommend 
 playing it. This is a good game but there is more out there that out top it like Raimbow 6 which 
 is really fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grungehead1991
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 31, 2007 10:15 pm PT
Review:  Pretty good sequel, but dissappointing cause it seemed like an updated CD2. PROS:
  Great multiplayer, way better than CD2
  The kit system in multiplayer is great.
  The number 
 of soldiers on screne is crazy.
  Improved graphics.
  Somewhat destructible environments
  Being able to pick up and throw back grenades is fun.
  Very good weopon detail.
  The best sound 
 a shooter can have.
  Smoke effects are both amazing and annoying at the same time
  Better weopons
  CONS:
  No real story depth
  Watching the same videos all the time is annoying
 
  The close-quarters thing that they added is random and stupid
  Enemy soldiers seem stupider that in CD2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RX552VBK
Rating: 7.9
Date: Mar 17, 2007 1:48 pm PT
Review:  I've alway been a Call of Duty fan. It played well and energetic. Sometimes silly or over the top, 
 but never boring. The brilliant concept of series (compared with other action/adventure WW2 games) 
 was to split the game into the point of view of different allied soldiers experience against the 
 german warmachine. Usually the allied members would be the Big Three (US, USSR and the UK) , and 
 you would play a regular Joe (sometime Jane) running with the rest of your squad or platoon. What 
 COD represented well in it's construction was a sense that you were not fighting the war by yourself. 
 Which is why I never enjoyed other WW2 console games. Most felt like you were a secret agent going 
 behind enemy lines to steal plans or kidnap an import German army general. That in itself would 
 make an excellent game, I would love playing a version of the movie Where Eagles Dare , or the 
 Guns of Navarone . The COD series, in especially number 3, has a more immersive feeling of you 
 and your buddies going against those hund bastards. It's that feeling that I truly enjoy in a war 
 game. COD 3 is the accumalation of the best of the series coupled with very well done graphics 
 and explosions. Usually in the series, the russian campaigns are the best (at least to me) ; this 
 time around the american levels are the most exhilarating. The level entitled 'The Forest' is my 
 favorite and is exciting and paced very well.
  I do have a few complaints although minor. The first is the voice acting. Sometimes it can be spot 
 on, however, most times I think Treyarch scrapped the bottom of the voice acting barrel. Another 
 major problem I had with was the Xbox live multi-player mode. Compared with the lively and loud 
 scenarios of the single player mode, Live was unbelievably boring. Even with the large amount of 
 battle maps, team players, etc. I found it very lacking. It had no punch.
  All in all, COD3 is an excellent companion piece to the rest of the series. Doesn't have the visceral 
 gut punch of the Brothers in arms series but maybe that's for the better. It is a different WW2 
 FPS gaming experience and there's enough room out there for a change pace. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madmike93
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 16, 2007 1:25 pm PT
Review:  This game contains a disappointingly short campaign mode, which I finished in about two hours. 
 I really don't know where to start as far as bad things go. The graphics were absolutely unbelievable, 
 especially compared to Gears. My first reaction when starting basic training (the first thing you 
 do in campaign mode) was I took the game out and started playing Gears. All the good talk i had 
 heard about COD 3 was wrong. The game was rather short and the graphics were in my opinion sad 
 for a next-gen console (next-gen at that time) . Online on the other hand was, besides the graphics, 
 pretty addictive. Driving the motorcycle and its sidecar, jeeps, and various other vehicles was 
 pretty fun. If you plan on buying this game and do not have Xbox Live, you might as well save your 
 money for another game or something more important. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Fuzzybear
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 16, 2007 9:10 am PT
Review:  This WWII shooter didnt seem to have all that more than others, and its sound wasnt the greatest 
 (didnt feel right) and the sad thing is theirs no blood splatter effects. im not trying to say 
 there has to be, but it would make it twice as fun, and i would play it so much more if there was. 
 Ill just have to wait until there is a nice blood splattering, sound booming, world war feeling 
 game to come out, because it isnt this one. Single player becomes annoying fast because it really 
 is more linear than what they say it is.
  
  the GOOD: Ragdoll, the grass, the graphics, the weapon types, and the multiplayer 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cash_Wolf
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 16, 2007 8:27 am PT
Review:  Ok I was addicted to this game for around 4 months because it is the best multiplayer game ever. 
 Just like every other COD, you are in WWII fighting he nazi's in a hope to end the war. You must 
 battle through new supprise attacks in which you must button mash to keep from getting killed by 
 up close nazis. Multiplayer is the reason to buy though, featuring the ability to have 24 people 
 playing in a match is very fun and exciting. And also using tanks to blow people or vehicles up, 
 using jeeps to run around with a mg shooting people, or just goig around for fun in the side car 
 motorcycle. And now there are more exciting levels to play in and now more fun glitchs to find 
 *cough, cough*. Well you should buy this game and have fun with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: insane_metalist
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 15, 2007 7:33 pm PT
Review:  Well this has been one of the best out of all Call Of Duties i've played. THe graphics are pretty 
 sick. The online is pretty good. It's just insane game, this is the first call of duty where you 
 actually can ride vehicles besides tanks. You can get a jeep or a motorcycle. Totally fun running 
 people over with a vehicle when you're playing onine lol. But you have to be carful to not get 
 runned over :P. This game was so much fun in a single player a lot of killing. If you're into historical 
 shooter games like Medal Of Honor or Call Of Duty, then you totally have to buy this game. I really 
 recommend that you get this game. And i don't know why people say Call Of Duty 2 is better then 
 3. I think this is the best Call Of Duty game so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nonpareil
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 15, 2007 11:24 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3 is a good game to get into if your just starting out with first person shooters. 
 It's quite easy compared to many FPS that are out on the XBOX360 already, but don't let that statement 
 drive you away from this game. One thing that this game really hits on that so many others have 
 been missing on lately is just that the game is purely fun. You can make a mistake such as running 
 from cover when you should be staying down, and the game dosn't punish you so harshly all the time 
 as others might. It's still realistic to a point though, if a grenade lands in your lap, your still 
 good as dead, but you can take a good amount of bullets before going down.
  
  Graphics and sound in this game are amazing, there are many parts of the game that really put you 
 into the action so you really feel like part of the fight. On the other hand, the storyline is 
 very poor. So poor infact that a week after playing it, you won't remember the storyline, but you 
 will remember the great graphics and gameplay.
  
  Gamerscore wise, it's a decent game, if you play through on normal and than hard, you should have 
 400 points after that, go play specific chapters to get various achivements such as not firing 
 a gun for a chapter and you'll be at about 600 points. Online achivements are required for the 
 rest of the points which are all pretty easy.
  
  A very fun game if your looking to get into first person shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fyr3F0x
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 13, 2007 8:36 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3 is a remarkable game. Not only is it a amazing game but it can teach you a thing 
 or 2 about WW2. I by far think it is the best WW2 franchise yet. You not only play as a American 
 Soldiers but you can all so play as other soldiers such as Canadians, British, French, etc.... They're 
 are new great vehicles that really can compare to WW2 and all so the fantastic weapons the game 
 provides. Multi player is superb and allow you the choice of Medic, Heavy Assault, Light Assault, 
 Riflemen, Marksmen etc..... The graphics are awesome, as expected coming from Activision. Game 
 play is a thrill and sound follows up perfect. The value of this game is very high as well. This 
 game is defiantly worth getting if you are a big shooter fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ashietaka
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 12, 2007 9:27 pm PT
Review:  I'm very happy with this game. The campain is action packed, there's just so much going on it makes 
 the game feel very intense at times. It's not often a campain is so enjoyable. Especially after 
 playing through Gears of War I thought there couldn't be other games out there that great. This 
 game itsn't the best ever or anything like that, but it's still very good and enjoyable. It has 
 it's own feel and way of playing, so does Gears of War and that is great also, and so does Resistance 
 and that's cool also, all feel differen't but it works out great, and all are good in their own 
 ways. I find the game kind of PC looking, but it does have some pretty good looking graphics in 
 some areas that make me happier and it feels pretty good also. I think people should buy this one 
 if they're looking for a good shooter. It has a very fun campain, and some great multiplayer, I 
 love capture the flag and war is cool. So don't miss this one. Just make sure you have this and 
 Gears of War, then we can be satisfied when we get Halo. Now if they'd just release counter strike. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geneticlone
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 12, 2007 4:52 pm PT
Review:  All I can say is I can't put this game down, as a ww2 fanatic it is no wonder that call of duty 
 has been apart of my life. When I first started playing games like MOHAA, I thought that there 
 would be nothing better. I admit I was addicted to call of duty the day I bought the game. Call 
 of Duty 2 not so much, I just don't believe that one grabed me as much as the first. Well as the 
 third in the series, it deserves way more then 8.8 :-) . Like I said I can't put it down. The only 
 regret I have is that, their needs to be more players on maps. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonathanfwlr
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 10, 2007 8:38 pm PT
Review:  I have always loved WWII shooters. I try and play as many of them as I can. The Call of Duty series 
 have been some of the best ones. With COD3, I got the most realistic, fun, exciting, and challenging 
 WWII shooter yet.
  
  The graphics for COD3 make this the most realistic looking game I have ever played. You can really 
 tell that the developers wanted the game to look as real as possible and they did a fabulous job. 
 Other games like Gears of War have amazing and beautiful graphics but are still stylized and don't 
 really aim for pure realism. COD3 is quite different. The look is very much based on the real world 
 of WWII and it makes it a very realistic game.
  
  The sound is great. The sound is what really makes you real like you are part of a war. The voice 
 acting is great. The weapons all sound perfect. It all makes the game's sound some of the best. 
 The music is like all WWII shooters: orchestral, dramatic pieces. The music is great but doesn't 
 really distinguish itself from other games. As great as the sound and music is for the game, it 
 all feels like the last couple games, which isn't bad. The only thing that really stood out as 
 a great improvement is the voice acting. But the sound is still some of the best around.
  
  The gameplay is the same as COD2, which is a good thing. The game controls wonderfully. It isn't 
 as opened ended as you might hope but that doesn't really bring that game down. I felt that the 
 game was pretty difficult. You are forced to really take cover and watch how much damage you take. 
 The objectives of each mission never really seem to repeat themselves. The Nazis seem like they 
 are pretty smart. They will take cover and do there best to avoid being hit. Not to mention that 
 there are, in many cases, a ton of them to contend with. This leads to some pretty high intensity 
 situations and in many cases, a lot of dying. One of the coolest additions to COD3 is that there 
 are some instances where you will be wrestling with a Nazi over your weapon. They will jump out 
 at you from a specific spot and in order to win, you will have to make certain button presses and 
 make them fast enough. Though this happens only a handful of times in the campaign, they are always 
 fun and cinamatic. The multiplayer is what you would expect from a shooter. There is nothing really 
 new here. The multiplayer is fun though, expecially with a lot of people. The nice thing is that 
 you can do online, lan, and split screen multiplayer. This worked out well for me since I don't 
 get online too often.
  
  Over all, COD3 is one of the best WWII shooters around. It is the most realistic one I have played 
 so far and features the most realistic graphics I have seen to date. Not to mention it is the most 
 fun I have ever had playing a WWII shooter. It is exciting and intense and I recommend the game 
 to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aspro73
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 10, 2007 4:07 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 for the 360 was the first WW2 FPS that I had played, and one that I purchased immediately 
 after playing the demo. It was immersive, gripping, stressful and fun. Call of Duty 3 is only slightly 
 less so.
  
  Set entirely in France you play as a British, Canadian, American and Canadian soldier who is dealt 
 immediate tasks to deal with, task which all involve the use of either a machine gun, rifle or 
 occasional shotgun.
  
  There is little to complain about with the graphics, if not for games like gears of War, which 
 have set a new standard. The sound was excellent, as was the acting, with occasionally confusing 
 accents in play (is that guy French, Australian, Portuguese or Czech?) .
  
  The stress and pressure of the first game is ever present, and makes stressfull viewing even for 
 those who do not have a controller in hand, which is COD3's best attribute.
  
  I played only the campaign mode which took much less than 8 hours. I generally like shorter games, 
 but felt somewhat shortchanged by the length of COD3.
  
  Worth buying at a discount or used? Certainly, but it is the last COD I will buy, two world wars 
 has been enough for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tmills_basic
Rating: 6.8
Date: Mar 10, 2007 1:53 am PT
Review:  After the much applauded Call of Duty 2, I was expecting alot out of this game. I never really 
 got into Call of Duty 2, because I felt it was overhyped, and the times I did play it didn't leave 
 me with a good impression. Anyway, now that I have spent a lot of time with Call of Duty 3, I can 
 honestly say that this game has let me down. It has it's moments, but I shouldn't have to spend 
 my time looking for something to entertain me, I should be entertained while im playing.
  
  First the gameplay is OLD. It's hard to make a first person shooter seem new (Halo 3 has a lot 
 of work to do) but this game doesn't even try. Firing and shooting almost any weapon is unsatisfying, 
 and so is killing anyone in the game, as any and all enemies fall with just one of two shots, and 
 die with a sort of who cares animation. The graphics are pretty good. The foliage and lighting 
 and texture detail is great for the most part. There were many times, however, where I would be 
 taking cover next to a fence, a wall, or something, and the textures would look extremely blurry. 
 Not nit picky blurry, but actually blurry, and they look out of place next to other nicer textures.
 
  
  The sound is great. There isn't much to say because all you hear the WHOLE game is the same 3 or 
 4 voice actors yelling back and forth about nothing much in particular. it begins to get annoying. 
 But the music is excellent, which saves the day.
  
  The online multiplayer is decent. It is a little boring, as the same lame gameplay hinders the 
 online gameplay. People are constantly dieing left and right, leaving no sort of cohesivness to 
 what is actually going on in the game. You spawn, run around for 20 seconds or more hopeing to 
 catch someone off guard before they do the same to you and then shoot 2 or 3 shots and they die, 
 and then you die ofcourse because someone just did the same to you.... repeat until the match is 
 over. All in all, I was expecting more from reviews and personal testimonies from people. But at 
 the end of the day, Call of Duty 3 needs to either (A) . Be put to rest for something newer and 
 fresher, or (B.) Be reworked and revamped. Don't buy it, just rent it.
  
  Also: No More World War II Games!!! After playing this game, I am realizing how discriminatory 
 and rascist this game was to Black people living in America. (Yes I Know Black people living in 
 America fought in the war, but do the history as to why...) This game is the same old story told 
 over and over and over again.... but maybe that is why the masses like it so much, along with other 
 previously mentioned reasons... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metallica_fan42
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 9, 2007 11:11 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3 is a great FPS shooter. The first mission you do, really shows you the intensity 
 of war. Bullets flying everywhere, artillery going off all over the place. As with all Call of 
 Duty games, you don't play as just the American's, but you play as Canadian's, Britians, and the 
 Polish. Each country has their own unique characters. The mission's in this game range from, setting 
 charges on flak guns, to going through a town in a tank. The guns sound great in this game, and 
 there are plenty of guns to choose from. Each gun has a different range, accuracy, and strength. 
 The multiplayer in this game is addictingly fun. You have a whole mess of game types to choose 
 from. For example, you can play a game type called War, which is where you must capture all of 
 the strategic points, by raising your teams flag. They also added the class feature, which lets 
 you choose between different classes with different abilities. There is a soldier, medic, light and 
 heavy assault, support, scout and anti-armour. Each class starts with a different weapon, but you 
 may switch to any other weapon you come across. This game looks very good, and I think it's a great 
 game. Check it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: digitalmesiah
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 9, 2007 11:40 am PT
Review:  Finally, the coveted COD series made another game and as usual the team at Treyarch did a fantastic 
 job with the game. It has some great visuals and some very cool cut scenes. They added a new interactive 
 sort of cut scene where you push the left and right triggers repeatedly to fight off Germans and 
 then you press one of the letter buttons (A, B, X, Y) to finish your enemy. Another plus is that Treyarch 
 finally thought Oh, dude i have an idea... lets make you be able to drive different vehicles to 
 add some fun to the game! And im glad they did, because the driving is flippin sweet, although 
 I must say there are some dull moments on the missions where you drive around town looking for 
 lost soldiers. Overall they made a great game better and thats why I gave Call Of Duty 3 for the 
 Xbox 360 an 8.4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Noventus
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 9, 2007 5:43 am PT
Review:  I remember playing Call of Duty 1 when it first came out for the PC, it blew my mind, and not just 
 because of the great graphics but the amazing gameplay, phenomenal musical score and the smooth 
 and realistic feel of the weapons, all which helped to create an immersive experience that was 
 almost painful to rip yourself away from. I purchased Call of Duty 3 hoping for the same high quality 
 standards I had come to expect from the series and was disappointed in a big way; the aiming system 
 is by far the worst I have experienced from any shooter on the 360, it feels stiff and awkward 
 which forces you to use an auto aim system which immediately zooms to the head of the selected 
 enemy and successfully kills all excitement and makes the whole experience feel more like a long 
 drawn-out game of Whack Attack which is really not what I had hoped for after coughing up &pound;40 
 of my hard-earned cash. There is no denying that COD 3 looks great and.. Well thats it really, 
 which is good but not enough for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FamilyGuyFever
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 8, 2007 1:10 pm PT
Review:  This game to me roally sucked compared to call of duty 2 i wish infinity ward made it instead of 
 treyarch i think treyarch absolutly screwed up the call of duty franchise. It was worth a rent 
 but i thought i would be really good so i bought it... (regrets) not worth the buy but worth a 
 rent. graphics are good online play is kinda fun it gets boring the thing i like tht they added 
 is that u can drive motor cycles jeeps and tanks thats really cool although online sometimes they 
 can get annoying its pretty cool fun game but wont please u. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CapcaS
Rating: 6.6
Date: Mar 7, 2007 2:52 am PT
Review:  The next generation of gaming is supposed to offer innovation. Treyarch never got the memo.
  
  I've always found that the Call of Duty franchise could achieve what so many strive for, yet 
 too few accomplish: good single-player and multi-player - Call of Duty 3 just isn't cut from the 
 same cloth as it's predecessors.
  
  I'm not sure which is worse, so I'll start with the chronology of how I played the game.
  
 
  I started out with the single-player campaign. The game boasts some nice grahpics and sharp textures 
 (good visuals always make me feel giddy) , but I quickly learned that the visuals were the mainstay 
 of the game.
  
  The entire time, from start to finish, there is no room for the player to get creative. I felt 
 like I had jumped back in time about 6 or 7 years to narrow corridors, completely scripted layouts, 
 and very linear gameplay. The entire game is basically to walk from point A to point B and kill 
 all the germans in between, with the occasional bomb-plant.
  
  The AI is laughable at best. They're basically the drones of the early FPS games of last generation 
 that blindly charge and have absolutely no sense of life or death. Apart from that, the AI just 
 makes horrific choices in general, for instance, I remember a point in one of the battles where 
 both an enemy AI and friendly AI were crouched next to each other behind the same cover.
  
  The single-player campaign isn't even on par with Call of Duty 2.
  
  The Multiplayer:
  
 
  I don't think I've ever seen so many bugs in a finished FPS before.
  
  The things that stand out the most are:
  
  - The are plenty of points on any map where a player 
 can become stuck in his surroundings, making for easy prey for other players.
  
  - The sniper rifles only shoot up to a certain distance, after that, it doesn't matter if you have 
 your crosshair on the dead-center of a stationary target, you won't hit it.
  
  - The support guns have no deploy time. They are the ideal close-quarters weapon because one simply 
 has to hold the left trigger to drop prone to the floor and begin unload their large ammo supply 
 instantaneously.
  
  - Melee is horribly done. I've killed and have been killed by melee strikes not even facing the 
 enemy, you just have to be in the vicinity.
  
  - It is easy to shoot someone mantling a tank (climbing up the side to drop a grenade in the hatch) 
 from inside the tank because the tank's cannon fires from the base of the cannon, not the mouth.
 
  
  - In ranked matches, the lowest possible amount of players needed (8) almost always deploy on the 
 largest maps, making for gameplay with action few-and-far-between, while the most players allowed 
 (28) often deploy on the smallest maps making for very frustrating spawn-camping matches.
  
  - The rank system is based solely on the accumulated points from your entire ranked match career 
 and have no basis of skill attached whatsoever.
  
  Overall, the game isn't really worth the $59.99 pricetag in my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dogsounds
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 6, 2007 4:09 pm PT
Review:  M1 Garand. Mention this weapon to any afficionado of WWII shooters, and in the eyes of most you 
 will see a misty longing.
  
  For me, it is my favourite video-game weapon of all time, and in Call of Duty 3, I found the best 
 recreation of it. Ever. End of. The sound, the 8-round clip, the fact that it totally pwns the 
 bolt-action Kar98k in close-quarters combat. There is no more to say. And this is just one of the 
 many things that Call of Duty 3 does just right.
  
  There are so many WWII games out there that it would be reasonable to assume that it has all been 
 done, and there is nothing left to see here, move on. And that would be understandable. When Medal 
 of Honor: Allied Assault was released, it was hailed as the most intense, realistic recreation 
 of WWII combat that you could ever get. And in many ways, since those early days when players gasped 
 in awe and sweated like nervous boyfriends in a lingerie department, nothing has come close to 
 that effect. The Omaha beach landing sequence in that game was so unlike anything we had played 
 before, it almost seemed wrong to use the word game or played , as we were following in the footseps 
 of real soldiers who gave their lives on those shores (see my blog Why do you play for more on 
 this) . And that game set a very high benchmark. If future games wanted to create the realism or 
 grit, tension and terror of combat, they would have to work pretty damn hard. And, really, despite 
 gameplay innovations and graphical enhancements since those days, nothing really ever has. Sure, 
 there have been really great WWII shooters - Wolfenstein, Frontline, and more - and really poor 
 ones. The closest we ever got was perhjaps Brothers in Arms - but even then, the emphasis was so 
 heavy on the tactical side of battle that the emotion was never really present. But without waving 
 a pointy finger in any particular direction, none has ever come close to imbuing the feeling of 
 shock and respect that that beach landing sequence did.
  
  And, this may surprise you, neither does Call of Duty 3. it get close, but what it does do, very 
 well, is go some way to showing the chaos of battle. One-man army is not the order of the day here, 
 and as with the earlier incarnations of the Call of Duty franchise, the emphasis is on numbers 
 - many combatants, all fighting and struggling by your side or against you. You are never really 
 by yourself, although you can wander away from the pack and forge your own path - albeit temporarily. 
 As is the tradition with the fanchise, the single player campaign is split into sections that allow 
 you to play as different nationalities - a wonderful touch. You play as British, American Polish 
 and Candian soldiers. Each different protagonist takes a path toward the same objective - the closing 
 of the Falaise Gap to route entrenched German troops during the Normandy Breakout campaign. Unlike 
 other Call of Duty games, though, the layout of the chapters is somewhat mixed up, so you don't 
 simply play a chapter as a Brit, a chapter as a Pole, and so on. They are nicely interleaved, with 
 some corssover. At one point, you play a Canadian radio man working with Polish tankers defending 
 their ground against a German counter-attack. it all fits together remarkably well, although the 
 jumping around does leave you a little detached from the characters you play. The locales within 
 the campaign vary, although they are all set within the rural French landscape. From farmhouses, 
 open fields, fuel depots and the battered streets of French towns, all the settings are beautifully 
 rendered and really do have a certain realism that screams next gen . When Halo was first released 
 back in 2001, many reviewers were heard to utter the phrase Look at the grass. OMG, look. At. The. 
 Grass. Well, the same can be said here. Not only is grass rendered blade-by-blade, and animated, 
 it is interactive. Walk over a patch of long grass, and you see flattened leaves in your wake. 
 This is an incredibly nice touch, and is made even better when you suddenly realise that there 
 is flattened grass just ahead of you, where you haven't been yet. It has been crushed by the German 
 troops hiding just around the corner. This has to be the first time grass has been useful as a 
 tactical aid in a videogame. Overall, graphical presentation can only be described as awesome, 
 and a step ahead of Call of Duty 2 - which was pretty damn impressive in its own right.
  
  Another nice touch, on the gameplay side, is the introduction of what can only be described as 
 mini-games . Instead of being prompted to press X to carry out an action, such as planting a charge 
 on a Flak 88, now you are given a number of button and stick controls .One button plants the charge, 
 then rotation of the thumbstick screws the detonator into the charge. Not terribly complicated, 
 almost unneccessary, but it immerses you just that little extra bit. These do not happen all that 
 often, however.
  
  The campaign is nicely varied, with missions ranging from simpl assault or defence to assisting 
 the French Resistance rescue of comrades held captive by the Germans. There is nothing terribly 
 innovative about the mission structures, but they fill the role admirably, and you will have a 
 blast playing through the campaign. Added to this better vehicle control than in previous incarnations 
 - in one instance, you man the guns in an SAS Willy's jeep - you have got some cracking fun to 
 be had. In another, you control the Jeep itself, and though it is no Warthog ride, the unique control 
 scheme is simple and straightforward. There is even an achievement to be had for catching air (taking 
 a big jump in a vehicle) . When playing as the Polish tanker, the ubiquitous tank driving sections 
 make a return, with (thankfully) a slightly more logical and simplifed control scheme than before, 
 although they are still as unwelcome and tiresome.
  
  If you have played Call of Duty 3, you will not really find anything truly innovative or new in 
 the game, but this is not neceesarily a bad point. Call of Duty 2 offered a fantastic campaign, 
 and its sequel simply betters the formula with a few nice touches and much improved visuals. A 
 little more of what you like don't do no harm.
  
  As always, the sound in Call of Duty 3 is incredible. The sounds of carnage and war, the shouts 
 of the combatants and the the environmental sounds of distant fighting all combine to make an incredibly 
 stirring, compelling and loud aural backdrop. In surround, it is unbelieveable. Voice acting is 
 excellent throughout, although the Axis voice actors seem to be the same as those on Call of Duty 
 2 (and one chap is even clearly recogniseable as one of the voice artists from Medal of Honor: 
 Frontline!) , and their combat dialog is a little limited. You will hear the same phrases repeating 
 throughout the campaign. A little more depth here would have added a little extra sparkle. There 
 is a fair amount of context-sensitive speech - it is cool to hear a German soldier shout Amerikanischer 
 Scharfsch&uuml; tze! when you take one of his comrades out with a headshot from a scoped Springfield, 
 or Achtung! Maschinengewehr! as you spray entrenched enemies with a support weapon. But they lose 
 their edge after a while, and more often than not they are lost in the cacophony. But that is a 
 minor point. There are a few niggles to the gameplay. The touted feature before launch was the 
 hand to hand combat feature - we saw the protagonist rounding a corner and being forced into close 
 up combat with a German, both holding onto the German's Kar98 riflle lengthways and fighting for 
 control - a classic war film moment. The player is propmpted to press the triggers as fast as possible 
 to simulate pushing the Germnan away before dispatching him with a a swift flick of the rifle butt. 
 The first time you see this, it is awesome, and those players who have never seen or heard about 
 it will be thrilled and amazed. You can tell how the struggle is going simply by the German's face 
 - his facial expressions are more panicked if you start to win, whereas if you are losing, he gets 
 close to your face with a snarling sneer. The sequence itself is a heart-stopping moment, and incredible. 
 Unfortunately, this only happens about five times in the whole campaign, and although you never 
 actually expect it when it happens on first playthrough, the process itself dulls from the second 
 time. It would have been nice so see a little more varied close up fighting - knife combat, for 
 example, or unarmed combat akin to the fighting in Condemned: Criminal origins or Chronicles of 
 Riddick: Escape from Butcher Bay. Such features would not be out of place in a close-quarters setting, 
 and would bring an extra dimesnion to the genre - face to face struggle, seeing the eyes of your 
 victim. Sound gruesome, but war is a horrible thing, and as with Medal of Honor, doing it in the 
 right way can educate and excite at the same time. AI is generally good, although your comrades 
 can sometimes get annoyingly stuck n a doorway that you need to go through. Animations are smooth, 
 but, you know, since seeing the bonus footage animation reels on Medal of Honor: Frontline, I have 
 never forgotten the solder skidding to a halt behind a corner, taking cover and popping a few shots 
 off. I have always looked for those touches in games since then, and you very rarely get it. There 
 are a few in Call of Duty 3, but much of the time the Axis tropps will stay in place and shoot, 
 or maybe run around a little bit, apart from in some setpiece charges.
  
  Where the campaign is good, the multiplayer is excellent. Although there are known issues around 
 the way the multiplayer works - lengthy waits for ranked matches, games dropping out or freezing, 
 and other technical quirks, I won't focus on those. The gamplay is compelling and will keep you 
 interested for a long time.
  
  There are a number of game modes, from Battle and Team Beattle (standard deathmatch) to variations 
 on CTF and more. The multiplayer matches are class-oriented - you must select your role from the 
 options available: Rifleman, Light Asault, Heavy Assault, Medic, Scout, Support and Anti-Armor. 
 Each has different characteristics (defined by their weapons sets) and is able to perform a key 
 role within a match - and the roles do crossover, allowing greater team flexibility.
  
  For example, if you need to take an enemy tank out, the Anti-Armor player is equipped with a Panzershreck 
 or Bazooka (dependent on whether they are playing as Allies or Axis) and can do the job easily. 
 However, Scouts and any classes equipped with hand grenades can also take out a tank - by mantling 
 the back of it, which lets you plop a grenade right inside the cupola. Kaboom! Also, Heavy Assault 
 classes are equipped with sticky grenades, which will adhere to vehcles (or personnel) and do the 
 same job.
  
  Games are not played for kills alone - points are earned too, and it is not always the team with 
 the highest kills that win a match. Each class has a special ability - Medics can revive fallen 
 comrades, Scouts can call airstrikes, Support troops can drop ammunition for team members - and 
 each time yuou use the abilty you earn points.
  
  Vehicles also play a big part in many of the maps. You can choose to man a Panzer or Sherman, an 
 armed Horch or GM truck , or a motorbike and sidecar. All these vehicles can carry passengers - 
 the tank, an extra gunner, the trucks, gunner and passenger, and the bike, a sidecar occupant. 
 These often prove very useful and as in the campaign, control is intuitive and easy. Once gripe 
 is that the truck gunner can easily kill his driver whilst shooting to the frront of the vehicle, 
 if team damage is on. This is a bit of a pain, since most drivers will drive you towards the enemy, 
 and usually punish you for teamkilling. The maps themselves are as good looking as the campaign 
 settings, and include woodland, a mountain prisoner of war camp, a fuel plant, a dam and a small 
 French village. Each map lends itself to different tactics and gametypes, and are all designed 
 to comfotably allow the maximum number of players - 24.
  
  The multiplayer is pretty similar to Call of Duty 2. Some maps allow more strategic, less fragfest 
 play, and thankfully, unlike other games such as Halo 2 and Gears of War, annoying kiddies seem 
 to be absent (for now) . So, how did Treyarch do? All in all, very, very well. They stayed true 
 to the formula, but added stunning visuals, great sound, and both a strong campaign and multiplayer 
 element. There are niggles, as there are with any game, and perhaps some of the pre-release hype 
 was not quite lived up to. These things aside though, Call of Duty 3 offers solid gameplay and 
 a good level of replay value - especially if you ramp up the diffculty settings. And you will play 
 online for a long time. All in all, an excellent game, and definitely a must-have for FPS or WWII 
 game addicts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iane1701
Rating: 4.5
Date: Mar 6, 2007 3:56 pm PT
Review:  COD2 was amazing great SP and MP. I was all set for COD3 then they tried a story line witch sucked 
 I didn't even know why I was fighting half the time; one question, WHAT HAPPENED TO THE RUSSIANS? 
 I loved them in COD; they always had the best missions. Also why was there no guy still alive sometimes 
 when i shoot them and why didn't dust fly off; what did the Germans go to the cleaners? If you 
 dont know what I mean then go play COD2 again. Then there was the MP witch was fun till i was bord 
 of always being the US or the Germans. There was only 4 things better in COD3 than COD2
  
  1. 32 people online insted of 16
  2. The graphics were better (only cause of time)
  3. Vehicles 
 online
  4. It was a little tougher AI
  
  if they re-did COD2 and change those things I would say its 100 times better then COD3, right now 
 its only 10 times better 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gdesimone
Rating: 4.3
Date: Mar 5, 2007 8:00 pm PT
Review:  Look elsewhere for good graphics, AI, storyline, etc. Everything in the game is so artificial and 
 scripted you are left with the fps-equivalent of flippin' burgers: see gerry, shoot gerry, watch 
 stupid cut scene, move on.
  The only (brief) amusement comes from watching the AI opponents duck for cover 2 ft away from each 
 other, and standing up to shoot themselves in the face, naked gun style. We are all suckers for 
 buying this game, no reason you should be one too.
  You will quickly realize that this game leaves nothing for you to decide. There aren't multiple 
 ways to approach a battle. In fact, there is always just one direction to take. The battles boild 
 down to watching the computer throw a given number of soldiers at you. You'll realize that most 
 of your opponents (as well as your buddies) are extremely suicidal. Forget the scary AI tactics 
 you saw in Halo 2. Germans will abandon strongholds and bunkers to run themselves to a certain 
 death out in the open. Your AI-controller buddies will do the equivalent, running uphill until 
 they are face to face with the dumbass germans running down the hill...
  This game is so uninspired it made me want to get back to work. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toby556
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 5, 2007 4:26 am PT
Review:  Call Of Duty 3 for the xBox 360 is one of the best games graphic wise ive seen for the xbox 360 
 to date. Just looking through the gun sites makes me feel like im really there. I mid as well bring 
 this up now but the only downside I have to this game is the singleplayer mode, Its the same as 
 every other war game which is you can only pretty much go one path and have to face enemy after 
 enemy. On the other hand the multiplayer mode is incredible. For those Medal of Honor fans and 
 for people that have played that game online will know what im talking about. This games multiplayer 
 is just like Medal Of Honor with obsolutley incredible graphics. Makes it quite the experience! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jak360
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 4, 2007 7:42 pm PT
Review:  Graphics-The graphics are simply awsome with the improved shadow and lighting effects gives that 
 gives it the atmosphere of what war game should be, plus with more realistically looking weapons 
 that give it a more of a realisticly feel
  
  Sound-Gun sounds are pretty nice touch, complete with nice soldier voices that make you feel like 
 you're in war and with the vechical sounds that add a nice touch to the added gameplay for vehicular 
 carnage espiecally for tanks coming by
  
  Gameplay-The gameplay is simply stunning with improved AI, more guys on screen and that chaotic 
 war feel to it, plus with a unique leveling system for multiplayer that gives you more equipment 
 as you rank up, ranked games take a little bit patience to what for other players Even though its 
 not as call of duty 2 in the single player part as good as it is on the multiplayer in call of 
 duty 3 and thier is never a dull moment ,feels action packed like a reall WWII game should feel 
 and overall the game feels like a big thrill ride from beginning to end that always makes you feel 
 satisfied 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aaronfilmltd
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 28, 2007 6:27 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3 is a game with tons of great Gamerscore acheivements, fantastic cutscenes, great 
 styles of gameplay, and addicting multiplayer modes.
  
  Needless to say, the Call of Duty series has always had a fun storyline, one of which throws you 
 straight into enormous firefights with dozens of Germans at a time. The game takes place during 
 the Normandy Breakout. You know you're in for a treat when you climb over a short wall in the beginning, 
 only to be faced with a huge, war-torn Normandy where there are literally over 50 Kraut soldiers 
 just waiting to deteriorate your squad piece by piece. In this fashion, the game does a great job 
 of introducing you to itself. A highly notable feature of CoD3 is the fantastic multiplayer from 
 which you can choose from around 8 (could be higher) maps to destroy each other on. Splitscreen 
 on one console is okay, but when you hit Xbox Live, that's when the game really shows off what 
 it can do. Ranked matches are fairly addicting, where you score points for kills and base captures 
 you rack up. Player matches are also great, where you can jump right in to a quick match, or choose 
 your own map and setting on Custom Match, or create your own and wait for others to join.
  
  If you're a Gamerscore freak who wants easy acheivements fast, you may come to be a slight 
 bit disappointed in this game, since one of the acheivements is to acheive 40,000 points total 
 in ranked matches, and another to beat single player mode on Veteran difficulty. (This can be oh, 
 so easily overlooked due to how fun the acheivements are to get anyway.
  
  The single player, however is too reminiscent of previous games, but it won't fail to impress nonetheless.
 
  
  This game is highly recommended to gamers everywhere, including those Gamerscore freaks, since 
 you'll have so much fun you won't even notice. With high replay value and breathtaking graphics, 
 who could argue this being simply a great game? Get this game not just because I told you so, but 
 simply to fully experience the definition of first-person shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GangstaGamer20
Rating: 10
Date: May 3, 2007 2:56 pm PT
Review:  Now Call Of Duty 3 is a awesome FPS. The online multiplayer is so fun I played over 30 hours of 
 it. The single player is good by swithing American to British to Canadian to Polish. This is one 
 of the best FPS I ever played on the 360. The great thing about this is that you can never get bored 
 of it. Again the online multiplayer is one of the best things about the game. Online you can play 
 over 15 maps being either Axis or Allies. When you pick your side you have to pick a catogory of 
 a unit like rifleman and so on. Its an awesome experienceThe AI on single player is good but not 
 the best. The storyline is simple so you should be able to beat in 2 days tops. If you are reading 
 this review and you dont have it get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monco59
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 15, 2007 5:48 am PT
Review:  I feel I really shouldnt even need to write about Call of Duty 3s gameplay, since it is so similar 
 to Call of Duty 2. But on closer inspection, it has a few tweaks that make the game worthwhile. 
 Most notable of these is the revamped multiplayer portion. Treyarch went all out and incorporated 
 some much needed bang into Call of Duty 2s stale multiplayer. Instead of 8, you now have 24 people 
 battling on a server. While PC gamers will be quick to scoff at this, it actually works well, giving 
 sessions a grander scale without getting too crowded. Also, the game is now essentially Battlefield 
 1942 for consoles. You have vehicles, different character classes (light and heavy assault, riflemen, 
 scout, support, medic and anti-tank) and six game modes (battle, team battle, war, CTF, single 
 CTF and headquarters) . Battle and Team Battle are your basic deathmatch and team deathmatch. War 
 features maps with a set number of flags, requiring each team to capture a specific flag before 
 moving on to the next one. CTF and Single CTF are also basic modes, the first featuring two flags 
 (one for each team) , the latter only one. Perhaps the most interesting is Headquarters, which involves 
 gaining control of a randomly spawned radio and keeping control over it, thus establishing a base. 
 Teams either defend or attack that base, depending on their side. The team that successfully establishes 
 a base accrues points for every second they control that base. The attacking team gains points 
 for destroying the base, and the first team to reach a set limit of points wins.
  
  Even though the multiplayer may be the biggest reason to get this game, its nice to see that Treyarch 
 didnt completely forget the singleplayer either. This time the game is set entirely in the Western 
 front, to establish some sort of a cohesive narrative. Whether the game succeeds at this or not, 
 is largely up to the player to decide. Also new in this iteration is the addition of Action Sequences. 
 Action sequences are essentially minigames, much like the ones found in God of War for example. 
 Planting a bomb is no longer accomplished by a single press of a button, but requires you to set 
 the charge by actually turning the analog stick in the appropriate direction and capping it off 
 with a randomized button press. Although not a revolutionary addition by any means, it certainly 
 helps spice the game up a bit and offers some intense moments. In the same vein, the game also 
 features Battle sequences, that also resemble minigames. At different points in the game, an 
 enemy will get the jump on you and you will have to fight it out using a series of trigger pulls, 
 simulating a brawl. These are also capped off with a button press. Although not very intense, they 
 add a nice cinematic quality to the game and manage to break up the gameplay nicely. The last noticeable 
 addition is the ability to return thrown grenades back to the sender. This was always a feature 
 that was annoyingly absent in the first two CoDs, and its inclusion is a welcome one.
  
  The graphics in CoD 3 are gorgeous. Subtle effects, like depth-of-field really help separate this 
 game from the previous one. The draw distance is impressive, with no pop up at all. The maps are 
 also very detailed and realistic, and smart level design makes them feel larger than they actually 
 are. Lighting is similarly impressive and the game features some truly awesome effects. Smoke is 
 perhaps the best seen in a game so far (with the possible exception of Lost Planet) , and you will 
 find yourself popping smoke just so you can admire the beautiful visuals. Even with all this visual 
 candy, the game is solid in its framerate. Some hitches occur from time to time, but this is usually 
 the result of the game loading new areas of a level. This never affects gameplay either, as the 
 hiccups are few and far in between, and they are during points in the game where the fighting has 
 subsided.
  
  Aurally, the game is simply phenomenal! Even though it sounds great even on regular tv speakers, 
 to fully appreciate it, you need to play this baby with a surround sound setup. The game feels 
 unbelievably tense with bullets whizzing by, planes roaring overhead, explosions rocking the ground 
 and tanks rumbling around. Enemy and friendly AI chatter is great and really adds atmosphere to 
 the game, not to mention helpful clues on where to go and what to do next. The stunning orchestral 
 score is written by Joel Goldsmith and performed by the Slovak Symphony Orchestra. It would be 
 absolutely at home in any major Hollywood motion picture.
  
  Overall, even though Call of Duty 3 amounts to more of the same, there is enough variety, intense 
 moments and great gameplay to easily recommend it to any fan of shooters. The updated visuals, 
 unbelievable sound and magnificent multiplayer make this game easily worth the price of admission. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AssKick-U-Lator
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 1, 2007 7:00 pm PT
Review:  this right here is a very fun game that i actually just picked up under a week ago, which has an 
 effect on my rating of the game, but we'll get to that.
  
  Call of Duty 3 is of course, a ww2 game as we all know, single player is pretty straight forward 
 1st person shooter with ur wide array of firearms and explosives, as well as the ability to hit 
 your opponents with your weapons when in close range.
  
  the game plays well will only a few minor problems, mostly simple things like getting stuck in 
 a pile of rubble, but you can get out pretty easily just my crouching/ uncrouching &amp; moving 
 around franticly.
  
  Story Mode was a lot of fun as you tackle ww2 head on as Americans, Canadians, Polish, and British 
 (maybe one other i may have forgotten) each one playing a little different than the other. as u 
 play, u take turns as each, showing you how one country works with the other to win. unfortunately, 
 story mode was quite short and can be beaten in one day if given 2-6 hours (depending on difficulty 
 and skill level) . now, i found it quite difficult. i just beat easy mode a couple days ago but 
 had to try almost every part multiple times, this is not a game where you can just barrel in, it 
 takes timing and precision. LOTS OF FUN! :D
  
  multiplayer is a lot of fun, many different modes to play and you can choose a variety of things 
 such as: Axis or Allies, what set? (Scout, Anti-Aircraft, Medic, etc...) every type of character 
 has their strong and weak points, but all can be fun if used correctly.
  
  the graphics in this game are not the BEST ive seen on the 360, but it still beats out the old 
 systems and looks very good even by the new systems standards. sound was very good, the effect 
 of a high pitch ringing sound when nearly hit by an explosion ads a lot to the gameplay and intensity 
 of the fight. however, at some points it can be hard to hear teamates (AI) over the sound of the 
 fighting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jd7-03
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 1, 2007 8:11 am PT
Review:  One may think it to be odd for another Call of Duty game to be released so soon, due to the fact 
 that the second was only released a year ago (doesn't it take several years to produce a game, 
 guess not) . However this doesn't hurt the game what bit, it goes even further then its predecessor 
 and produces an even more in depth World War 2 game, simply put.... it you love loved Call of Duty, 
 its squeal, Return To Castle Wolfenstein, and the Medal of Honor games then this game is for you!
 
  
  The game begins with your standard training, this phase is in other COD games and will get you 
 familiar with some of the weapons your be using. After this part the game just takes off, and by 
 the games end you may feel that you just bought a battle in the war. During the game your fight 
 with the Americans, Canadians, British, and the Polish. While the American, British, and Canadian 
 battles were great they couldn't stack up to the tank missions with the Polish, those were in my 
 opinion the best missions in the game. The game play hasn't really changed since last years installment, 
 but thats a good thing, if it ain't broke don't fix it! Controls handle smoothly and will take 
 little getting used to if you have played the previous game, or any other console FPS. For me half 
 of any good visual presentation (such as a movie) is sound, and Call of Duty 3 sure delivers on 
 this front. The sound in this is game is easily the best I've heard for a World War 2 game, the 
 attention to detail is especially nice, and I mean that by the sound of a clip loading into a BAR 
 or M1 Garand. The weapon sounds are excellent, I myself own a M1 Garand and the in game one sounds 
 pretty close to the real thing (yet the real thing is much louder) .
  
  Last years Call of Duty 2 looked excellent, truly the next generation graphics we expected and 
 Call of Duty 3 only goes further. The graphics have been bumped up in a lot of areas, such as that 
 on the uniforms, and weapons. The smoke effects are again some of the best I have seen, and the 
 explosions don't disappoint either. Now I did experence a few glitches, such as my character being 
 not able to movie. How can you solve this? Well for me I threw a grenade near my guy, and like 
 that I was free!
  
  Once your done with the single player campaign (you can of course go back, it worth to again at 
 a higher difficulty) there's the multiplayer component. Here you find your standard your CTF mode, 
 War (capturing flags) , as well as headquarters (probably the best mode) . Other traditional mode 
 include battle (deathmatch) , team battle (team DM) . There are seven classes to pick from, ranging 
 from medics, to anti armour (ya give me that Panzer!) . While playing on XBL I experienced no lag, 
 and overall had an enjoyable session. Once again if you like WW2 games and FPS's in general then 
 you won't be disappointed in this game. Call of Duty 3 only goes more in depth into World War II, 
 and I'm looking forward to the fourth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: escalade1
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 28, 2007 12:45 pm PT
Review:  Its a very good game in the perspective of story line, environment , weapons. The story line is 
 good but ends to fast this more like a rent for 2 weeks and dont bother game. Its not as good as 
 call of duty 2 was, but its still fun online. Weapons are good and original , a pretty wide choice 
 in weapons, vehicles. The game is abit glitchy though i noticed when my guy got stuck out of the 
 map and i had to restart the mission, yea it pissed me off. Id recommend this game to your enjoyment 
 for only 2 weeks max. But, depends i like it here and there so its kind of on and off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bringndaheat08
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 25, 2007 2:44 pm PT
Review:  What makes the Call of Duty game series so popular? Is it the remarkable graphics, or the gripping 
 storyline? Is it the earsplitting realism of its sound effects or the nauseating horror of its 
 epic battles? It is all of these things combined that humbly immerse us in the dark days of Europe 
 in the 1940s when evil nearly took over the world.
  
  There are dozens of World War II action shooters on the market, and companies like Activision continue 
 to churn out games based on the gut-wrenching history of the last Great War. Their latest Nazi 
 kill fest is Call of Duty 3 (COD3) , which sidesaddles the timeline in last years shooter of the 
 year for the Xbox 360 a. k. a. COD2. This time the battles focus on Normandy and the subsequent 
 skirmishes in northern France as the allies battle their way to liberate Paris from clutches the 
 3rd Reich. And just like last year, the game lives up to its billing as an unavoidable march through 
 hell on earth.
  
  The graphics in COD3 are nothing short of spectacular. The look of the game is very much the same 
 as it was last year  with its grit and dirty wash of war. The player models, weapons, explosions 
 and vehicles are on par, if not slightly succeeding those in COD2. Desperate firefights through 
 decaying towns and villages, across vast French battlefields in all sorts of weather feel quite 
 familiar. Where the game really shines is the level design. Nazi strongholds seem much more imposing 
 and ominous this time around. The maps feel a bit more open ended  although you still have to 
 complete specified mission objectives to advance your troops. Pounding torrential thunderstorms, 
 countless surges of enemy battalions and extremely intense close range combat make you feel sickeningly 
 close to the real thing. The graphics are not perfect. Some of the drawbacks in this department 
 are the poor facial animations when officers speak to each other and the multitude of invisible 
 walls that keep you within predetermined parts of the battlefield. While the character animations 
 havent really improved over last year, they still offer enough life-likeness to keep it feeling 
 real.
  
  The sound in this game is truly magnificent. This is the best sounding war game on the market. 
 The patriotic soundtrack, complete with pre-mission briefing montages, and some very 1940s big 
 band tunes playing on soldiers radios really capture the essence of the time of the invasion. The 
 voice acting is very strong. Commanders barking orders under fire, enemies yelling German obscenities 
 and allies screaming for their lives sound so realistic that its sobering to imagine the sheer 
 terror that real WWII soldiers experienced when you consider these things really happened. Gunshots, 
 explosions and vehicles are all bang on to their real life counterparts. Turn up your surround 
 sound and duck for cover.
  
  Gameplay. The controls are almost exactly the same as last years Call of Duty - which is to say 
 they are very good. Aiming and firing your weapon uses the standard left and right triggers respectively. 
 In fact all of the games controls mimic COD2s button layout and aesthetic. Activision is clearly 
 going with the if it aint broke dont fix it approach. The downside is that the game sometimes 
 feels simply like expansion chapters of COD2 instead of a brand new game. You continue to use a 
 variety of allied and axis weapons to dispose of the enemy as you make your way to objective checkpoints. 
 A few small supplements have been added since last year. Melee combat involves hand to hand fighting 
 with enemy soldiers by tapping the right and left triggers rapidly and then disposing of him if 
 you gain the upper hand. You can also plant land mines to set traps for unsuspecting Axis platoons. 
 Online play has been substantially improved as well. Its now possible to have up to 24 players 
 competing in online multiplayer deathmatches. This really keeps the epic scale of messy WWII battles 
 available in all game modes. Private custom matches are finally available this year. With new downloadable 
 content already in development, you can be sure to get all the war you can stomach with Call of 
 Duty 3. COD3 is another excellent World War II shooter. It doesnt do much in the way to revolutionize 
 the series gameplay or graphics, but a few notable upgrades and same heart-pounding action make 
 this a worth while shooter for the Xbox 360. If you can handle the games insistent and overwhelming 
 intensity, you will get many consecutive hours of grueling bloody action from Call of Duty 3. Leaving 
 us to wonderwhat more can Activision do with its WWII franchise?
  
  Graphics: 9.0/10
  Sound: 10/10
  Gameplay: 9/10
  Overall: 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: no1outlaw
Rating: 7.7
Date: Feb 25, 2007 2:29 am PT
Review:  ... were not fulfilled. Instead i got a repetetive WW2 game with linear based missions that have 
 no depth or satisfaction. The main gameplay i had with CoD3 was running through a level and planting 
 bombs at different locations. Other gameplay involved driving and defending a position. There is 
 not much to be expected if you were looking for a realistic, gritty war game. Instead, cutscenes 
 are tackled in a cheery manner, and some dumb voice acting ruins the atmosphere. German's seem 
 to have especially high pitched voices... However, there are good things to look forward to in 
 Call of Duty 3. The variety of weapons and the way they handle and sound is great. There's nothing 
 better than headshotting an enemy and watching him tumble to te ground as others are lining up 
 to get killed. In game gameplay can also get very tedious. A lot of invisible walls can limit the 
 play area a lot. It also gives the game a very linear feel to it. The problem with the linear gameplay 
 is that the missions are so boring. Battles seem excruciatingly bland. Germans who repeat the same 
 things every five seconds respawn at th same places or stand without cover at a random location. 
 Close combat is boring too. The first time i encountered this, i was pretty astonished as a German 
 tried to strangle me. But getting out of a situation as such s no hard task. The graphics have 
 a desired next gen feel, and the frame rate keeps at a constant. The only criticism I would have 
 about it are some of the indoor environments. There just isnt an enough amount of small debris 
 lying around. Rarely did i discover objects that are destructible. YOU WILL FIND NO GORE IN THE 
 GAME. The ratings would go off the charts if there was any more amount of blood. Multiplayer is 
 good. Vehicles drive pretty well, but the levels are not designed to be driven around in :- (. I 
 recommend this game only to people who have followed the series or love WW2 games. A FPS fn should 
 not be too intruiged with this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: msudude211
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 11, 2007 9:19 pm PT
Review:  As I went through playing Call of Duty 3, I kept getting the feeling I had been there, done that.
 
  
  Don't get me wrong; Call of Duty 3 is a good game, with good graphics, and a fun multiplayer. It's 
 just that this game is almost too much like the generic World War 2 shooter, and Call of Duty 2, 
 for that matter: you go into the mind of a supposed unknown soldier and fight in his or her body 
 throughout many military battles. You travel to a battle, fight, and win. When all else fails, 
 at least you get the chance to drive motorcycles and jeeps in Call of Duty 3.
  
  Multiplayer in Call of Duty 3 got me hooked, and for good reason. The addition of jeeps and motorcycles 
 in multiplayer was a great decision by Activision. There is nothing better than running around 
 in jeeps with your buds. I also liked the fact that you can choose your weapon and abilities before 
 each respawn. You can be a medic, heavy gunner, light gunner, and many more. You can strategically 
 change your weapon and abilities contrary to current gameplay. For instance, if your opponent has 
 a tank, you can become a character that wields a bazooka. Game modes are also plentiful, and kept 
 me interested.
  
  Anyways, the point I am trying to make is that COD 3 is a good game, but differs little from other 
 WWII games and Call of Duty 2, other than the Xbox Live aspect, of course. Call of Duty 3 is an 
 ideal game for Xbox Live players or people that like multiplayer shooters.
  
  Call of Duty 3 is a lone grenade in the world of shooters, not an atomic bomb, as I expected. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daewoo2
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 21, 2007 1:48 am PT
Review:  Call of duty 3 is one of the best games to come out on the 360, with its visulising graphics and 
 authentic world and sound its easily becomes a excitement. From the moment you start on the first 
 level all the way up to the very end you are taken on different missions playing as 4 different 
 countrys and there campaigns if you will, the four countrys being America, Britain, Poland and 
 Canada.
  
  In the American campaign you play as private Nicoles and on missions you are with your band of 
 brothers if you as you must battle in st Lo and cross enemy lines in other hotspots across france 
 to meet up with the allies in paris. In the British campaingn you are a commando named Doyle who 
 must fight with the French allies to help them try and take back there country from Nazi invasion. 
 The polish campaign has playing as a tank commander in you guesed it, a tank You and your country 
 must infiltrate towns and elimitate german forces in the area and so push on to Paris to meet up 
 with the others. And finally the Canadian campaign where you are a highlander, but not like the 
 one on the film. The story in a sense seems to be focused on the americans and there strugglels 
 to reach Paris rather like it is in call of duty 2 but with no paris. However no matter who you 
 are in the geme you are able to feel for your men who are helping you along the way like knowing 
 there names and what there like as people its something that makes this game stand out so much 
 like its predocessors.
  
  But one thing that makes this game like none of the others is its fantastic environments that have 
 been litterd with tanks and artilliary to give a real experince like fighter planes that fly by 
 over head and crash on to the ground or if you listen in the levels you can hear gun fire and explosions 
 coming from other battles that are happening.
  
  So all in all this is a ultra realistic game that all WW2 fans should get aswell as 1st time Xbox 
 buyers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brobison708
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 20, 2007 6:08 pm PT
Review:  The on-line multi-player mode is really fun to play; however, the weapons are lopsided because 
 the allied weapons are better to use than the axis weapons, so the axis weapons need to become 
 stronger. Some maps are weak due to glitches. The single player campaign is really easy to beat 
 on regular mode but it is very hard to beat on veteran mode. The achievements for the single player 
 campaign are relatively easy to get and the on-line achievements are pretty hard to obtain. But 
 overall, it is a really good and fun game and I definitely recommend this game to everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ozman666
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 20, 2007 1:12 pm PT
Review:  Well Let me start with the the graphic intro. The graphics are great quality and i must say the 
 detail on weapons buildings, and the other soldiers is extreamly amazing.
  
  Other parts of the game include vehicles explosive planting, shoot and move. how ever I do have 
 to bring onething up. ever play a game were you die and you say Crap, glad i saved ? Well you have 
 check points through each chapter however they are just a little bit to far apart for the liking. 
 I am still stuck on The Forest Chapter that seems to be imposible on ventran difficulty and it's 
 driving me crazy! The designers need to add in a save point of free will other then just have check 
 points it makes the game frustrating for the people who like Game Acievments.
  
  Other then that the game play, is wounderful and down right in dept. this is a must for 1st person 
 shooter lover. I sugest it for a purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NicAgent
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 19, 2007 7:58 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3 is definitely the thing to get if you are into World War II fighting. That is - 
 if you like the on-foot components the best. Most of this game revolves around you on foot taking 
 down the Axis forces with your squadmates. Most of the time it is just clearing out areas of them 
 and setting explosive charges in those places, but sometimes you will be put in the driver's seat 
 of a jeep or even a tank in your quest against the German forces. Overall, the Campaign is fairly 
 long and definitely expands on the replay value. The Graphics and Sound are what really make this 
 game shine. Both are done to the top notch of the Xbox 360's capability. The 360 version also looks 
 the best, just edging out the PS3 version and clearly out-doing the Wii (which of course doesn't 
 have such good graphical capabilities) . The Graphics and Sound make it feel like you are truly 
 on a real battlefield. The explosions, gun-fire, and textures simply all add-up, and all you have 
 to do is look at the images or download the demo to truly experience it.
  
  One thing I did wish was that you had a health meter instead of recovering your health (as in Gears 
 of War) . It always seems like you have too much health, thus not being realistic towards a real 
 war.
  
  The Multiplayer is good, though could have had more to it. Ranked Matches are definitely the Achilles' 
 Heel, given that it is done completely at random with the only selection being the game mode. At 
 least in Gears of War's flawed Ranked Match system you can select the game mode and map (and with 
 tweaking even your host) . Additionally, the countdown starts once there are enough (8) players, 
 and it is unlikely all the 16 other slots will fill. However, Player matches are clearly selectable 
 with whatever settings you like, and you won't be spending much effort finding a good game to play 
 on. And with the release of the new map pack (though $10) , there is no dearth in the variety of 
 maps to play. Of the game modes, there is the traditional Team Battle, where the team with the 
 most points wins. There's also the familiar Capture the Flag (two flags and one flag) , and even 
 just Battle where every player is for themselves. One interesting mode is War, where you must conquer 
 all of the command posts within the given time period. It's all good fun.
  
  Overall I'd say this game is a pretty good buy, though may not quite be for everyone. As long as 
 you have at least a passing interest in war fighters, you should definitely check this one out. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: taco4life
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 19, 2007 7:09 pm PT
Review:  This is is great game. Gameplay and graphics are amazing. The campaign is long and can be difficult 
 at times. There are about 12 missions in all and they are pretty long. The only bad thing about 
 the campaign mode is that if you save and exit the game, and then load the game later on, you are 
 forced to watch the cut scenes over again and you cannot skip it. But this is only minor. Multiplayer 
 is fun on Xbox Live. They have one map that you can download for free from the Xbox Live Marketplace. 
 They also have another map pack that you can buy for 600 microsoft points. There are 3 maps in 
 the map pack. There are 6 game modes that you can play: Battle, Team Battle, War, Single-Flag CTF, 
 Capture the Flag, and Headquarters. There are some glitches on ranked matches but they are not 
 that bad. Overall a great game and I recommend buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jk4life2
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 19, 2007 8:45 am PT
Review:  this game is an amazing fps i love it man its intense extremly realistic the graphics are awsome 
 the story is cool to i like when some comes out of nowhere and trys to take ur gun and u gotta 
 fight the u smack him in the face with ur gun also the multiplayer is massive up to 24 player and 
 it is huge man i think its one of the best multiplayer games out right now the action is intense 
 all u hear is explosions and people screaming it feels like ur actually in a war i think this is 
 a must own for anybody if ur a fan of the cod series u wiil be very happy with this game defintly 
 worth the money 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkelf505
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 19, 2007 7:26 am PT
Review:  If you liked call of Duty 2, you will feel about the same with call of Duty 3. I have actually 
 enjoyed the single player version better than call of duty 2. the graphics and sound are stunning, 
 especially on hdtv with surround sound. My ratings are based on this experience. The game itself 
 does a better job of emulating the chaos of combat than any game I have played. There is also more 
 of a story line, though of course that is not the strength of cod. The multiplayer... well, I am 
 still getting used to that. At this point, I still enjoy COD 2 more with multiplayer, but 3 is 
 still excellent. It is sometimes difficult to play games with the full 16 players, usually you 
 end up with 8-10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BallGame
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 18, 2007 12:35 pm PT
Review:  I was really excited to get this game, because graphiclly it looked much better then CoD2 and I 
 am a huge fan of the Original Call of Duty. However, there are two things that bother me about 
 the game. One is the way it feels when you rifle butt someone. It should feel more solid and satidfying, 
 like Gears of War or Halo. When I hit someone, it is feels like hitting a rag doll. Second, is 
 that the game never lets up. The enemies just keep on coming. I know there is some variety in the 
 missions and most games have the same thing, but for some reason with this game, I feel like I 
 am at impossible odds and it just gets overwhelming at times. It is really, too intense for me. 
 I know it is a great game, and I love the multiplayer, but as for single player, I think I am done 
 with this franchise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mecrab
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 18, 2007 10:27 am PT
Review:  When i first bought this game, i was soo excited to experience COD all over again with new weapons, 
 level, and different characters. And, to a degree, COD 3 delievers. Lets start with the positives: 
 the weapons in COD 3 all function excellently, aiming with them seems to be easier and more solid 
 than in COD 3 and they all seem to have a bit more firepower behind them. The levels are pretty 
 well designed, but at time they feel a bit linear, especially when you get into simulated melee 
 fights. While the new close quarter fighting is an interesting concpet, it just doesn't seem to 
 fit with the rest of the game. One minute you'll be shooting germans with your thompson, and the 
 next a german comes out of no where and attacks you. While it does function well, it just seems 
 like something the developers threw in there to try and make COD 3 different from its predocessers. 
 The characters in the game are for the most part memorable, and usually smart enough to fit on 
 their own. There are time when your teamates will just rush into a base and get slaughtered, but 
 they can usually take alot of damage so theres no need to worry about them getting killed constantly. 
 But the most interesting concept is the muliplayer. Instead of picking different weapons, you the 
 option to pick from several different character classes. This is a welcom edition to the COD franchise 
 and really allows for more team work and strategy. However, the multiplayer suffers in one department: 
 the maps. While aren't neccisarily bad, they just aren't as creative and fun to play in as the 
 maps in COD 2. Also, the game only comes with about 4 maps and the new map pack is a little steep 
 in price. Online multiplayer is the same for the most part with all the same modes you remember 
 from COD 2: deathmatch, CTF, team deathmatch, etc. So, if enjoyed COD 2 then you'll deffinitely 
 enjoy COD 3: Just don't expect much in terms of depth and orginallity 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eXists
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 17, 2007 11:10 am PT
Review:  A great COD2 expansion pack plus some cool new features!
  
  [The Good]
  
  Gameplay &gt; The great gameplay mechanics of COD2 are at work here again. Great sense of weapon 
 control and well designed controls make the game shine.
  
  Presentation &gt; Better environments than COD2 and some pretty impressive smoke effects as well 
 as sound effects. You're living it, great cinematic experience!
  
  Vehicles &gt; Some pretty cool Vehicle sequences that add to the overall experience. Jeeps and 
 Tanks are easy to drive and enrich the single player experience, definitely a plus.
  
  Veteran &gt; You're participating in WWII and you appreciate how difficult it was and how easy 
 you can die. It can get frustrating at times but it's not so unreal like some other games. It's 
 hard but doable and it's one of the few 360 achievements that make you feel you accomplished something 
 of value.
  
  [The Bad]
  
  Melee &gt; A last minute addition that's really worthless. No game does melee like Condemned, everyone 
 should learn from it.
  
  Multiplayer &gt; Although COD is pretty popular online, I didn't really enjoy it much, FEAR multiplayer 
 is 10 times better. COD's single player is much better in my own personal opinion.
  
  Story &gt; Really poor job here. No reference maps to show where forces are and where you're really 
 heading at the beginning of a level. No mention of how do the different armies' storylines tie 
 to each other. It can be vastly improved, brothers in arms does a better job, not great but better. 
 An event as important as WWII and the millions of references to it really leave no excuse for such 
 a bad storyline.
  
  Achievements &gt; Achievements in COD2 were more of my taste. I'm not a big fan of multiplayer 
 achievements and I think finishing the game on Veteran deserves much more points.
  
  Save &gt; No save anywhere, nuff said. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raine1998
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 21, 2007 8:50 am PT
Review:  Intense, exciting, climatic, and brutal in a most appealing way. I will have to review my original 
 rating of 9.3 and possibly move it to a place I have yet to go in gaming, as it is a far stretch 
 for any true war gamer, the ultimate plateau of the over 9.5 club. Anyone who enjoys these tactical 
 shooter games, especially the WWII versions knows the tough competition, and tough critical acclaim 
 one maker must achieve to succeed in this cut throat world of fantasy war games. We who spend our 
 hard earned money on the newest and best equipment, games and technology have the power to make 
 or break a maker. I for one have always enjoyed the C. O. D series, but this,......... this is very, 
 very special. Not having the time I once did when I was in my twenties, I cherish my gaming time 
 as my time , and only purchase games these days I KNOW I will enjoy. COD III did NOT disappoint 
 and though it took me longer than usual to complete all the missions, I wasn't as satisfied as 
 I usually am after conquering a war game. I wanted more. I was actually sad and a little frustrated 
 that it was over. Not that there wasn't enough missions, it is a very fulfilling game, only, it's 
 so good, and so fun, and so addictive, that when it's all over.......... it's just that........ over. 
 Which in Activision's corner is the ultimate compliment , as now the question is........ when will 
 CODIV be available?!!
  
  Though I know that many first-person shooters are just that, and have no claim to be in the 2nd 
 or 3rd person shooter mode, I would like to see that option, somewhere down the road. Similar to 
 the Ghost Recon mode of the over the shoulder look, and of course the full out 3rd person mode 
 which I really enjoy the most. As a tactical shooting gamer, I would like to see options in all 
 war games , for everyone's taste. I know the traditionalist will not like that but the more excitement 
 we can bring in to these games, the more gamers we can get to enjoy them.
  
  So, thank you Activision, you have done it again, and as I said earlier, I will review and change 
 my current COD 3 score to something I have yet to do in giving scores, a score above 9.5. With 
 a few modifications, you could have the first true 10 war game on the market. Good luck, and good 
 fighting to all.
  
  The Bloodboys Review 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fgancedo
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 15, 2007 3:26 am PT
Review:  A very hard game to turn off once you dig into all the online intricacies. However, the weaponry 
 is a little unbalanced, it may be more realistic but it doesn't make for the best of gameplay sometimes. 
 The Allied weaponry is a bit overwhelming at times. Also, we were promised much more in the way 
 of destructible environments than we have. Maybe the next version will address this part of the 
 game. Level design is very good. The fog of war is a bit overdone at times, I think night levels 
 with more darkness could have achieved the same effect while adding more variety. The online lobbies 
 could use some work but the patches have created some improvements. The vehicles are a good addition 
 and I am sure will continue to improve. I feel grenades need to be made a bit more powerful. Sometimes 
 rifle and or hand grenades will explode right between a few soldiers and only take out one of them. 
 Also, the sprint needs to be looked at, it may serve a better function as an option that can be 
 toggled on and off. Without the sprint, matches would be even more tactical. I am sure I speak 
 for others as well when I say that I miss the British and Russian weapons and levels. These created 
 variety and let you have some fun. Also, quite a few U. S. and German weapons did not make the cut. 
 Maybe, an optionto fill a custom kit including some weapons such as the MIA1 Carbine and the Gehwer 
 43 and so on and so forth would be a good idea. Everyone likes to customize their kits. In Player 
 matches this would not affect any rankings and I feel would add fun to the mix. Overall, this is 
 a good step forward, hopefully COD4 will be even better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrisyman
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 14, 2007 6:14 pm PT
Review:  this game rocks just like call of duty 2. how can people say this game stinks. thats right they 
 cant say it stinks because it is great. graphics perfecto. the gameplay was great. im giveing this 
 game 10 for the overall on every thing its such a great game. i like how you can use the tanks 
 in 3rd person veiw. in call of duty 2 it was hard to drive a tank in 1st person view. so its a 
 big improvement to the call of duty games to me. difucltys are just like last time make you play 
 them till you master it. and it takes a long time to master the hardest one. i cant see why you 
 would hate this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: butterflyk1ss69
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 14, 2007 4:46 pm PT
Review:  It is a wounderful game and realy cool online. There is many ways to play this game and alot of 
 maps to play on. I takes only a few minutes to learn the controls. It has the best graphics and 
 gameplay of any other war games I have ever played. If you like war games this is a game for you. 
 I have read alot of reviews and almost all of the reviews are the same this game is awsome. If 
 you are inturested in war game, you realy need to get the game and play it. You will not be disappointed 
 at all. This game is worth every last penny you spend/rent on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fonsi305
Rating: 5.8
Date: Feb 14, 2007 2:33 pm PT
Review:  COD 3 to me has just been a war game to fill in for Medal Of Honor. When COD 2 came out it had 
 some of the best graphics the 360 saw. Now a year has gone by and nothing changed. The story mode 
 is still boring and not entertaining at all. The only good thing COD 3 has is online. Multiplayer 
 is fun, addicting and if you have friends then its a hell of a time. The game like gamespot says 
 plays exactly like the previous version. The graphics are OKAY but the sound is superb. When you 
 play this game you actually feel like your in a war. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zbf1028
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 14, 2007 2:16 pm PT
Review:  The multiplayer, graphics, and sound is worth the sixty bucks alone. Definately fun online. So 
 so off. dad ad ad awaeeqwqe eqwqeqw wef erg ef wewef feer rgrg wew qeq ef rarf wae rwew wewfe wewgg 
 arggr wwerre qd awgw aref wtt rg ereger gwereqwr rewefwgaww ter gergg erret rf ewrg rg gtergr qrg 
 wrwg rerg rwg ervrgrg rwrgaer grgrfrgwaere gwrgt eregsdtter gag awrgwrwt rt qwrtrt erwrarg wrwg 
 rg rwt t t wt rt rt r tr rtert eregergerg wgwwer wewr wrw werrwer werwet wertrwt w etweetwetewerwerwer 
 werwr wewe r wer werwerwer wer werwewer werewe rwerwrwer we rwe r werwerwer werwrw. wrwrrwrrw. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ironman3087
Rating: 7.7
Date: Feb 14, 2007 1:15 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard about this game, I was way excited to try it out, because I remember all the 
 fun I had playing call of duty 2. But when I got the game and played it throughout, I was dissapointed. 
 The gameplay is much too repetitive. You only do one thing and thats shoot through the level. Obviously 
 thats what shooters are, but games like Gears Of War or Halo actually make you want to go through 
 the level but Call Of Duty 3 was just way too boring to keep up with. The driving parts were pretty 
 cool, but again it got too repetitive and boring. I did like the game, the graphics were arite, 
 but it is way too hyped. In my opinion, Call Of Duty 2 was better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xbox360_4_lyf
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 14, 2007 9:06 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3 is a great world war 2 game it realistic great grathics and awsome guns great missions 
 and all together the game is ace!
  
  Ok i got the game for christmas and i played it on 2 player first with my brother for about 30 
 hour and we thought it was amazing but we had other games to test out at the same time such as.. 
 pgr 3 , oblivon , pro evo and nba 2k7 they were also good but pro evo is not very great!!
  
  Call of duty brings great multiplayer experiece to the xbox 360 and it makes number 2 look 
 like a pile of poo there was my reviews thanks for reading 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrimLesh
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 13, 2007 11:06 pm PT
Review:  The only parallel that I can seem to draw between CoD 3 and its predecessor is that there are part 
 of WW2 and in the same franchise.
  
  I think it's weird to control. Me and my friend often think of the controls being drunk .
  
 
  The maps are too big. if you want to play a 4 player game on one of these maps, good luck finding 
 each other. All the maps are built for 24 players, so there huge. The only map that I could find 
 my bearings at was Eder Dam since it's so open and has a central bridge.
  
  The guns are different. I know it really isn't a big deal, but the guns look either plastic (springfield) 
 or brand new, out-of-the-box (BAR) . In CoD 2 and CoD 1, the weapons looked war torn and interesting 
 and real.
  
  I do NOT recommend this game. If you are looking for a WW2 game, go with CoD 2 or original Xbox 
 shooter like European Assault.
  
  This game is not for everyone (like me) , but some like it. So if you want to believe the hype, 
 rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dupe576
Rating: 6.3
Date: Apr 2, 2007 2:15 pm PT
Review:  Let me first say.. COD2 was an excellent game. I remember feeling like i was really in the war 
 and like i was really playing a part in bringing down nazi germany. Honestly tho.. COD3 doesn't 
 quite follow up for me. I just felt like there were too many distractions and I just didn't have 
 that same sense of realism. Where you are supposed to go is often confusing and paths feel very 
 forced. I can't tell you how many times I was stuck in the same damn spot trying to figure how 
 the hell to get out. There are also way too many mini-games. Every damn time i planted a bomb I 
 had to play one of those damn mini games.. every damn time. And the mini games aren't even hard! 
 You press a couple of buttons.. a fricken monkey could do that.. probably a very pissed off monkey 
 too at the fact that he was playing the damn game in the first place. Also.. they make you fight 
 with the french and the polish.. which i guess is their attempt to show that bringing down germany 
 was a multi-national effort and included more than just american/british/russian combo... but honestly.. 
 i just thought it was stupid. And on top of all that.. they dramatically changed the multiplayer. 
 Not that thats a bad thing.. but for me, it was just hard to adjust. I liked the way things were.. 
 and the whole class / vehicle thing really threw things off for me. Anyways.. to sum things up.. 
 too many distractions. I just want to shoot some nazis. Can i do that please? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bladecutter56
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 13, 2007 11:49 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3 is, theoretically, an improved version of its predecessors. Dont take this as 
 a bad sign, however, since it is very different in general. Not only have the graphics been immensely 
 improved, stimulating a vivid feeling of being there, but the sounds ignite the senses as well, 
 especially in surround sound that is set up correctly. The game play has been added upon also, 
 now allowing you to pick up and throw a live grenade, drive vehicles such as a tank, jeep, etcetera, 
 and now the multiplayer is more like Battlefield. You get to pick between classes such as Anti-Tank, 
 Light/Heavy Assault, Rifleman, Sniper, and Medic. They all have strengths and weaknesses and require 
 teamwork to work well. This however poses a problem since people dont seem to want to work together 
 and just scream at each other the whole time. All in all it is a great game and there is no collection 
 complete without it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: havokmaster
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 13, 2007 3:05 am PT
Review:  Call Of Duty 3: A Review
  
  The Call of Duty franchise, over the last 6 years, has been recognized as the best WWII series 
 ever. Winning multiple Game Of The Year achievements, Call Of Duty 1 &amp; 2 set the bar significantly 
 higher for the FPS genre. Providing frantic gameplay, and compelling cinematics, it creates an 
 atmosphere like no other game can. The third game in the series, developed by Treyarch, adds a 
 fresh breath of life to the franchise by adding a storyline, a hand-to-hand melee combat system 
 , and a multi-player ranking system, but will it live up to it's predecessors? Was Activisions 
 move in taking the franchise away from Infinity Ward a mistake? Find out below.
  
  Call Of Duty 3 plays just like the games before it, but with the difference of updated visuals 
 and tighter controls. The single player campaign, although slightly short, is still entertaining, 
 due to a compelling storyline and breathtaking sound effects. As you fight your way through the 
 oncoming German onslaught, you will be bombarded by the usual sound of explosions and bullets whizzing 
 past your head, but with this game it creates a realistic WWII environment that will leave you 
 breathless after every mission. The campaign itself lasts from about 15 missions, each lasting 
 about 45 minutes, so your looking at 10+ of gameplay on normal difficulty, crank it up to veteran, 
 and the game could last weeks. The storyline is a welcome addition, but sometimes lacking direction, 
 and it ends up feeling that every mission has it's own story. The weapons are they same you have 
 come to know and love in previous games, with the return of the Thompson, BAR, MP44 and most of 
 the weapons from 1 &amp; 2.
  
  The multi-player is the most entertaining aspect of the game, a new rank system that sees you progressing 
 from Private to Sergeant depending on your amount of kills in a match, it doesn't provide any alteration 
 to gameplay, but it's a nice feature. The game has a good selection of maps, all of which are huge, 
 which can allow for big 16 player battles. There's also the addition of a leaderboard for ranked 
 matches, so by playing ranked matches you're actually achieving something. The big let down for 
 ranked matched though, is the fact its hard to get one and expect to wait about 10mins in the lobby 
 before you do get one.
  
  The game overall, is an improvement on an already great franchise, adding life to a dying WWII 
 genre, and will hopefully inspire future games in this genre to do what this franchise has done 
 in the past, raise the bar to a point where it can be raised no further. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yawnoc1
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 12, 2007 12:46 pm PT
Review:  i think that the call of duty3 is a well desighned game but in parts is a little confusing but 
 only if u havent played the last 2 lol. the game is very well set out because on you first and 
 3rd mishion the battles are like a propa battle wer ure men and ure enemys deaths are not planed 
 because wen you start a level again the characters die if they run into another player and they 
 shoot first and your men dont stay in 1 place and leav you hanging and then u get shot they follow 
 you and when they talk the mouth moves in tme with the words . there is also a wide selection of 
 wepons and you do only stay on foot you also drive a veichael in numourous levels and in some old 
 army games wen u shoot glass it just leavs a mark but in this 1 it actually breaks and if you where 
 to shoot a beer barrel like i did the beer actually come out and its a good way to wake up sleeping 
 enemys the shoot them lol. so all in all its a good game and definaitly worth a buy but if you 
 are thinking about entering the competition on this site then definaitly do it cos it will be a 
 laf lol :P in a bizzle!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jasonfinger
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 12, 2007 5:35 am PT
Review:  I was eager to play this game. I popped it in and was pulled right into a huge war where there 
 seemed like no hope of making it. Buildings blowing up, people blowing up, people running like 
 madmen, and all sorts of chaos. NOW THATS ACTION!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! This is a very good game, 
 you can tell that it is not made by the same company because of the way the levels are set up. 
 You might get confused a bit on where to go unlike Call Of Duty 2. The weapons are basically the 
 same from the second one except now you can drive tanks more in depth and jeeps. Graphics are good 
 but seem a little dark (might just be my tv) , and the sound is Auesome. Multiplayer is the same 
 a bit. Though you can drive vehicles now in multiplayer!!! All in all I love this game. Like I 
 said, I love action when I play. I love watching war unfold before my eyes in the backgrounds and 
 with my character. THIS GAME HAS INTENSE ACTION AND WILL MAKE YOU FEEL LIKE YOU ARE IN A REAL WAR!!! 
 Great game, I loved it!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Senrab
Rating: 6.9
Date: Feb 11, 2007 11:28 pm PT
Review:  I've been a fan of the Call of Duty series since the first game, and I have always liked it's multiplayer. 
 3's first mistake was not coming out on PC, where the series got it's start. The missions in single 
 player are generally to cinematic, filled with too many cutscenes and minigames that it feels like 
 you never really get the chance to shoot something. It was the multiplayer however, that really 
 bothered me. The use of a class system was implemented, making the game too much like Battlefield. 
 All the game modes were renamed, which isn't really a downside or anything, I'm just saying. Above 
 all, they took out search and destroy mode, which was my favorite game mode.
  
  In spite of all this, I still play the game. I'm glad to see not much has changed in the gameplay 
 at least. The class system can be both a pro and a con, depending on how you look at it. I personally 
 feel it's an unnessicary change to how the game is played. Nevertheless, as I said I still play 
 it and will continue to do so, simply because it's Call of Duty. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tundrawarlord
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 11, 2007 4:50 pm PT
Review:  I got this the day it came out and after playing nothing but call of duty 2 and battlefield, it 
 was time for change. And hear is what I thought.
  
  Singleplayer: 8/10
  While it is very breef, the single player aspect of this game is rather good, all levles take place 
 in france and inclued many different objectives. You play as polish, canadian, american and british 
 troops in the normandy out break. like the first there is alot of inovative and cool things you 
 can do like driveing vehecles, to firing mortars, to fuseing explosives.
  
  Online: 8/10
  I was rather impressed with the online in this game, The maps range from small to large and ther 
 is many game modes. Vehecles including tanks motor cycles and jeeps are included. As for teems 
 there are only Americans in germans witch at first was dissapointing and still kind of is. The 
 weapon classes are very unique and fun but weapons between the sides are very unbalanced. The 24 
 player is impressive but there is no stratagey making it an all out charge fest.
  
  Weapons: 9/10
  I was very Impressed by the weapons in this games as they all are very detailed 
 and look and sound incredable. The detal is very good. But some weapons look some what odd like 
 the MP44 witch looks very thin and off scale and the G-43 witch the sights are off, but all the 
 rest are very amazing.
  and the rifle grenades are way way cool.
  
  Sound: 10/10
  I almost craped my pants at how good everything sounds in this game, from the weapons, to the Tanks, 
 oh the tanks sound so real.
  
  Conclusion:
  overall its a great game and a defanate buy for fans of the series but may leave some kind of diss 
 apointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Colonel_Worr
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 11, 2007 1:02 pm PT
Review:  I like it very much, the voice acting is really good and people are very detailed and pleasing 
 to the eye. The things I did not like were that in most of the woodland missions you can't see 
 the enemies, and there are also a few times when you can barely hear what anyone is saying. I do 
 love the fact that you can return grenades though and there are some sweet guns in the game. I 
 was also happy to finally see a WWII game in which you don't only play the British, Americans and 
 Russians, and I felt really good when I got to play as a Canadian just like myself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 761stPaladin
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 10, 2007 9:49 pm PT
Review:  First off let me just say that the CoD series has the history to WW2. Whether its the battlle of 
 Stalingrad or D-Day, the action never lessens. The series seems to be running out of ideas, but 
 keeps on showing us the nature of war.
  
  Now let's begin. The weapons of the game are unique in almost every way. The M1 Garand has range, 
 MP40 has stability and the springfeild has power. You will not likely see any veteran player fail 
 with the weapons in the game when used right. However, there are a few exceptions like the Enfield 
 SMLE has a weird iron sight. Its predessessor ( CoD 2 ) had a great iron sight so when aiming at 
 someone the shot would always hit that spot. The Thompson does not have any other poly's and the 
 weapons would sometimes turn silver at the right angle. Also the M1 carbine was not in the game.
 
  
  The graphics are gorgeous and , mind I say , better than CoD 2's. Particles to skin detail, all 
 the way to environment caches are OUTSTANDING!!! Again however, The boundaries ( the plank spots 
 you see) are still visible.
  
  
  The gameplay portion is by far the best at its standards and ,on highier levels, epic. Very, very 
 immersive. Flaws do occur when in combat and could be especialy true on veteran difficulty. Yes. 
 There are items such as a wooden box that can be split open when hit by bullets, however level 
 2 for instants has a bunker on top of a big hill and your job is to clear it. problems like iron 
 barricades, trees and rocks seem to be transparent. This could be very frustrating on veteran. 
 Also there is no lean command. That means you'll go enter a strange room you'll know you will find 
 5 germans. The problem is that it is impossible to do so without exposing cover.
  
  Sound is not a problem, nothing to talk about. The game is playable till CoD 4. What I want was 
 a Pacific campiagn and a advanced cover system like gears of war and a random hand-to-hand combat 
 scene and not a scripted one. Lastly a campaign about 5 levels longer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpruceCaboose
Rating: 7.9
Date: Feb 10, 2007 7:53 pm PT
Review:  I will preface this by saying that Call of Duty 2 would be my pick for Game of the Year in 2005, 
 so Call of Duty 3 had some big shoes to fill. Infinity Ward stepped aside on Call 3 and Treyarch 
 stepped in as developers. They kept most of the basics in place, and added a few new segments in. 
 If you played CoD2, nothing in CoD3 will really stand out. It has some Wow moments, but for the 
 most part, it seems like a game we've played already. That would not be that bad, but I had a few 
 moments where invisible walls stopped shots that should have been clean hits, or the hit detection 
 was off from what it should have been. Likewise, a few times I was hit from around corners. These 
 are not deal-breakers, but they keep the game from being on the same level, in my opinion, as CoD2. 
 Multiplayer is very well done, when you can connect to a match. The 12 vs 12 matches work well, 
 and you can remain in one game round after round. It just seems like I spend more time trying to 
 connect to most matches than I don playing the game. In summary, if you played CoD2 and loved it, 
 you'll probably like CoD3. If CoD2 was only ok, CoD3 will have nothing to convince you otherwise. 
 Good game, but not great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: syorks
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 10, 2007 3:48 pm PT
Review:  Call od duty 3 is a really good WWII game but i don't think its as good as call of duty 2. i think 
 this is probaly one of the best call of duties out. i think it has added a few new things to the 
 classic franchise like the new hand to hand combat but those get repetive and feel scripted really 
 fast. i think it is pretty cool adding a few new countries that u can play as but i hate that they 
 took out the Russian campaign which i thought was always the best campaign in every call of duty. 
 overall it feels just like a normal call of duty and if u played and liked any og the others i 
 think you'll definitely love this one. its great that they tried to add some new things to the 
 series but its too bad that they didn't really pull it off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MCCHA
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 9, 2007 7:09 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Take everything that you liked in all of the previous /call of /duty games and make it 
 unentertaining. The enemies are more unintelligent, your allies are even more useless, the objectives 
 are actually extremely linear only they are hidden in a cloud of supposed choice made by the player, 
 stack the multiplayer with too many people and you wrap it up right there
  
  Graphics: Make the guns look too shiny, the explosions and smoke look like sheets of pre-rendered 
 stupidity, the clothing look like paper, and the people so ugly you actually look away from them 
 and you have CoD 3
  
  Sound: gun nioses are better than before but the memorable orchestral score is gone!
  
  Value: 
 people will probably buy this tinking that it will be as good as all of the other CoD games and 
 then be very disappointed
  
  Tilt: lame! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Osiris_Godlike
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 9, 2007 12:22 am PT
Review:  Nice game. Great multiplayer. Good gameplay. No much difference from the COD2. The achievements 
 on Xbox 360 are too easy (one day can achieve at least 500 gamerpoints) . Easy game. The german 
 rifle is changed about his sign like the Call of duty 1. I don't know why but is wrong. Is hard 
 to accurate hurry. The sniper rifles are very nice (it's my specialist. I love those snipers. Get 
 camper and shoot stupids that cross the road. Ha ha ha ha ha ha.... It is very nice. hadf sdtgj 
 dfj dfhj fhd j jkfd kfd h k ghk gh k ghk hk fh jk gh k gh k g hkj k jhk gh jk ghj f h jkdfhjy k 
 trh kj tk frh k fh k gh 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XDGRifle
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 8, 2007 3:20 pm PT
Review:  This Game Is a real time WW11 shooter with Bascily the same storyline as all the other call of 
 Duty Games Were you are a US, Canadian, Brittish And Polish Soilder and you are fighting The AXSIS 
 Forces In Germany And France. The Gameplay is Good and I Like The Feature where when you die a 
 War Saying Scrolls Over. Multiplayer is also very good The Capture the Flag Is The Best. I Bought 
 the Game ov3r LORBM2 And it was a very Grat Decession. So I Highly Recomend Call Of Duty 3 For 
 Any Fan Of A Good WW11 Shooter. This Is a Very Fun And Highly Addictive Game And Is An Uber Instant 
 Classic And has a very great storyline i highly recoThis Game Is a real time WW11 shooter with 
 Bascily the same storyline as all the other call of Duty Games Were you are a US, Canadian, Brittish 
 And Polish Soilder and you are fighting The AXSIS Forces In Germany And France. The Gameplay is 
 Good and I Like The Feature where when you die a War Saying Scrolls Over. Multiplayer is also very 
 good The Capture the Flag Is The Best. I Bought the Game ov3r LORBM2 And it was a very Grat Decession. 
 So 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the-ramone
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 17, 2007 12:04 pm PT
Review:  With Call of Duty 2 being a first person giant, 3 had a lot to live up to. This time round we knew 
 the game would have a new twist to it as Treyarch and not Infinity Ward was making it. The single 
 player campaign sticks to the same great gameplay as Call of Duty 2 which is good, but at the same 
 time it all feels done before. It still has the great aiming and shooting style, and it even has 
 a new blur effect when you zoom in and it still has the infamous veteran diffuculty, which is needed 
 because much like 2 on the lower difficulties this game isn't extremely hard. Personally I think 
 the single player falls short compare to 2 because the levels are a lot more bland and dull compared 
 to 2 and the only new addittions to single player are uninteresting and far too easy to be fun. 
 These are just pressing buttons when they come up, this happens in close quarter combat sections 
 of the game and the bomb planting cutscenes, but single player does include a wider variety of 
 guns and an achievment improvement, there is a lot more achievments in 3 and they are all rewarding 
 and pretty hard, except for purple heart, which is a stupid achievment that rewards you for dying 
 20 times in a level. The enemy AI in this game is superb, enemies will take cover, throw smoke 
 grenades and throw frag grenades to get you out of your cover. On veteran this makes the game a 
 lot harder. By looking at this so far you are probably wondering why i gave it such a high score. 
 Simply for the MASSIVE improvement in multiplayer, although the maps aren't quite as memorable 
 as 2, multiplayer is absolutely amazing. Instead of choosing sides and then your gun (like in 2) 
 you choose your class, each class has a certain ability, medics can heal people, scouts can call 
 artillery strikes and so on, there is a lot more guns in multiplayer as well. Another big improvement 
 in multiplayer is the scale of it, up to 24 players can play in one map which are about 2 or 3 
 times the size of the maps in call of duty 2.
  There are now leaderboards for online as well.
  
  Another huge improvement from call of duty 
 2 is the graphics, the graphics are nothing short of amazing. The characters, landscapes and explosions 
 are just beautiful to watch. The only downfall of this game graphicwise is that it glitches a lot 
 more than 2.
  
  The sound is perfect, as soon as you are done training and you enter that warzone, the battlecries 
 and bullets will astound you. Probably the best sound feature in the game is the music, I particularly 
 like the music because it doesn't sound like anything else you have ever heard. The voices of the 
 soldiers are also good, and I really like the way they don't hold back on the language and keep 
 the accents strong in each country and the way the Germans actually talk German, or did that guy 
 really say i know kung fu .
  
  With the great difficulty setting and moderate game length and great online play, the game is great 
 value for your money but people with Xbox Live will get the most out of this game.
  
  This game's singleplayer falls short of expectations but makes up for it with multiplayer and it's 
 superb graphics and sound makes it worthy of the call of duty name
  8.8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dougall369
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 8, 2007 9:12 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3 is a one off game. Games like this rarely come about so i urge anyone who does not 
 have it and thinking about getting it to go with COD. The single player campaign is immersive and 
 eye capturing. The xbox 360 allows so many different AI's to be on the same level. This increases 
 gameplay credibility as it looks so much more like a war. The story mode takes you on a path as 
 several different characters in different allied armies through the battle for Normandy in France. 
 This story mode was well designed, not too deep (so that you would get bored of video) but still 
 has a bit of a plot to keep your attention going. Well streamed and very good objectives. The online 
 multiplayer section of the game must be the bit that i like this game so much. Unlike other games 
 such as gears of war you can get up to 24 player games. 24 players makes the game so much more 
 addictive and fun. It really plunges you into a war like atmosphere and keeps you wanting more. 
 The maps have been carefully designed and the added bonus of being able to get in vehicles such 
 as bikes and tanks. This game is a brilliant game that gives you endless hours of fun. It is most 
 definitely a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matskii
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 8, 2007 5:51 am PT
Review:  I am a newby to the COD series, a friend of mine had COD on the x -box which I ocasionally played 
 but for the most part have stayed away from them until COD 3 for some reason,? I was looking for 
 a game to tide me over until forza 2 came out (before the set back till may) and was not impressed 
 with the majority of release's too date on 360. The other title that I came close to getting was 
 gears of war but the the shooting bugs thing reminded me of starship troopers so i'll say no more. First 
 impression's were abit mundane as me being english found the american aspect a bit of a anoyance 
 yeah they helped win the war through industrial might but the british were the real backbone of 
 the european campain. The sound is off the wall, visuals are great but you would expect that, gameplay 
 is imersive as soon as the mission starts (after you endure the american drizzle before hand) the 
 control's work well and multiplayer is enjoyable not c. s source but good. There needed to be more 
 SAS mission's if you ask me break it up abit as it is set in europe during the normandy campain 
 were two third's of the british that died in the second world war was on the road to berlin but 
 hey what's the most lugrative market in the world for software and games you guessed it north america. 
 It's good but abit one sided don't tell my grandad.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: briph24
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 7, 2007 6:18 pm PT
Review:  i loved this game, it has better sound, graphics, and action then call of duty 2, however i HATE 
 the fact that i cant skip past the stupid cut scenes. every time you reload a check point you have 
 to watch a lengthy cutscene.
  
  multiplayer = awesome!!!
  
  the multiplayer is great, its easy to get into a game, and its so fun to snipe people.
  
  its 
 so fun to be in a multiplayer team battle and get in the back of a jeep and have a duddy drive 
 you around while you kill off the other team. you can also call in air strikes (which is so pleasing 
 when you get like 5 kills instantly) and you can get some really cool grenade looking things. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2hot2rotvamp
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 7, 2007 3:06 pm PT
Review:  The game is VERY buggy, tons of glitches, multiplayer is pretty intense, but its not as fun as 
 cod2. story mode is very easy, and short.
  
  it must have 100 words so... The game is VERY buggy, tons of glitches, multiplayer is pretty intense, 
 but its not as fun as cod2. story mode is very easy, and short.
  
  it must have 100 words so... The game is VERY buggy, tons of glitches, multiplayer is pretty intense, 
 but its not as fun as cod2. story mode is very easy, and short.
  
  it must have 100 words so... The game is VERY buggy, tons of glitches, multiplayer is pretty intense, 
 but its not as fun as cod2. story mode is very easy, and short.
  
  it must have 100 words so... The game is VERY buggy, tons of glitches, multiplayer is pretty intense, 
 but its not as fun as cod2. story mode is very easy, and short.
  
  it must have 100 words so... The game is VERY buggy, tons of glitches, multiplayer is pretty intense, 
 but its not as fun as cod2. story mode is very easy, and short.
  
  it must have 100 words so... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SnakeEater187
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 7, 2007 11:44 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3 is a very realistic game but yet very easy even ,if you play on veteran mode, and 
 it is pretty short. To me I thought this game was going to be the best WWII, but there are some 
 similarities to this game that I have played on the other Call of Duty games. But other than that 
 this game goes crazy bullets flying every where, close combat and explosives. The single player 
 is not all that good, but the multiplayer on Xbox Live is Awesome I think this is what makes the 
 game real fun and on the top video game list. Can't what until Call of Duty 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tyler_shinn2003
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 6, 2007 9:50 pm PT
Review:  The best game you will play on xbox live But the single player was not the best. All and all this 
 game is Superb!!!
  get it!!!!! get it!!!!!
  get it!!!!! get it!!!!!
  get it!!!!! get it!!!!!
  get it!!!!! get it!!!!!
  get it!!!!! get it!!!!!
  get it!!!!!
 
  get it!!!!!
  get it!!!!! get it!!!!! get it!!!!! get it!!!!! get it!!!!! get it!!!!! Get it get it get it get 
 it get it get it Get it get it get it get it get it get it Get it get it get it get it get it get 
 it Get it get it get it get it get it get it Get it get it get it get it get it get it Get it get 
 it get it get it get it get it Get it get it get it get it get it get it Get it get it get it get 
 it get it get it Get it get it get it get it get it get it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Silviagear
Rating: 4.2
Date: Feb 9, 2007 1:27 pm PT
Review:  When I first started playing Call of Duty 3, I picked the Normal difficulty setting. The game 
 was moderately difficult, and I didnt notice most of its faults. That being said, the game oddly 
 enough plays better on less difficult settings. Now change the game to Hard or Veteran and 
 the games faults become clear. I want to speak to the creative minds behind Call of Duty 3 and 
 ask them about the constant flow of enemies in the game and what they were thinking when they added 
 it. It does nothing but make the game frustrating and annoying. Because of this, one cant successfully 
 clear out a room of enemies. So instead of using strategy, its better to run shooting from the 
 hip hoping something goes right. One way around this is to run by the enemies to the nearest Checkpoint. 
 Doing so will skip to the next area, allowing you to continue without killing anyone. On top 
 of that, the team AI is ridiculous and continually get you killed. They get in the way of your 
 shot and instead of helping you shoot at nearby enemies, they shoot at objects the enemy is hiding 
 behind.
  
  If you were to search online for Call of Duty 3 freezing, you would ultimately find many people 
 online with this same problem. The game would constantly freeze when it would first load to the 
 title screen. To make sure I wasnt dealing with a faulty console, I tried loading and playing 
 different games. Everything would play and load fine, but when I tried Call of Duty 3 again it 
 would freeze.
  
  There are many other negative aspects to the game I could write about, but that would be a much 
 longer review that I would rather not write. So to speed things up, heres a list: Cut scenes cant 
 be skipped, checkpoints are too spread apart, objects around the map are poorly placed causing 
 you to get stuck during crucial moments, cant jump over or on said objects (very annoying) , cant 
 shoot through tree leaves yet enemies can (doesnt make sense) , massive clipping problem (extremely 
 annoying) , enemies sometimes can shoot through walls (ill effect caused by the clipping issue) , 
 enemies that you cant see can see you and hit you, and last but not least, poor story.
  
  To be fair, the game does have some positive aspects to it. For one, the graphics and sound are 
 well done. Multiplayer is put together nicely, offering different classes and play modes. The price 
 of the game is almost worth the multiplayer, but because of the vast amount of problems with single 
 player, I wouldnt recommend this game to anyone.
  
  I remember playing older Call of Duty games and unlike this game, they were fun. It seems like 
 Treyarch developed this one, and just like their other game Ultimate Spiderman, this is one to 
 avoid. They both may look nice from afar, but up-close they are repetitive, buggy, and unoriginal 
 games. Save you money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phillyfan975
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 6, 2007 7:08 pm PT
Review:  Wow, I need an asprin. COD3 is chaotic, intense and fresh all the time. There isn't much new from 
 COD2 but I do not care. I'm addicted. All right ,this game is great and I enjoyed every second 
 of it. Online is actualy really fun, and i'm not a fan of respawn shooting games. This game goes 
 up there as one of my favorite games, and there is nothing revolutionary or different about it, 
 it is just that solid of a game. Sound Graphics, replay value, online. Definately worth 60 bucks. 
 Gamespot, thanks for helping me with Lost planet, Was having trouble with those bosses tword the 
 end of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 09BA8053
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 6, 2007 12:40 pm PT
Review:  Although the gameplay isn't much different from Call of Duty 2, it is better, this time around 
 you get to drive jeeps, tanks, and motorcycles. Their are plenty new battles to keep you busy for 
 a while. The guns are the same but they look better. Over all the game looks better, the smoke 
 and fire arn't the only pretty things anymore. Grass now gets bent and stays bent when you walk 
 over it and things can be destroyed. Such as hiding behind a tomb stone or wooden crate. Online 
 play is also much much better. When you choose you weapon of choice you get special abilities with 
 that, such as, when you pick scout, you get a sniper rifle and artillary that will reload ever 
 2 min or so. You also get to drive the vehicles around in some of the modes, which is pretty cool. 
 Over all the game is a good improvement over the last 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trippinskott
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 4, 2007 6:48 pm PT
Review:  Well I'd just like to say I think it's kind of soon for another Call of Duty game. I mean, when 
 the 2nd one came out, it was revolutionary in war/shooting games. The second one was necessary 
 in the genre. In my opinion I don't think the third installment in the Call of Duty series was 
 as important or needed as much as the second one. I mean, don't get me wrong I love this game, 
 it's fun, exciting, the graphics look good, the AI is a lot smarter. I just think the whole WWII 
 shooter genre is getting a bit worn out, and this game didn't help. If they were going to release 
 this game ( which they did ) , I think they should've waited a little bit longer, maybe use some 
 more of the 360's power and make things look and feel substantially better... If they're going 
 to release a 4th ( which I'm sure they are ) , then maybe wait a while before you do, Activision. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xboxandpc
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 4, 2007 2:11 pm PT
Review:  COD3 is a great WWII Shooter dont get me wrong, but this really doesnt feel ground breaking compared 
 to COD2, its nearly the same game with slightly better graphics, the ability to throw grenades 
 back at your foes, and 24 MP battles that is 2x better than COD2
  
  Gameplay- COD series has alwasy been an intense WWII FPS, it nearly plays EXactly the same as COD2. 
 The SP campaign isn't as good as COD2 but its worthwhile. ITs still pretty fun to play
  
  Graphics- slightly Better player models and new weather effects. Some gun models look a little 
 different then COD2. Its either better or worse. the Thompson looks better but the lee Enfield 
 does not.
  
  Sound- the sound is just like the graphics, great but a little different in terms of good/bad. 
 So gun sounds sound much better than COD2's guns like the german weapons. But the Garand, enfield, 
 and thompson all sound a little downgraded. Its still great , plus your foes and freinds are great 
 shouting out just like COD2
  
  Value- One thing that COD2 lack in. it only has 8 player MP. this time it is 24 with vehicles! 
 It is a blast to play. the new update makes the game work fine now online and the game has a good 
 ranking sytem to back it up
  
  pros/cons
  
  * Great Graphics
  * 24 player MP
  * ablitity to throw grenades back!
  * great sound
  - doesnt feel like a sequel
  - SP campaign 
 just isnt as good as COD2
  - bugs 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hijij_ep
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 4, 2007 12:09 pm PT
Review:  When I acquired this game a few weeks ago, I was a newcomer to this series, and therefore have 
 had no previous experience with the other two games in this series. If the other two games are 
 this good, then I am completely in love with all of them (especially with a 1080i 65 inch wide 
 screen) . The absolute first thing I noticed as soon as I started playing the single player campaign 
 was the attention to incredible detail such as the incredible graphics, ambient sounds/noises, 
 and the overall atmosphere, which was just beautifully presented in a exciting package. I personally 
 believe that this game shows of the 360's graphic potential equally, if not better than Gears Of 
 War. Another great thing in this game is that right after initial training, the action NEVER STOPS, 
 whether your raiding barns with your American buddies, or running through the fuel depot with your 
 British/French comrades. Another thing that I noticed was the sense of insignificance in regards 
 to your view of the game. All around you there are people firing at other people, people dying, 
 and besides key parts of the game where you have a main objective to complete, you feel as if you 
 are one small part of a big group, and it is a very realistic feeling. The smoke grenades in this 
 game are fantastic with thick billowing white smoke that you cannot POSSIBLY see out of when you 
 are inside the smoke plume. Although I do not have live, I have played four player on my big screen, 
 and it is amazingly fun (especially when everyone is not screen peeking cheaters) , and the different 
 kits add a sense of teamwork to the whole experience, because you might need someone to snipe out 
 a jerry in a building across the map, but you are a heavy assault/medic/support, and cannot see 
 them. This is the perfect game in my opinion, I honestly tried to find one thing about this game 
 that I didn't like, and failed, it is perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Willy-Wilks_777
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 4, 2007 1:29 am PT
Review:  As soon as I bought call of duty 3 I was playing on it all day and I thought it was just amazingly 
 cool and action packed with grenades being thrown all over the place and explosions everywhere 
 and bullets whizzing pass you constantly which makes you feel like you are actually fighting in 
 a war. The graphics are just mind blowingly superb and the levels are shown like a big hell hole 
 as buildings are on fire and falling down, with tanks firing missiles straight at you which makes 
 you take cover constantly so the game makes you everything in order to survive. Another decent 
 fact about Call of Duty 3 is the enemies are just so advanced that on the hardest difficulty I 
 was dying all the time. The enemies (who are obviously Germans) are always shooting out of places 
 that are hard for you to kill them and you have to keep out a sharp eye as they throw quite a few 
 frag grenades at you so you can actually pick up their frag and throw it back at them which is 
 handy. There are also a variety of guns that you can choose from such as a Thompson and an M1 Garand, 
 smoke grenades, frag grenades, trench gun (shotgun) and more.
  
  However, there are also some bad issues about the game.
  
  1. The voice sounds in the cutscenes 
 are rather quiet which makes you turn the volume up on the T. V and when you start the level the 
 sound is loud which is annoying.
  2. You cannot to 2-player co-op in story mode, which is also a bit of a let down.
  3. Single 
 player is also something that spoils the games as the only single player option is story mode and 
 thats it.
  4. Last of all is your troops or soldiers, whatever you call them sometimes gets in your way, like 
 your objective is to sometimes to go upstairs and your team-mate etc is blocking your way and you 
 have to find a way to get past him and the only thing I ended up doing was getting my gun and whacking 
 around the head with it which ends up killing him. Sorry about that.
  
  But besides all of that Call of Duty is an excellent game and has great multiplayer options with 
 amazing graphics, levels, weapons, moving animations etc. It is a must buy game and is better than 
 Call of Duty 2 and if you love WWII games you should definitely get this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ianzkul
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 3, 2007 8:04 pm PT
Review:  This is a deceiving game. Although it bears the same name as the countless preceding games, it 
 does not share in the same fantastic gameplay as many of the other titles from this franchise.
 
  
  The Good:
  
  -Graphics are above par for XBOX 360, little touches such as ricocheting bullets add to atmosphere
 
  
  -Excellent sound and music design
  
  -Minimal ragdoll physics add more realism
  
  -Intense and fun multiplayer
  
  The Bad:
  
  -Poor hit detection and clipping: If I'm shooting 
 a guy point-blank through an open window, I expect him to die or get hit eventually. Wouldn't be 
 as frustrating if the enemy NPC can still shoot me
  
  -Minimalist Level Design: every level has 1-3 specific paths you must adhere to, and there are 
 enough invisible walls to force the player through certain difficult choke points
  
  -Odd death animations: Shooting a guy in the face with a shotgun doesn't mean he is going to lie 
 down and die peacefully
  
  Although the multiplayer is for all intents and purposes excellent, the single player has decidedly 
 gone downhill a great deal. Gone are the intense firefights going on for minutes over a ravaged 
 battlefield. In its place are random enemy spawns as you travel a linear line from beginning of 
 a level to the end. The contrived story and poor voice acting don't help the game at all, and in 
 fact detracts from the experience a great deal. The game is fun, but the single player feels very 
 dated because of it's numerable and inexcusable hindrances. By late 2006 many of the game conceits 
 COD 3 depends upon should be obsolete. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: comthitnuong
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 9, 2007 2:32 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3 is the newest addition to the ever growing Call of Duty series. While this game 
 tries to deepen aspects of the game that previous Call of Duty games lacked, it still feels and 
 plays very similar to all the rest of the Call of Duty games.
  
  In Call of Duty 3, you step into the shoes of a soldier of four different factions. Instead of 
 the normal American, British, and Russian campaigns, you will now have an American, British, Canadian, 
 and Polish campaign. Call of Duty 3 will feature all the campaigns having a common goal: liberating 
 Europe after the Normandy invasion. This adds some cohesion to the four nationalities that you 
 play as. So instead of participating in all parts of the world, you will be able to see how cooperatively 
 the war effort was.
  
  As seen in other Call of Duty games, there is little to no character development for your character. 
 What Call of Duty 3 does try to change is character development for your squad mates around you. 
 This is done in a large amount of cut scenes that you encounter. It is obvious that they tried 
 to make the character relationships stand out but the conversations that the characters have really 
 arent that deep and you could deal without them. However this does add a nice feel to the game 
 as it gives more of a humans in war aspect.
  
  Call of Duty 3 plays like any other Call of Duty game. There is almost no change in the gameplay. 
 But one thing that separated it from games like Call of Duty 2 is that the single player component 
 is much more intense and interesting than Call of Duty 2. The only thing missing from the game 
 that might disappoint fans is those awe-inspiring cinematic moments that the first Call of Duty 
 and United Offensive were known for. So once again you will be able to use guns of all sorts and 
 kinds, just like Call of Duty 2 and its predecessors. You can shoot from the waist which leads 
 to poor accuracy or you can shoot down the sights which allow you to increase accuracy by much 
 more. Aiming down the sights this time though creates a blur effect around you.
  
  In Call of Duty 3 you will also be able to throw back grenades to the enemy but this feature is 
 poorly mapped on the controller as the X button and you will find yourself reloading instead of 
 throwing back a grenade that is about to explode right next to you. As in all other Call of Duty 
 games you will be constantly fighting by your comrades. But you comrades AI is inferior to the 
 enemy AI. You will still be doing almost all of the work. Call of Duty 3 also features destructible 
 cover. This idea is good in writing but in the actual game, it isnt that deep. There are only 
 a few specific crates, walls, and fences that can be destroyed. It really doesnt fit in too well 
 as you may be shooting at your enemys cover, trying to destroy it, only to find out that it isnt 
 destructible and you just wasted your bullets and time.
  
  In-game minigames have also been added but really arent that fun or deep. One type is the new 
 close quarter combat gameplay. You go one on one with a German soldier in hand to hand combat. 
 For some reason your comrades who are always right next to you, are somewhere else and cannot help 
 you whenever you run into one of these encounters. Other minigames include things like rowing a 
 boat and planting explosives.
  
  As for the missions in Call of Duty 3, there wont be much new. It will be the same point A to 
 point B type deals with maybe some defense and destroy a target variation. Call of Duty 3 has also 
 tried to make destroying objectives like flak guns more fun by adding a minigame where you put 
 the explosives on the gun. This feature actually hurts the game as it ruins the pace of the gameplay. 
 These minigames usually have you hitting a button and then winding one of you control sticks for 
 about 6 seconds and then hitting and other button. Call of Duty 3 also tries to break from the 
 linear type missions of the game by adding a couple routes to your objective. These choices really 
 arent that interesting and dont make too much sense because your commander, who is supposed to 
 make the decision, always gives you the decision, and he doesnt make it himself.
  
  Call of Duty 3 also adds more driving sequences than any of its predecessors. Also unlike its predecessors, 
 you drive the car instead of manning the gun. This is one of the few good additions that they have 
 put in. The driving missions are for the most part pretty fun and are a nice deviation to manning 
 the machinegun gameplay. You will of course also be able to commandeer a tank. The tanks controls 
 are hard to get used to at first but you will get used to them. The tank missions are pretty fun 
 but you will wish that there were more of them like in some of Call of Duty 3s predecessors.
 
  
  Call of Duty 3 also offers multiplayer support over Xbox Live. Instead of choosing guns, you choose 
 a weapon class which will come with other additional weapons. Personally, I missed the vehicles 
 that were taken out of Call of Duty 2s multiplayer. To see them again is very nice. Also instead 
 of choosing a weapon, you will choose a weapon class and will benefit from what each class offers. 
 A problem that the multiplayer does suffer though is getting into a match. For some reason it takes 
 a while to find and load up a match.
  
  The single player suffers from quite a few bugs. These bugs are annoying but dont necessarily 
 ruin the gameplay experience. In some houses you may just get stuck in a spot and have to push 
 all sorts of buttons to try to get out. Other times you will see your comrades get shot bynothing. 
 Your comrades will also get blown up and sent flying in the air bynothing. The game also suffers 
 from check point glitches and other starting mission glitches that cause you to restart you xbox. 
 You can also exploit glitches in walls. You can melee through walls of houses and still kill the 
 enemy if the enemy is against the wall. You can also stick you gun through a wall and shoot into 
 a room.
  
  From a graphical standpoint, Call of Duty 3 looks great. The clothes on the soldiers are very detailed 
 as you can see the threads used to make the uniforms. The guns look especially detailed. It is 
 just a very large improvement from Call of Duty 2 which was already a great looking game. Smoke 
 and explosion effects are still wonderful. One thing I found particularly impressive is that when 
 you shoot an MG42, you will be able to see the heat waves coming out of the gun.
  
  As for sound, Call of Duty 3 is still great. The excessive battle chatter in Call of Duty 2 was 
 cut down a bit so that it actually sounds nice. The guns all have a more powerful sound to them 
 which was great because in other Call of Duty console games like Finest Hour and Big Red One, weapon 
 sounds were really lacking. There is also a good amount of base in the sounds which adds to the 
 already pretty real experience. Call of Duty 3 also makes a nice use of the achievement point system. 
 The achievements on it are not to easy or not too hard. Normal achievements come from doing things 
 like completing a mission with a certain type of gun to completing a certain amount of missions 
 as a certain nationality. There are also multiplayer achievements which are also nice and have 
 the same expected things to do for achievements as normal multiplayer achievements. Some of theses 
 points are pretty hard to get though.
  
  Call of Duty 3 keeps the Call of Duty standards by offering a very exciting and intense campaign 
 and multiplayer component. Both fans of the series and first person shooter genre will not be disappointed 
 by Call of Duty 3. With great visuals and sounds to back up the time tested formula, Call of Duty 
 3 stands high as one of the most intense shooters on the Xbox 360 today.
  
  If anything seems wrong about my review please feel free to contact me via pm. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 360-0wnage
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 3, 2007 7:59 am PT
Review:  very good game so much worth getting for the xbox live and the campaign after the campaign theres 
 no point in doing it again but to complete it takes time but after anbout 10 minutes after playing 
 the game for the first time u get use to the controlls. the HIGH point in this game is defently 
 the xbox live games they are just pure fun u will necer get board of playing them u can play up 
 to 24 players witch is very fun but difficult when playing some off the more challenging players. 
 this game has very good graphics when it comes to the soliders and vehicals but not as good on 
 the houses, bushes, trees and stuff around u . so if you have an xbox 360 and u like the old world 
 war games i very highly reccomend u to get this game so goo bye and send me a message if u have 
 any questions or talk to me on xbox live: me360niall 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darthzew
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 3, 2007 3:12 am PT
Review:  This game presented alot of good. Good graphics, decent AI, good sound, etc. But...
  
  Replacing the Russians with the Canadians?!?! That's just darnright sinful!!! I was looking forward 
 to this game because I'd be able to play an awesome graphics version of the Mosin Nagant of the 
 PPSH... Nope, total and complete letdown.
  
  Other people have other complaints, but the no Russians kill the gameplay. They're the best part 
 of Call of Duty and they're gone. They might be able to win me back with an expansion pack or something, 
 but until the Russians are back, no more COD for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackthegame
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 1, 2007 5:14 pm PT
Review:  World War II may have ended in 1945, but that hasn't stopped the axis and allies from waging war 
 against one another on the video game front. Call of Duty 2 was one of the Xbox 360's best games 
 when the system launched last November. The game made use of the console's power to generate outstanding 
 visuals and sound, immersing players in combat like never before. With Call of Duty 2 developer 
 Infinity Ward having moved on to other projects, the series has been placed in the hands of Treyarch, 
 the developer behind Call of Duty 2: Big Red One. It did not disappoint. Call of Duty 3 plays every 
 bit as good as its predecessor, and it has improved multiplayer and visuals, too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Necko
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 31, 2007 2:23 pm PT
Review:  The campaign is solid, its a standard WWII shooter thats executed well. Multiplayer is really fun; 
 nice maps, vehicles, and soldier classes. As for the graphics; just about everything looks great 
 but the animations are weak. Also the physics are not very convincing. I found myself stuck behind 
 a lot of small crap lying on the ground, its just an annoyance. And speaking of annoyances, probably 
 the most annoying thing in the game is the fact that you can't skip the cut scenes. If you are 
 going to be playing the campaign multiple time, and you probably will if you are going for the 
 achievement, you are gonna see the same cut scenes over and over. For the sound; the war sound 
 effects are really good, but the dialog can be hard to hear sometimes. So overall its a solid game 
 that will satisfy a lot of FPS players. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: junito91
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 31, 2007 6:10 am PT
Review:  This Call of Duty is almost a perfect game, from amazing visuals to perfect sound. The only bad 
 thing of the game is that the game is to short but who cares of that when you have all that kind 
 of action. The multiplayer is great.
  But WE THE FANS OF COD SERIES DEMAND A LARGER GAME THAT MAKE US SPEND A LOT OF TIME. The difficulty 
 is not that hard but sometimes makes you yell at the game. I have never get tired of this game. 
 I finish this game like 4 times and I am taking another ride. If you can make a larger COD, I will 
 be the first to buy it. This series has become my favorite of anything (including movies) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PieStalker
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 30, 2007 1:35 pm PT
Review:  Well here it is the latest COD game in series. This is a very fun game in multiplayer howver solo 
 play leave much to be desired. You are taking on the path of American, Canadian, British and the 
 Poland Tank people. However im some parts of the Britsh Campain you are pair with some French rebles 
 (never really happened the French couldn't fight thier way out of a german paper bag if they tried) 
 that are so totally random it makes me a little sick. Also you end up killing so many germans in 
 the campain you would think that a good team of 4 guys could have won WW2 and that everone who 
 died on the beachs was a Noob.
  
  Online is a very unpridicatable battle between the Axis and the Allies however the guns are a bit 
 out of wack. Such as how the german mp 42 is a very weak gun but its american counterpart is the 
 Tomson and the Tomson my friends kicks so much ass.
  
  bottem line is, if you like shooters and know how to aim pick up a copy of Cod3 and find me on 
 the Battle field! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: langrusten
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 30, 2007 11:31 am PT
Review:  Call of duty er et krigsspill med mye positiv skyteutvekslinger, neglebitende sniping og fiender 
 som dukker opp fra det bl&aring;. Finner sted under 2. verdenskrig, landingen i Normandie, der nazistene 
 har tatt over Paris. Din jobb er &aring; lede de alliertes tropper og sette fri byen. Du styrer 
 tropper fra polsk, fransk, britisk og amerikansk. Utrolig intense eksplosjoner f&aring; r deg til 
 &aring; f&oslash; le at du tar del i noe stort. Du starter med amerikanerne og skal ta ut diverse 
 nazitropper, p&aring; mange varierende m&aring; ter, ikke bare run-and-gun men ogs&aring; med tanks, 
 bil og r&oslash; ykgranater. Fienden er smart og vil gjemme seg bak hj&oslash; rner, flanke deg og 
 gj&oslash; re livet surt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 00kike
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 29, 2007 11:27 am PT
Review:  The graphics are beautiful and gameplay is fun and dynamic, Call of Duty 3 looks, sounds and plays 
 great, the only bad thing I can say about the game is that it is nearly identical to COD2, just 
 prettier. I think there is vast room for improvement in thar area. Artificial Intelligence is pretty 
 good, nothing out of the ordinary. Cut scenes are great to watch, with some pretty impressive moments. 
 It really makes you feel you&acute; re actually there. I really would&acute; ve liked for it to have 
 a 4 way split-screen mode to play locally, but only 2 players can play so it makes it kind of boring. 
 Online play is really good if you like gung-ho, trigger-happy shooting action because it lacks 
 a few tactical elements of other games, but I guess that&acute; s the idea right? Overall an awesome 
 game. Worth a heck of a lot more than what you paid for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrdnsandwhich
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 29, 2007 9:59 am PT
Review:  when i played this game online i fought it would be kinda borin but when i started playin it i 
 fought it was fukin awsome especially the deathmatches and the capture the flag when you leave 
 bombs by the flag and when you see an enemy you wait..... Aim..... and then....... BOOM!!! when i kept 
 doin dat it was funny has hell and the close combat stuff is pretty cool thing to do but abit hard 
 to do sumtimes.. this game is definetly 1 of the best war games there but i cant understand why 
 it got crappy ratings on the other platforms!! hmmm maybe becoz of the gameplay and the graphics!!! if 
 u do play this game its better if you play it online and stuff because then ur can kick sum polish 
 or sum german and england butt!! lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spoogan
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 28, 2007 6:31 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3 pits you as 3 different characters whose names escape me at the moment, but you 
 play as American, Canadian, British, and Polish forces during 1944's Normandy Breakout campaign. 
 The idea behind the operation was to get the Germans out of Paris &amp; France all together.
  
  If you have played Call of Duty 2, then you should know what to expect. You run around in first 
 person view, firing a wide range of Allied &amp; Axis weapons which include Trenchguns, MP44s &amp; 
 MP40s, M1 Garands, and so on. You can throw both frag &amp; smoke grenades, so that is cool. Additionally, 
 you can now drive vehicles such as motorcycles, jeeps, and tanks which was wicked cool. Another 
 new addition is these little fist fights that you get into every once in awhile with the German 
 soldiers where you have to tap right &amp; left triggers to out muscle the German and then you 
 two go at it. It adds some interaction into it, and keeps you on the edge of your seat to see what 
 will happen during the fight. Oh, and one more thing (lol) , now when you have to plant explosives 
 or anything you have to actually assemble the C4 or actually DO the action (such as placing the 
 pin and turning it or using a crowbar to tear down a boarded door) . Very nifty.
  
  In my opinion, the multiplayer in this game easily outdoes COD and COD2. First off it runs much 
 smoother with less glitches and lags. Secondly, the weapon balance is pretty even with the exception 
 of the lame Trenchgun. Finally, you can now choose classes such as Medic or Sniper, each with their 
 own special abilities (like reviving dead teammates, giving out ammo, or calling in airstrikes) 
 and set kits of weapons. I love the multiplayer.
  
  The graphics are a decent step up. All the characters look real, and move fluidly as well. The 
 enviroments look fantastic; they look truley wartorn. The weather engine makes everything just 
 feel so unique and realistic. The only downfall is the fact that it feels recycled by about the 
 5th chapter - theres only so many times you can see blown up buildings or vast forests, you get 
 me?
  
  So what makes this game fall from a 10? Well, for starters I would have liked to be able to interactivley 
 fight the Germans more often. I found that aspect of the game pretty fun, but the fact that it 
 comes up about 4 times in the whole game is a let down. Secondly, one thing about the multiplayer 
 enrages me: sometiems you will be behind perfect cover, and somehow an enemies' bullet will still 
 kill you. Finally, for some reason in single player the MP40, when it is in enemy hands, shoots 
 so rapid that it can be easily mistaken for an MG42 - which means after about 5 hits your going 
 to die. Very annoying.... very... very annoying.
  
  All the aspects of sound in this game are perfect. The score of music, the sound effects, the guns, 
 the voice acting... all beautifully realistic, believeable and just sound, well, good.
  
  The ending of this game was pretty interesting. It ends with the Americans (which I notice is a 
 thing in all the Call of Duty games) . Your first Sarge named McCullins hated this dude named Guzzo, 
 and when McCullins dies tells Guzzo to go to hell. Dixxon, another member of your platoon, becomes 
 your new Sarge. He is the one who leads your squad through the remains of the game all the way 
 up to when he gets shot. Guzzo becomes the new Sarge and you guys finish up the Normandy Breakout. 
 A few days later your character is on a truck with a bunch of other guys and Guzzo climbs aboard 
 and says, Rule Number 1) Your no use to me dead. , which is what McCullins said in the beginning 
 of the game. Then a Private asks what kind of pep talk that was (which is what Guzzo said in the 
 beginning) , and Huxley (a member of your original squad) says, If you want a pep talk, read a poem. 
 (which is what Dixxon said in response to Guzzo in the beginning.) Its all deja vu, but it was 
 interesting nonetheless.
  
  Overall, Call of Duty 3 delivers the fast paced, heart pounding action that we have come to know 
 and love in the series, as well as the touching stories surrounding each character. A lengthy campaign 
 thats really fun &amp; challenging, added with a near perfect FPS multiplayer, is more than enough 
 of a reason to buy C. O. D 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaximumD
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 28, 2007 5:20 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is one of my favorite World War II shooter on the X-Box 360. The graphics is great, 
 especially for a launch title. The sound is incredible. When you play the game, it makes you feel 
 like you are really in the war. Bullets, planes, and bombs flying everywhere around you, it's really 
 intense. If you haven't bought this game for your X-Box 360, now is the chance because you can 
 buy it for $29.99. It had became platinum. The only shortfall about this game is that it is very 
 short. You might be able to finish the game with 10-12 hours if you are a Veteran of FPSers, but 
 it'll be an experience of your life.
  
  Excellent game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jparker_1987
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 28, 2007 11:48 am PT
Review:  I am truly surprised to see such high scoring reviews on a game that was riddled with bugs. Initially 
 I encountered only a few glitches on the single player, such as; the next level not initiating, 
 getting stuck and unable to move. However the multiplayer is bug bloated. The host needs to know 
 he's the host. When he quits after waiting 10 minutes is quite frustrating. falling through maps, 
 starting games by yourself, half of the team floating above the map, invisible enemies, and the 
 predictable and limited spawn locations provides the enemy with the ability to actually place mines 
 on them for repetitive spawn camping.
  However, the beautiful graphics and extremely addictive gameplay has kept me coming back for more, 
 day after day after day.
  
  Missing in the scoring category is game design. Although the game is beautiful, fun to play, and 
 sounds great, the game designers need a slap on the wrist for releasing a game not quite ready 
 for the shelves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aisufi
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 29, 2007 9:08 pm PT
Review:  It is that simple. The story was horrible. And worse you cant skip the cut scenes. New mini games 
 are totally boring &amp; dull (setting up explosives or wrestling with a Nazi But the thing that 
 really irked me was the way they changed the A. I. In Call of Duty 2, the computer will shoot at 
 your ally's almost as much as they'll shoot at you. But in this game it's all about you, which 
 takes away from the whole experience. This is most obvious on Veteran Difficulty. On the second 
 board of Call of Duty 3, towards the end of the level where you have to clear out about 2-3 bunkers 
 with turrets. My guy will be crouched behind a hill while my allys will be in the middle of the 
 battlefield blasting away. The second i peak my head out the entire nazi platoon starts shooting 
 in my direction. I'll get hit like 4x in a micro-second before having to find cover. That is so 
 not like Call of Duty 2, where the nazi's will continue to be enganged with your ally's with only 
 a couple taking notice at you. Call of Duty 2 was a joy to play no matter what difficulty setting 
 you had it on. I cant say the same about this game. It is way to cheap for my taste. Also, there 
 arent as many checkpoints in this game which can make a run at Veteran Difficulty not worth the 
 trouble. But it's not a bad game. It does sport crisp graphics, great sound, good but been-there-done-that 
 gameplay and enjoyable multiplayer. But for those of you who played Call of Duty 2, this game will 
 be a let down. (Difficulty Scoring based on Normal Difficulty. Veteran Difficulty would score Too 
 Hard it's Annoying) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JaMeS4418
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 27, 2007 4:17 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 was the crown jewel of the Xbox 360's lineup last year. With absolutely breathtaking 
 visuals and sound it immersed the player and really showed what the Xbox 360 is capable of. Now 
 the development has changed hands, but Call of Duty is still every bit as good as its predecessor.
 
  
  Call of Duty takes place after D-day. The allied forces must now take France from the Germans in 
 order to end the war. You play as several different countries such as America, Britain, Canada, 
 and Poland. Each country has different characters such as a sergeant who doesn't like the French, 
 a radio operator who is eventually labeled a coward, and a French woman who helps you. These stories 
 try to establish an emotional connection with the characters but it just sin's interesting. Although 
 it does show how difficult it was to liberate Normandy, and not only American soldiers died in 
 the war.
  
  The controls haven't changed from Call of Duty 2. Weapons are fired with the right trigger, and 
 reloaded with the X button. But just shooting in the direction of Nazis doesn't do anything right? 
 So by holding down the L button your weapon is brought up to eye level. This sounds blas&eacute; 
 but when you aim at something, your eyes focus depending on how close it is. This immersive feature 
 makes it feel as if you are firing the gun yourself. The A button can be used to jump although 
 it's pretty pointless. B crouches, and Y changes weapons. Clicking the right stick will perform 
 a melee attack. This is very useful especially when you are in close quarters combat, or running 
 low on ammunition. Clicking the bumpers throw different types of grenades. The smoke grenades make 
 smoke so thick; you will actually have to squint to see through it. Regular grenades can be picked 
 up and throw back or the button can be held down to cook your grenades. This makes it so your enemies 
 cannot throw it back to you. The health system is very forgiving. When your screen turns red, simply 
 get behind cover and you will heal. Since you spend so much time behind cover, it would be nice 
 to have a lean system, but the game still functions well without it.
  
  The action in Call of Duty 3 is heart pounding. The first mission St. Lo is a prime example. After 
 you fall out of an exploding truck you get boosted over a wall into a graveyard. Bombs explode 
 everywhere, bullets whiz by, and carnage is everywhere. You must keep moving hiding behind gravestones, 
 mausoleums, or the dead bodies of your comrades. While not all of the battles are this intense 
 there is never a dull moment. In the outdoor levels, enemies constantly regenerate in the same 
 spot to replace their fallen comrades. This is a good system once you realize that there is no 
 way to kill them all. You must run and gun your way into whatever structure they are guarding. 
 Call of Duty 3 isn't a particularly difficult or lengthy game on the lower settings. Enemies are 
 pretty dumb, and you have a lot of health. The veteran mode however, is not forgiving at all. The 
 enemies are aggressive, the action is more intense, and your health depletes very quickly. This 
 can be incredibly frustrating and should be avoided unless you are up for the challenge.
  
  The missions are what should be expected from a World War II shooter game with a few new twists 
 to the gameplay. Your objectives range from move to point A to B, plant a bomb, defend an area 
 until reinforcements arrive, calling an air strike, or shooting Germans from the comfort of a jeep. 
 All easily found by a gold star on your compass. There are a few new twists but they really don't 
 change the way the game plays. For example, planting a bomb is not a run up and press the A button 
 situation. First you plant he charge, then you screw in the fuse by rotating the right analog stick 
 and press a button to start the clock. Close quarters scenes also make an appearance but aren't 
 anything really special. These scripted events take place when you are surprised by an enemy. Br 
 pressing the left and right triggers in quick succession, you push him off you and finish him. 
 Some of them are more complicated, but they are never hard. And because there are so few of them, 
 they are completely worthless. The driving missions are sort of fun. The tank missions can be a 
 blast but the overall driving experience is not as fun. Multiplayer is very well done. Ranked matches 
 track your statistics so you can earn achievements, and track statistics to show other players 
 how good you are. Up to 24 people can play on Xbox Live and 4 players on the same Xbox 360. There 
 are several maps to play on, and maps to download from Xbox Live. There are 6 different kits with 
 the usual favorites such as sniper, anti tank, and assault. All the maps have close quarters areas, 
 sniper's roost, and ambush spots to accommodate whatever your playing style might be. There are 
 achievements for healing teammates, and giving ammo to ensure that these features are used as well. 
 Vehicles make an appearance as well but they are incredibly over powered. This is mainly due to 
 the fact that you have the same idiots who run straight for the vehicle but that can't be stopped 
 unless you have a panzershreck, you aren't getting out alive. They monopolize the map and can be 
 a real pain. Call of Duty 3 makes great use of the achievement system. Achievements are given out 
 for beating the campaign, completing using only a certain weapon type such as rifles or German 
 weapons, or getting hit less than 30 times. These are all great motivations for you to beat the 
 campaign on veteran, or go through an entire mission without firing a shot. Some of them are glitched 
 though. For example, I received the rifleman achievement during a tank mission. This isn't necessarily 
 bad, but you can be cheated into something you never rightfully earned or vice versa.
  
  Call of duty's visuals and effects are amazing. The weapons are very detailed, down to the scratches 
 left behind after you hit an enemy with your gun. The character models are great. You can see unique 
 expressions in you allies' faces, the veins popping out from your hand when you fire your gun, 
 and a small circle in the helmet of a fallen comrade. Every soldier might not be unique but that 
 doesn't mean that they don't look good. The levels look good as well. The outdoor environments 
 look really detailed down to the last tree. It is really hard to admire all of the beautiful environments 
 when you are trying to escape death but once there is a lull in the combat you realise just how 
 good this game looks. Sadly, all of the franch houses look exactly the same. They have just been 
 destroyed from a different angle. Cutscenes look good too but, they can't be skipped even if you 
 have seen it a million times. The effects range from a puddle collecting in a hole where a grenade 
 exploded, falling rain or leaves, or planes flying overhead. But this too is difficult to admire 
 without being shot.
  
  Call of duty is known for the best sound in the industry and Call of duty 3 continues the legacy. 
 All around you are soldiers screaming, the variety of gunshots coming from both sides of the battlefield, 
 explosions ripping apart buildings, and even enemy soldiers discussing their tactics if you have 
 not been seen. It sounds good even if you use the built in speakers on your tv and with a surround 
 sound system, will rattle your neighbor's walls. The orchestral soundtrack is great as well and 
 adds effect to the grave fighting all around you.
  
  Overall, Call of Duty 3 is an amazing game. While the story isn't particularly interesting and 
 it plays like a clone of it's predecessor Call of duty 3 still delivers that shooter experience. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smurfboi
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 27, 2007 3:23 am PT
Review:  COD3 is a great game especially if you like WW2 shooters. This is probably the best historical 
 fps out at the moment on any platform. The campaign puts you in France just after the D-day invasion, 
 your job is to push the Germans out of France as you make your way into Germany. You will play 
 with the Americans, British, Canadian and the polish tankers. Its a bit disapointing that there 
 is only one tank level out of the 14. During the campaign you will find yourself planting charges 
 on Flak88's, controling mortars, dropping a car on an entrance using a crane and even telling tanks 
 and artillery where to fire with your binoculars. You will also be driving a truck in certain parts 
 of the British battles. During the campaign you will play with a wide variety of weapons all unique 
 for each country.
  
  The graphics during the game are excellent. Explosions are really realistic and so is the blood 
 when you shoot a german from close up. You can basically do anything you want. Another new feature, 
 not in COD2 is that you can pick up enemy grenades and throw them back at the enemy. The vision 
 effects are also great, if you are a bit too close to an explosion your ears will start ringing 
 and your vision will go blurred for a couple of seconds.
  
  The enemy AI is incredibly realistic. The enemy try and flank you and even retreat at the right 
 time. If you are in a small place the germans know how to use grenade so that it is hard for you 
 to dodge the blast. Another new feature is the close combat system. Every few levels a german jumps 
 on you and you have to get him off by pulling the triggers in rhythm and press a sequence of buttons. 
 This is good at first but after a while gets boring and the same as they are really easy to win 
 and don't even get harder while on the harder difficulty levels like veteran.
  
  The achievements on COD3 are really good. There is balance of the easy ones, like complete the 
 training, to the hard ones, like going through a whole level without firing a bullet.
  
  But the best bit of COD3 is the multiplayer. The number of players in one game has increased from 
 8 to 24! When you start a multiplayer game you can chose what class you are from: rifleman, light 
 assault, heavy assault, medic, support, scout and anti armour. You can change what class you are 
 in every time you die. Each class has a special ability, when you are a scout, apart from having 
 your sniper rifle you can call in artillery strikes when it has charged up. The better you become 
 with a scout the bigger the artillery strike become. There is one problem with multiplayer though, 
 the ranked matches take forever to get into and it gets really annoying when someone quits just 
 as its starting.
  
  Overall COD3 is an amazing game that you will love if you like WW2 fps. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshuafonsecais
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 26, 2007 9:04 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3 I knew before I played it that the game would be a fun time but I was somewhat wronge. 
 I was fine playing the single player, but as soon as I tried the online it got hard. As support 
 it is very difficult to find a spot that you are hidden and can hold it up to a prone position 
 and not lay on the ground. The sniper rifle in this game was absolutly riduculous and down righ 
 hard. Its like the only way to get a good shot is to hold the characters breath at the exact moment 
 that the guy runs by. All the other guns in the game are fairly easy to control and acurret. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mmeldrum2
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 26, 2007 11:43 am PT
Review:  My first COD game and I loved it! I got in to the games fast and unlike may of the first person 
 shooters it is not a stealth type game, sometimes it pays to go in all guns blazing. I found it 
 it be quite addictive and it is refreshing after playing some of the sci-fi games like GOW to get 
 back to basics.
  
  The dude with the Scottish acent is funny, only becasue his accent is soooo bad!!!
  
  It did 
 finish a tiny bit suddenly but overall it was good. It's nice that you can throw back grenades 
 not too.
  
  Highly reccomended! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: karljv
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jan 28, 2007 11:39 am PT
Review:  Now where did they go wrong...
  I remember when i first played Call Of Duty 1.... WOW it was a great game!
  Then came united offencive 
 it was great too...
  Then COD2 oh my dreams, it had such intensity, such a great game...
  
  Now on our shop-shelves sits COD3 most dissapointing game of the year!
  I mean there are 
 so many great games out there like GOW; Vegas; Kameo; burnout; FEAR...
  OK but let's start now!
  
  Gameplay - very repetitive you are always fightin in a space no 
 larger than 2 meters and before long you'll see a scene where your man shoots a Nazi from 1 meter 
 and nothin happens. In fact they keep shooting each other with no result until u interfere. with 
 this i mean that your team doesn't help you at all... The only decent thing to do was to cook grenades!
 
  
  Sound - nothing good or bad... Mostly good
  
  Graphix - nothin special they do look c00l sumtimes but nothing too good or unbelieveable!
  
 
  Value - i first thought that wooow multiplayer with cars... WOW... turns out i was wrong, wats the 
 point of cars when you have 0 space to move them in. Their really pointless in the multiplayer, 
 because really, the MP maps are as linear as the SP! that cuts the only value since SP doesn't 
 have any!
  
  Hope we don't see any more crap like this in COD4... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctorj11111
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 26, 2007 6:53 am PT
Review:  If you played Call of Duty 2, then this game really is not much different. It seems more like a 
 long expansion pack rather than a sequel. The graphics are a little better, but not my much. The 
 gameplay is similar but they added a couple new things that are not really positives or negatives. 
 The one big improvement was the multiplayer, but I do wish it was easier to distinguish your team 
 from the other. I wasn't sure who I was shooting sometimes. The medic was not as useful as I thought 
 since when you die you can either call a medic or just respawn. It was quicker to respawn if the 
 medic was not near you. I thought the levels were kind of dull compared to Call of Duty 2. It may 
 just seem like that since I couldn't motivate myself to play this game feeling as if I have already 
 done this before. It is a good FPS game to play, but you will probably see a lot of mixed reviews 
 for this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grooveregulator
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 25, 2007 12:19 pm PT
Review:  Firs of all, the dificult level has risen from the past title, its great to play at the hardest 
 level, you really have to hide n seek for some spaces to keep going, like in a real war. It gives 
 you the sense you are in a big big war, in contrast games like Medal of Honnor you feel like you 
 are going to end war by yourself. thats silly. The graphics are great, some times i feel i am lookin 
 in to a movie or something. The only complain i've got is the a. i. because some times a soldier 
 is standing in front of you and doesnt shoot, it seems he's waiting for something to past.
  Multiplayer is freakin great, and online experience is one of the best i've ever played. The tanks, 
 the jeeps, n the old motorcicles are a nice addition. Sniper mode its all renewed and i think its 
 easier to shoot on somebody.
  The mines, the big artillery, anti tank armery its part of this great war. Call of duty 3 has had 
 little modifies with his predecessor, but it keeps the line and the feeling of a great game. simply 
 a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mistacoon
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 24, 2007 6:19 am PT
Review:  With only 14 levels, half of CoD2, this game is still surprisingly good. I just wish they would 
 get rid of the levels where u play as Doyle and your fighting with a few people and 2 jeeps. those 
 levels were just disapointing, but everything else makes the game great. and treyarch really improved 
 on the games multiplayer. now if only they had a co-op campaign. i mean is it really that hard! 
 hopefully the nect CoD will go back to infinity ward though. I really miss the snow lvls and cinimatics 
 just dont mix with CoD. They should make the battles real like D-Day in CoD2. Everything in that 
 game was real and not just a made up story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pixelpimp
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jan 24, 2007 3:25 am PT
Review:  Basically it's the same game as last - with a few minor adjustments and prettier graphics.
  
  The battles are intense and don't be suprised to see 20 or so NPC's on the screen at any given 
 time. But at the end of the day, it really does not hold up to much - even against COD2.
  
  To be truthful, after a while you find you're basically running to each new zone - clearing the 
 area of gerries then moving on to the next cutscene. Sure the graphics are nice and the sound is 
 naturally brilliant, but all in all it gets a bit repetive and boring.
  
  For die hard fans there's some fun to be had, but anyone looking for some more depth may be inclined 
 to check out Rainbow Six: Vegas or Ghost Recon: Advanced Warfighter.
  
  One last point - WWII games have really been tapped out. I'm going to scream if I play one more!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: caseywokos
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 16, 2007 1:05 pm PT
Review:  Okay well people haven't liked this review so far so let me get a little bit more specific. Let 
 me first start out with all of the accusations that this game is too similar to the previous CoD 
 2 title. These games are hardly similar, despite gameplay CoD 3 is almost a completely new game. 
 The characters play a bigger role, and are more interesting. The graphics have been drastically 
 improved over the previous title. (Look at the textures on the brick walls and tanks.) The sound 
 has been well adjusted (although it doesn't work well on a mono tv) , and brings you an even more 
 realistic WWII experience. I would rank CoD 3, as all of the other CoD's except for Finest Hour, 
 very highly and recommend it for anyone who loves shooters. The only problem with the game is that 
 it's just a little bit too short. I think that it's unfortunate that this game fell to such a false 
 accusation. I can't understand why people hate this review, so please send me a message. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gogokun
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 22, 2007 5:42 pm PT
Review:  When the Xbox 360 launched in November of 2005, the flagship title was undoubtedly Call of Duty 
 2. At the time, it was difficult, extremely difficult in fact, to find a 360 owner that did not 
 have the game. I was no wonder; the graphics were top notch and boasted an incredibly smooth framerate, 
 the gameplay was superb, and it had great online legs to go along with the excellent single player 
 campaign. Needless to say, Call of Duty 3 has alot to live up to. Thankfully, the sequel builds 
 upon its predecessor by adding a much deeper and enjoyable online game as well as vastly improving 
 the visuals. While the core gameplay remains largely the same, there are little tweaks and touches 
 that make it a more enjoyable experience. You are still shooting Nazis by the shipload, you are 
 still in the middle of WWII. This worked so well, though, that there is no logic in messing with 
 it. Activision has ingeniously added the ability to pick up enemy grenades and cook them, which 
 is a ton of fun and adds depth to the gameplay without changing the formula altogether. A cover 
 system would be nice, but as it stands the gameplay is as excellent as ever, even more so. The 
 single player experience is what you'd expect. It is every bit as intense and enjoyable as the 
 last one, made better by the occasional inclusion of a vehicle driving sequence and the new grenade 
 mechanics. Call of Duty 3 does pay a little too much attention to the story, which isn't very enticing, 
 by forcing you to watch long, boring cutscenes that you can't skip and you have to watch every 
 time you boot up the game. This would normally not be mentioned in a review but the cutscenes really 
 do, well, suck, and the wierd descision to not let you skip them does make the campaign a bit tedious. 
 The game also drags a bit in the beginning, but once you get a couple of hours in things start 
 picking up. Despite these discrepencies, the campaign is still good enough to warrant a second 
 playthrough on Veteran difficulty. Acheivments are as fun as ever, and the offline experience can 
 easily last 20-25 hours if you play it thouroughly and enjoy a challenge.
  Online, however, is a whole different story. Where Call of Duty 3's single player sucseeds, the 
 multiplayer soars to a whole new level. The variety of game modes and maps, plus the addition of 
 a class system can make this game be considered one the best online games of all time. 24 players 
 can play at once, and it the servers are very busy, making it very likely that you will see this 
 many players in a game. There is minimal lagging, and the online feels as smooth as the single 
 player campaign. There are tanks, jeeps, motorcycles, and other vehicles all waiting for you to 
 drive, and these add a ton of depth. Motorcycles are great for getting where you want to go, fast. 
 Jeeps have turrets, perfect for making it a multiple-occupancy nightmare for the other team. Tanks 
 are, of course, perfect for all-out assaults on the enemy base. All of the vehicles are multiple 
 occupancy, making for some fun teamwork moments. The maps are excellent, featuring a right balance 
 of wide open spaces and close quarters, making the class system come into effect rather nicely. 
 There are several classes, ranging from medic to sniper, and they all have different abilities. 
 Medics can revive fallen teammates, for expample. Great buy for any shooter fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bazook
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 22, 2007 1:47 pm PT
Review:  If you've played FPSs or COD games or both, get this game now! Even though this is mostly a scripted 
 game on Single-Player, it actually gets quiet exciting and very dramatic. So anyway this game just 
 takes the series after D-Day and this time around you'll fight as a Canadian and a Polish soldier 
 now, not Russian anymore, just the Americans, Canadian, British and Polish forces. Although you 
 only play 2 missions as the polish and spend most of the time with the americans really. Which 
 is still kl and ok and not annoying. I say annoying because playing the russians in the past games 
 were not very good, or very exciting. Leaving that aside now, the other great things were stuff 
 like the graphics, the Graphics are just so much better. When it comes to chugyniss, it doesn't 
 get too chunky. So I think it looks great, like you can see individual blades of grass and smoke 
 that does actually look really good. Gameplay: It does play a hell alot like COD 2, but the new 
 gameplay mechanics are great like the scripted events with germans, and the fact that you can throw 
 back enemy grenades. Graphics: In two words, Absolutely fine. Sound: Every bit of voice Acting 
 was perfect, but you couldn't help but feel that some sound-effects and some Germans sound exactly 
 the same as the COD 2 Germans. But there is great orchestrated music. Value: Might take you a while 
 to get through the game on Normal, if you're playing on your first time through, mostly because 
 you'll need to get used to what happens in the scripted events. Plus multiplayer is alright, not 
 the best but it's kl anyway. Tilt: I'd suggest to get this game right now if you have the money 
 that is, then just experiance a ride in Normandy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shaun_nufc
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 22, 2007 11:29 am PT
Review:  This game has to be the best war shooter to date as it has everything you would want in a good 
 old fashioned call of duty game but this one is by far the best in series.
  
  Gameplay --&gt; I have gave a solid 9 as now your squad acts more realistic and deaths are acted 
 very realistic.
  
  Graphics --&gt; I have gave 10 as the game has a huge environment and the graphics are always fantastic.
 
  
  Sound --&gt; sounds good
  
  Value --&gt; 9 because you get so much action and after finishing with the single player the multiplayer 
 is brilliant
  
  Top game
  
  Thanks for reading :p 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yacbos
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 22, 2007 7:18 am PT
Review:  well firstly i would like to point that cod was originally introduced o pc gamers b4 x360 or any 
 of the console
  i looove that game so much and even this i baught the game and i went to a frind of mine who got 
 x360 to play it at his place since am not a big fan of the xbox but the point is its not fair they 
 released it to every console and totaly ignored the pc with its full qwer keyboard and mouse and 
 sound cards and vgas they just ignored us pc gamers what a shame.
  but still i played the game and i love it but it would be better for me if it was also on pc :D 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MJOLNIR562
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 21, 2007 11:55 pm PT
Review:  A beautiful game with amazing game play. The game does throw you off at first though, when you 
 first start up the game or your showing a friend a cut-scene, you'll notice that the graphics are 
 like something from the last generation. It's not till you get into the actual game that the graphics 
 go from blah to holy s#$%. The game has a good story line, but the funnest part of the game is 
 on Live. Playing this game on Xbox Live is the bomb, it has huge maps that can have up to 24 players 
 on them so its super fun online. The game has a lame soundtrack but thats about it, usually the 
 symphonic songs they play are good but this time it's just not as good as the previous one's. All 
 in all it's a great game though so pick it up. :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nonam3gamer
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 21, 2007 7:59 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3 is a game where I was actually happy when I was done with the game. This game is 
 extremely flawed compared to the previous installments of this game. A
  
  Game Play-
  
  First off, the game play doesn't deviate very much from the previous installments. However, it 
 does make several attempts to add to the gameplay. This includes things like making planting a 
 bomb more complex and rowing a canoe. Every addition to the game, with exception of picking up 
 live grenades, fails horribly at adding enjoyment to the gameplay. Also, this game is by far the 
 most buggy of the 3 and quite possibly the most glitchy game that I have ever experienced on a 
 next gen game. I kept a tally of bugs I encountered during the course of completing the game and 
 here were the results.
  
  7- Getting stuck in a spot with the inability to move and forcing to restart the mission
  28- 
 When crouching all of the way down, flying to a completely different location.
  2- when swapping a weapon, picking it up and having a total of 3. When this happens, you cannot 
 pick up another gun or ammo for the duration of the level.
  
  One thing that does help the game play however, is the online multiplayer. The game play here is 
 simply amazing and has amazing depth to it.
  
  Overall, the bugs and the additions to this game that weren't present in previous installments 
 make this games gameplay drastically worse. However, the multiplayer in this game makes up for 
 the awful mechanics of the single player game.
  
  The graphics in this game are about the same as COD2. COD3 does some things better than COD2 and 
 some things worse. The gun models are one thing that looks considerably better. But the general 
 experience is about the same. Which isn't a very good thing for a sequal that is a year older than 
 the previous installment. There should be significant improvements. COD3 is also one of the best 
 sounding games that I have ever heard. The voice acting and the guns sound very authentic. The 
 value is decent but because of the bad time I had during normal mode I had no urge to play it again 
 on the harder difficulties like I did with COD2. The multiplayer does save the game from having 
 a horrible value though.
  
  As a whole, COD3 is a game that doesn't deserve to be in the same series of the previous 2 games. 
 The multiplayer does save it from being a complete disaster but it can't do enough to make this 
 an AA game in my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trpjazz
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 21, 2007 8:41 am PT
Review:  First off the graphics in this game are amazing with the exception of a few minor glitches... like 
 see people in the middle of th tree of in the middle of the wall... it doesnt happen very often 
 but on occasions but the gameplay is amazing and is very addicting especially because i love WWII 
 history... Although there are some amazing things happening in this game i have a few request on 
 the next game they come out with... why cant you climb over the small trench walls??? everyone 
 else can but you... you have to go around which is crap but that is probably my only complaint 
 besides the minor glitches 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HaloHunter202
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 21, 2007 8:27 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3 is my 2nd most favorite game i have for the 360. The game is really good for people 
 if they like world wars, like me. You can't go wrong if you get this game, i promise you that. 
 Its still maybe $59.99 but its worth it. I would have to say that the story line is a bit too short, 
 they need to add a lot more levels. The Multi. player is good, im glad when you face your brother, 
 or somthin. But go out and buy it, im telling you, you'll have yourself a Blast!! I would really 
 look into buying this game if i was someone else, if they don't have it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flav333
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 21, 2007 7:50 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3 is a grate game. IF you don't now wot is Call od Duty it about WW2. This is the 1 
 call of duty wen you can pike up a grenade and throu it back :D nice. Call of Duty 2 was a grate 
 game and Call of Duty 3 is a grate game. The graphics amzing the sound it good. In this version you 
 get to play white 2 more countrys wich is the POLISH and CANADIAN whit it cool. You get to use a 
 tanks and oder veacles. Yuo get to use the Tank fery sort wen you start the game. Ther is a new combat 
 in Call of Duty 3 which is you fight wht a garmen hand to hand but it not that good you get to 
 use it 2-3 times in the game and ther ar 1 or 2 fights that ar intresting. The multiplayer is good 
 it can suport 26 players now which is grate. Call of Duty 3 is amzin game , the difficulty in the 
 game is good if you play at normal the enamy ar't acuracy is bad but if you play at hart the enamy 
 acuracy is good and your life gos down much quiker. The bad thing is that you can't lean down wen 
 you ar beahind cover but it good. I have fun playing Call of Duty 3 I hope you have fun playing 
 it &gt;: D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vandlr
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 21, 2007 5:03 am PT
Review:  Where do i start with call of duty 3...
  
  Gameplay is.... ABSOLUTE MAGNIFICENT, graphics are absolutely gorgeous with engaging compelling 
 shooting scenes that make you feel like your in the game!
  
  Saying that they did a great job with the mutiplayer which has a fast action pack adrenaline rush 
 experience. It is one of the best fps to date and the weapons are magnificent and also sound beautful.... If 
 your into a FPS game for the single player experience or even for the fast quick game experience 
 on live.... this is the game for you!
  
  There are plenty of maps on multiplayer that will keep you occupied for a very long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: volcommeek1
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 21, 2007 12:17 am PT
Review:  i really like the game. i had fun playing the campaign. in fact i've beat the campaign a few times. 
 each time trying new routes, or just using a certain weapon. also by turning the difficulty up. 
 the game isn't too long or short. it also mixes things up by having a few stories going on at the 
 sametime, and you doing different tasks. it's all good stuff. another plus to any game, especially 
 after you beat it, is the xbox live half. right there is hours and hours of fun. this part has 
 many achievments to unlock which might keep you busy for a while. if you are like me at all, and 
 love multiplayer games on live, then this is for you. BUT!,... the only problem i have is the way 
 activision set up the ranked matches. the regular matches, just any other 1st person shoot'em upper, 
 you can go quik or custom. quik just picks the fastest match availible. and custom you set some 
 filters and narrow down to what you want to play. then you have a bunch of matches to pick from, 
 where the host can regulate the matches rules and what not. usually. here, you have the filters, 
 but they ground the battle and team battle together, so it's either or. those should be a seperate 
 pick. then you don't have the choice to pick what server you want to join and you just hope for 
 the best. many times you wait and wait before you get connected to one, but you then get dropped. 
 if just before the match starts loading and someone bails out of the session, it drops everyone. 
 so many times it gets to be a pain in the ass. oh and there is no rematches or anything. at the 
 end of the ranked match, there is an after action review and then you have to start over. another 
 quik easy way they did without, is joining your friends. on ranked matches you can't join them. 
 so i always have more fun playing the ragular, unranked matches. i don't know if they can have 
 a patch to downlaod to fix this but games like ghost recon 2 (sumit strike) for xbox and ghost recon 
 advanced warfighter for 360 have a nice setup for xboxlive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SarzaminGame
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 20, 2007 11:09 pm PT
Review:  Rockstar's seminal San Andreas in the GTA genre seems to have become the Holy Grail for videogame 
 developers eager to share the unparalleled commercial success that the series has enjoyed. Despite 
 the release of last year's well-received Saint's Row from THQ, the search for the next-gen GTA 
 remains; can a game surpass the scale, match the wit and deliver a truly defining leap to match 
 expectations? It's a dilemma Rockstar North themselves face as they attempt to exceed their own 
 achievements with the forthcoming release of GTA4, but it's also one that Microsoft hopes to achieve 
 beforehand with the impending release of Crackdown.
  
  In an attempt to overcome the first hurdle of being labelled as little more than a GTA wannabe 
 , Microsoft have teamed up with David Jones' Real Time Worlds to deliver Crackdown. Jones should 
 need little introduction amongst GTA fans, there wouldn't be the likes of Vice City and San Andreas 
 without the man who's widely considered as putting the original GTA on the gaming map.
  
  Set in the dystopian Pacific City, Crackdown portrays a heavily satirical take on what life is 
 like in the future. Drawing heavy inspiration from the likes of Paul Verhoeven's Robocop and Starship 
 Troopers along with 2000AD' Judge Dredd, Crackdown finds the world teetering on the verge of anarchy, 
 where law enforcement recruitment is at an all-time low and rival factions rule the streets. In 
 an attempt to bring peace back to globe, all forms of policing have been unified to form The Agency; 
 however, more desperate measures are called for if The Agency hopes to wrestle control back from 
 the feuding factions. Enlisting the work of the disgraced scientist Doctor Baltazar Czernenko, 
 The Agency is taking advantage of his discredited eugenics programme to advance the human race 
 into new genetic dimensions. The result is Agents of Justice, superior to ordinary law enforcement 
 agents in every way; their sole task, to eradicate crime and clean up the streets of Pacific City 
 from the Los Meurtos, the Volk and the Shai-Gen Corporation. Working for a right-wing law enforcement 
 agency where the end is always enough to justify the means, satire is applied thickly and effectively 
 throughout the game and is hammered even further thanks to the hammy tones of the narrator who 
 continuously keeps abreast of the player's action - one of the game's most immediately enjoyable 
 aspects. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: czapata
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 20, 2007 1:39 pm PT
Review:  Call Of Duty 3 is an awsome game for the XBOX 360. Playing as the Americans, the Canadians, the 
 Polish, etc. is really awsome. Some levels are boring but the rest is great, the multiplayer is 
 great except when players are being cheap and killing their own teammates for no reason. Even the 
 medics are the ones that mostly TK everyone, but its still fun, and we should be able to play more 
 than the Allies and Axis like for Ex: the Canadians or Polish. Also you can drive vehicles such 
 as tanks, motorcycles, and armored cars. You can also pick different types of classes such as Medics, 
 Scouts, Heavy Assault, Rifleman, Support, etc. etc. I would recommend players who like FPS and 
 war games should get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xXSKATEXx
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 19, 2007 10:48 pm PT
Review:  its good but not great the graphics are amazing but the mini games are dumb and make itreally hard 
 when ur getting shot at but other than that he gampla is solid hopefully they make call of duty 
 4 were u cn use pistols cause in 3 u dont have any pistols and that was kinda gay cause i fell 
 like pistol whiping somone in the face and teabagging them for fun. the explostions are freaking 
 kool and fun to run through, effects are great and the violence. so activision need to get of their 
 butts if thier not all ready and make call of duty 4 but this time its worl war one instead of 
 2 cause im getting sick of world war 2 game because their at least 100 games about world war 2 
 but make it third person shooter instead of first person because the make alot of those to 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BleedForever
Rating: 3.3
Date: Jan 19, 2007 12:02 pm PT
Review:  First off, let me say that I knew almost right from the get-go, before this game was even released, 
 that it was going to be horrible. I recall reading a preview written about it awhile back in the 
 magazine, Game Informer. I was so excited about this game till I read that article, that article 
 literally shot down all hopes I had for this game being as good as it sounded and it turned out 
 to be very true. In that article, a Treyarch executive (I forget his name) that was working on 
 this game said something l couldn't believe. I don't remember his exact words, but he basically 
 said that CoD 3 would have no true next-gen features. He said that we would see absolutely nothing 
 in the next-gen versions of CoD 3 that weren't present in the current-gen versions (except of course 
 for prettier, more polished graphics) . So basically all next-gen CoD 3 is, was a port of the current-gen 
 version, nothing more, nothing less. And boy does it show. CoD 2 is a much, much superior game 
 in both single player and multiplayer. CoD 3 has no where near the level of intensity that CoD 
 2 delivers in it's single player and multiplayer modes. In closing, I think the biggest problem 
 with CoD 3 is that Treyarch departed way too much from the core elements that made CoD 2 such an 
 incredible game. They're practically 2 totally different games. I mean if you sat 2 non-gamers 
 down in 2 different rooms, 1 with CoD 2, the other with CoD 3, they'd never ever guess in a million 
 years that they're both part of the same franchise. In short, seems like Treyarch basically rushed 
 it and focused mainly on only slightly improving the graphics, nothing more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: huntedwumpus
Rating: 5.2
Date: Jan 18, 2007 8:45 pm PT
Review:  CoD 2 is simply a breathtaking game. It brilliantly entwined slow-paced fighting with good graphics 
 and great quotes. The single player had a decent plot line which felt linear enough to feel connected 
 to your characters. It is truly a hard game to follow up on.
  
  With improvement in mind, the crew designing CoD 3 seemed to have gone over-the-top, which lead 
 to the game being ruined in my opinion. The graphics are beautiful, yes, but the focus on great 
 game play and an enthralling plot was sacrificed. Single player seems unfocused and often is just 
 annoying. Also, you cannot do the simple 'tap A to jump over this object' like you could in CoD 
 2. No, you are stuck jumping up and down with no success like you are playing Golden Eye for N64. 
 The boundaries are often drawn with these seemingly jumpable areas. It's aggravatingly to put it 
 nicely. That's really all I've got for this one. It's a great attempt, but I must say, you should 
 buy the older game in this case. Hands down.
  
  The Good: - Adding the more-realistic time restriction on grenades is a great touch. - Looks even 
 better than CoD 2 - I LOVE when you throw a grenade in this game... no matter who you are, you 
 yell some obscure comment.
  
  The Bad: - Single player mode seems scatterbrained, disconnected and anticlimactic. There always 
 seems to be a great deal of enemies, but never really seems interesting. - Split screen gaming 
 doesn't show you what levels look, making you choose blindly. - The sniper rifle scope view is 
 smaller than in CoD 2, making them much more difficult to use. - The sound, though great sometimes, 
 often is better when you are turned away from the talking character rather than when you are facing 
 them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xbxjetraider
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 18, 2007 4:48 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3 is the follow up to last year's XBOX 360 game of the year. Coming out the pen with 
 such high expectations didn't exactly help this game. It feels more like an expansion pack, rather 
 than a new game.
  
  Call of Duty 3 looks great. Everything in the game world is well designed and detailed accordingly. 
 It plays solid at excellent frames with no real issues. Explosions are excellent as usual, and 
 smoke grenades make you squint your eyes as you run through them. The sound design is excellent 
 as usual. Each of the guns, voices, grenades, and automobiles sound on par. You'll hear zingers, 
 rattlers, and all types of gun firing sounds. To add to the amazing sound design, the musical score 
 is well fitting for the repeated Saving Private Ryan situations you're constantly put in.
  
  The over all gameplay of COD3 is stale. The single player lasts only 10-12 hours, and you may 
 not even care to finish if you've played through past Call of Duty games. The game feels like an 
 expansion pack, and not new. Minor new small games are thrown in like a puzzle gun fighting game, 
 but it isn't enough to make the game feel new. Overall, Call of Duty 3 is a great game. However, 
 their is no justification for this game costing $60.00. It feels like an expansion that should 
 cost $30.00 instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chris_Potter
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 18, 2007 6:31 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3 is the sequel to Call of Duty 2 that came out for the PC and the Xbox 360 last year. 
 Since that game received great reviews almost everywhere and was thought by many to be the ultimate 
 World War II experience, Call of Duty 3 has a lot to live up to. Surprisingly, for a game that 
 has only been in development for a year, Call of Duty 3 surpasses its amazing predecessor in most 
 aspects.
  The biggest differences about Call of Duty 3 that one must have in mind is the fact that the game 
 isnt developed by the same people that made the previous two. The two previous ones were made 
 by a development team named Infinity Ward, whilst this game is made by a group named Treyarch, 
 who previously made the Spider-Man games for the two Spider-Man movies. This fact shocked people 
 early on, since Call of Duty has been an Infinity Ward product since it first came out.
  The other thing that needs to be kept in mind is the fact that Call of Duty 3 is developed solely 
 with consoles in mind, so we are talking a new developer and a new focus of platform. So let me 
 get down to telling you what is so good about this game and what could have been better.
  
  Visuals:
  Call of Duty 3 greatly surpasses its predecessor in most visual aspects, small details 
 everywhere make the world seem more alive, and even though you rarely get the chance to stand still 
 and marvel over how beautiful it is you have to congratulate Treyarch on the level of detail they 
 have managed to put into the game.
  The character models also look a lot better than those in Call of Duty 2. In the previous game 
 the textures on the characters were pretty bad since it was one of the first games to be made in 
 true high definition. All these problems have been fixed in Call of Duty 3 and in most aspects 
 the game looks really good.
  The environments are one of the games biggest down sides, because even though they look really 
 amazing technically and really look like authentic French country side villages, they all feel 
 pretty much the same, at least compared to the varied levels of Call of Duty 2 where you got to 
 play in Tunisia and Russia as well as France.
  Other than the less varied levels, Call of Duty 3 looks better than its predecessor in all aspects, 
 the environments look much more realistic, and the characters look a lot better in most cases. 
 The rain falling, the smoke from smoke grenades, the grass swaying in the wind and the puddles 
 on the ground all add to make this one of the most realistic environments ever in a video game.
 
  
  Audio:
  Call of Duty 2 was the best sounding game on the 360 next to Condemned: Criminal Origins when it 
 came out last year, and Call of Duty 3 follows up by delivering a performance that is as near perfect 
 as that of its older brother. The guns all sound authentic to the point where it almost sounds 
 like you are on the battlefield yourself (depending on your sound set up of course) . The voice 
 acting is also pretty solid, but sometimes feels like it could have been a little better, but those 
 occasions are few and far apart so they dont drag down the overall feel of the otherwise amazing 
 audio in the game.
  The games music is also very good, it delivers the kind of inspiring, patriotic music that you 
 would normally expect from a game with war themes, but because of the games pace it becomes that 
 more important to hear that inspiring score come on at the end of the level, telling you to keep 
 pushing because the end is near.
  The dialogue in Call of Duty 3 is better than that in Call of Duty 2 in most cases, although in 
 some in game cutscenes the dialogue can sometimes feel like its taken right of a cheesy World 
 War II movie and that doesnt really work in the games favour, but as I said in most cases the 
 dialogue helps set mood and push the experience even further.
  Overall Call of Duty 3 is the ultimate sound experience and is hands down the best sounding game 
 on the 360 to date. It nails the feel of actual combat and chaos perfectly and rarely lets you 
 down. Treyarch have realized that silence doesnt exist in war, and because of that manage to deliver 
 a sound experience like few others ever have.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay in Call of Duty 3 is pretty much what youve probably come to expect of 
 a console FPS, you move with the right control stick and aim with the left one and fire with the 
 right one, etc. It all works really well, especially since the game is only on consoles, which 
 means that the developers had to make it work as good as possible. A few things that stand out 
 are the fact that you can sprint for a brief period by clicking the left thumbstick and that you 
 perform melee attacks by clicking the right thumbstick. The game plays almost exactly like Call 
 of Duty 2 in every single way, in fact the only things at this moment that I can think of that 
 feel different is that first of all the melee actually gets used in this game which adds a bit 
 since they just as well could have skipped melee all together in CoD2. The other difference in 
 the gameplay is that you can now cook grenades, which means that you can hold them and time how 
 long you want to hold it before you throw it, adding a level of strategy to the game since you 
 can determine how far away your enemy is and how long you want to let the grenade cook before you 
 throw it. You can also pick grenades up that the enemy throw at you, which a lot of people asked 
 why you couldnt do in Call of Duty 2 since you would often see your enemy do it to the grenades 
 you threw at them, well now you can pick them up and throw them back.
  Basically Call of Duty 3 plays all as good as Call of Duty 2 with some additional details that 
 dont change the feel of the game, but feel nice to have even though they arent exactly revolutionary.
 
  
  Multiplayer:
  Call of Duty 2 had a great multiplayer, but it only supported 8 players which made a lot of players 
 (me included) turn to other games for multiplayer-fun. In Call of Duty 3 most of these problems 
 are worked out and you can now play up to 24 players in a single match. This is a lot of fun since 
 it gives you a pretty good war-like feel, with bullets flying almost everywhere you look. The developers 
 have looked at Battlefield 2 and integrated a rank system in the game so you advance in rank when 
 you kill a certain number of players. For example if youre a rifleman you get a certain number 
 of rifle grenades every time you gain a new rank, and if youre a scout you get upgraded artillery 
 strikes every rank you get.
  The multiplayer is great in almost all ways, and except for some troubles with game connections, 
 and the annoying fact that almost all players want to play the allies, is the perfect game to chill 
 out with after some intense Gears of War matches. Overall:
  Call of Duty 3 is a great game in all aspects of its presentation, the gameplay takes that of Call 
 of Duty 2 and adds a few thing that push it even closer to the line of perfection. The visuals 
 are great and give you the feeling of really running around in a French village destroyed by war. 
 The only thing that could have been better is the fact that since Call of Duty 2 took place over 
 three different areas, this games campaign feels kind of identical all the way through. The audio 
 is as good as Call of Duty 2s in every way if not even better.
  With a few additions like a great multiplayer mode and the ability to pick up grenades, Call of 
 Duty 3 manages to give us another wonderful game, and even though weve seen most of what the game 
 has to offer before, Call of Duty 3 does all the things it tries to do so well you wont care once 
 you start playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: --Magnum91 --
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 17, 2007 3:59 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard that it would be Treyarch who was developing Call of Duty 3, I immediately assumed 
 that it would be horrible. After all, it was Treyarch who was responsible for the mediocre Big 
 Red One, and the disastrous excuse for a game that was Finest Hour. But surprisingly enough, Treyarch 
 managed to make an excellent successor to CoD 2.
  
  Like CoD 2 and CoD before it, you alternate between the Americans, the British, the Canadians, 
 and the Polish. Wait, the Canadians and Polish?!?? Yes, that's right, the Russians are gone this 
 time around. Though, aside from some odd accents, these two new nations are fun to play as (I will 
 miss my teammates calling me comrade , however) .
  
  Also like it's predecessors, the action is very intense, and very fun, especially on the harder 
 difficulties. It manages to strike a perfect balance between tactical and run 'n gun that makes 
 for great gameplay.
  
  The similarities go beyond mere gameplay, however. A sizable chunk of content seems to be ripped 
 right out of CoD 2. Not just similar content, but the exact same battle chatter, HUD icons, and 
 mediocre death animations. Germans still yell the exact same things they did in CoD 2 and will 
 still die the exact same way. I can understand making the games similar, but Treyarch shouldn't 
 have recycled so much.
  
  One thing that is vastly improved over the last game is the graphics. They are nothing short of 
 amazing. Everything is very detailed and life-like. The grass is especially impressive, from the 
 way it flattens underfoot to the way it ripples from a nearby explosion. Equally impressive (depending 
 on how nerdy you are) is how the game runs at a steady, smooth framerate through all this shootin' 
 and explodin'. Nobody likes a poor framerate!
  
  The sound effects are outstanding. Explosions and gunshots all sound very convincing, even if you 
 are forced to play sound through your TV speakers. I can't even imagine how it must sound through 
 a surround sound system.
  
  Friend AI is not the best, to say the least. It can go from stupid to downright frustrating. On 
 lower difficulties, a AI friendly running right into your line of fire can be more of a threat 
 than anything Jerry can throw at you.
  
  Overall, Treyarch managed to make an intense, action packed game that even long-time fans of the 
 series can enjoy. CoD 3 is a game that should not be missed by any FPS fan! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ElithKhan
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 17, 2007 3:44 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3 basically has monopoly on the next generation console war games, since its the only 
 one out.
  
  CoD3 unlike CoD2 is alot more action based in my opinion, due to the 360s ability to have so many 
 people on screen it really feels like a war.
  
  Graphically the game looks really nice, the guns are detailed the soldiers around you look realistic 
 and the terrain looks spot on, so there isnt much to complain about there. I like the blur effect 
 you get when you take aim, even if at times on multiplayer it can get maybe a little annoying.
 
  
  The sound is really well done, its great hearing gunshots being fired from miles around and seeing 
 them fly in the air aswell in the distance. Some of the characters voices do my head in a little 
 bit when they speak but it doesnt make a bad game if a voice annoys you in my opinion.
  
  I think this game really shines on the multiplayer, people are for the best part social and finding 
 a game to play doesn't take long at all, even though trying to find one with auto team balance 
 isnt so easy, at one point i was in a game 5 germans vs 13 americans. But i think that was rare 
 because most people will try even out the teams anyway to give everyone a better game.
  
  At the moment this is the main game i play on Xbox Live because of how much fun it is and how friendly 
 the people are, the campaign is enjoyable and will keep you entertained for a good while. The choice 
 of weapons is pretty good and the mission objectives are fun and varied. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pdo4545
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 17, 2007 7:20 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3 was Fantastic! It's what you would expect, a great action packed war game. The game 
 has great graphics, and a great storyline to go with it! If you liked any of the other Call of 
 Dutys you will love Call of Duty 3!!! The gameplay is awesome, the storyline is awesome, the vehicles 
 are awesome (and easy to control) , the sound is the most realistic shooting sound I have ever heard! 
 Pretty much Call of Duty 3 is just Awesome! My oppinion is you can go head and buy the game even 
 befor renting it! My over all rating is, 10.0 'Perfect! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigfatzombie
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 16, 2007 8:09 pm PT
Review:  even though the game is good it still could have been better. the graphics are nice but the ai 
 is kinda stupid. the story is long and entertaining for the most part but it gets repetitive. the 
 online is good but can get a little lagge and gets kinda boreing. the achievements are for the 
 most part easy and you get alot of points for them but some are kinda dumb. but if you are a fan 
 of the series you will probably enjoy the game. but i recomend that you rent the game first to 
 see if you like it and the new addition that lets you throw back grenades is pretty cool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fixer293
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 16, 2007 7:15 pm PT
Review:  I have just purchased this game and I ma quite happy I did. The vehicles were just the topping 
 on the cake, but the ragdoll just made it more awsome. Great graphics and outstanding gameplay 
 make this a hit in my book. The sound is unbelievable and it makes the guns unbelievably realistic. 
 I had high expectations for this game, and none of them were let down. The vehicles are easy toi 
 drive as well, The only problem I have is the multiplayer maps need to be bigger like Battlefield 
 1942. Call of duty 3 will not dissapoint any one wanting to continue the crusade against the german 
 infantry. I thought it would take some time to relearn the playing, but if you played 2 you will 
 have no trouble. I also love throwing grenades back and wathching them scramble just before it 
 blows them in the air. This game is a masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xboxsteven
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 19, 2007 2:51 pm PT
Review:  The Good good first level - has lots of action (Explosion and Shooting )
  Has good humor in it
  Great Online play -can have more players then Call of Duty 2
  more variation 
 in what you can do than Call of Duty 2 ex you can row a boat ; you u can drive and you set bombs 
 feels just like you're a small part of a huge war. you Will have fun in the 14 level in the game 
 i can wait for call of duty 4 THE Bad
  
  Close Action fighting can be difficult can take some time to get an online game Single-player campaign 
 doesn't play much differently than last year; story isn't particularly engaging. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ottosmann
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 16, 2007 1:17 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay-The aiming feature is cool, but it gets a little repetitive... kill a nazi run through 
 a tunnel, kill more nazis, run in house, pee in your pants when you see more nazis standing there, 
 etc. The story is good, though, and you become really attatched to the characters.
  
  Graphics- Amazing, great textures, great frame rate, but it's sort of unrealistic how high the 
 guys can jump. The bombed-out streets are particularly amazing, along with the smoke.
  
  Sound- One of the best soundtracks I have ever heard, right up there with Halo. The weapons also 
 sound great.
  
  Value- One of the only faults that I have with this game. There isn't really a point in playing 
 the levels over and over again, because the same stuff happens basically every time. The multiplayer 
 is fun, though.
  
  This game is an overall must-have for any gamer.
  
  Score-9.3/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bossjimbob
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 16, 2007 11:01 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 was the first million-seller for Microsoft's Xbox 360. Shortly after the system's 
 launch in 2005, it was estimated that three out of every four owners of the great white box had 
 picked up the game along with the system. Since then, it has constantly been a presence on Xbox 
 Live and a source of countless hours of enjoyment for folks still enamored with the Second World 
 War. A year later, the Allies are back in action with another installment of the venerable franchise. 
 Though the game only marginally improves on an already-successful formula, developer Treyarch has 
 created another first person shooter worthy of accolade. In short, if you like your military action 
 with a dash of history, you can't go wrong with Call of Duty 3.
  
  The focus of the latest CoD title is squarely on the Normandy breakout, which took place in the 
 days following the D-day invasion. Over the course of 14 grueling events you'll take up arms with 
 the American, British, Polish, and Canadian forces in a variety of on-foot and vehicular missions. 
 If you've played Call of Duty 2 you'll recognize a lot of similarity here, as scripted sequences 
 and largely linear gameplay are still intact. Where this game deviates from the tried-and-true 
 formula is in the scope of each conflict. Environments are wider and larger than before.
  
  All the signature weapons of the time period are available for use, including a few not included 
 in previous games like mortars and vehicular-mounted machineguns. You even have the ability to 
 toss live grenades back at your foes (something noticeably absent from the previous version) . Also 
 included and fully operable are numerous tanks, jeeps, and motorcycles that all handle fairly well 
 and are a blast to operate in both the single player and online campaigns. About the only thing 
 missing is the ability to pilot aircraft or play online co-op with a buddy (are you listening, 
 Treyarch?) .
  
  Also new to the series are a handful of scripted combat minigames. At select points, you're ambushed 
 by a goose-stepping Nazi and have mere moments to fend him off. By alternating between tugging 
 the left and right triggers, you wrestle your opponent to the floor, steal his weapon, kick him 
 back, or otherwise incapacitate him (we won't spoil the surprises) . At first the scenarios are 
 short and uninspired, but by the tail end of the game you'll be pulling off some stunning fight 
 choreography on par with Jack Bauer's antics. Unfortunately, these moments are in short supply 
 so they almost feel like a novel distraction, but they break up the action a bit and are fun while 
 they last. Likewise, the acts of planting explosives, rowing a boat, and aiming mortars all take 
 good advantage of using the dual analog sticks in clever ways that put you in the moment.
  
  As expected, Call of Duty 3 looks and sounds every bit as good as you'd expect. From the enhanced 
 lighting and smoke effects to the ear-shattering sounds of mortars and artillery fire, the production 
 values are top notch. Even the musical score is appropriately epic in scale. Voice acting, while 
 not overabundant, is generally quite good even if the dialogue is a tad clich&eacute; in typical 
 war movie fashion. Overall, the sights and sounds to be had are a step up from last year's iteration.
 
  
  The single player campaign is every bit as thrilling as the one in Call of Duty 2, but where Call 
 of Duty 3 really shines is in its online multiplayer. This time the game supports up to 24 players 
 per server. Garden-variety deathmatch and team deathmatch modes are present along with other game 
 types like capture the flag and base defense. Each map is of a large scale and comfortably supports 
 a full player load, but when you're running and gunning in and around a gigantic village or bombed 
 out city and you've got some empty slots, the match can feel a bit empty. Luckily, tanks and other 
 vehicles are available on some of the larger locales that make traveling quick and painful (for 
 your enemies) .
  
  With so many praises to heap on the game, it's not flawless. There seem to be a few issues with 
 the online matchmaking system. For starters, some of the game's Achievements require you to be 
 playing in a ranked match, yet we've never successfully hosted or joined a ranked game no matter 
 how hard we tried. Also, there have been times when we've sent out invites to players on our Friends 
 list, only to have them unable to join our game in session (they'll get a game no longer available 
 message even though there are plenty of slots open and the game is still in progress) . The result 
 is a lot of cursing and inexplicable connection issues, but when you are able to group with experienced 
 players on a full server, Call of Duty 3 is hands-down the most exciting WWII shooter available 
 on consoles.
  
  So while it's not a huge step forward, Call of Duty 3 is the best of the lot. It does everything 
 as well as, if not better than, previous games in the series and features a superior (albeit imperfect) 
 online component. If you like your WWII shooters, it doesn't get any better than this.
  
  Note: This review is solely about the Xbox 360 version. No side-by-side comparisons were made against 
 the PlayStation 3 or current-gen offerings. The comments and criticisms contained herein were based 
 off of prior experience with the series on Xbox 360 hardware. Call of Duty 3 is rated T for Teen.
 
  
  As of December 21, 2006, Activision has issued a patch that apparently remedies all the connection 
 issues mentioned in the review above. *Originally published at GWN. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: molinaps3
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 15, 2007 4:44 pm PT
Review:  Well Call of Duty 3 is the latest game for the Xbox360, PLaystation 3, Nintendo Wii, PLaystation 
 2, Xbox. So this time in the Cll of Duty seris, we take place during the liberation of France. 
 The teams we get to play are of course the Americans, British, Cadadine, and Polish. First I like 
 to start out that the game wasent that bad but at some points it felt Its just another World War 
 2 game where you get to shoot Nazis, the only difference is that the graphics changed. What I liked 
 about the game was the new feature where you get to count down the grenade so it'll explode when 
 you want it to. Also the new suprise German attack, its pretty cool. Also when you have to set 
 the explosives. Also the graphics look really cool/good when the tanks explode. The bad thing is 
 that some of the guns look pretty weird i dont know I liked how the Call oof Duty 2 gun graphics 
 looked but thats becaue that game was from Infinity Ward and this game was made from Treyarch. 
 The story was good and the levels were good so over, it wasent a bad game, for another World War 
 2 game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SNIPER-CAZ
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 15, 2007 3:25 pm PT
Review:  EA electronics is greatly known for the sports franchise. Breaking boundaries between physics and 
 graphics, and tying it all together with awsome gameplay. So when Medal of Honour came out people 
 where skeptical about this shooter. Now many years ahead Call of Duty 3 is out and EA is now a 
 very compitent buisness. Call of Duty has come a long way since it's first arival, and what a game 
 it has become. COD 3 involves vehicles, amazing and authentic weapons, gear, atmosphere and more. 
 With the X-Box 360 engine running this game the graphics are not an issue. The game captures the 
 feel and look of the the battle grounds in World War 2 and also brings the AI to the next level 
 by using cover and battle plans. Call of Duty is backed up by an awsome online as well. With equal 
 maps both on the Axis and Allied side there is no reason for picking one particular side. Call 
 of Duty is yet gain one great game for ownership and will be played all the way till the next one 
 comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rodimus_prime85
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 15, 2007 12:18 pm PT
Review:  The only Medal of Honor game I ever liked was Frontline and even then it was only the first level 
 Iiked. It was chaos, your boats blown out of the water, you charge the beach as explostions go 
 off around you as your friends are being shot and blown to pieces... Then it kind of went off track.
 
  
  CoD3 starts off in a truck thats hit by a mine. You suddenly find yourself in the middle of a warzone, 
 and warzone is an understatement. You general gives you a leg up over the wall, and as your climbing 
 over you see for the first time, the raw power of the 360. Buildings are being blown to bits, granades 
 going off left, right and under you and running head first in to all these explostions is about 
 20+ allied forces. And thats not counting the jerry's (Thats Germans to us) . Within (And I mean 
 litterally) 2 seconds your getting the sh*t shot out of you. You first priority should be to find 
 cover, and no matter which way you go, there'll be Germans to shoot. Keeping Covered while also 
 keeping and eye on the enemy is the name of this game. Constantly trying to push the germans back 
 and gaining ground.
  
  And unlike MoH, CoD the action is always this intense. You constantly worry about your life. Carefully 
 paying attention to every step you make. At one point your in a jeep fleeing for your life from 
 tanks, cutting across roads, bridges and even fields. One point your riding a tank, another your 
 in it, but no matter what position your in, you'll always seem to be in the direct line of a bullet 
 or two.
  
  The graphics are the best I've seen so far on the 360 all though I'm yet to play Gears Of War. 
 Costumes get muddy and the rain is amazing. As I mentioned before, as your climbing over that wall 
 you see so much going on the screen at once. And while any kind of central storyline seems void, 
 the few cut scenes are well acted.
  
  I don't like giving out scores over 9, but this truly deserves it.
  
  This is war, this is 
 chaos, and wrong as it is... It's just so much fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pjizzile11
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 14, 2007 6:53 pm PT
Review:  Jerrys....
  
  Pros- 14 levels, tank battles, good amount of guns , multiplayers fun while in a match.
  
  
 Cons- one tank level is only a part of a tank level , take forever to get in a ranke match ...... 
 which is really annoying , i get some lag from this mutiplayer and from no other games.
  
  This game is great. I only rented it but i dont really care that much. i beat the game fast and 
 cant get in to too many multiplayer games. The battles get pretty intense . they will be all like 
 jerrys from the east. oh snap and from the north. then ill shoot em in the face. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yandor
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 14, 2007 6:16 pm PT
Review:  I skipped COD 2 in anticipation of this, and I'm not entirely disappointed, though it's not the 
 game I'd hoped for. As for looks, it mostly impresses; the smoke and fire, the armor, lighting, 
 gun models, rain . . . there are a lot of next-gen graphics. But there is a lot of last-gen mixed 
 within, and it sticks out like the proverbial sore thumb. When you scramble through a beautifully 
 rendered field of individually moving blades of grass then take cover behind a shiny, ugly cow 
 corpse that looks like something off a PS1 game, it's a bit jarring. Still, the overall look is 
 satisfying, and it's impressive when there are dozens of men on screen, all running, shouting, 
 firing, dying; there is a real sense of being part of a 'Band of Brothers' if you'll pardon the 
 the pun. Yet there isn't any real feel of urgency. Yes, the beginning battles are immersive in 
 that you are dropped into a massive gunfight and bullets and grenades are whizzing past you no 
 matter where you go, but after a short time, everything sort narrows down to the same old linear 
 run and gun, and a yawn factor quickly settles in. And why no cover mechanic???? Or even a lean? 
 Just because the game takes place in the 1940s shouldn't mean the gameplay should be as well! Taking 
 cover should be standard by now. To leave it out seems almost silly in the next-gen era. The enemy 
 AI isn't all that great; they don't deploy any kind of attack other than run toward you. There 
 were times when I simply stood in one place and waited as they lined up like ducks while I shot 
 them down. Huge disappointment! The mini-game of hand-to-hand combat is a nice touch, but let's 
 face it, it's not all that exciting, and it never felt 'real'. It was just a matter of button mashing. 
 The tank driving was a little sloppy, but I can't complain because when you blow things up, it 
 makes it worth it, though I'm glad the tank missions aren't that long. The early missions of 'sighting 
 enemy positions' for the tank to attack were downright laughable. Still, if you're a fan of first 
 person shooters (and I have to confess, I'm slowly edging to the third person side-Rainbow Six 
 Vegas is keeping me on the fence) , then this will give you a few hours of mindless fun, and the 
 multiplayer is far better than the campaign. Rent before you buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WTA2k5
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 14, 2007 5:25 pm PT
Review:  The hit series returns with Call of Duty 3, which has amazing production values and still has great 
 gameplay but isn't all that different from the other ones in the series. Its deja vu... again...
 
  
  The series still has the same formula, its mostly a standard shooter with some mild tactical elements 
 thrown in. You still have different campaigns playing different soldiers which offer different 
 weapons. What is different this time around is that the different countries don't play differently 
 from the others. If you'll recall in previous Call of Duty games, for example the first, Americans 
 would have sort of medium-sized battles, British would have missions that are on a much smaller 
 scale and would require a certain amount of sneaking and Russian missions featured huge battles. 
 Thats not the case in Call of Duty 3, while there may be different weapons for each country, the 
 gameplay and scope of the different battles for each faction stays the same. You will be sticking 
 with your squad and will have to actively take cover instead of running around in the open and 
 on your own if you want to live. The tank missions are still there and are still a fun little break 
 between your standard infantry combat and there are some segments where you drive around in a jeep. 
 But its just so much of the same and so uninspired that the singleplayer is just not as entertaining 
 as one would expect from the series.
  The multiplayer reinvents itself again and is certainly much better than the 4 on 4, no vehicles 
 action in Call of Duty 2. The biggest changes are 24 player multiplayer, the addition of vehicles, 
 the War mode and being able to gain rank. 24 player multiplayer is great and makes the battlefield 
 much more lively than the 4 on 4 combat. The addition of vehicles is good too and it helps vary 
 the fighting a little bit, but for certain vehicles, namely the jeeps, the handleing feels a bit 
 strange. The War mode is also a welcome addition, which is a mode that sort of mimicks the Conquest 
 mode that the Battlefield series is known for, forcing you to capture certain points of interest 
 in a certain order, this mode is made especially fun because of vehicles and large amounts of players. 
 This is really what keeps Call of Duty 3's gameplay from being uninspired and dated.
  All in all in the gameplay department, the singleplayer proves to just be the same old, following 
 the old If it ain't broke don't fix it method, but even though the gameplay isn't broken, its a 
 little too uninspired. The multiplayer is what saves the game though.
  
  The graphics are a bit of an improvement over Call of Duty 2, more bump-maps/normal-maps are utilized, 
 which make certain textures and models look a lot better. The battles, though huge, also never 
 suffer lag or frame rate drops and there are a few interesting new graphical effects, such as vision 
 being blurred around the area where you aren't focusing when you look through your iron sights, 
 which is a pretty nice touch. The enviornments are all the same though, you will often see small 
 towns or areas of country-side that look identical to eachother, and since each campaign takes 
 place around the same enviornment there's really no variations at all.
  
  The sound is still amazing and is still the highpoint of the series as it always has been. You 
 will hear your friends and your enemies yelling and giving you positions of enemies, great explosion 
 effects varied weapon sounds and for the most part, pretty good voice overs help immerse you into 
 the battlefield.
  
  The multiplayer is pretty fun and is worth playing for quite a while, especially with new map packs 
 hitting Xbox Live soon, but there's no reason to replay the singleplayer, if even beat it in the 
 first place.
  
  With an uninspired singleplayer, almost no additions to the general gameplay a terrible attempt 
 on adding a dramatic story to help you know the characters better, the only things that make playing 
 Call of Duty 3 worth while are top-notch production values and great multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vicious-monkey
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jan 14, 2007 4:46 pm PT
Review:  With Call of Duty 2 having such a huge impact on the Xbox 360, I'm assuming that Activision just 
 decided to make the same game with a different story line and a subtraction of good weapons with 
 a crappy online selection. Most people would think 24 players online would be good, but unfortunately 
 its ridiculously bad. Having 12 people try to talk to you at once is not very fun. War is a complete 
 rip-off of Battlefield 2 only much worse. Everything else has been in Call of Duty 2. WHERE ARE 
 THE RUSSIANS!? THE RUSSIAN WEAPONS WERE THE BEST! What the hell? What happened did they just give 
 up or what? Last I checked the allies were the Americans, Russians and British! Instead you give 
 me Americans, British and Canadians? I think there was some French in there too. THE FACT OF THE 
 MATTER IS THIS GAME HAS THE SAME CONTROL TYPE, WEAPONS (except for the ones that have been removed) , 
 ALMOST THE SAME GRAPHICS AND ONLINE THAT COD2 HAD! And what else did you give me? Cutscenes!? CUT 
 SCENES IN A FPS!? If you're looking to buy this, don't. Just buy COD2 and save your money and your 
 fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sluggardloki
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 14, 2007 8:29 am PT
Review:  This is a prety good game but sometimes feels like a next gen MOH. The good: Highly Addictive, VERY 
 explosive, Smooth controles, Mostly evreything, AWSOME graphics, Good sound,
  
  The bad: Some times I wonder How my solder can take so many MG 42 shots? Theres still nazis? This 
 is prety much a COD 2 Colone, Some times it semes as thouge my solders shoot the Germans 500 times 
 with a shot gun AND THEY STILL DONT DIE! The game is so full of expllosions You start with a big 
 explosions The middle chuck full of big explosions and it ends with big explosions. Thegame should 
 be called EXPLOSIONS EXPLOSIONS EXPLOSIONS Geeze Bottom Line:
  Shure its gameplay was stolen from COD 2 but still a fun game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ross13895582
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 14, 2007 5:47 am PT
Review:  This was definitely my favourite game of 2006. Ahead of Gears of War and Tom clancy, not just for 
 its gameplay but its realism and entertainment. The online may have glitches and problems eg. being 
 kicked out for matches at the lobby or never getting over 16 players in ranked matches. Even so, 
 online ranked matches are, in my opinion the most enjoyable, fast paced and most tense over any 
 other xbox 360 game. If Treyarch and Activision just could sort out those problems, this game would 
 definitely get 10/10 for me. The campaign is good, although I still think they could widen it by 
 maybe creating an axis campaign where the player plays as the Germans and their allies against 
 America, Britain and France etc. Vehicles, weapons and new abilities such as being able to chose 
 your routes, all get my thumbs up. Veteran really gives the player a challenge, but once you know 
 the game, it can be easily broken down into a possible mission or level. I really think that the 
 developers and their teams have pt their heads down and really pulled out the stops, in this excellent 
 game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zerostar537
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 21, 2007 2:57 pm PT
Review:  The campaign in this game is too bland. It is great at first but after a while it is quite boring. 
 But the online is great! 24 players! :) It is addicting and will bring you great fun for a long 
 time. There are so many choices of gametypes and they are all fun.
  The music is great and everything sounds amazing. The graphics are quite stunning and look pretty 
 real. This is a great world war 2 game and will keep you coming back to the multiplayer for a long 
 time. this is just a really fun game and i recommend it for the multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: destinhpark
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 13, 2007 3:21 pm PT
Review:  Let me start by saying: This isn't a terrible, mediocre game in any way. Its actually a fairly 
 well-made game. However, it plays a little too much like its past games. This third installment 
 also has a few more bugs and glitches than previous games, and really you might as well buy Cod2, 
 as it is cheaper, the online is much, much more reliable, etc. I think the online community is 
 even bigger on Cod2 than it is on 3. So yeah. Graphics aren't that bad, sound is still awesome, 
 but it basically feels like you just bought Cod2 or 20 more dollars, which is a definite rip off. 
 Just because this is the newest installment in the franchise, it surely doesn't mean you HAVE to 
 get it. Save your money, and enjoy your WWII gaming by getting Cod2, which in my own opinion, is 
 much more polished than this new game. So, newcomers to the Call of duty franchise, you have been 
 warned. Unless you want to waste 20 bucks, get Cod2 and enjoy the fanastic online community. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TracuerKezer
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 13, 2007 10:52 am PT
Review:  Where do i start, well let me start with the single player.
  
  Single Player
  
  The single player is mostly set in France, you are trying to push back the German army out of France. 
 The graphics are simply amazing you can see every single shade of grass and the empty bullet shells 
 that fall from your gun as you shoot. With an HD T. V the graphics are a million times better. The 
 sound gives the game an amazing atmosphere. On the first level where your running through a church 
 yard with Germans shooting at you and explosions everywhere and bombs and tanks going past is simply 
 amazing. As for the value the game is well worth it. Multi-player The multi-player is also fantastic, 
 you can find a room within seconds, being able to drive tanks, cars, bikes also adds to the multiplayer 
 game play. You can choose from several types of games such as, War, Headquarters, Single flag CTF, 
 capture the flag and many many more.
  
  If i was you i would go to the shop and buy the game right now.
  
  Thanks for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mastachief2552
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 12, 2007 9:06 pm PT
Review:  Call Of Duty 3 for the XBOX 360 continues award winnning world war two franchise. with the hand 
 off of the franchise from infinity ward to call of duty 2 big red one developer treyarch changes 
 were bound to happen. unfortunetly treyarch deviated off that path too much and falters on the foundation 
 that the call of duty franchise is know for.
  
  In call of duy 3 you play as a american, british, polish, and canadaian soilder in the campagin 
 to liberate normandy, this approach to the missions is different from other call of duty games 
 in that it only focuses on one campagin of the war as opposesd to playing on different fronts. while 
 its cool to see all the allied nations working together it takes away from the variety of the enviroments. 
 even with a focus on normandy the levels are actually not very well done in commparison to cod2. one 
 of the things that pulls this game down is the story. while the story is remotely historicaly correct 
 the charectors are either bland or so overly done it just makes you not want to listen to the dialog. 
 a few new things that were addeed to the game is the ability to throw gernades that have been thrown 
 at you back. also you can cook gernades which basically shortens the detonation time, also there 
 are driving missions but there not too fun as it is easy to get lost. while most of the aspects 
 of the franchise ar still intact the tweaking treyarch has done to some of them realy makes it 
 feel like infinity ward should have been incharge of making this game.
  
  The Multiplayer on the other hand is almost perfect, the only reason why I say almost is because 
 the ranked matchmaking system is very flawed, it can take up to 15 minites just to get a match. the 
 player matches on the other hand are quite good. the biggest addition to the multiplayer is the 
 class system which makes for a balanced game and some cool abilites like calling in airstrikes 
 and placing landmines. also there can now be 24 players in a game which is a huge improvment over 
 the 8 players from cod2.
  
  the game should take you around 8-10 to beat on either easy or normal while hardend and vetran 
 can take you days to complete there are 26 achievments 9 are multiplayer achievments and 16 single 
 player achievments of which 2 are secret.
  
  while there are plenty on good additions to the call of duty franchise some of the staples of the 
 game have been diluted which is a shame seing as how great call of duty 2 was. with that said there 
 still is a good game in call of duty 3 it just depends on what part of a game you like. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sotnick955
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 12, 2007 8:39 pm PT
Review:  I must say that I was disappointed that COD 3 did not come out for PC. I have played all the other 
 CODs on my desktop and had considered the serious a PC thriller. However, the switch to XBOX 360 
 was not a disappointment. The graphics were disappointing only because I had been used to the PC, 
 but the action and adventure did not disappoint. The gameplay stayed true to the series reputation 
 and delivered big thrills and a fast trigger finger. The added feature of surprise hand to hand 
 combat at random corners was enough to make my heart stop from surprise. The game delivered everything 
 I've come to expect from the COD series and was another success. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spoon_1212
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 12, 2007 6:38 pm PT
Review:  COD 3 adds a much needed facelift to the gameplay from COD3. The kits and vehicles all seem to 
 be very well balanced and fun to use. The only real problem I have with this game is the connection 
 issues. I mostly just play online and COD is ridiculously fun to play when it works. Often, however, 
 during a match My 360 will freeze up or I will get booted from the game with a message that says 
 game session no longer available. I have installed the 1st patch and also set up the proper port 
 forwarding that activision advised on their support page, however, I still have these problems. 
 Nothing is more annoying that getting about 10 min. into a match and having your 360 lock up on 
 you only to restart it and get in another 10 min and have it happen all over again. Don't get me 
 wrong this doesn't always happen. I have played for several hrs straight without a problem but 
 when it does happen it is very annoying. That said I love this game it is by far my favorite shooter 
 that I have played online for 360. (I'm Third Person Impaired so no GOW for me) . If you felt that 
 the multi player of COD 2 was to small and limited then you should give COD 3 a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swiney50
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 6:18 am PT
Review:  This game is so sweet on the Xbox 360! I played it on the Xbox before I got my 360 and there is 
 no comparison. The graphics are stunning and add immense value to the game. Don't get me wrong 
 it was fun on the Xbox but the difference is really remarkable. The 360 is an awesome gaming platform. 
 I love it. In call of Duty 3 the battle action is fast and furious. The storyline is taught. The 
 use of light an shadow in this game is amazing. Wow.. a real winner and the best WW2 shooter to 
 date. Have a blast. I can only express my sorrow to the PC gaming community that it has not been 
 released for PC's. Perhaps it will be soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: K332
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 12, 2007 12:45 pm PT
Review:  Despite what you may of heard about the similarities of Call of Duty 3 to Call of Duty 2, No. 3 
 is easily better than it's predecessor. The brilliant new multiplayer features ensure variety and 
 tactical depth to the online experiance and the addition of the Canadians and Polish is something 
 we didn't see coming. The polish may only have a couple of levels to shine but the dynamics of 
 the tank combat have been improved. One slightly dissapointing feature was the lack of unique weapons. 
 The Canadian and Polish armies lacked their own weaponary and made do with the British weapons. 
 The storylines may be vague and unfinished in some places but they do intertwine at some points. 
 An idea for the next edition of Call of Duty may be the inclusion of a Nazi campaign as the only 
 time we get to play as them is online. While the achivements may be tedious and hard to unlock 
 they do provide much more depth and gaming time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Winchester14
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 12, 2007 7:58 am PT
Review:  The third installment in the Call of Duty series dissapointed me. Call of Duty 2 had great online 
 maps. This games map and online play was very dissapointing . The maps were very poor. I think 
 Activision put this game togerther poorly and need to put more time and effort in the fourth game, 
 if they have one. COD3 is still a good game, but not great. It seems like the WW2 games are getting 
 repetive. They need to make more WW2 games from the Asian view. Overall this game could have been 
 better, but i expected more from this series. I will look forawrd to the fourth game, but i will 
 not think highly of it until i play it. Let's hope Activision does its homework and gets more creative. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paullywog
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 9, 2007 2:55 pm PT
Review:  We all know that the best selling game of the 360's launch was Call of Duty 2. It had what everyone 
 liked. Good graphics, intense gameplay, etc. But amidst all of it, i felt like it was missing something. 
 That something is present in Call of Duty 3. On top of all of this, I'm going to say it. I like 
 this game more than Gears of War. Yep.
  
  From the minute I started playing this game I knew it was great. The controls were nice and smooth, 
 the graphics are amazing, and it was really intense. Also, the sound is just incredible. The value 
 of this game is just way up there.
  
  Call of Duty 3 is well rounded out, from a well done single player campaign to a very entertaining 
 multiplayer component. The online play is fantastic, boasting up to 24 players at once. This makes 
 the game feel more like a Battlefield game, which will make some people like it more and some less. 
 Personally I love the scale of the multiplayer and I can't imagine missing out. Also notable is 
 the level system which is done a lot like Halo 2's. Aside from achievements, Ranked Matches make 
 you feel like you're accomplishing something with each victory.
  
  Whatever Call of Duty 3 has over Call of Duty 2, it makes it a much more enjoyable game that I 
 was much more willing to put my time into. If you were big into Call of Duty 2, chances are you'll 
 love this game if you're willing to accept a few changes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gunslingers
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jan 11, 2007 5:10 pm PT
Review:  Ok this game has a decent campain and good multiplayer. The campaing just got boring to me, and 
 I just couldn't get into the game. But I like the Multiplayer. If you didn't like any of the other 
 Call of dutys you will not like this game! I would rent it first. It is ok if you have a friend 
 or two over to play with you, but I think you could spend $60 bucks a lot better. The graphics 
 are good, but not as good as Gears, and the cool new things they added, like fighting with the 
 gun side ways happens once in the game.
  NO GO SOLIDER! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZWarrior006
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jan 11, 2007 1:38 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3 is a fps that is based on World War II (I know, very original setting) that lets 
 you play in the American, British, Canadian, and Polish sides. The gameplay is the same as the 
 other CoD's. You go on a path, shoot Germans, complete objectives, etc. Sometimes you get to man 
 a gun while riding on a jeep. This time you get to actually get to test your Need for Speed skills 
 by driving the jeep to the objective. This addition is not that bad. The driving controls are similar 
 to the driving controls in the multiplayer part of Call of Duty: United Offensive. Another addition 
 is when you have to set up the c4. This became very tedious, very quickly. It was a waste of time. 
 The developers could of put something else into the game. Something that is actually fun and would 
 attract the player. One thing that I noticed through the game were the glitches. For example, sometimes 
 when you shoot a German and hit him, he would die in the most bizarre way. After he gets hit, he 
 would die by flying ten feet into the air as if getting hit by a mortar round. Sometimes, he even 
 does a 360 flip. Another thing that happened a few times was that the enemy's gun would go right 
 through the concrete wall and begin to hit you. This should not be happening, especially in a next 
 gen. The levels were... well most were boring. They were nothing special. The enemy A. I., and pardon 
 my expression, sucked!!! The only time they were tough was in the harder difficulty, but still 
 very idiotic. The graphics were nice, but compared to Gears of War, it could be better. In the 
 end, Call of Duty 3 was a major letdown. It didn't compare to any of the previous Call of Duty's 
 (CoD, CoD: UO, and CoD 2) . The multi-player was good, but I played it before in United Offensive... actually 
 it was better in United Offensive. If you just have to play this game, then rent it. It's too short 
 of a game to buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 6878456
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 10, 2007 2:44 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3 is the third installment of the call of duty franchise. The single player in COD3 
 is fun and intresting you get to play as the Americans, Brtish, Polish and the Canaidans. The achivements 
 in the single player are fairly easy such as going through a mission with out fireing a round of 
 useing one type of gun ect.... One new feature added to the single player is thoughout so missions 
 you are able to get into a little fight with an bad guyt. The single player is very intense, the 
 game is very ditaled. The multiplayer is also very fun and entertaining. You can be a medic who heals 
 wounded teamates or a support gunner with a 25. cal michene gun who delivers ammo to teamates. Sniper 
 have binoculers and can call for air strikes but the sniping in the multiplayer very diffcult. You 
 can also drive vicheles like tanks, jeeps and motorcycle's. Overall this game is pritty fun and is 
 you are a Call Of Duty fan you should really pick this one up or if you arre just looking for a 
 fun World War 2 game this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WillerX
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 10, 2007 12:37 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3 brings you back to WW2... again. There are about a billion and a half WW2 games out 
 there but i have to give Call of Duty the prize because they do it the best. Now the single player 
 campaign is pretty much the second game except with different battles... so obviously its not as 
 good because the Normandy Invasion was in the second game. Really my biggest problem with the single 
 player campaign is that they tried to add some extra drama in the game by putting in some characters 
 that are unexciting and making you watch extremely boring videos that you cant skip. The one thing 
 that will keep you attached to the campaign will most likely be the amazing visuals, ambient sound 
 and the achievements you can unlock via the Xbox 360 achievement system. I don't think you would 
 be able to play the single player as much with inferior systems like the Wii. They do the sound 
 so well in the game you actually feel like you are in the war. Where this game really shines is 
 in the multiplayer area. This has been greatly upgraded from the second game. It can go up to 24 
 people in a game at once battling it out as either the axis or the allies choosing from 7 different 
 classes including rifleman, scout, medic, assault, heavy assault, support, or anti-tank, all with 
 different weapons and stats. Along with the wide selection of classes that you can choose from 
 and change at any time you can also use vehicles in the game like motorcycles, tanks, jeeps, etc. 
 The online multiplayer uses a system for their ranked matches called Truskill, which makes it so 
 you cant invite your friends so its makes cheating a little harder. This has mixed opinions from 
 me because i would like to play ranked matches with my friends but i do appreciate the attempt 
 to stop cheating. The more points you get through ranked matches the highre your rank gets and 
 you can be promoted all the way up to a general. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cenz_is
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 10, 2007 2:25 pm PT
Review:  world war 2 shooters were nothing new until a little gem called call of duty came along and changed 
 that. It was a masterpiece and an innovative change to the worn out WW2 genre. Call of duty 2 evolved 
 the originals concept and was a better game but began to show its wear. Call Of Duty 3 is a step 
 back form the series and a letdown for those who've played the first 2 although the multiplayer 
 is osmething to behold.
  
  It wasnt a total suprise of the drop in fun that COD3 offered. The franchise couldnt have lasted 
 forever its just a shame that the first true COD next gen game could oly offer superb graphics 
 and sound at best.
  
  The gameplay while solid, is totally unoriginal and compared to the likes of call of duty 2, is 
 a total letdown. With some fun mission thrown in, the real reason to play through COD3's single 
 player campaign is to unlock all those achivement points and behold the best first-person-shooter 
 graphics yet. The real reason to buy COD3 is the multiplayer which is better than COD2 but not 
 a whole lot. With 24 players, huge maps, a number of cool modes and mediocre lobby menus, COD3's 
 online experience is great, if you can find your way into a game.
  
  The COD franchise glory days is coming to an end. The same great formula can only be kept up for 
 so long in an overly pupulated genre. Make no mistake, COD3 is a good game, perhaps a great game 
 but compared to its predeccessors there should have been much much more and its a real shame that 
 the third-and hopefully final-Call of Duty could not live up to the name set by the past 2 COD 
 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theironmanmatt
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 9, 2007 10:47 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3 will definitely not disappoint any army or first person shooter fans, but it certainly 
 could have been better.
  
  You play as Private Doyle and you basically go battle the axis and make your way through different 
 battlefields
  
  The good: excellent graphics; good representation of army battles; new kits to select from on multiplayer; 
 easy-to-use controls; very cool and realistic melee system; the gameplay can be quite addicting; 
 great, detailed and large multiplayer levels
  
  The Bad: could be more of a storyline; should be more to it than just constant firing away at the 
 enemy; no AI bots on multiplayer
  
  Overall this is a pretty good game that you will most likely enjoy, especially if you are fans 
 of first person shooters or army games! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Daredeviljeff
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 9, 2007 5:53 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3 is a WWII game that makes you feel like you are actually there!
  
  Pros: Great visuals, Innovative melee system, exceptionally realistic enviroments, drive-able vehicles 
 tht are surprisingly addictive steer around, excellent voice-over, realistic and excelent firearms, 
 astonishing character models, makes you feel as if you are really there due to the realistic enviroments 
 and 1st person view, even during in-game videos, lengthy campaign, each individual soldier has 
 their own personality
  
  Cons: No AI bots, the story is rather hard to follow and isn't very interesting, can get a bit 
 boring after a rather short period of gameplay 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Konstantinos145
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 9, 2007 8:01 am PT
Review:  This game is very addicting and fun, first lets start off with Single Player, SP is good, its fun, 
 and great to start before competeting online, there are quite a bit of achievments, for Single 
 Player.
  
  Now for Multiplayer (Xbox Live) Fun And Addicting, If your a bit achievment guy, i suggest you 
 start playing Ranked Matchs, all the achievments for Multiplayer are for Ranked Matches Online 
 there isn't really hard achievments in the game, the only one i think is one for beating Single 
 Player on Veteran, but Most Multiplayer Achievments are get a overall score of some sort, so you 
 should get them over time of playing ranked matches, anyways, I recommend this to all FPS fans 
 out there!
  
  Cya Later 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prsorensen
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 25, 2007 9:39 am PT
Review:  I would buy this game only for the multiplayer- it is worth it just for that. I have not even taken 
 the time to go throught the single-player campaign. Beware though, it can be addictive playing 
 this on Xbox Live. Your mom, dad, wife, husband will not be happy.
  
  Call of Duty 2 multiplayer is great, but Call of Duty 3 is 10 times better and you can get a lot 
 more people on at the same time. I love the ability to choose different roles and choose very different 
 ones depending upon the map that I am playing and the maps are great. I can't wait for them to 
 come out with additional maps.
  
  If you like first-person shooter games, you'll love COD 3! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: haloplayer11
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 8, 2007 1:06 pm PT
Review:  God i knew i was going to love this game, but when i played 30 min through it and was getting shot 
 through boxs and walls and in the sky and everywhere, i was deeply disappointed, i mean like throwing 
 the game out the window disappointing. THERE ARE SO MANY GLITCHES ITS NOT FUNNY. I get shot everywhere, 
 the AI of my friends and enemys or anything moving is gay just running around theres always a glitch. 
 I do everything, and when my friends acually do something, they spaz out by standing 5 feet away 
 from cover and stand like there in it, or just freeze there after the battle, or just stand in 
 front of a german and aim (while geting shot by everyone and still not shooting!) This is so much 
 like COD2 gameplay wise but tuned up graphics, a sort of awsome multiplayer, and A LOT more glitches. 
 The glitches just ruined the game for me. You can think what you want, but im sticking with COD2 
 on this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jameogameo
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 8, 2007 1:01 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3 is still a very good game in its own right but unfortunately is too similar to its 
 predessesor. The gameplay is basically the same apart from a pretty pointless edition of close 
 up combat fights with enemies at different stages of the campaign. The sound is as good as ever, 
 very authentic, great atmosphere! Although the graphics are highly detailed and good to look at 
 the characters look out of place compared to their surroundings. The campaign is relatively lengthy 
 and will definately keep you entertained for at least a week or two, however It did drive my paience 
 a little at the end. My opinion is that Call of Duty is a great WWII shooter but some slight errors 
 have prevented it from being a classic. If you have owned Call of Duty 2 you won't miss much if 
 you choose not to buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mfacek
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 8, 2007 12:25 pm PT
Review:  Call Of Duty 3 is a great game. Its fun, immersive, and and overall a superb game. The multiplayer 
 is alright and fun to play but the real fun is found in the many campaign levels. The levels are 
 well designed, fun, and immersive. The game almost puts you in the shoes of a solider. The levels 
 are so good you'll believe you were there. The sound in the levels are great too. The whoosh of 
 machine gun bullets moving past, the explosions of artillery shells and the sound of anti aircraft 
 batterys are all around you. This game is worth buying to say the least. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: L0n3W01F
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 8, 2007 6:47 am PT
Review:  Call of duty 3 is one hell of a FPS game, smooth frame-rate, classic old school shooting and a 
 decent story should be more than enough for you to get this game.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Keeping in mind that i am not familiar with Call of Duty 2, i have only played Call of Duty and 
 i really loved it, Call of Duty 3 plays not much different from the previous games but we have 
 to admit that world war games will never grow old even if they are all brought from different angles. 
 The gameplay of COD 3 is pretty exciting, i mean it will not bore you weather your our in the field 
 on inside houses clearing up the Krauts. Nice collection of weapons, smoke gernades, frag gernades, 
 everything is in it. Also the tank thing is great. The tank controls might be a little confusing 
 at first but eventually you'll get the hang of it. Over all the gameplay is superb and you'll really 
 love it if your into FPS shooters and old COD games. Although you might have to mind some minor 
 bugs and glitches; player getting stuck in some object, team mate acting like a drunk person etc.
 
  
  Graphics:
  
  What can you expect from the 360? Even though we haven't seen anything from this console yet but 
 still the graphics of this game are mind blowing, amazing textures, cool animations, bodies flying 
 cuz of gernades, soldiers losing their helmets cuz of sniper shots. The special effetcs like moving 
 of the amazing grass, rain and water effetcs, smoke effects and lots of other things that i can't 
 remember right now are really really great,
  
  Sound:
  
  Just like all COD games or any other WWII game, the sound intensity is great including the realistic 
 sound effects of weapons, nice speech acting. The music is great and helps you move along with 
 the situation of the game.
  
  Value:
  
  The multiplayer fills up this hole.
  
  Overall:
  
  Just go an buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Obi-Wan678
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 7, 2007 5:56 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3 puts you in the frontline as various characters from various groups. As the Americans 
 you play as Private Nichols of the US 90th Infantry Division, as the British you play as Sgt. Doyle 
 of the British SAS, Canadians as Private. Cole of The Argyll and Sutherland Highlanders of Canada 
 (Princess Louise's) , Polish as Cpl.'Bohater' Woychek of the Polish 1st Armoured Division, and the 
 French Resistance which help you when you play as the British Army.
  
  GamePlay - The single player campaign focuses on the Normandy breakout campaign following the landings 
 at Normandy, and depicts battles from the perspectives of United States and Canadian soldiers, 
 British SAS operatives dropped behind German lines to support the Maquis, and Polish tank crews.
 
  
  The player takes control of a single soldier in each respective army, who, aside from a name used 
 to identify them when other characters are speaking, is left without personality or voice. Each 
 individual level gives the player objectives relating to whichever army the player is currently 
 a part of; for example, the United States and Canadian armies assault, capture, and hold facilities 
 and towns, while the British SAS and Maquis sabotage German supply lines, and the Polish tankers 
 battle German Panzer divisions. As the campaign progresses the player takes part in several battles 
 that depict parts of the closing of the Falaise pocket, including battles at Mount Ormel, Chambois, 
 and Saint-Lambert-sur-Dives.
  
  The Player has access to various guns, from whether it would be when he would get it from a dead 
 soldier or simply switch to another weapon. Grenades are here and are a force to be reckon with. 
 At times enemies may throw you a grenade and you can either run away to throw it back, but if you 
 throw it too late the grenade will explode on you and will either severly hurt your character or 
 kill your character. An icon of a grenade will show in the center of the screen, the closer you 
 are to it the clearer the Icon becomes and vice versa, when the icon changes to a hand with a grenade 
 inside, that means that you can now throw it.
  
  A new feature in the game is where you and a German will engage in a fight with only a weapon keeping 
 each men from making the final blow. Pressing the Right and Left Triggers simultaneously will aid 
 you and press a button at random. This are a good concept but could've used some more depth. You 
 can also use your weapon as a melee attack to hurt any enemies that are at point blank range, usually 
 resulting in an instant kill.
  
  Also when the need to place a bomb arises, it won't be a simple press one button and let the character 
 fuse it his own. You'll have to press the buttons presented in the screen and rotate the right 
 analog stick clockwise. Then a timer will show itself telling you how much time is left for you 
 to get out of the blast radius and how long it will take to explode. Other times the bomb will 
 now explode till a certain objective has been met.
  
  Your life is not seen at all until you get hit, which is basically a circle with an arrow indicating 
 where you've been hit and what's the damage, when your life is critical the screen will turn red 
 and you'll be prompted to take cover, fortunately it doesn't take long to recover to full health. 
 No more than 5 seconds or so.
  
  The AI in the game is somewhat poor in the easy and normal difficulty, mainly they pop out, fire, 
 then take cover, repeat. However when they get the chance they may hit you with their weapon if 
 your close enough. They tend to sometimes well hidden that you won't even know where they are, 
 until you've been shot.
  
  Now in the Hard and Veteran difficulty, the AI is ridiculously high, smoke grenades hardly prove 
 effective especially on Veteran as it has little or no effect. Even the best CoD Player may have 
 a hard time with Veteran as certain death is basically everywhere.
  
  However it does have some minor and annoying glitches in the SinglePlayer. Sometimes you may need 
 to crouch to avoid enemy fire, then when you need to move your character he gets stuck and may 
 take some effort to get him out, if not then restart the last checkpoint or level, depending on 
 how far you've gone.
  
  Players can also drive vehicles as well and man any firearms they contain. Usually you'll be the 
 one driving, it's fairly simple and tough, but the vehicles feel slow sometimes even though your 
 putting the throttle to the max. Overall it's a nice and smooth experience. Tanks can also be driven, 
 you can fire the turret or the machine gun inside, they're durable and tough but don't be too cocky, 
 since with enough ballistics and explosions thrown at you, it won't last long.
  
  In addition to the single-player campaign, Call of Duty 3 features a wide-range of multiplayer 
 modes for players to participate in - each allowing up to 24 Players in a single match, three times 
 the limit that impeded Call of Duty 2 on console platforms. All team game modes feature the soldiers 
 of the Allied nations versus those of the Axis. The game features six game modes, five of which 
 are team based, and one individual
  
  Graphics - Graphics are just simply beautiful, it makes you feel as if your part of a real war, 
 every detail is there, explosions, gunfire, smoke, you name it, it's all there and you'll just 
 love it. Though as I said many of your companions look all the same only that the main ones, have 
 slight variations, as one doesn't wear a helmet, has his sleeve rolled up, etc... Sound - Simply 
 excellent, everything sounds as though as it should, yet again firearms, explosions all that have 
 the right sound to feel for them. The Character's voices all match to their origin and army, the 
 playable character however rarely speaks if at all, since you only see things through his eyes, 
 you really can't tell what he's doing as he may only nod or you may have control of his head movement 
 in cinematics.
  
  Back to the Sound the music is what you would expect it to be, noble and heroic for winning situations, 
 or quiet and peaceful for when a shootout hasn't begun yet, overall sound is the best part of the 
 game.
  
  Value - Well the SinglePlayer campaign is no more than maybe 8 hours for you to finish or less, 
 but it has an addicting feel to it that may lead you to play it again. For Multi-Player it's fun 
 and addictive though constant lagging and such ruin the experience, but if you think you could 
 put up with those then it's worth it.
  
  Tilt - Simply, I just love it, minor glitches and ridiculously high AI on Veteran are what bring 
 it down a bit but overall I enjoyed the game and still play it from time to time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_lost_knight
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 7, 2007 3:24 pm PT
Review:  I just got my new xbox 360, this is my first game, and hey it completely changed my mind about 
 shooting games, i used to hate it . but hey, its worth it, trust me. I can't tell you anything 
 about multiplayers, since i haven't tried it yet. One thing about this game is its difficulty level, 
 it changes A LOT , when you go to a higher level. The enemy will be accurate, finds you faster, 
 hit you almost wherever you go. So basically don't worry about the games difficulty level, you 
 ll get use to EASY in an hour or if your an expert maybe a lot faster. basically you can just work 
 up the difficulty levels. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slappybag69
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 7, 2007 1:58 am PT
Review:  This is a great game, just like all the ones before it. I am so tired of hearing how the WW2 Shooters 
 are played out. This game is awsome, the sound effects are great, the graphics are amazing and 
 it is a hell of a good time. I was a little disapointed in the multiplayer portion of the game. 
 It seems that their are more clans and teams on the PC. I mean come on, whats ot to love about 
 sneaking up on a german soldier taking a leak and then ending his day, Great fun there. I would 
 and have recomended this game to anyone. Hope you have fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: random_guy561
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 5, 2008 8:50 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3 for the PS3 and Xbox 360 is treyarch's best WW2 themed shooter to hit the stores. 
 The graphics are some what breathtaking and the sound just blows your head off. The good: Amazing 
 graphics with detailed enviroments, also immense sound which has come from all the latest Call 
 of Duty titles and a fantastic squad AI. The Bad: Quite short, and very easy, a difficulty level 
 would of been nice, close quater combat could of been more exiting and squad animations and glitches 
 as well as an extremely choppy frame rate on the PS3 version.
  
  You start of in a american base camp where Pvt Huxley does a quick tutorial to show you how to 
 do things. Soon, you are in a truck with your squad when suddenly the truck gets hit and you find 
 yourself on the outskirts of Saint Lo. A man gets you over the wall as you enter one one the greatest 
 firefights of today. The levels are fairly long and very exiting and the best level has to be Saint 
 Lo or Mayenne Bridge which are extremely realistic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RangedReCoN
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 5, 2007 7:35 pm PT
Review:  I was counting down the days until this game came out, literally I was obsessed with it before 
 it even came out.
  
  The day the game came out I was so excited. I popped the disc in and I was in for excitement, hell 
 the graphics were good but the sound well with the guns such as the M1 Garand could have been more 
 deep and loud. The game still has alot of glitches to work out and I mean ALOT.
  
  During The Forest map in the campaign, I swear that I killed all the enemies at the begginging 
 of the level but near the end somehow I look behind me and I see bullets coming through the building 
 at me and throught he hills from left over enemies I guess.
  
  The multiplayer is alright I mean it's pretty intense with all the action that goes on now but, 
 the weapons well they don't have enough ammo... I've noticed something with the M1 Garand though 
 that you spawn with 8/32 ammo but when you pick up a M1 Garand ammo from the ground somehow you 
 get around 100 bullets. So I guess That some of the weapons have major ammo glitches and I wish 
 the M1 Garand would spawn with 8/128 bullets again.
  
  Over all Call Of Duty 3 is alright but not perfect and they still have alot of glitches to iron 
 out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedRebel5
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 5, 2007 2:51 pm PT
Review:  This game is a heart pounding adventure from start to finish. The level design and graphics are 
 amazing. These amazing graphics will make the game extremely intense. It almost feels like you 
 are there actually fighting the battle. Another great thing about this game is where you participate 
 in actual hand to hand combat with German soldiers. The only problem that I can find with the single 
 player game is that it is way to easy. The multi player game is also very fun especailly when you 
 play with 20 plus people on Xbox live. This game is one of the best world war two games that I 
 have ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: surfer_1844
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 5, 2007 12:06 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 1 and 2 were some of the funnest WWII games out there way back when, and i loved playing 
 either online or just with my buddies on four player split screen, the fun times, the frustrating 
 times, and the single player wasn't that bad either. When Call of Duty 3 came out i was one of 
 the first to get it. I rushed home and popped it into my 360. I couldn't believe what i was playing, 
 the guns had a total re-working and looked phenomenal, the character models were great, the effects 
 were stunning and the battles were as intense as ever! i played through the whole single player 
 campaign in one sitting, mind you it was on medium difficulty, but thats how i like it; fun but 
 not frustrating. When i finally decided to call some friends over to play they were totally thrilled, 
 we started it up and immediatly two of their faces went dark, why is it so different?, how come 
 i cant choose my gun? why are there vechiles? why are there not any things you can hop over? why 
 is there a sprint button? i couldn't believe it! everything they said they hated about this new 
 entry into the series i loved! and my other buddy did to! It made the multiplayer matches absolute 
 mayhem with the detailed maps and artillery barrages, the spot-on sounds that immersed us into 
 the war. So my other two friends decided to try the single player... they loved it.... for some reason 
 they couldn't stand the multiplayer but the totally loved the single player mission, the theatrical, 
 adreanaline pumping battles, they were hooked.
  
  So the bottom line is this... no matter who you are, if you even decided to come to this page to 
 check it out because you either love WWII, FPS, or Call of Duty, get this game... you are guaranteed 
 to love a part of it.... and also find some friends that enjoy it as much as your and you will have 
 an absolute fantasmagorically Fungasmic Greatastastically Awesomeallytic time!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JParkes
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 5, 2007 9:43 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3 is the new game in the series. And completely different in story compared to COD2. 
 COD2 has campaigns, which you do each one at once. Yeah COD3 has this but one level in each campaign 
 at a time. Then it switches to a different campaign. I dont like this cause you dont feel as attached 
 to the story of the campaign. COD3 has some bad glitches like flying paper through the air :-/ 
 Shame, this game is good in everything else. Like Graphics and other things. When you shoot people 
 with a Thompson blood doesnt spurt out as much as in COD2, a part that made it feel realistic and 
 like your carrying a gun not a catapult. Yes, good game let down alot by the bad points. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GIJesse77
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 5, 2007 7:38 am PT
Review:  Well, when playing the game, you will see a mix of the 2nd and first call of duty. You will do 
 missons such as defend this place or go over here and blow this up or hook up with this unit, your 
 regular call of duty objectives. I know that there are pretty good FPS's on the 360, this one just 
 seems to go with the flow if you know what i mean. Its your regular point and shoot sort of thing, 
 take cover sometimes, does'nt do anything unbelievable. The defense missions are pretty cool, becuase 
 you will notice all these enemies swarming in at you and you just feel like an ultimate warrior 
 because your just killing thousands of them. I mean it, there are tons of onscreen enemies, so 
 you always have something to soot, the action does'nt stop. One thing that i thought was a bit 
 wierd is they brought that health mechanic back. Whenever you get shot, and you will get shot a 
 lot, you have to take cover and let your health heal up again. I dont know how you do this, mabye 
 back then they sent out thier officers with the master cheif armor, but it lacks realism. thats 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zombie44
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 5, 2007 6:27 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3, going back to Treyarch to develop the game, which is a bad move in my opinion, 
 decided to make a war game much like a Hollywood movie. Over the top action, dramatic (not really) 
 storyline, and a bad taste in your mouth. Story
  
  The story begins with you playing as an American in the 29th Division (the famous division native 
 to Virginia, led the attack at Omaha Beach on June 6) as they take the town of St. Lo. Soon after 
 the extremely violent battle, a confrontation begins between a seargent and the radio man. Stupid 
 basically describes it, because almost every other perspective, British and Canadian have the same 
 thing. Only the Polish don't have it, are they implying that Poland is the best...? Anyway there 
 are way too many fights starting between troops. The British missions involve blowing up lots of 
 88's and helping French Resistance. The Canadians notably hold a factory, and the Polish destroy 
 Tiger and Panzer Tanks. Then that's about it. In reality I really don't want to know what happens 
 next, because I've never played anything that acts like a Hollywood movie in WW2. 6/10
  
  Graphics
  
  The graphics are very much like Call of Duty 2, but in my opinion they're much 
 crappier. A lot of the reload animations have been altered, notably on the handguns in multiplayer. 
 It looks like the man has polio. The weapons have been changed to match those much like Call of 
 Duty: Big Red One, but unlike the last game, Call of Duty 3 lacks the diversity of firearms from 
 different countries. The Canadians and the Polish are using British weapons. If my history serves 
 me correctly, the Polish never got their hands on British weapons, they primarily had Russian weapons, 
 such as the Mosin Nagant by Cossack or Dragoon, but they never had Enfields. I'm sure the Canadians 
 had a variant of the American Enfield 1917, but not an Enfield No. 4. That reminds me, the weapons 
 are terrible in this. The M1A1 Thompson suffers from a destroyed bluing, leading the submachine 
 gun to appear just like a big piece of dull metal. Same goes with the Bren, it looks too shiny, 
 as if the developers weren't done creating texture on the weapon. The Enfield you use has a color 
 problem. Notably on one mission, I turned around. The stock literally went from a yellow color 
 to a solid black. Wow. 7/10
  
  Gameplay
  
  I got very angry at Call of Duty 2 last year. Every time I took cover, almost six grenades would 
 land my way. Unlike Call of Duty 3, you couldn't pick up grenades and throw them back. Finally 
 this has been changed, because if another friggin Kraut throws another potato masher (nickname 
 for the German Stick grenade) at me, I'm picking it up, running over to him, and shoving it in 
 his mouth. The gameplay is very good, although the game is too Hollywood, it's still fun. The driving 
 parts really kind've suck, because turning can be very difficult to do. They've integrated a cool 
 mini game thing where planting explosives and fighting hand to hand combat with a Kraut is fun. 
 I wish more games did this, because it brings another level of immersion. Recommendations include 
 having weapons jam, that certainly happened alot. Clean your weapon, the faster you press buttons, 
 the quicker he field strips and cleans and puts back together. Why isn't there more? Anyway the 
 gameplay is very good.
  
  8/10
  
  Sound
  
  Sound is pretty good. It's not much different from Call of Duty 2, other than the weapon sounds. 
 Acting sucks. Not much more to say.
  
  7/10
  
  Anyway, COD 3 is a lot like Call of Duty Big Red One. Unfortunately I hate that game. COD 3 is 
 very fun to play, but it definently does nothing to innovate the Call of Duty series nor any other 
 WW2 game. It's just there to fill the time gap between the past and the future of WW2 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -HCMF-
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 4, 2007 4:41 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay - CoD 2 on the 360 is hands down one of my favorite games of all time. I loved the single 
 player campaigns, and it's ability to draw you in and make you feel like you were there. CoD 3 
 should have expanded on that feel, but it falls short. The level design is not up to par with previous 
 installments, and I didn't feel like I was fighting a war until I got to the bridge level, and 
 even then The action was off - like when you are watching a movie and the voice is not matched 
 up with the video correctly - arg! The Multiplayer on the other hand is amazing. It's fast paced, 
 the addition of the tanks and jeeps is right on, and the level design is solid. Ranked matches, 
 however, are a huge let down. The game is broken. You cannot pick what server or what game to join. 
 You can pick what type and if you are lucky you are connected to a group after what seams to be 
 forever. Graphics - Good, not great. HL 2 had the destroyed war torn landscape down - you felt 
 like this was a real place that has seen much better days. It looked real. CoD 3, looks like it 
 was made with crayons. Some of the visual effects are nice - the grass, the smoke, and the particle 
 effects. The soldiers look like stiff old school GI Joes witch takes away from the feel of the 
 game. Sound - This is just amazing. Turn it up, games don't get much better.
  
  Value - The disjointed single player, and the problems connecting to a ranked match make this a 
 hard sell. I want to play it, I enjoy it - but trying to play it on-line will drive you nuts. At 
 first I gave this game a 9. o, but I was blinded but the want and desire to play a revved up more 
 version of CoD 2, but after playing the game for a month, I have to say a 6.3 is more like it. 
 I want to like it, I want to play it. I have a BA in History, and I love WWII, era history - but 
 this feels rushed to market. Wait till it's in the bargain bin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: impl0sion
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 4, 2007 2:32 pm PT
Review:  when you first turn on this game, and your in the base of the US army shooting helmets and throwing 
 grenades in an abandoned barn you really get a feel for how well they did with the graphics of 
 this game. every helmet is round, the ground isnt repetative textures and the water is beatutiful- 
 better than gears of war's. but as the game progresses, and your hiding behind broken walls, you 
 are p close to the surfaces, making the detail look poor. on the other hand, they've cracked the 
 smoke- looks really real.
  
  The gameplay is probarbly the highlight of the game- its so innovative. you could be rapidly pressing 
 the triggers to fend off a german in close combat, or you could be the spotter on the back of a 
 tank with a pair of binoculars, or driving a jeep through french forests.
  
  The shootouts are special. they are long, intense and immersive. its a bit like gears of war just 
 more raw. you dont have the computer hide bbehind stuff for you, and you dont zoom in as much as 
 you do in GoW, giving a more realistic perspective.
  
  One thing that particulaarly bugged me: your charachter has a crippling disability to open doors. 
 gets very annoying in places.
  
  When I first put in this game, it took me around 30 minutes to get accustomed to the controls. 
 However, m dad had a go and it took him over 30 minutes, so the learning time varies from person 
 to person. If you are used to playing console fps's then youll be right at home.
  
  Overall, id rate this as the best WWII game on a console. apparently the xbox live is good on it, 
 i personally havent tried it yet. my tip: get this game, its one of those you want in your collection. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brownthrilla
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 3, 2007 6:06 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3 is much like its preticesor. Call of Duty 3 is a WW2 shooter. Storymode is great 
 but short. Online however is fun. 24 players makes many possibilities for a game. Online, there 
 are the classic modes (Deathmatch, Capture the Flag, Team Deathmatch, etc.) . There is, however, 
 one new mode called War. It's a mixture of Team Deathmatch, Capture the Flag, and Headquarters (from 
 Call of Duty 2) . There are come problems with the online though. You can't, if not, almost can't 
 join a ranked match. Also, people with wirless routers, like myself, will find themselves struggling 
 to get into games. Just try joing games with a low number of people if you are having this problem. 
 People will join the room you're in eventually. Overall, drivable vehicles, airstrikes, 24 player 
 online, you better bet this games is good! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Taylo234
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 3, 2007 11:25 am PT
Review:  The game play, they have put vehicles in online play and the story line goes along with the first 
 and second. Its amazing how highly detailed this game is. Along with tanks and heavy Armour vehicles 
 are anything from small but fast motorcycles or to huge heavy armored tanks. This game is amazing 
 and there is no turning this game down. Although i have to say, if you haven't play the first nor 
 second COD than this will take some getting use to. Anyway, this game is worth buying and has the 
 best online play, which also includes 2 people from the same x-box360 online to play at once. Not 
 many games include that outstanding feature! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 3eyedrazorback
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 3, 2007 10:35 am PT
Review:  Single Player: Well, i hit it off with this game and i haven't really found the time to actually... put 
 it down! You start off just learning the basics like you do in pretty much every game, but after 
 that... BOY!.... you're in for one heck of a ride in the first mission! When i got to that point... i 
 was like, DANG!!!!! This is nothing like 2! I mean, you're getting fired at from everywhere and 
 it's just crazy and it really does live up to the name they gave it saying that it really does 
 feel like you're in a war because there's soooo many people shooting. It really does feel like 
 a full scale war, like it actually was, that you're playing. The graphics are amazingly stunning. 
 I figured Treyarch wouldn't have been able to pull that kind of stuff off since Big Red One wasn't 
 that big, but i stand corrected and i'm definitely happy i do! I mean it's crazy how the leaves 
 from the trees and stuff cast shadows directly in proportion from where you're looking at them... The 
 only thing i wish this franchise would have, is to actually show blood coming off of the character 
 and show where they got shot and actually have them bleeding out on the ground. And when a grenade 
 blows up close to someone, i wish it'd actually show what it'd really be like and someone losing 
 a leg or half the body or something like in a REAL war. So i definitely wouldn't mind them moving 
 up a rating to M to make it a TON more realistic.
  9.2/10
  
  Multiplayer/Online: It's big, it's fun! 24 players in a room can cause for some chaos, and i'm 
 sure glad it does:) as a matter of fact, i'll probably go play it right now...
  9.0/10
  
  Overall- 9.2/10
  Must Own 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geodisicdome
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 3, 2007 10:14 am PT
Review:  call of duty 3 is intense, fast pased and visually stunning. these positives and many others, for 
 me, make call of duty 3 on the xbox 360 the best world war shooter to date not just on the xbox 
 360 but on all consoles.
  
  i have been a fan of the call of duty franchise since first playing the origional call of duty 
 on the PC, and things seem to have gone from strength to strength.
  
  the things which have really changed in call of duty over the years are the enviroments. call of 
 duty 3 takes things to a new level with stunning graphics throughout, and the locations themselves 
 are much more interesting than previous games in the franchise.
  
  the game play is solid, though there are visible glitches from time to time which can be a bit 
 annoying.
  
  all in all this is a fantastic game with a cinematic feel and a fairly long single player campaign, 
 strongly recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reptiler1
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 3, 2007 9:34 am PT
Review:  a great game but i think that there should be a game where you can play with the germans because 
 it's always the allies we already know they won so it'll be good.
  
  The online feature... it is great but i think its better on the pc well at least on call of duty 
 2 was.
  
  jajaja... it looks like a review of bad game but it's not Now the good part; it's good we can play 
 as polish, canadian, american and british so we could know what happened with everyone involved 
 in that war.
  
  This games has excellent graphics it looks almost real the gameplay is great too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godnos
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 3, 2007 4:54 am PT
Review:  i think that call of duty 3 is a good game overall but there are some pointsd to be made, firstly 
 the gameplay this is good and bad good because of the surroundings etc and bad because of the constant 
 german machine gun fire and all of the little bits in the missions where you have to turn the valves 
 or row the boat etc. this is what makes the game bad also its lack of shooting comes into play 
 aswell because every other call of duty i have played has the actual feel to it e. g. call of duty 
 2 the russian campagin, you feel like you are outnumbered and you will probably die where as call 
 of duty 3 doesnt have the same feel sorry activision but a very disapponting game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sykoboy46
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 2, 2007 5:51 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3 is a great WWII game that takes place in France. Campaign mode is probably the best 
 part of this game because of the gameplay. Although the story line gets a little hard to follow 
 because you play as 4 different countries throughout the game but for the same side. in call of 
 duty 3 (COD3) there is a new feature where you go into a hand to hand combat / interactive movie 
 during campaign mode. it only happens about 4 times throughout the game but its a nice touch. what 
 happens is you usually get caught off guard and an enemy gets in your face and you repeatedly press 
 the triggers and other buttons to fight him off. For the 360 the achievements for campaign are 
 actually a lot of fun to try and complete. They also give you a decent gamerscore for them also. 
 through beating the game once you can probably get around 350 gamerscore. the multiplayer is about 
 the same as COD2. the rannking system for xbl live is just like military ranks in real life and 
 you obtain these ranks by killing and capturing flags and etc... In my opinion the Campaign in 
 COD3 is 10x better than the multiplayer. online in COD3 people tend to just camp in one spot with 
 a MG42 (full auto machine gun) or a springfield (sniper rifle) although if you really get into 
 it the multiplayer can be loads of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CJL120120
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 2, 2007 5:09 pm PT
Review:  The Call of Duty series is arguably one of the most successful WWII FPS franchises going today, 
 and most of you probably know there's no shortage of those kind of games. If anything there's too 
 much of them, which makes it even harder to make a good, enjoyable, and rememberable experience 
 out of such a game. The previous installment, Call of Duty 2, was each of those things plus so 
 much more. The intensity and chaos of the 2nd installment left alot of the 3rd game to live up 
 to. Even more so since the game was put in the hands of Treyarch this time around, the makers of 
 the not-so-great Call of Duty: Big Red One. Thankfully, this game did not follow those footsteps, 
 but it didn't exactly follow Call of Duty 2's footsteps either.
  
  In Call of Duty 3, as in the previous game, you are put in the shoes of several different soldiers 
 from different Allied forces, only this time throughout the Normandy Breakout, the events following 
 D-Day. None of your characters ever talk, but they do have names and certain squads they follow, 
 giving them some sense of identity, but still placing you in the front seat. Call of Duty 3 goes 
 much deeper in terms of characters and story (even though the story is a historical event) than 
 the last game. Treyarch tried to give you some emotional connection to many of your comrades throughout 
 the game, mostly through their interaction with each other. This actually works rather well, while 
 it does seem cheesy and half-hearted at first. By the end of the game you'll probably grow a liking 
 to good ol' Hux and Frenchie. It also does a good job of explaining the Normandy Breakout itself, 
 as well as your part in it. All this puts you that much more into the game.
  
  Characters aside, the actual fighting was what made Call of Duty 2 such a great game. The 3rd game 
 very obviously tried to mimic the realism and intensity of the 2nd game's combat. In some ways 
 it excels, in others it fails. It excels in that the battles are much more chaotic this time around, 
 as well as on a larger scale. Much more soldiers can fill the battlefield this time around (and 
 usually do.) The chaos around you feels natural for the most part, even though alot of events are 
 scripted. The shooting itself however is a little lacking compared to last year's game. A sense 
 of satisfaction is missing, and it just feels like something is missing overall. But it is by no 
 means bad, any fan of the 2nd game will enjoy it, just maybe not be blown away as much as they 
 were that time around. It's all excellent shooting action, just with some of the novelty worn off 
 if you've played the 2nd game. But of course, higher difficulties may help this for some players. 
 Another interesting aspect added to the single player is the much hyped close quarters combat, 
 in which you and a German soldier fight to the death over a single gun at any given time. Though 
 you're almost guaranteed to win every one of these (unless you have exceptionally slow trigger 
 fingers, through which this is all done) it's actually a pretty exciting event. It only occurs 
 about 5 times throughout the game though. Another interesting change is you become more involved 
 in your characters actions. Instead of just pressing X to plant an explosive, you'll press X, press 
 another button to put the pin in, rotate the right stick to screw it in, and press another button 
 to pull the pin. During which time outside noise lowers and you hear your characters breath and 
 hearbeats. This is actually very intense when there's a fight going on around you, except for one 
 realization... it seems that you can't be shot, or at least can't die, while doing this. This takes 
 away the excitement of it and turns it in to just pressing more buttons. It is more interesting 
 than pressing X though.
  
  Call of Duty 2 had notably excellent sound and great graphics, and this game is no different. Every 
 character model looks great and detailed, the explosions all looks devastating, and the environments 
 are perfectly done to put you in the middle of a war-torn battle. The sound is spectacular as well. 
 The roar of a turret, the screams during battles, an exploding tank, an overhead plane flying by, 
 it all sounds great. However, it seemed to me that volume was an issue. While the explosions sound 
 great, they don't really sound loud enough and it takes some effect away. Character voices seem 
 a bit too loud in comparison, as well as the sound of your own gun. It isn't a major issue though 
 and the sound remains a stand-out of the Call of Duty series.
  
  Last year's multiplayer was small-acaled 4 on 4 battles in maps a little to large for such an amount. 
 The multiplayer in this game is the most changed and definetly most improved since then. The size 
 is inscreased to 12 on 12, the maps are all huge and very well done, and a new game mode, War, 
 has been added. In War, there are 3-5 areas on the map marked by flags. Each team starts out with 
 either 1 or 2 of them, and the middle one is up for grabs. The object is to capture each area one 
 at a time until your team has them all. This works very well and proves to be alot of fun. There 
 are now character classes as well instead of just starting weapons as in the last game. There are 
 about 8 in total, including Riflemen, Assault troops, Scouts, Medics, Support Gunners, and more. 
 Each class has it's own primary weapon (which cannot be swapped) and a secondary pistil (which 
 can.) Also, each class has it's own items assigned to the bumper buttons instead of just grenades. 
 FOr example, Riflemen have rocket grenades, Light Assault troops have a sticky grenade and a mine, 
 Scouts have a grenade and binoculars, and so on. You are also now able to run for a short time 
 by clicking the left thumbstick, but you cannot shoot while you do. And perhaps the biggest addition, 
 vehicles. Tanks, motorcycles with side cars, 3 man jeeps and more are all available with the press 
 of a button. Yet another, if not minor addition is ranks in games. Depending on how you're doing 
 in a game, you will be promoted from private to corporal to sargeant, with the appropriate icon 
 to match. This doesn't really do much other than show your teammates where you stand on the team 
 and give you some bragging rights, but it's a nice addition nonetheless. All these plus the great 
 maps and game modes make a great new multiplayer game. Unfortunately and oddly enough, Call of 
 Duty 3 is a very buggy game. Characters will clip through things and skip around places. You will 
 often find yourself stuck or unable to move unless you jump or duck, for no real reason. It isn't 
 a huge issue and doesn't really affect the overall game but it can get annoying, and really it 
 shouldn't be an issue at all. The bugs are very obvious and how it was left overlook is beyond 
 me, but it's tolerable. A patch would be nice, but things like this shouldn't make it past production 
 in the first place. Not a major problem though. Call of Duty 3 proves to be a great game with some 
 shortcomings. It will please most fans of the series if they don't set their expectations too high 
 to be as blown away as they were by the 2nd one, and will probably please most newcomers to the 
 series who are fans of the genre. Another fine installment of the Call of Duty series for all you 
 Yankees and Krauts out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sogsifu
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 8, 2007 9:22 am PT
Review:  Single player: After playing and loving Call of Duty 2 for the X box 360, I would have been satisfied 
 with a follow up game picking up where #2 left off. However, what you get, if your a true Call 
 of Duty fan, is BIG DISAPPOINTMENT!!. The story plots were boring. You never felt continously immersed 
 in the gameplay. The additions such as priming the explosives and the hand the hand combat just 
 make you feel even more annoyed. It is also full of errors where you will find troops walking in 
 the air. When making this game, they forgot their formula of gameplay that brought the call of 
 duty success. It felt like the down fall of the Medal of Honor series after previous great games. 
 The few positives that the game did provide was the destructible environments and use of a mortar. 
 However, this wasn't enough to bring this game back from failure. Buy Call of Duty 2 instead and 
 hope that the developers would go back to the original format on their next attempt. Where this 
 game does succeed is in the multiplayer!!!! Not perfect, has you still have opponents that seem 
 to have magically jackets to protect them and are able to kill you with one shot, but an awesome 
 experience that makes this game worth it. Unlike call of duty 2's multiplayer which seems faded, 
 and plagued with issues, call of duty 3 brings you what you'd expect from this franchise. It would 
 have been nice to see more choices of which side to be on instead of only American or German. Also, 
 in my opinion some of the weapons seem to be given a greater effectiveness slant towards the German 
 weapons ( ie a k98 (8mm) killing you with one shot compared to a .3006 BAR almost taking a full 
 mag to kill) . This can be fustrating. The Greatest improvement was the scoring taking to account 
 how many times you died. This makes the game more realistic has you don't see other players just 
 trying to get kills and not worring about dying. Buy Call of duty 2 for single player, must buy 
 Call of duty 3 for multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bupp
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 1, 2007 7:15 pm PT
Review:  The Call of Duty series is well known for its unmatched intensity and realism. The Call of Duty 
 games feature some of the loudest and most frantic firefights I have ever played through. The first 
 game broke new ground for the WWII genre (as strange as that may sound) and the sequel upgraded 
 the game with amazing visuals and even better audio. The third Call of Duty game looks and sounds 
 even better than the previous one. The gameplay is also very good, although it's been pretty much 
 unchanged, which may be good or it may be bad.
  
  The gameplay in CoD 3 is pretty much identical to CoD 2, which was pretty similar to CoD. The core 
 gameplay is pretty simple shooting from behind cover. There are a few additions which have some 
 appeal, but nothing drastic has been done to change the formula.
  
  The most notable changes to the gameplay include the new interactive activities such as rowing 
 boats, driving cars, placing charges, and beating the snot out of Nazis with the butt of your gun. 
 Save for rowing boats, these are all pretty neat and/or enjoyable, but none of them are very spectacularly 
 unique. The melee combat is very simple and it's always a scripted event. You can never just, on 
 a whim, decide to run up to a Nazi and engage in intense melee combat. The melee combat is neat, 
 but it's a very minor gameplay element.
  
  I suppose that many will consider it a good thing that the game has not changed much. I think the 
 game is still very fun and I've played it for hours, but I would've liked to see a few more changes, 
 just so that there was more to distinguish this game from its predecessors than the graphics. Still, 
 the game is lots of fun to play.
  
  Another (very minor) complaint I have with the gameplay is the frequentness of cutscenes. In CoD 
 3, to progress the story you are often taken out of gameplay and forced to sit through a short 
 movie. This would be OK (it happens in tons of games) except these cutscenes are never very interesting 
 and they usually just break up (and take you out of) the action. Still, this is a minor complaint 
 and it's not something that should way too heavily into your decision about whether or not to get 
 this game.
  
  Graphically, this game looks amazing. Character models are astoundingly realistic and beautiful 
 environments are often destructible. The guns look amazing and all of the effects, such as smoke 
 and explosions, look spectacular. A new addition I really like is the occasional rag doll effect 
 on dead bodies which makes them fall down dead more realistically. Another great addition is the 
 way your view shakes and moves realistically when you perform actions such as reloading. The screen 
 will shake about as your character moves his head around. Reading this, that may not seem very 
 impressive, but it really adds to the realism and intensity of the game. The only issue with the 
 graphics is that there are occasional clipping errors with the rag doll effects.
  
  The greatest thing about the newest CoD is, as usual, the audio. The audio in CoD 3 is amazingly 
 loud and adds to the intensity more than anything else. If you turn the volume up on your TV, you 
 will feel as if explosions are really going off around you. It's almost deafening and it's a great 
 part of this game.
  
  Another great part of this new game is the multiplayer. There are a variety of different modes 
 in which up to 24 players can participate. This makes for very chaotic and enjoyable multiplayer 
 action. In addition, there are driveable vehicles, making the action even more ridiculous (in a 
 good way) .
  
  Call of Duty 3 is a very fun WWII shooter that successfully lives up to the Call of Duty name. 
 It doesn't do anything remarkably new with the series, but it takes an already excellent formula 
 and polishes it, making a World War II shooter suitable for the next gen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SexyExplosion
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 1, 2007 3:35 pm PT
Review:  Pros:
  1. The Graphics
  -Not only are the great for a Call of Duty game, but for any next-gen game. The environments, the 
 characters, the weapons, all look amazing. The smoke effects look pretty amazing too.
  
  2. Drivable Vehicles
  -In one mission you get to drive a tank, how cool is that? This adds a 
 lot to the multiplayer aspect, aswell. Driving over your friends has never been so fun.
  
  3. The Audio
  -Probably the best in the genre to date. The sound of you truding through the forest, 
 your the way your M1 dings as it is out of ammo. It's awesome.
  
  4. Multiplayer
  -It's great. A variety of different modes, and can get up to 24 players. It's chaotic. But it's 
 also awesome. Oh yea, don't forget the driveable vehicles.
  
  Cons:
  1. Various Glitches
  -I can't tell you how many times I have gotten stuck in virtually nothing. 
 It takes me a while sometimes to get out, or sometimes I will just hold onto a 'nade until I die. 
 Also, sometimes Nazi's will go flying after being shot, it's funny, but it gets old too.
  
  2. Veteran Mode
  -You will want to do this mode, most likely just for the 150 point achievment. 
 It is insanely hard and you will want to kill yourself. I call this a con, not just because it 
 is hard, but because you will have no fun in this mode, it is stressful, yet you continue. All 
 in all, the game is amazing. It was the most realistic war game I have ever played, that is probably 
 due to the amazing graphics, though. Buy it, play it, love it. You won't be dissapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PopSuperFly
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 1, 2007 3:05 pm PT
Review:  Through the eyes of four Allied soldiers, Call of Duty 3 brings players closer than ever to the 
 fury of combat as they fight through the Normandy Breakout, the harrowing offensive that liberated 
 Paris and changed the fate of the world. In Call of Duty 3, new close-quarters battle mechanics 
 bring you face-to-face with your enemy. Fight hand-to-hand, disarm traps, improvise explosive devices 
 and execute a host of other battlefield challenges that require cunning and swift reflexes. Next-generation 
 level design provides multiple attack routes that let you decide how to confront the enemy. Each 
 choice you make requires you to use special tactics, from sniping and demolition to straight out 
 frontal assaults. And in online multiplayer battles of up to 24 players, gamers battle it out as 
 a variety of player classes, including riflemen, infantry, scouts and others. Multiple-occupancy 
 vehicles let you coordinate attacks with friends, driving while they fire a mounted machine gun 
 from the turret. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: obiwan168
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 1, 2007 2:35 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3 is a generally good World War 2 FPS. There are many good points in it. A fairly 
 good story line, for a world war 2 shooter. Interesting Characters. And of course intense close 
 quarters combat, World War 2 style. I was hugely dissapointed that it did not come out for PC though. 
 I have Never played any Call of Duty games on a console before, prefering to stick to PCs, but 
 i have to say, Call of Duty 3's gameplay is lagging behind that of Call of Duty 2. First off, I 
 have encountered some auto aim. I just hate Auto aim, it takes most of the skill out of FPS's. 
 Also i have noticed, sometimes then I try to aim at one person, the Auto Aim persists to try to 
 aim at a previous target, usualy resulting in my death. I don't know if this is a console only 
 thing, but i really do not like it. Second, i have encountered some bushes, that i can't walk through. 
 It is something that i have seen in older Medal of Honor games, which is why i like the Call of 
 Duty series more. The bushes seem to be what is keeping me inside the battle, but sometimes i don't 
 know that, and i run into it, trapped, and i am shot. The older Call of Duty games did better with 
 keeping you inside the battle ground. Using much more realistic things, like mines and barbed wire. 
 Third of all, the single player missions seem much more linear. In previous Call of Duty games, 
 it was also quite linear, but the map designs gave you the feeling that you were truely on a battlefield, 
 and allowed you to traverse over wide open areas. In Call of Duty 3, they allow to choose sometimes 
 if you want to do. Either flank, or attack head-on, but the path you would take was always too 
 straight forward. Now the Multiplayer aspect was hugely improved over the Multiplayer of Call of 
 Duty 2. It allows up to 24 players, has classes, special abilities, and a new mode called war. 
 It is amazing.
  
  So in short. Call of Duty 3 is lacking in Single player areas, but it's graphics and mulitiplayer 
 aspects are great. I believe if only they had released it on PC's it wouldv'e been the best in 
 the series. In the next game, if they include a PC version, and change the map designs, it would 
 be the best World War 2 shooter ever. But for now, i'll mainly just play this game for multiplayer. 
 Preferring to stick to Call of Duty 2 for my PC for the Single player mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedBull20
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 1, 2007 1:55 pm PT
Review:  Everything you want in a Shooter game Call Of Duty 3 will bring it to the table. it has the game 
 play, graphics and all out online fun that you look for in a game. tanks, jeeps, and motobikes 
 are also in the game and just add to the fun excitement and laughter.
  
  The game runs real smooth and graphics are very clean. the gameplay will keep you hooked for a 
 long time. this isnt a game youll want to play for a few days and then move on to the next. no, 
 no my friend. you will play this game for hours on ends day after day.
  
  I dont recomand this game for children under the age of 14. battles can get pretty heated if you 
 know what i mean. all in all this is a game you have to add if you liek WWI, WWII type shooters 
 or if your just a fan of war games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IONz
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 1, 2007 1:05 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3 will have you hooked from the first level. While it doesn't play much different 
 from its predecessor it still has some noticeable differences. the new graphics engine did a great 
 job of bringing this game to life. The game also sounds great. The storyline is short but linked 
 together very good. After You're finished with the story you can always retreat to the multiplayer. 
 The multiplayer has improved vastly from last year. It has some of the best multiplayer I've ever 
 played on a WWII shooter. If you're in need of a good FPS or you love WWII, This is a good addition 
 to your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ish_gibbor
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 31, 2006 9:05 pm PT
Review:  About 8-10 hours to beat. Rent first
  
  There were times I wish I had a mouse. Story - i don't even recall what the story was. Boring. 
 Gameplay - fun enough
  
  Graphics, pretty good, but textures are not that well compared to others games like kameo, pod, 
 gears. Sound - good stuff here. Lots of talking during battle I like that. If you like COD then 
 you will like this game, it is more of the same. I actually liked the new fight scenes, they are 
 different and suprising at times. The last battle was a disapointment. They should at least made 
 it feel harder, like it was a boss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TerminalEcho
Rating: 7.9
Date: Dec 31, 2006 12:40 pm PT
Review:  The Idea:
  Activision created the first great FPS on the 360 and tries to follow up with Call of Duty 3, which 
 is also released on several other systems.
  
  Graphics:
  Just like COD2, the graphics are top notch. The player models looks and act great with some fantastic 
 animations. The lighting effects are also great, and it's some of the small things that really 
 make the game stand out (large structures, individual blades of grass, dirt/explosion effects, etc.) .
 
  
  Gameplay:
  Again, top notch. Nothing really new here over the previous title, as the aiming system is identical. 
 You'll spend lots of time finding cover and hiding as your life recharges, and I'm happy to say 
 that the grenade danger indicator has returned, and it's used just as much as last time. AI is 
 still great, and they react very similar to how you would (finding cover, trying to flank, etc.)
 
  
  Sound:
  The sound department is by far the biggest improvement over COD2. Not that the sound was bad the 
 last time around, but you really feel like you're in a war with the new effects. The explosions 
 have a better crisp, and the weapons actually feel better to control with the new sounds. I was 
 very impressed that some of the guns from the last great war that were noted for their unreliability 
 actually do feel and sound rickety in COD3. Very nice.
  
  Value:
  Nothing really new to offer here. The campaign won't keep you busy for very long, and the multiplayer 
 can feel kind of unorganized at times, but can still be fun. Overall the replay value is also relatively 
 low.
  
  Fun Factor/Tilt:
  The campaign is fun and if you liked the controls in COD2, you'll be happy as not much has changed, 
 but the game really doesn't give you much to strive for after beating it. Multiplayer is fun, but 
 it's lacking some serious organization that keeps it from going over the top.
  
  Bottom Line:
  A fun game, yes; but not enough has changed from the last title to really give 
 this one a push in the ratings. The campaign just feels so thrown together as far as the story 
 goes, and you never really keep track of who you're playing as or for, which is a big problem over 
 the previous offering. It just needed something new to be as great as it could have been. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryanflyer
Rating: 4.2
Date: Dec 31, 2006 10:57 am PT
Review:  The graphics are low textured, guns look rubbish (trash if your american) , smoke effects look like 
 clouds and i could have probably draw better effects.
  
  the gameplay is slow, no cover options, you hardly ever die.
  
  The sound is okay actually 
 but... the gun sounds are a bit weedy and sound more like popping sounds.
  
  Overall i think this game is the worst in the series, you may not belive me or think i'm right 
 or you'll think i'm some kind of sony fanboy but no you'd be wrong.
  
  I am returning to the game store tomorrow and am trading it in for something better, such as a 
 12 pack of batteries or a rifle to shoot the developers that made this pile of rubbish (once again 
 trash if your american) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamnedude64
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 31, 2006 10:06 am PT
Review:  I love this game. I love it for the online play and the single player too. The online mode is really 
 great because there is ranks you can go up in. The better your rank is the more stuff you can do 
 in the game. I really hate the Wii version of this game. I like to zoom in on things to see if 
 they hold their detail and they do. Best graphics in a COD game. It is hard to join a game online 
 but when you do it is worth the wait. Anyone with a 360 should buy this game, the achivements are 
 good and sort off easy to get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gothcheese4444
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 31, 2006 7:14 am PT
Review:  This game was a well made mix of intense large scale battles, small house clearings, and medium 
 sized squad battles. Any game that can make a good mix of all these things is at least on 9.0 in 
 my opinion. You now play as the Americans, Canadians, Polish, and United Kingdom. something that 
 the creaters shouldn't have done is set the whole game in France, which surprisingly doesn't include 
 D-day. Don't worry, there's enough to keep you intrested. Online has been improved from 4 players 
 on each team to 12. And the new game mode war is perfect! You can now choose from a few different 
 classes that all have their own special abilities. For example medics can heal downed men and snipers 
 can call artillery strikes. because this game has so many great elements i give it a 9.4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swordsman117
Rating: 5.6
Date: Dec 31, 2006 2:19 am PT
Review:  As if theres not enough world war 2 shooters out there in this crowded genre, heres another one, 
 this time from developer Treyarch. The Call of Duty franchise has been running for at least three 
 years now. Ever since it started, Call of Duty has been emphasizing the fact that a soldier does 
 not fight alone and war, itself, is intense and bloody. So how does Call of Duty 3 stand out from 
 its previous franchise?
  
  Well, as a veteran with WWII shooters by now, youll still be mowing down virtual nazis throughout 
 the campaign and youll still be outnumbered by countless spawning enemies from all directions, 
 thats a fact. Call of Duty 3 does not reinvent the wheel but adds a few gimmicks. These so called 
 immersions are nothing more than button mashing (a la RE 4) . It is a love or hate situation which 
 sometimes can be frustrating but can be forgiven. The gameplay is standard. The objectives are 
 basically laid out in a Point A to B fashion. The player can never get lost. The missions would 
 be varied but its still mostly compose of seek and destroy, attack and defend and rescue missions. 
 This is not bad but theres nothing really new to it. There are also driving missions. The story 
 itself is not as captivating. It actually reminded me of Big Red One and in my perspective, the 
 genre has been done to death. There is really nothing new to offer. Nothing that really stands 
 out from the others. The graphics has been upgraded and receives a more darker tone. Its actually 
 hard to describe whats real when everything around is so hectic or blowing up. The blur effect 
 as you try to aim your sights is a nice touch. The environment, as Ive noticed, is somewhat destructible 
 to an extent. Something actually that surprise me is the smoke effects, it looked that real. Although 
 I hated the somewhat shiny effects on the weapons.
  
  Great graphics should come with great sound. COD3 does not disappoint in the sound department. 
 Its really loud, which is good. Who ever heard of a silent war? I mean this is not the Navy Seals 
 were talking about. Were talking about a full invasion of France with guns all blazing. Its got 
 to be noisy. Youll hear different chatter from other soldiers as explosions ring about. By the 
 time you finish the game, youll be deaf.
  
  The voice acting is the game is fairly good. There is too much emphasize on drama but ends up being 
 funny in the long run. You dont really feel emotion on characters that die and are about to die. 
 It gets too predictable at times. Sure, there are memorable moments in the game but you start asking 
 yourself can I stop driving now? instead of putting you on the wheel this time, why not ride 
 shotgun or man the machine gun. At least youre actually doing something. Nobody wants to drive, 
 everybody wants to shoot at something. Just ask the Halo players.
  
  There is also a problem with the AI. The enemy AI is smart and puts a good fight most of the time 
 but the problem is the team AI and some clipping issues. Occasionally enemies would clip in a flak 
 88 or walls. Making them easier to kill. Also, team mates would do this to but not as often. It 
 also gets frustrating when enemies would appear out of nowhere. It doesnt get worst than this, 
 probably the most annoying part is that you really cant skip the cut scenes. Overall, COD3, although 
 excels in other departments, lacks the depth of the previous COD franchise. Treyarch has taken 
 something that was use to be great and made it into a mediocre game in my standards. It has really 
 let me down. I would not a recommend this game as a must buy but just a rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pheonix8465
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 30, 2006 8:58 pm PT
Review:  The Call of Duty Franchise has always created great games, The sound on this game is excellent, 
 i loved the gun shooting it is so satisfying. The graphics were great too, a great improvement 
 from CO2. But the best part of this game is by far the multi player, with 24 people it is chaos. 
 Smoke Grenades are everywhere and you can just mow down people as a support machine gunnist. The 
 vehicles are fun to. Only problem is online is only fun with at least 12 people other wise its 
 boring cus the map s are built normally for more people. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mwc0422
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 30, 2006 2:31 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay - The gameplay is somewhat fun, but aiming is hard for some reason. Thank god that the 
 controls are the same as Cal of Duty 2 though.
  
  Gameplay : 8/10
  
  Graphics - The graphics are better than Call of duty 2 by far! The lighting and the textures on 
 the uniforms of the soldiers are amazing!
  
  Graphics : 9/10
  
  Sound - The sound is just incredible. The best part of the game. The shells coming off your tank, 
 the sounds of your empty clip, it is just gorgeous.
  
  Sound : 10/10
  
  Value - The replay value is good because alot of people play this game online. There are also alot 
 of game types.
  
  Value : 9/10
  
  I hope you enjoyed this review and it helps you make a decision to buy/rent this game or not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: haloxbox360
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 30, 2006 2:07 pm PT
Review:  When you start off in single player mode, you think wow calm and enjoyable, but then not too long 
 after everything is havic. In the first mission its hard to tell the germans from your allie but 
 good thing the friendly fire is on but that turns off by mission 3 or 4. But all in all the games 
 plays through well but some pretty annoying **** as your player getting stuck im between your fellow 
 soldies and ending up have to shoot them to restart. Good thing that only happened once or twice. 
 The single player mode gets you for online..... Woah the online play is crazy and totally is the 
 heart of the game and the main reason why you should buy it. With an unheard of 32 player field 
 the action never dies down. There are multiple multiplayer modes online and all are fun to. Also 
 if you have a friend over you can play 2 palyer just with them. The final thing I will say is that 
 the game is very good and for every xbox 360 owner it is a most have! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OoogieBoogie
Rating: 4.3
Date: Dec 30, 2006 12:34 pm PT
Review:  I hate Treyarch! Treyarch sucks at making Call of Duty games.
  
  I remember when the first Call of Duty came out, it was fantastic. The first shooter that had team 
 work from the A. I. The player was thrown into the gaming world by the simple ability of aiming 
 your weapon. It involved an English and RUSSIAN campaign. The second Call of Duty was a monster. 
 The graphics were better then Half-Life, there were an insane amount of characters on screen, and 
 the levels were HUGE! You had vague objectives, letting you make your own path to victory. You 
 could choose which area of the map you would take first, it allowed freedom.
  
  Those games were made by Infinity Ward and always came out for PC, except Call of Duty 2 also came 
 out for X-box 360 and it was still bad ass. Along with the PC series made by Infinity Ward were 
 the crappy console games made by Treyarch. They were linear, boring, looked, and played like **** 
 I didn't care back then because consoles at the time couldn't run good Call of Duties. However 
 I thought that Call of Duty 2 for X-box 360 would change this, I was wrong. Treyarch made another 
 lame ass, linear, corridor shooter, with a **** story line, and graphics that happened to get worse! 
 This game was clearly made for the Wii and lacked the depth of previous games. The game is simple, 
 press the left trigger to aim, then the right trigger to shoot, then follow your retarded team 
 mates. I was playing the Canadian missions and sat there and watched an entire row of random allied 
 characters run into a trench and one German killed them one by one, leaving me with a pile of badly 
 modeled rifles.
  
  **** YOU TREYARCH! **** YOU! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Little_Tommy_M
Rating: 5.9
Date: Dec 30, 2006 7:42 am PT
Review:  I brought COD3 pretty much because it came in cheaper than gears of war, and within 20mins of playing 
 i knew id made the wrong choice.
  
  Firstly, Im not going to trash this game for being on the rails, you buy a call of duty game and 
 you know you're going to be stuck on a path to some extent. COD2, which i also have, i loved and 
 i was expecting more of the same. i would have been perfectly happy with more of the same. Unfortunatly 
 it seems that Activision have 2 different teams working on these games, one of these created the 
 fantastic COD2 while one threw up the xbox's COD Big Red One. If you've played Big Red One then 
 you cant help but notice that COD3 ISNT a suquel to COD2. IT IS A SEQUEL TO COD BIG RED ONE. The 
 sound effects are very similar throughout, considering the limited variation possible in an on 
 the rails WW2 shooter this game feels completely different to COD2 and this is not a good thing. 
 It seems to be to do with the feel of the weapons and the storylines.
  
  The Weapons then, in COD2 when u fired a Thompson you knew you were firing a Thompson. that distinctive 
 clatter mixed with the superb vibration effect made everyweapon feel different. u could almost 
 judge the caliber of the bullet leaving the barrel from it. In COD3 the weapons look identical 
 to those in Big Red One, right down to the appearence of the aim function. the vibration is badly 
 implemented too and all this leads to weapons which just dont live up to COD2s.
  
  On to the story lines, now theres nothing wrong with a storyline in a WW2 shooter. but COD3 tries 
 to tell 4 at once and jumps between them randomly so you never really feel connected to any of 
 them. cheesy more than authentic somehow.
  
  The game mechanics. OOhhhh dear. This game is full of bugs. Ranging from simple oversights to frankly 
 bizzare acts of gravity defiance. Dont get me wrong, its almost funny when a nazi soldier takes 
 to the air and FLIES across the screen. But it gets old when this kind of thing happens this much. 
 Added to that the animation which occasionally slides your character across the ground to slot 
 in with the storyline ( sometimes sliding you THROUGH a wall or the side of your jeep ) There are 
 numerous other glitches, too many to list entirely. Granted they never truly halt the game but 
 they r so obvious that they completely destroy the games atmosphere.
  
  I'll end on a good note. The Graphics. COD3 looks really really good. It's the first game i've 
 seen that truly looks like an interactive movie in places. Its that good. Character models, scenery, 
 weapons skins, water, all presented in startling detail. the explosions are perhaps alittle blurry 
 looking but over all a great looking game. Unfortunatly this doesnt quite make up for the buggy 
 gameplay or the fact that this game seems to be a last generation shooter ( Big Red One ) massively 
 made over. If you liked Big Red One you will probably see through the bugs and love this. If you 
 loved COD2 then dont count on loving this cos it doesnt feel like a sequel.
  
  Oh and every single time you load a new checkpoint, from anywhere in a level, you'll have to watch 
 the cutscene you saw at the very beginning of that level. these cant be skipped and oh dear god 
 does it get boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sorean
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 30, 2006 7:25 am PT
Review:  I am a big fan of CoD2 so i went out and bought this because it looked amazing however i was very 
 let down.
  
  It is quite fun to play for an hour then it just gets annoying. It feels to restrictive. In CoD2 
 you could run and climb around everything which was awasome it made it feel free flowing un bound.
 
  Cod 3 is full of Set peices that are the same every time you do them nothing ever changes its 
 to restricted to be excepted as a good next gen shooter.
  
  The online multi player is quite fun the vehicles add an interesting twist to things. However, 
 in comperisson to CoD2, CoD3's multi player feels to much like Battle Feild 2 and a bad copy of 
 it as well.
  
  It is a poor sequal and a big let down. It isn't gripping, its to restrcitive. It doesn't even 
 have any Russians! the only thing that is cool as you Can finally play as a Canadian who were in 
 WW2 from the start but get no Credit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SwirvyIrvy
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 30, 2006 5:07 am PT
Review:  When you first start the single player mode on the game you realise how good the graphics but they're 
 not just good, they're fantastic! Easily the best looking WW2 game if not best looking FPS out 
 at the moment!! Also the sound of the game is amazing! I've linked my 360 upto the 5.1 and obviously 
 im going to get a better sound but even when i just used the tv speakers it sounded like you was 
 actually there!
  
  Further on into the first level and you start hitting the annoying bits for example when you be 
 the tank commander using the binoculars, its a boring, pointless part of the level, you should 
 of been able to control the tank yourself. Also the hand-to-hand combat takes far too long and 
 is really annoying.
  
  The single player does look originality as it jsut seems to be 'hold your position' and 'seek and 
 destroy' missions but they're still very fun to play. In my opinion what brings this game to life 
 is its multiplayer. 24 players can battle it out in Battle, War, CTF, Headquarters and more game 
 modes. And if you can't get on Xbox Live then there's the split screen game which is still fun! 
 I played a 3player split screen on a map called Rouen and it took a while to finish the map but 
 it was still good fun.
  
  The level design is pretty spot on, some annoying flas like Merville there's too much smoke and 
 I'd class that as a pretty much scout level (sniper) . Also the vehicles handle quite poorly and 
 dont seem to fit the level again in Merville the jeep just cant turn around the corners as they 
 all seem a bit too tight.
  
  There are a few flaws but these don't stop you having some of the best fun you can have on your 
 360 and online! IMO - Must Buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ch3rub
Rating: 7.2
Date: Dec 30, 2006 1:50 am PT
Review:  The game does have exactly the same issues as CoD2 - the most important one is that SP is scripted 
 all the way. When you complete one objective you need to do exactly as creators planned or you 
 will not go any further. In other words it is linear as few games this times ! Thanks to that SP 
 in CoD3 is really frustrating and poor experience (it's running around and trying not to be killed 
 - there is no space for ANY freedom in this game) .
  
  The only thing that makes it better is multiplayer which is way better than SP. You can easily 
 find people playing, maps are well designed and it is working really good (no lags etc) . Buttom 
 line - if you want to play it MP go for it. If you want good SP game DO NOT BUT IT! You will be 
 really dissapointed!
  
  Gameplay score is relevant only to MP!! SP score in my opinion is no more than 4! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ElitesIgnorance
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 29, 2006 6:38 pm PT
Review:  You go by your team, then you lose them in a German ambush. You mind is running, you have no where 
 to go but to be a lone wolf and return to another pack and wait for the music. You lose them again, 
 and you hunt to find a missing platoon. You feel missing, you feel improved, you feel you can save 
 your team, but you just keep on failing. You go with your best bud and finally see you turn the 
 tables, but no matter what, you lose him. Then you notice you are in a time paradox, and you are 
 actually dead with memories... in the majority group.
  
  Call of Duty is really calling a duty this time. Since Call of Duty 2 was really based on only 
 eight players online, you finally can tell that you are actually being changed on a whole different 
 makeover. Call of Duty 3 is really, really changed, by switching the maps to horrific distance, 
 you are stuck with unbounded maps online with your numerous friends and foes. Call of Duty 3 is 
 really just an expansive pack, but it comes every year. You will find this disapointing to some 
 fans, but is really pleasing to those who really can't stand playing an online game for so many 
 years, like Halo 2. With a major makeover on the storyline, you will be faced by only one platoon, 
 which really sounds very odd for an Call of Duty game. At the end, you will enjoy the new makeover 
 of this spectuacular series.
  
  The story is honestly really good for a new set up. You will be faced on a more realistic team 
 that really hates the war. To face the truth, nobody will love war, and nobody will show a good 
 impression on it. You face a team that will hate each other's guts at calmatious times. You will 
 face situations that almost makes you reach death, and you will see some soldiers that gave their 
 lives for your survival. The whole game takes place on France, which is really a degraded upgrade 
 for a game that was supposely to take place on the whole European side of the war. It was great 
 again to just be the Americans, since who wants to hear potatoe masher again by those dirty Russians. 
 The story is average, and you will find some dull spots in the game.
  
  The gameplay is really an average point in the game. You will face times you wish you have mechanics 
 like Gears of Wars or F. E. A. R and wish you can peak your gun above and side corners to let your 
 soldier live in harsh times in the battlefield. With the new add on with the speed booster, you 
 will find is very helpful for those almost death situations to run away for to escape. A new thing 
 in the game is the style of the multiplayer. You will have to board new types of soldiers by picking 
 their kits during the Repawn Time. You will pick a numerous kits that will let your team mates 
 online survive their best call by picking what suits you. Do you want to be a standard hero and 
 save your soldier by picking the Rifleman. Or do you want to be that soldier that has a light machine 
 gun that travels far distance called the Light Assult, or be the Heavy Assult and go on a riot 
 on close combat. Be a Medic and hold your life saving needle and shotgun, or be that bastard on 
 the high cliffs and be the eyes of the bird with the sniper called the Scout. Or you can be that 
 person that will call the aircrafts at close and desperate times being the Support. Close to Battlefront, 
 you should not be ashamed.
  
  The graphics are just astounding, and almost look like the graphics you may find on the commercials 
 Call of Duty is so known about. They are similar to today's games, but it a little short on the 
 side of greatness. You will find the water effects great with their reflecting beauty, but will 
 be disappointed that you can't make the water move by your feet like other games today. The guns 
 and character models are just a perfect as a today's game, and you will be astounded by the smoke 
 grenades like Call of Duty 2. The sound is the best part of what a War World II game is all about. 
 The music is very good in detail, and you will get you like other game such as Gears of War that 
 you make you want to get those damn Germans of your property. You will find deafening times on 
 Live that really makes Call of Duty stand out. You will see tanks online that will just mind blowing 
 effects when they fire, and the seeing the fire a car will take after it explodes. Guns will go 
 off every second on a multiplayer match, and this part of the game should not be rejected as a 
 great moment on Live. At the end, Call of Duty 3 is a must buy game that will not disapoint anyone 
 except the third person fans. You will have a great day with the endless possiblities online, and 
 with the good storyline these developers put together. With the game having much good moments put 
 into the game itself, it also had some issues that could have been avoided. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CanadaSpeed1
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 29, 2006 4:34 pm PT
Review:  If you are into intense, in your face action with heart pounding moments a plenty - this is your 
 game. If you have not played Call of Duty 2 ; pick it up too... then play Call of Duty 3. Although 
 they are not exactly sequels in the game sense they do cover different parts of WW II and are equally 
 enjoyable. The graphics are up a notch in Call of Duty 3.
  
  As you play this game you get a real sense of the fear in fighting a real war and makes you appreciate 
 the sacrifices of so many in WWI and WWII. And makes you VERY certain if you have to fight a war... 
 infantry is definitely the worst and hardest of all the divisions.
  
  In otherwords this game communicates exactly what is it like to be a grunt in this part of the 
 army - and you have to be VERY brave to pick this profession.
  
  AI is exceptionally in this game - both your side and the Germans.
  
  Truly a next gen experience 
 and worth every penny.
  This game is excellent in HD, and Dolby Digital EX. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: furionpride
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 29, 2006 3:35 pm PT
Review:  After beating the game, I was more satisfied than I was with COD2. As with all COD's, its too much 
 fun to be so short. ya know? There are plenty of things to love about this new one. You can throw 
 your enemy's grenade back at them... wich is what I always wanted to do in every FREEKIN war game 
 I've ever played!!!!! The graphics are beatiful. There's a nice lighting effect that blurrs the 
 horizon, and tree-tops. Rays of light will shine through open windows, casting the soldier's shadows. 
 Not to mention the soldier's uniforms are awsomely realistic. You might be looking more at thier 
 pants than their faces, lol. Now there is a pretty deep story in COD3. More so than all of the 
 others. I think many would agree that developer Treyarch is a much better storyteller than Infinity 
 Ward . Pretty much all of the cut-scenes are in first-person. Now when I was playing, I got dizzy, 
 believe it or not. Maybe its just me, but the constant explosions and chaos did a number on my 
 head. Even something as simple as reloading, violently jerks the screen around every which way. 
 Im having a hard time remembering any glitches or bugs in the game. So if there were any, it didn't 
 even matter. Every game comes with its complaints, and here are mine:
  -The absence of pistols in the single player game.
  -My gun sounds ten times as loud as my buddie's, 
 even though he's right next to me.
  -The tank missions. (when you get hit, you're pretty much helpless for 3 seconds due to the blurr 
 and blindness. Then once you can see, your hit again!)
  
  These are all pretty minor, and shouldn't prevent anyone from buying it. Overall, Call of Duty 
 3 is a great next gen game, and shouldn't be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wacko342
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 29, 2006 8:03 am PT
Review:  this game is great i love all the new skirmish features, and like COD 1 you can get in vehicles 
 again and you have different types of men e. g scount. and they all help the team in a different 
 way. like the medic obviously r e v i v e s people and support and anti armour give out A M M O 
 graphics are good and hardly any lag online in games. put together well and alot of effort. but 
 like i said it was and still is overshadowed by gears of war which came out a week later. i know 
 that most people i think would buy gears of war so call of duty 3 may not do very well. if it came 
 out earlier e. g a month earlier then it would have been a bigger hit and had a bigger e f f e c 
 t 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wezker619
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 28, 2006 9:22 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3 must be the best game that uses Xbox Live to the fullest! Gears of War may be a 
 good game because of the hype and the combination of graphics and gameplay! but.... Call of Duty 
 3 multiplayer is more overwhelming than GoW! CoD 3 has a good multiplayer on many levels! New maps 
 added Vehicles which add a twist to gameplay! Graphics have improved a little bit! Added classes 
 in the game which make it balanced in multiplayer! Its just a BF1942 just with no planes and a 
 diffrent name over it! CoD3 has a average singleplayer I dont plan playing on singleplayer unless 
 u want the acheivements like I did but the achievements are more on online than singleplayer! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: damned_beast
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 27, 2007 4:17 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty is a long time World War 2 game. This one is not to different than call of duty 2, 
 but adds some interesting things. The two new campaign missions in single player- the Canadians, 
 and the Polish. The two new campaigns add more to the game, meaning that these two countries have 
 never really been in a game, and now they are. The close combat system which is pretty much fighting 
 over a gun, but with more work it could have been a greater add on to this long time game.
  
  Gameplay is simply the same as the last game. Nothing new, but that being said it wasnt really 
 broken so they didnt need to add anything. The story is a basic war story based on the true events. 
 The most interesting campaign was the Canadian and the polish. The characters are not really interesting, 
 mainly because you really have no time to get to know them, because youre jumping around these 
 countries stories so fast. Multiplayer is something completely different, by placing 24 players 
 in a game, it really never gets to boring. With a hand full of game types which are all mostly 
 fun. The only thing that you will find wrong with the multiplayer is how many people decide to 
 camp and use sniper rifles, which can bring the games experience down. But over all the games multiplayer 
 saves it.
  
  Graphics are pretty good, the textures are nicely done. The uniforms on the soldiers look awesome 
 only because of all the folds on the clothing. The lighting effects are not too bad. The games 
 gun models are really neat, and act realistic. The games achievements are nicely done, with easy 
 ones and really hard ones to get. But the only really impossible achievement to get is the ranked 
 matchs achievement mainly because no one plays ranked on this game. If your looking for another 
 world war game with a great multiplayer experience this is the one your looking for! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ernelson1976
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 28, 2006 11:55 am PT
Review:  First-person shooters are generally not my favorite genre, so I was surprised at how much I liked 
 Call of Duty 3. Granted, I haven't played CoD2 for the Xbox 360 (though I did play CoD on the PC) , 
 so I can't compare the two. However, I will say that I haven't had this much fun playing an FPS 
 in quite a while.
  
  Graphically, the game is great -- at least while the guns are firing and the bombs dropping. When 
 the game slows down and characters are talking (nearly all the cut scenes) the graphics are underwhelming, 
 and sometimes hilariously hideous. The character animations during the battles are excellent. The 
 character animations in the non-battle scenes... well, they're horrible. The voice acting is rather 
 ridiculous as well, with most of the characters being stereotypical brash military types, with 
 ridiculous overacting.
  
  During the game itself, though, I managed to forget about the lousy animation and horrible acting 
 and dialog. And the story, which is also nonexistent.
  
  The real meat of the game is in the battles, and there's a lot of meat there. On the more difficult 
 settings, the game is a real challenge. The default is a little too easy, in my opinion.
  
  There is always a lot going on on screen, and the battles are chaotic, as one would expect. Because 
 a lot of the game is scripted, you'll really only be surprised the first time through -- but those 
 scripted events are very entertaining. Thankfully, it's always clear where you need to go, and 
 what you need to do -- although knowing is easier than doing. There are seemingly endless waves of 
 enemies, and it is often a challenge to push on through to the next area with the bullets flying, 
 and smoke clouding your vision.
  
  Some of the new gameplay gimmicks are, well, gimmicks. Occasionally a German soldier will catch 
 you by surprise and you'll be forced into this short fight mode which requires you to alternate 
 between right and left triggers as fast as you can, then hit another button. Or you'll be required 
 to spin the right stick to insert a detonator into a bomb. They're not difficult, but they do change 
 the pace a bit. Sometimes, though, they're just distracting.
  
  The sound is incredible during the battles, and with surround sound I felt like I was in the middle 
 of a battle. Which I was. It was very effective, so long as the characters kept their mouths shut.
 
  
  Still, I'll probably play the game through once, then perhaps once again on a more difficult setting. 
 The multiplayer is excellent so far (haven't played much online) but looks promising. So for those 
 who expect to do a lot of Nazi-killing online, this game probably has a good bit of value. For 
 single-player gamers, not so much.
  
  Despite a few minor flaws and some lack of polish in the (admittedly) less important parts of the 
 game, CoD3 is definitely recommended. You'll have fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Clinton015
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 28, 2006 11:43 am PT
Review:  By far my favorite game I got for Christmas. It is easy for beginners to pick up and Veterans to 
 love. Call of Duty 3 finds the middle ground between shoot em up and slow methodical tactics. Taking 
 us back to the common but spectacular battlefield of World War II, COD3 does everything right. 
 If you look at COD3 and COD2 next to each other there are few differences because they are essentially 
 the same game. There are a few added abilities like returning grenades and new weapons. As well 
 as fun in game mini games like wrestling enemies. Call of Duty 3 has superior graphics but the 
 same visual style as Call of Duty 2. COD3 brings new battles and a better character storyline to 
 the mix, though it still is only minor. It also turned the battles up a notch. They are louder, 
 more destructive, and more realistic than ever before. Some oddly fun parts are when you are driving 
 a jeep to escape from the Germans, or using a sniper rifle to pick off enemies while ignoring your 
 objective. The game also puts you in realistic situations. Pinned down behind a tank or fighting 
 while surrounded. There is simply so much to like about this game. It is easy to learn, fun to 
 play, and hard to put down. Call of Duty 3 isn't an epic, blockbuster title but it is a great addition 
 to anyones library. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamefreakwill
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 27, 2006 7:43 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3 was first being developed by infinityward, but they decided to have Treyarch take 
 over the project. Treyarch last year made the game Call of Duty 2: Big Red One on the Xbox, PS2, 
 and Gamecube, and it was a worthwhile shooter with some thrills. Now, they have made Call of Duty 
 3, and its all its cracked up to be.
  
  The Single Player is different than the other Call of Duty games. Instead of playing as a Russian, 
 British, and American soldier, you play as a British, American, Polish, or Canadian soldier. All 
 characters are involved in the event of the Normandy Breakout, where the Allies fought brutally 
 against the Germans to liberate France.
  
  You start off as an American soldier, and go around a town and the coountryside fighting German 
 resistence along the way. The first fight I engaged in was a very intense and immersive fight. 
 One where everyhting was blowing up and people were dying, etc. Call of Duty 3 is in fact though, 
 as much intense as COD 2, which is good, because COD 2 was an amazing game, and so is Call of Duty 
 3.
  
  There are some new tweaks to the gameplay, such as destructible environments, improved team mate 
 AI, and a new hand-To-Hand combat minigame. It may seem fun, but the control mechanics aren't too 
 much fun for the new hadn to hand stuff, and it wears off quick.
  
  The Graphics are still as top notch and awsome as COD 2. SOldiers do look much more detailed and 
 same with guns. Environments look great as well.
  
  But heres a bad part, it plays practically like COD 2. Not much has changed to stay as great as 
 it would've been. But the gameplay is still solid and never gets old. Esoecially blowin stuff up 
 with grenades and seein it fly everywhere.
  
  Call of Duty 3 sounds awsome and you really feel like your fighting in WWII. Voices are quite good 
 too, no matter which country, they sound accurate with a good English voice. (not English as British)
 
  
  The Multiplayer is much much better than last year. Last year they're were only 8 players online, 
 but now its up to 24 online, and vehicles are controlable and they're are new classes to use. Yeah, 
 it seems like Medal of Honor, but whats wrong with that?
  
  Overall, Call of Duty 3 is a phonominal game. If you don't like shooters this won't make you like 
 them any more, but ofr those who love em, this is the gmae for you!
  
  A 9.6 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterpinky2000
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 27, 2006 4:41 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay - This game is incredibly similar to Call of Duty 2. The major changes to gameplay come 
 through a few features:
  
  1) Triggered moments where you either have to fight off Nazis who grab your gun, or set bombs, 
 or row (no kidding, you row) by doing some particular action with the controller that the game 
 mimes for you. These aren't particularly challenging, but they make certain moments more engaging 
 than the previous Call of Duty (say, when you plant a charge there is actually some work to do 
 other than just slapping down the X button) .
  
  2) The ability to cook grenades and pick up grenades thrown at you. This is actually pretty cool, 
 as you have the ability to fend off grenade attacks in a risky but pretty useful way. The thing 
 is that they have changed the grenades from CoD2 slightly; they seem to have longer fuses now, 
 and also to do less damage. I think these changes were made so that picking up grenades thrown 
 at you would be slightly less risky, and I'm not sure how realistic it is.
  
  Story/Level Design - The story is actually more cohesive than CoD2, because you deal w/ a much 
 more circumscribed theater of war (1944-1945 France, and the fighting around the Falais Gap) . The 
 level design is pretty similar overall. You will be clearing a lot of buildings, flanking the Germans, 
 defending locations against wave assaults, calling down artillery strikes, driving tanks/jeeps, 
 etc.
  
  One problem is the frequent interruption by in-game cinematics when you sit around and do nothing. 
 These happen far too often, and cannot be interrupted by pushing any button (or at least, I didn't 
 discover how to do so) .
  
  Weapons - A few weapons have been added to this game, and a few subtracted. Pistols no longer exist, 
 insofar as I've discovered. the new weapons are alright. I particularly like the trenchgun (it's 
 basically a shotgun) , which does nasty damage up close. The FG42 scoped is alright, it's an automatic 
 sniper rifle. I wish I had the option to change firing mode so it could do single shot though, 
 b/c having automatic sniper fire is kind of excessive and wastes ammo (and the ammo isn't more 
 than a Springfield or Kar98K scoped) .
  
  Graphics/Sound - The graphics in particular are stunning, much improved over CoD2. The sound is 
 of similar quality.
  
  Multiplayer - The suite here is much improved, with additional gameplay options. It still works 
 on the same basic system, however; you spawn with whatever weapon you choose from your particular 
 side. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SonicKid_UK
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 27, 2006 12:37 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 was an absolutely amazing game &amp; really you should only be able to improve on 
 a series like CoD but not so this time round. This is a very good game with a wide range of levels 
 &amp; absolutely great on Xbox LIVE but where CoD 2 succeeded this game often falls down. It tries 
 to get you to develop an emotional attachment to the characterss but the cutscenes are little more 
 than an annoyance. The graphic are still very impressive but the way people move is a little odd 
 &amp; the lip syncing is often just a bit out. It sounds great with bullets wizzing past you &amp; 
 it has got some new features like vehicles. It is far more frantic than CoD 2 which some may see 
 as good but I get the constant feel you are rushing through what is essentially quite a short game. 
 A very good shooter but more time should have been spent on making it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jesusthemessiah
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 27, 2006 10:00 am PT
Review:  Although it is a step up from call of duty... its the same engine, it would have been a great game 
 a year ago but as the games progress for 360 this needs to. the character movement is very unrealistic 
 and alot of times you see your buddys runninginto walls or other mistakes. the online has good 
 concept but once again because of the unreal movement it is very fastpaced. the graphics are good 
 for the most part... they dont stand up to a gears of war landscape but their pretty good. All around 
 if you own call of duty 2 for 360 unless you just cant stand to take some more call of duty action 
 i would opt out of this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: craigyw14
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 27, 2006 3:51 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3 is the first of the series i have played and the first game i have played on my 
 xbox. The game was unbelieveable straight away and kept this trend all the way through.
  Beautiful graphics and an outstanding soundtrack make the game closer to reality than ever before.
 
  The training is a good little opener to emerse you into the controls and gameplay but it doesn't 
 go on for too long which is a nice touch. The first battle though is what realy gets you going 
 and makes for an exciting opener. if you think you can walk up to the enemy, on any difficulty 
 level, and live you are mistaken, the cover is provided and you need it, get caught out and your 
 dead, this is not helped by the best AI i have seen in any game, the enemy will use the cover and 
 only pop out when ready. If your sneaking up on an ususpecting group, you can get cover and they 
 will not know a thing, but when you fire your weapon or get too close you better hope you can handle 
 it.
  With a good storyline you will play as differnet characters in differnet parts of the allied attack 
 and you'll get to drive different vehicles.
  Overall this a truly amazing game that is well worth buying. All of it's components make for an 
 outstanding 1st person shooter that will not dissapoint. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kmilden
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 26, 2006 10:57 pm PT
Review:  My favorite game of all time has to be Call of Duty on the PC. There nothing is nothing like a 
 killing spree when you are on a roll with a single shot rifle. Those precious times you are hidden 
 just out of site and remove the other team head shot after head shot before they even know where 
 to aim. This is what CoD is all about.
  
  Call of Duty 3 brings a new level of quality and realism to the series. Very little to complain 
 about in the game. The game play is still the same which is great. The multiplayer action is top 
 notch. This is where that wireless headset comes in. Chatting can be very helpful if you are try 
 to work as a team toward a common goal beyond killing the enemy such as capture the flag.
  
  In this version the action seems to be intensified and far more realistic. The game is a bit 
 tougher but far more fun at the same time. I recommend picking up a copy you will not be disappointed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mackattacka
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 26, 2006 6:02 pm PT
Review:  On the contrary, all this game is, is an expansion for CoD2. There are new chapters, each which 
 are fun, and the same amazing graphics. The weapons are pretty fun, and the game play remains basically 
 the same. It's a nice game, and will give you hours of fun on either multi player, or single player. 
 It's a good buy, so no need to rent first.
  
  But there are still those few things that don't appeal to the eye. I was on a server with my friend 
 the other day, and we decided to test out some physics . Some good, some bad. We discovered, when 
 driving two vehicles full speed into each other on a long bridge, when the two vehicles made contact, 
 nothing good happened. They bounced a little bit, but there was no exchange of energy. There was 
 no damage done to the vehicles, or to us. There was no violent crash, no nothing.
  
  It was as if I just hit a jump button, and had my vehicle bounce into the air quick. Talk about 
 realistic. Then there comes the objects that come into your face while on a vehicle. Lets say your 
 driving a big, heavy, solid tank. Loaded up with men, ready to take down a whole battalion inside 
 a base. Your driving along, but then suddenly, your tank winds up turning the other direction, 
 and your wondering what is happening. You have become stuck in one of the games crappy physic mistakes. 
 Lets say even the most simple of objects, lightweight, that a cat could move, can halt a tank. 
 Run into a small wooden fence, and you won't make it through. Even a piece of wood placed in the 
 right way on the ground, will stop your vehicle dead in its tracks. It gets annoying, which is 
 why driving vehicles isn't as fun as it could be. As for the guns, not what I expected. The guns 
 don't seem to have that edge of enhancement I expected. When I fire off the gun, it doesn't seem 
 to fulfill the energy I craved for while mowing down a soldier. It feels more like your shooting 
 a lightweight machine gun, with no kickback to it, when your really shooting a heavyweight SAW 
 while prone on the ground. It just doesn't cut it for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sh0kblast
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 26, 2006 3:53 pm PT
Review:  The single player is standard fare. If you are a veteran of the Call of Duty series then you will 
 like the single player experience of Call of Duty 3. It takes around 8 hours to play through the 
 single player experience (longer if you play on the higher difficulty levels) .
  
  Multiplayer is one of the best experiences I've had on Xbox lIve in a long time. The gametypes 
 are varied and the addition of vehicles to MP is great. When the teams are balanced CoD3 will provide 
 you with some of the best games you've ever played, especially when playing War . The downside 
 to multiplayer is that ranked games can take a while to get into which can become frustrating (even 
 after the recently released patch) . If they can release a patch that fixes the problems in ranked 
 games and maybe add a party system then this game will last a while (at least until CoD4 comes 
 out) .
  
  The achievements are well used with the addition of points for mulitplayer this time around, which 
 differs from CoD2.
  
  Overall, this is a good game, but we are one patch away from making a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2243bearwallow
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 26, 2006 3:10 pm PT
Review:  Alright. So you got the newest game out there, call of duty 3. People are ranting and raving about 
 it and gamespot is under-rating it again. So, between the bad reviews and storys of the repeditive 
 gameplay you deside to go and buy it. Why do you buy it? Because its a freakin call of duty game 
 on the 360, thats why.
  Now, the review. Call of duty 3 is easy. NO too easy. No way to easy. Now, some of you mite be 
 wondering whats wrong with call of duty being easy?
  Ok, first off, AUTO-AIM. This is by far the worst thing about this game other than all the wall 
 glitches and stuff. The graphics are good, but could be better. When i first saw the pics on gamespot, 
 i was like wow! this looks freakin amazing! Well careful, the game doesnt look that good. Hell, 
 the ps3 version doesnt even look that good. So, why am i giving this game such a great score?
 
  
  One word:
  Multiplayer
  This feature alone saves it from getting a flat out zero.
  Heck, if it wasnt for that, people would still buy it because its call of duty 3.
  Anyways, call 
 of duty 3s multiplayer is spectacular, and its alot better than cod2.
  
  other than that, i'll say that im sorta disipointed. I loved the call of duty series. This one 
 just doesnt meet the expectations. The sound can get stutery at times, and apcs in the game often 
 repeat the same diolage..
  
  If youve never played call of duty before, please stay away from this one unless you have Xbox 
 live. If you are, then you probably wont be after playing this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MyopicCanadian
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 26, 2006 2:33 pm PT
Review:  I wasn't even planning to purchase this game until I played the opening level at my father's house. 
 That had me settled that this game had some interesting changes from Call of Duty 2. THE VERY FIRST 
 LEVEL was even better than that hill charge in one of the first Russian missions in CoD 2, which 
 was definately one of my favourite parts of that game.
  
  Call of Duty 3 continued to surprise me from beginning to end. The gameplay is mostly the same, 
 but subtle changes such as the fight scenes, planting charges, etc., add that little bit more interactivity. 
 The storylines were great between all factions and were truly interesting.
  
  The sound and graphics in this game were of course top notch! I am very surprised to see how downgraded 
 Call of Duty 2 was on 360 compared to PC (I played it on PC) when we can clearly see what the engine 
 can do in Call of Duty 3! The sound effects were amazing.. the constant sounds of war. Great gun 
 sounds and explosions, and I didn't mind the stereotypical voice acting :)
  
  The part that impressed me the most was how Treyarch managed a GOOD ENDING. Infinity Ward started 
 this series, but I can't say much for how they end their games. The last four or five levels in 
 this game are jaw-dropping and the way they managed to wrap up the story in a WWII-game was extremely 
 impressive.
  
  All in all, if you're thinking that this is just Call of Duty 2, it's not! There are enough differences 
 that make this game great in its own right, and if you enjoy the series then you definately have 
 to play this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acepilotmra
Rating: 4.3
Date: Dec 26, 2006 1:21 am PT
Review:  People, graphics are no substitute for actual gameplay. If it don't play good it isn't good. And 
 this is exactly the case. The game simply does not play good. For simple starters, the guys at 
 Activision need to learn their left from right, there are a few moments where the game says right 
 when they mean left. Prime example is while playing as the British with the French Resistance. 
 The French resistance says the Flak Guns are on the right when in actuallity they are on the left. 
 Next up is the character speaking in the game. To actually hear what one of the AI are saying you 
 need to turn your camera to the right, apparently you can only hear in your left ear, if this wasn't 
 true you might notice the terrible mouth movements of the AI speaking.
  Now I am going to break this down into three groups the first is AI.
  The AI in this game needs 
 definite work. For one, if you are quick enough you can actually see the enemy appear from sky. 
 No joke. I have seen the enemy AI literally fall out of the sky in front of me. Next, allied AI 
 do most of the work for you on standard difficulty, if you let them. So the first time you play 
 the game you might find you're a bystander to the action when its not one of the more major portions 
 of the battle. Another flaw, is the foliage. You can't see to save your life through bushes and 
 other plant life (including small things like flowers and grass) but your enemy sure can see you. 
 Couple that with the fact that the enemy will sometimes fire through walls. Also, allied AI is 
 at least three times faster than you are. This goes back to the AI doing the work for you. Unless 
 you are preventing them from going anywhere they will get to the enemies first and kill a decent 
 portion of them. Last, animations are poorly done. Remember how in COD2 when you shot an enemy 
 and they would go through the motions of falling down and then lifting themselves up a bit to shoot 
 off a pistol or something? Well, the AI decides to just plop on the ground, skipping multiple frames 
 of movement to get there.
  
  Next lets look at the weapons. To start off, the weapons can tend to be all bark and no bite. While 
 they may look better they certainly don't feel better. Some of the weapons just feel as if your 
 shooting a BB gun. Whats worse is that there are times when every bullet from your gun will miss 
 the enemy. I'm not talking bad aiming here, I'm talking dead center right on them. How do I know 
 this? Simple the enemy will not flinch, move, or budge if you catch them unaware. And to add to 
 this, I've found its sometimes better to not aim and just shoot without pressing the left trigger 
 (aim button) .
  
  Last lets go over some physics. Remember back in Counter Strike how if you shot them they might 
 go flying in the air 6 ft or higher? Well it happens here sometimes folks. No joke. Next, simple 
 obstacles will prevent your guy from moving. I'm talking so simple as that of a wood plank lying 
 on the ground. In fact these wood planks can stop you so badly that you will be unable to jump 
 unless you back up away from them, and sometimes even that is prevented and you have to waste ammo 
 shooting your way out. Last, say goodbye to hopping over low walls and such. Its a pitiful state 
 when a trained soldier is impeded by a waste high wall.
  
  In conclusion, this is exactly what you can expect from a game that spent too much time on new 
 innovations when only given about a year to make it. Don't get me wrong, its a nice change of pace 
 where the AI is not the only one able to pick up the grenades and chuck them back at you. But what 
 the made the original COD2 decent has been shortchanged for partially completed new tricks. Don't 
 waste your money on this please. Games are not meant to just look pretty like a movie. The gameplay 
 is what supposed to be of real value here. Otherwise the older days of 32-bit graphics would have 
 died out leaving us nothing. Spend your money on a better game, my suggestions are F. E. A. R. or 
 Gears of War. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheSpnkr
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 25, 2006 4:12 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3 plays very similar to Call of Duty 2 in gameplay. The graphics are much improved 
 and the dialouge/surrondings of this game make you feel like you're in a real life battle situation. 
 It also does a good job of telling the story of World War 2 from the perspective from several different 
 countries. The achievments are well rounded in this game where as in call of duty you would get 
 all the achievements just from single player. But COD3 adds some new challenging single and multiplayer 
 achievements as well. Overall this game is great to own and its also a great experience on XBOX 
 live. GET IT NOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrDreth
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 25, 2006 11:48 am PT
Review:  Brilliantly made, but has TERRIBLE physics. you cant even step over a plank on the floor. The AI 
 is also too scripted. You cant see through the foilage but they can see you fine and will kill 
 you before you know they can see you. Sometimes in veteran difficulty, they can shoot through walls, 
 really annoying if you've got really close to the end.
  The gameplay is great though, The maps are a bit small but well made. The graphics are good from 
 far but far from good. thee isn't much proper cover, so you have to be really fast. To compensate, 
 they put 'sticky aim' as an option, for multiplayer and single player. The multiplayer is great 
 fun, a minimum of 8 people over HUGE maps and loads of un-original but fun game modes.
  Great game, i would definitely buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: w0rmy
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 25, 2006 11:40 am PT
Review:  When I picked up Call of Duty 3, I really didn't expect much. I was one of the few that was less 
 than thrilled with Call of Duty 2 but this game really impressed me.
  
  There are many minor bugs in the game. It's nothing that takes much away from the game play but 
 it will slow you down at times and maybe leave you sratching your head a little. It seems this 
 is the norm in games these days. Release it now - fix it later.
  
  The game play is largely unchanged from previous versions. It's mostly missions based game play 
 - working with teams to achieve an objective. The missions offer a nice variety of locales and 
 style of game play. There's tons of action but not to the point of being redundant. There's not 
 much story in the game but given the fact that we largely already know the story of WW2, the game 
 doesn't suffer. The characters add a nice flavor to the game. They have a lot more depth that previous 
 version. Not that it matters all that much. The game is just plain fun!
  
  All that being said, there's not a whole lot of replayablity to the game. You can easily rent it 
 and finish it in a couple of days of play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gta11
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 25, 2006 12:03 am PT
Review:  Call Of Duty 3 For Xbox 360.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  ===========================================================
  THE GOOD : The Online Multiplayer 
 Is Just Amazing!!!!, Great Selection Of Weapons, The Sound Is Awesome, The Graphics Are Great.
 
  ===========================================================
  THE BAD : The Multiplayer Glitches Are Hella Bad, Ranked Matches Still Take A While To Join, There 
 Could Have Been More Multiplayer Kit Classes.
  ===========================================================
  
  
  
  The story line and dialogue 
 is cheesy as a USA afternoon action film, it's kept to a minimum. Those diary loading screens are 
 gone, replaced with just a tiny 3 in the bottom right corner. And the cut scenes with History channel 
 footage are very short, and barely there. People who play for story will be very disappointed, 
 but people who get WWII games for stories anymore are hard to find.
  
  Gameplay : Treyarch is definitely good at what they do. The battles are tense, bursts of crazy 
 action, with tons of side games, such as driving missions, and mini-games for doing certain tasks. 
 Setting up C4 involves you taking off the cap by pressing a face button, sticking the pin in and 
 tightening it by spinning the right stick, and again pressing a face button to pull the pin then 
 run. Though this is the most common button game, there are others such as moving a crane. it's 
 not to long and not to short, and ends before you get bored. It's good stuff, but there are a few 
 glitches. Random spasms, and I've experienced myself falling through the ground more than once.
 
  
  A veritable cornucopia of fascinating weapons convey what can only be described as a sense of anguish 
 and loathing for the hideousness of warfare and modern opinion. Jaded gamers will be pleased to 
 find that the sound holds up to the appearance, rarely does one find such accomplished vision in 
 the electronic entertainment medium.
  
  Online play is amazing in this year's game. You can now play 12 on 12 with a variety of game types 
 to choose from. A feature that I am greatly appreciative of is now that you can play split screen 
 online, meaning you could have up to 3 friends playing on one console in a split screen in online 
 play. Realism has taken another step up with many new improvement and additions. Guns look as great 
 as ever in this game. Reloading takes a little bit longer, especially for the bigger guns, but 
 that was only ensure complete realism. Vehicles have been put into the game, which seems necessary 
 because of the size of the maps. The vehicles travel at the right speeds, but are pretty easy to 
 blow up if you get a couple of nice shots on them.
  
  
  Graphics : They are definitely pretty. Very well lit, fantastic textures, great smoke, and the 
 like. They could be done better, much better, but they aren't bad. There's nothing much to say 
 about them, they're your normal next-gen fare. Great lighting, textures, character models, everything 
 is ship-shape, but isn't at full potential.
  
  
  Sound : Fantastic. There are great sounds that really put you in the game. The gunshots and voices 
 are clear and don't sound phoned it.
  
  But what can be said of the sound? The hefty vocalizations are virtually unflawed; experienced 
 gamers will revel in the virtues of the subdued soundtrack on par with that of Halo or even Dig 
 Dug. Matching this grandeur is the hand-crafted landscaping; I found myself in awe of the epic 
 vistas that accompanied every adventure. While the first Call of Duty was lauded as an oft underrated 
 FPS gem, and the second, while not without its caveats, was a worthy sequel to carry the name, 
 Call of Duty 3 accomplishes a sense of heroic free-form gameplay unique in its highly directed 
 restrictions.
  
  
  Though there are some noticeable glitches, and difficulty leaps (it could be very easy some times 
 and then extremely difficult) the good outweighs the bad by a ton. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mars188
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 24, 2006 11:52 pm PT
Review:  call of duty 3 is just a great looking war game i dont see how you can find any better looking 
 war game then this. plays great and the game runs smooth. lot of fire fights and it feels like 
 you are in the game . trouble is to me its getting old. how many times do we get to battle in france. 
 its like madden football its getting old they need to think of somthing fresh. like fight in brelin 
 germany 1945 the last days of the german s in 1945 end of the war. i would love to play in that 
 time. the france stuff i done that so many times. so i hope to see somthing fresh in 2007. but 
 the game looks so great and it is still fun to play. just rent the game for a month and have a 
 great time. i do think the team play could be a lot better. they need to make the team play like 
 gears of war. seems to me it dont come off that real with the team that you have with you. you 
 cant tell them no orders are to halt the attack are wait. they need to fix this. my views thanks 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anthonyActon
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 3, 2007 5:38 pm PT
Review:  Lock and load, you're headed back to the frontlines in Call of Duty 3. Unlike Call of Duty 2, which 
 had you fighting as several different nations in battles that spanned the continent of Europe, 
 in Call of Duty 3 the focus is around the Normandy Breakout Campaign, where the Allies had to push 
 in and secure areas in and around Paris. Fortunately, Call of Duty 3 successfully recreates the 
 battles fought in the Normandy Breakout, and provides a satisfying experience.
  
  You will still be playing as a different character for each different country, but the story is 
 more intertwined. You play as an American soldier, a British SAS Commando, a Canadian Soldier, 
 and a Polish tanker. Each character never talks, but the people around him always have a little 
 personality, adding to the experience. You may even find yourself caring if one of them is killed. 
 While the 14 levels basically consist of flanking and killing the enemy, destroying Flak88's and 
 other things, they are always exciting and the action never lets up. The Americans have their standed 
 weapon set: The M1 Garand, Thompson SMG, Browning Automatic Rifle, Springfield and the Colt .45 
 all make an appearance, and they generally sound great. The English, Canadian and Polish (when 
 you're not driving a tank) have the Lee Enfield rifle, Bren light machine gun and the Sten sub-machinegun. 
 All these guns generally sound great, but do not have the same feel as they did in Call of Duty 
 2. They sound slightly underpowered. Still, they do their job. Machine gun fire, explosions, screams 
 and the sounds of tanks and aeroplanes are recreated well, and have a high level of realism. The 
 graphics in Call of Duty 3 are superb. Everything just looks so... real. A lot of the Normandy Breakout 
 was fighting through hedgerows, open plains and small towns. Call of Duty 3 successfully captures 
 the look and feel of these locations. The multiplayer in Call of Duty 3 is fantastic. There are 
 currently 9 maps, and each is different from the other. There's inside a small castle, a forest, 
 a large town, a fuel plant, a dam and a map set around a ruined cathedral, to name a few. You fight 
 as either the Axis (Germans) or the Allies (Americans) , and each side has classes. These range 
 from the all rounder Rifleman, to the Anti-Tank guy. Each class has its own specific roles and 
 abilites, and the games are generally more fun when everyone works as a team. These abilites range 
 from the Scout being able to call in artillery strikes and use binoculars to spy on the enemy's 
 position, the Medic reviving fallen comrades, the Support chracter dropping ammo, and other things. 
 I only had a few gripes with this game, mainly being the glitches. Occassionally, your character 
 will get stuck on some insignificant peice of furniture or rubble, which can be quite a pain when 
 you're being fired upon by angry Germans. Overall the great single player and multiplayer experiences 
 of Call of Duty 3 make it recommendable to WWII buffs, or just fans of shooting games in general. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pspdude14
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 27, 2006 2:52 pm PT
Review:  So, the award winning franchise returns. Is it a flop or is it not?
  
  Gameplay - Call of Duty 3 feels great. The controls work perfect but you may need to customise 
 some features to your preferred gaming style (turn speed, sticky aim etc.) If you have never played 
 a FPS before, dont worry, this is a great game to start as it is easy to move about and there 
 are different difficulties for beginners or experienced gamers. Its single player however feels 
 almost broken; there is no real depth or story. The missions feel repetitive and are nothing compared 
 to Call of Duty 2s wow moments. On the other hand, Call of Duty 3s multiplayer isamazing. 
 That is the only way to describe this fast-paced, intensely insane experience. The menus are great 
 and allow searching for many different features instantly. With up to 24 players, vehicles and 
 a number of different classes, this multiplayer is what Xbox Live really needs to make it buzzing 
 with enthusiastic gamers. There could be more weapon choices, though and this sometimes makes the 
 game feel slightly unbalanced (the allies seem to win more than axis due to a better rifle and 
 assault weapons) Recently a patch auto-update was released which fixed ranked matches which are 
 now fully playable and also a few option updates.
  
  Graphics - Call of Duty 3 looks astonishing. Its particle, lighting and shadowing effects are a 
 treat to see, along with its photo realistic character models and vehicles. The first level is 
 one of the many awe-inspiring missions where your jaw drops and your eyes peel as they lay upon 
 the intense St Lo. With the power of next-gen, the game now can display hundreds of enemies on 
 screen at once, along with amazing particle effects after explosions. The best parts are its smoke 
 effects, explosions, dust and foliage, which are all top-notch, true next generation standard.
 
  
  Sound - Although this game has superb graphics and immersive game play, Treyarch didnt pull out 
 on Call of Duty 3s sound. In fact, it is much better than both of them, put together! From the 
 gun sounds to the explosions to the voices of that screaming Nazi this game well and truly sounds 
 amazing. There are many sound effects for the characters, in multiplayer and single player, which 
 never get old and are always a giggle to hear. The gun sounds are the best I have ever heard in 
 WWII games and films, yesfilms! Treyarch got the graphics perfect and they followed it by the 
 heart stopping emotional sound experience.
  
  Overall - Call of Duty 3 may not have the best single player campaign available, but it certainly 
 makes up for it in its multiplayer, sound and graphics. I would highly recommend this game if you 
 love FPS, WWII games or are just looking for plain fun. However, if you dont have Xbox LIVE! 
 Then sadly, this game just isnt worth its price tag (UK: &pound;50, USA $60) , this is because 
 single player may only last the average gamer around 8-10 hours on easy mode, but veteran could 
 keep you for weeks. If you have Xbox LIVE! Then this game will last months, maybe even years. Just 
 like Call of Duty 2, expect this game to be on the top spot of Most Played Xbox LIVE! Game for 
 quite some time. Butdoes it beat the near perfect Call of Duty 2? The answer, yes. Its sound, 
 graphics and multiplayer is far more superior to its predecessor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ajmaddix
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 23, 2006 10:22 pm PT
Review:  Well here's a good game. Even though i didnt think it lived up to last year's amazing Call of Duty 
 2, it has this, uniqe hold on you. I'd like to say that the A. I. on this game is great, nothing 
 you wouldnt expect from a great game series. Another thing im glad of, The rebirth of the FG42, 
 a great gun for assaulting and sniping. Call of Duty 3 shows great intense gameplay and stunning 
 graphics, but it has its problems. Unlike Call of Duty Big Red One, Cod3 doesnt really make me 
 jump off my feet screaming Hail Jesus!!!! When i was getting to know the first Character, Nicholes, 
 I figured this should be like the others and i get to know him a bit, well no. After 2 levels in, 
 you become Sgt. Doyle, the former crew of a bomber which blew up in United Offensive. Then you play 
 as Cole, then Bohec or something. I personally thought when the second trailer came out that it 
 would be an American only game, which made me sad. But now that i've seen that some of the Foreign 
 country missions dont really get me focused on the character, I wonder if it would have been better 
 with the original game type, American, British, and Russian. But of course this would mean a new 
 storyline. Here's another thing, didnt the polish have their own weapons in WW2, not just enfields? 
 The canadians as well. Well that's that, my review, this game shows some great aspects of World 
 War 2, and it is definately on my buy next year list. But if you're not really a fan, this should 
 just be a rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alo_revolution
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 23, 2006 4:44 pm PT
Review:  What can I Say, We Came ,We Saw, We Played. This is a must buy for this holiday season if you don't 
 already have it (those damn rich kids) Flowing Game play ,smooth graphics and the game moves by 
 at a steady frame rate. But lets talk about game play first. It looks better than the first Call 
 of Duty on the Xbox 360 (Call of Duty 2) and those graphics were top notch. I've played Call of 
 Duty 3 on X360, PS3, and Wii and I did a comparison on how they all ranked up ,and X360 version was 
 the best. Smooth shadow effects and the skin on your mates looked very good. Story now, You start 
 off in your camp but you quickly are put into action with a great cut scene to start you off and 
 from there you do some things. Artificial Intelligence now your American mates take cover and know 
 how to flank an kill Nazis, no surprise there. But Nazis are vicious and swarm you in pack and occasionally 
 flank you. The guns are the same in this title but do the trick. Call of Duty 3 is a technical 
 achievement and the Call of Duty series has gotten better over the years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: auanonymous
Rating: 7.6
Date: Dec 23, 2006 12:41 pm PT
Review:  A very similar game to Call of Duty 2 but it was lacking that amazing sense of scale that came 
 with CoD 2, there is some good variety but it can get a bit repetitive by the end of the game. 
 The multiplayer though, is vastly improved and is very fun to play, you will have to patient though 
 because it can take 3 or more minutes just to find a ranked game (when I tried) . If you liked Call 
 of Duty 2 you will like this game, just probably not as much. Most shoting game fans will like 
 this game it is just depends on how much of a WWII game fan you are that will decide if you are 
 going to buy it or not. For all others it is a very worthy rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gothicdragon216
Rating: 4.8
Date: Dec 23, 2006 10:26 am PT
Review:  So I am a huge fan of Call of Duty 2. I bought it at launch for my 360 being a fan of shooters, 
 and quickly became immersed in the game. I speant hour upon hour playing the game, and soon found 
 myself getting my final achievement for beating the game on Veteran. Not only that, but every week 
 I would go down to the local gaming store and play game after game in the weekly CoD2 tournements, 
 even though I had Xbox Live, just because it was so fun. You think with that kind of history, the 
 sequel can only get better right? Well that's the same thing I thought about the Scream movies 
 and the Sonic the Hedgehog games. We all know what they turned out like.
  
  The first thing that makes this game less fun to it's year old little brother is the graphics. 
 They look fine and everything, but the art style just doesn't fit. Bullets don't really seem like 
 they hit as hard, the noises aren't as vivid, the smoke and grenades aren't really that great. 
 The character and gun models look realistic, but they don't behave right. All flash, no substance. 
 Next comes the new features added. I admit cooking grenades is good, but practically useless when 
 you get a rocket propelled grendade on the end of your riffle everytime you spawn. The class system, 
 once again sounds good on paper, but it's just too busy. The only time anyone picks something outside 
 of riffle, medic, or scout, is if they need to blow up a tank in which they pick the Anti-Armor. 
 The vehicles in multiplayer are just a distraction for noob players on your team to easily get 
 killed in. The few nice new features are barely used. The war gametype is fun, and has tons more 
 depth than deathmatch, the anti-personal mines are fun to use, and being able to blow up some of 
 the cover in single player is fun as well.
  
  All in all, the game looks great graphically, the sound is mediocore, the gameplay is boring, and 
 the multiplayer is watered down. They threw in so many new elements that they couldn't really focus 
 on what worked before. I hope the series takes a hint from reviews like this and changes things 
 up.
  
  Don't waste your money, go buy FEAR and Gears of War instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davidn1616
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 22, 2006 2:55 pm PT
Review:  Action-packed and intense !!!!!!!
  To start off, this game has one of the most realistic graphics of WWII shooters and the sound is 
 just as good u can really hear how the sound of weapons are and the game is so fun and action-packed 
 planes flying ,tanks driving ,trucks ,bombs ,rocket launchers with no slowdowns what so ever and 
 the game is really really fun, the online mode is very good with so much players online at one 
 time and the single-player campaign is challenging. to cut the long story short call of duty 3 
 is a excellent game and one of the best for the 360 so if you like realistic ww2 shooters than 
 you should definitely get call of duty 3 !! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 101problems
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 22, 2006 10:33 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3, the follow-up to the #1 next-generation game, delivers the intensity of being closer 
 than ever to the fury of combat during the battle for the Liberation of Paris, the most harrowing 
 campaign of WWII, known as The Normandy Breakout. Through a seamless narrative, Call of Duty 3 
 delivers the rush of unrelenting battle and breathtaking action of the Allied offensive that changed 
 the fate of the world. call of duty 3 is truely an amazing game with true multiplayer aspects . 
 this is a must buy for any gamer it is a great shooter for the xbox 360 to show of its power 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JNU13
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 9, 2007 10:35 am PT
Review:  to start of this game has one of the most realistic graphics of ww2 shooters and the sound is just 
 as good u can really hear how the sound of weopons are and the game is so fun and action-packed 
 planes flying ,tanks driving ,trucks ,bombs ,rocket launchers with no slowdowns what so ever and 
 the game is really really fun, the online mode is very good with so much players online at one 
 time and the single-player campain is challenging. This game is horrible compared to Cod 2. The 
 gunfighting seems to rushed. The story is the same as 2 but with more overdone levels. I feel like 
 I got riped for a stupid game like this! Do not buy this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Musicsponge123
Rating: 7.7
Date: Dec 21, 2006 12:22 pm PT
Review:  I played call of duty 3 with my friends and on my own. The graphics are pretty avergage and the 
 game is purely identical to call of duty 2 in every way.
  
  The story mode is pretty good with some great mission and variety of mission but still there isn't 
 much difference between this and cod2,
  
  Howver the mulitplayer is great but can sometimes be annoying when you are unable to find and opponent 
 on the map. The graphics look fairly avergage and look just the same as cod 2 which was released 
 on the launch of 360.
  
  Conclusion:
  This is a good game and is enjoyable to play but hwoever it does begin to get slow and quite boring 
 after a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lukaneus
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 20, 2006 7:56 am PT
Review:  This game is great it meet all of the expectations of call of duty 2 and beats it. The graphics 
 are incredible also the gun fire and weapons themselves look immense. The scenery is very capturing 
 and you always feel in the thick of the fighting. The rag doll effects make a lot more realistic 
 gaming than Call of duty 2 and the explosions from vechiles and grenades are fabulous in the look 
 and the feel of power. I believe it is a great game worthy of the hype and is definately worth 
 getting. Also the multiplayer is very deep (now including vechiles) which makes you want to share 
 the wonders of the game with friends. Online the battles can be spectacular and can consist of 
 up to 24 players a match. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JamalJumaa2006
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 20, 2006 6:25 am PT
Review:  to start of this game has one of the most realistic graphics of ww2 shooters and the sound is just 
 as good u can really hear how the sound of weopons are and the game is so fun and action-packed 
 planes flying ,tanks driving ,trucks ,bombs ,rocket launchers with no slowdowns what so ever and 
 the game is really really fun, the online mode is very good with so much players online at one 
 time and the single-player campaighn is challenging. to cut the long story short call of duty 3 
 is a excellent game and one of the best for the x360 so if you like realistic ww2 shooters than 
 you should definetly get call of duty 3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dom_boi14
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 13, 2007 4:01 pm PT
Review:  this has got to be the best in the whole series and has got to be the best WWII online play ever 
 but the melee fighting isn't, so great when some guy fly's at you with a knife but its almost realistic. 
 the graphics, are top of the line and look like the terrain looks really real the sounds fit the 
 game very well and the game play... well it amazing.
  the funny thing about the game is that the cut sense are sometimes funny so you may laugh at the 
 dialogue. If you have a 360 I hope you by this game it is very fun and enjoying. WWII games ROCK!!! 
 CALL OF DUTY 3 OWNEDS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kenjaminhoppe
Rating: 6.9
Date: Dec 18, 2006 6:51 pm PT
Review:  There is nothing really wrong with COD3, but it lacks the soul that COD and COD2 had. I feel like 
 am just running through the motions when I play the game. There are no moments that stand out like 
 the did in the first two titles. I really wanted to like this game, but at the end of the day it 
 just couldn't do it for me. I am not saying this is a bad game, it is just nothing special. If 
 you don't mind you standard FPS, then you might enjoy this game, but if you want something grand, 
 something deep, something that will pull you in, this is not the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: noname5555
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 18, 2006 7:30 am PT
Review:  When i got my xbox360, my favourite game, by far, was call of duty 2. The intensity and multi-player 
 was simply brilliant. This was why i got COD3 as soon as it launched, and although i'm very pleased 
 with it, it does have bad points, which i will discuss later.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  Frantic action as always in call of duty games, and as long as you like shooting everything, you 
 will love the gameplay. Another bad point is that you can't skip the boring scenes at the start 
 of the missions, which can go on for quite a long time.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  many people say this game has better graphics than with COD2, although i disagree, ok the texturing 
 is better on it, but the colours look too red and slightly weird on COD3 and the uniform on the 
 soldiers looks like it's been soaked in glue because it's so stiff. But these points don't hurt 
 the game too much and they are easily ignored.
  
  SOUND:
  The music in the menu is great, but very repepitive. The shouts of Germans calling commands and 
 your squads reacting to them are great and help bring you into the action. Guns sound good too.
 
  
  VALUE:
  the campaign is moderately long and if you are up to the challenge of beating the story of veteran (the 
 hardest difficulty) - the llength of the game will more than double. The multi-player can keep 
 you amused for a long time.
  
  MULTI-PLAYER:
  This is where i have the most concern. The 24 player matches and vehicles are a great addition- 
 but you never get 24players in the ranked games on xbox live because everybody readys up with about 
 10 players. It takes me roughly 1-2 minutes to connect to a ranked match- which is ridiculous- 
 and the player matches (friendlies) are very hard to connect to unless you know a lot about firewalls-which 
 are apparently the answer to these difficulties. One map called Merville (at least i think that 
 is what it's called) seems to turn upside down on multiplayer sometimes so you fall into the air- 
 which is a stupid glitch which should have been found in testing. However, if it works, multiplayer 
 is very fun and the new game types, such as war and single capture the flag are great additions.
 
  
  Overall, this is a great game, and i will be playing it a lot longer, but until a patch is released 
 for multiplayer, i'm keeping to the story mode.
  
  oh and sorry that this is so long, I have a habbit of writing too much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Adevilwithin666
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 18, 2006 6:10 am PT
Review:  When Call of Duty 2 came out last year it turned alot of heads to how shooters were played it offered 
 an addicting online mode and a uniquie healing method that made its replay value a perfect 10. 
 Call of duty 3 brings these same ideas to with a new story to its single player mode and an online 
 support for 24 players. Sadly the Single Player gameplay just doesnt seem as fun as COD2 was. The 
 story doesnt seem like it goes anywere and feels dragged on. But when the cutsences are over the 
 battles are just as fun as ever. Cod2 online was loves by many on xbox live but online supporting 
 8 players per server brought it down. CoD 3 offers a 24 player online mode with nearly no lag and 
 verry fun. If you looking for a good online shooter for your 360 there is no reason why this game 
 should not be a choice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linkme
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 18, 2006 1:08 am PT
Review:  This is a great game that all fans of the world war 2 genre would enjoy. The gameplay is terrific 
 and the sound is superb, I was playing this for 15 hours staight. The gameplay is not difficult 
 and is great fun, i have to say this but Call of duty is much better than the PS3 version because 
 you dont have to suffer the bad frame rates. This game offers you a portal to the world of world 
 war 2 and shows you the action and keeps you playing.
  
  Call of duty has always had the best sound that sounds like you are right their in the war firing 
 a gun, planting on tanks, running from gunning planes.
  
  I would of liked to the see the story being longer but the replay value is still great, multiplayer 
 is also fun.
  
  Graphics are detailed but sometimes you dont notice them because you are to busy people.
  
 
  This is a great game and everyone will like this game (except s....) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: detroithardcore
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 17, 2006 11:58 pm PT
Review:  Let me start this by saying I stand firm in my beliefs, that you should just skip easy modes and 
 jump right into veteran on call of duty games. Everytime you beat a stage youll enjoy it more, 
 and the threat of death is more realistic. This is exactly what ive done with part 3 as well. Well 
 the game has a better achievement list than part 2, and the graphics are still up to par with the 
 next gen expectations. The addition of vehicles is a major plus, and your teamates will help you 
 with moving in on enemy emplacements. The new item interaction is a fresh new addition also. My 
 only problem is your teamates have been dumbed down a bit. They will run past baddies and youll 
 get killed in the process sometimes. Also on a couple occassions ive ran into some collision detection 
 problems (peeping out from behind an object to snipe ive unexpectedly not hit anything)
  My final problem is that everytime you load a saved game it plays a cutscene that you cant skip, 
 not a major issue but still annoying. Despite all this the game still stands on both of its feet 
 as a great game to own, any WWII FPS fan will love it... and any call of duty fan knows what theyre 
 in for, so ill say its a must buy for fans of the series. If youve never played the COD games before 
 than maybe you better start with part 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AznGamerz92
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 17, 2006 8:19 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3 is the best game of the series for many reasons.
  
  Good
  - Incredible Online play with unique classes, up to 24 people in a battle and the use of vehicles 
 enhance evrything.
  -As usual Call of Duty 3 presents a gorgeous soundtrack
  -The map cut scenes really do explain what is happening and helps you understand why your shooting 
 your gun in the first place.
  
  Now the BAD
  -The game has nothing really new in it and the control layout is almost entirely the same.
  -Campaign 
 mode switches too often in your roles and you ponder who are you playing.
  -Is it just me or is it harder to get killed in this game? I put it on veteran and I got shot so 
 many times by a German and i didnt die. Dunno maybe i am too skilled ( hahahaha.....)
  
  Call of Duty 3 is a great game and although it could have been better, BUY IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MikeinSC2
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 17, 2006 8:13 pm PT
Review:  CoD 3 decides to forego any of the whole let's improve over the last title and decided to go with 
 more of the same. There are some cosmetic changes (though, admittedly, cooking grenades is pretty 
 darned cool) , but it is fundamentally the same game as CoD 2.
  
  Thankfully, CoD 2 was damned fun. And CoD 3 is more of the same --- though changes better be forthcoming 
 by #4 otherwise these reviews could become somewhat harsh.
  
  OK, the concept of letting you fight the war with four different military groups is a good idea, 
 but the execution does seem to be lacking. None of the characters are terribly engrossing. You 
 don't feel any real connection to your characters since they change every level. And some of the 
 accents are irksome --- but, let's be honest, French is obnoxious on a good day.
  
  The level design is quite excellent. There is a reason why WW II games tend to focus on the European 
 more than the Pacific theatre and that one reason is city combat. The presence of extremely old 
 cities with many different paths to different areas presents the game maker with some fertile canvases 
 to paint the game upon and Treyarch did a bang-up job here. Some areas of level design are less 
 than stellar, but for the most part, it's an exquisitely laid out title. The cutscenes are pretty 
 good, but an option to skip them would have been greatly appreciated.
  
  The weapons are terrific and have a very authentic feel to them. Spot-on marksmanship in the chaos 
 of battle is not something you'll see very often and these guns are no exception. You have some 
 time and you can pick people off, but usually, you're hoping to hit somebody while running for 
 cover. The sound is downright spectacular, with all of the explosions and people barking out orders. 
 The biggest plus of the game is the sheer level of chaos it depicts. War is incredibly chaotic 
 and there is so much crap going on in every battle that you will look around nervously trying to 
 figure out who is firing on you. You don't have the time to sit back and figure out everything 
 --- survival is the only thing to concern yourself with and the game makes that abundantly clear.
 
  
  This game is on the verge of jumping the shark, but it has not done so yet. This is a great FPS 
 on a system overly gifted with great FPS.
  
  The difficulty rating is based on the veteran difficulty, which can make you weep. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TBROOK1
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 17, 2006 7:04 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty three is the best!!! I mean in how many games do you find yourself in a situation 
 where nazis are all around you shooting right at you. Overwhelmed as you are when BAMM!!!!!!! a 
 german rifle clocks you right in the face what do you do you grab for his gun as the nazi trys 
 to melee you again and POW!! punch him and punch him again until he falls over dead. Even after 
 this you still have a mission to get done and objectives to be completed so there is still a world 
 of things to do in the vast universe of call of duty three!! So start exploring!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grarap
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 17, 2006 12:15 pm PT
Review:  CoD III is definately the best in the series. Unfortunately though I have one major issue with 
 it, and that issue is infinite respawns. There are fixed respawn points for enemies in the game 
 that only stop spewing out Nazi filth when you get within a certain radius. That means that your 
 real aim is taking ground, not shooting up bad guys. It seems as if the developers have taken an 
 RTS idea and plonked it into a FPS. It really takes away a lot of fun from the game when you're 
 pinned down with low ammo and know that you're never going to make it to the next checkpoint. Since 
 when can a single farmhouse hold hundreds of German soldiers? You get no sense of achievement or 
 progression from bringing down an enemy as you know that in a minute his twin will be over to replace 
 him. Shame really, COD could have been so much more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdbthexboxgamr
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 17, 2006 11:53 am PT
Review:  When the Xbox 360 launched in 2005 it did not have the super strong launch lineup that everyone 
 including Microsoft had hoped for. The system just did not have that killer app title that Halo 
 was for the original Xbox back in 2001. Most gamers would tell you that the highlight game for 
 the 360 launch was Call of Duty 2. Call of Duty 2 was a super slick looking shooter that featured 
 top notch gameplay and very sharp graphics. The game was definitely one of the most intense shooters 
 I have ever played. COD2 was developed by original Call of Duty developer Infinity Ward. After 
 playing all the way through Call of Duty 2 I said to myself, How are they going to top this?. 
 Well in 2006 Activision (publisher of the COD games) announced Call of Duty 3 and immediately the 
 main question on gamers minds was, Will it top Call of Duty 2? Right from the beginning Call of 
 Duty 3 has had a tough time winning over the hearts of faithful Call of Duty fans simply because 
 of the developer. You see Call of Duty 3 was not developed by the infamous Infinity Ward, this title 
 was developed by our friends over at Treyarch. That alone caused many to doubt the quality of the 
 game before anybody even played it. I however was not one of the skeptical, I was more excited to 
 see what Treyarch could do with this game, I wanted to see how they would stand up to the original 
 developer and to tell you the truth they did just fine. The game does have the same feel as Call 
 of Duty 2 which isnt necessarily a bad thing. The same core gameplay is intact as well. Treyarch 
 has added a new melee feature however, while you are playing through the single player campaign 
 from time to time you will attacked by an enemy melee style, they will try to grab the gun out of 
 your hands and pretty much beat you up hand to hand. During this you will see icons pop up on your 
 screen telling you to press certain buttons at certain times to fight the guy back. This feature 
 was made famous by games such as the Shenmue series and Resident Evil 4 and it adds a nice change 
 of pace for Call of Duty 3. Graphically the game is impressive. The visuals do have more detail 
 in them in comparison to COD2, however one of the things that always bothered me was the lack of 
 brightness in the overall look of the game. Most of the levels have the same dark, cloudy and sometimes 
 rainy look to them. On the bright side the game does run smooth at 60 fps, I noticed very few hiccups 
 in the frame rate, not enough to really bring the score down however. There are some unfortunate 
 glitches in the game, sometimes you will see enemies arms sticking through walls, I even had a few 
 fellow soldiers get stuck running in circles on a few occasions, it is like I said unfortunate but 
 still kind of funny. Overall the game engine is fine and manages all of the on screen action steadily. 
 I just hope to see these little problems worked out in future versions of Call of Duty. The sound 
 is excellent in Call of Duty 3. Fire this game up in 5.1 and you will almost find yourself ducking 
 from the sounds of bullets whizzing by your head. There is also a lot of soldier chatter from the 
 good guys and bad guys. The game could have used a little more variety in these voices, the germans 
 pretty much all have the same voice, odd huh?. Control wise the game has no problems to mention. 
 If you got the hang of the control in COD2 you will feel right at home in this game. The vehicles 
 even control great, the jeeps control just like a dedicated driving game and the tanks are a blast 
 to play as. They dont feel too heavy and you wont get irritated trying to maneuver them in tight 
 spaces. The online mode is pretty much the savior for the fun factor. Once you get tired of the 
 single player campaign (and you will) jump on Xbox Live and battle your friends on one of the many 
 multiplayer maps available in the game. The multiplayer is great with the new addition of vehicles 
 that can be controlled by players. Overall Call of Duty 3 is a good not great game. It has the 
 same qualities found in Call of Duty 2 but I just wanted to see a bigger jump from part 2. I would 
 recommend this title for the diehard fans only, if you are not much of a fan of the series and you 
 already own Call of Duty 2 you could go either way on this game. If the Call of Duty franchise 
 wants to really stand out from the rest of the crowded WW2 shooter genre in the future part 4 better 
 be a huge jump from Call of Duty 3, it is a quality game but just doesnt offer much more than what 
 you can find in Call of Duty 2. THE GOOD___________________
  + Detailed graphics
  
  + Excellent sound
  
  + Same great feel that we know and love from Call of Duty 2
  
  + Fun 
 and addicting multiplayer modes THE BAD_____________________
  - Occasional glitches in the AI - Small collision detection problems
  
  - Just not enough of 
 anything new from COD2
  
  - Not enough variety in missions or in the look of the levels THE QUESTIONABLE__________
  ? Do 
 germans really all sound just like each-other? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: honkyjoe
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 16, 2006 9:52 pm PT
Review:  If you want a solid FPS for the 360 then go get COD 3. Both casual and hardcore gamers will like 
 the amazing visuals and varied weapons. Multiplayer is the best on any WWII shooter to date and 
 has lots of fun and interactive game modes that will challenge you and your teammates. COD 3 improves 
 on number 2 by adding small tweaks to the gameplay like close comabt mellee fighting and the ability 
 to pick up grenades and throw them back. Other than those things there is not much that makes COD 
 3 unique from its counter parts. One complaint about COD 3 is the horrible campaign story and in 
 some places lame dialogue between charcters that act like a bunch of pre-pubescent 12 year olds. 
 Other than that nearly everyone that enjoys an adreniline filled shooter will enjoy COD 3 a lot, 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cedmln
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 16, 2006 6:36 pm PT
Review:  The good, bad, and tilt...
  
  The good:
  
  The graphics are fantastic, the sound is near perfect, the action is great as there a lot going 
 on, the envrionments are awsome, and its not short, but just the right amount of time to keep you 
 satified in the end.
  
  The bad:
  
  You will die a lot (even if it isn't hard) and I mean it (which is frustrating) , and A. I. is some 
 times a bit blind as you will see enemies running into walls for a few seconds and you allies will 
 get in your way of fire a lot, and thats about all you need to worry about.
  
  The tilt:
  
  This is my first time playing a Call Of Duty game and I enjoied it. The graphics immpressed 
 me as they rival the graphics of some of the best the 360 has to offer right now (including GEOW) . 
 The gameplay waas great and unpredictive at times... The only real complaint Ihave to give from 
 this game is that its pretty frustrating when I died about a million times because I couldn't get 
 to cover fast enough or there was just too much going on the tell whos shooting at me...
  
  Over all I think this game is great and for those who like this Franchise, its a buy, and for those 
 who never tried it, you might want otlook into it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JinxSTL
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 16, 2006 5:44 pm PT
Review:  Well, I have to say... when I didn't have a 360 I used to play Call of Duty 2 on my friend's XBOX 
 360. I loved that game. I'd go over there and play it for hours. I didn't think that any other 
 WWII game would be able to beat it, but COD3 certainly has. IMO it's an amazing game!
  
  The GAMEPLAY is pretty simple for the most part. The controls and objectives are just about the 
 same as all other FPS.... however... There is DIVERSITY in the Gameplay of COD 3. With all the different 
 vehicles and weapons the game stays interesting and fun. Part of the fun is how many enemies are 
 shooting at you at once. At first it's a little overwhelming, but you get used t it.
  
  The GRAPHICS in this game are very nice... The characters, backgrounds, vehicles and weapons have 
 all been represented in great detail. From the nicks in your rifles to the blood-spatter of the 
 headshots... this game looks GREAT!
  
  The SOUND is actually pretty nice. I mean... effects-wise. I don't really pay attention to the music. 
 The effects really are amazing, though. (Ex. I was in a building sniping when I heard footsteps... 
 I turned around and an enemy was coming up the stairs... so I got the kill. This was online...)
 
  
  I think this game has great VALUE! I mean, the offline game has pretty good REPLAY VALUE, but you'll 
 find that most of the VALUE stands in the ONLINE MODE. Honestly, I enjoy this game even more than 
 GoW!
  
  All-in-All, this is a GREAT GAME! This has to be one of my favorites for the 360. With a great 
 offline mode and an even better online mode, this game is certainly worth the $60!
  
  -JiNX 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _seVen_
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 16, 2006 7:08 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3 on the XBOX 360 is an amazing game. It takes you as close to war as possible. Not 
 only because it looks amazing, but because, it plays amazing.
  
  It's just more intense and authentic than Call of Duty 2. The single player campaign is much more 
 polished than in the previous CoD game. This time, the game features a story (Yes, a story, other 
 than WW2) which is mildly interesting, but interesting enough to keep up the excitement.
  
  Also, the music is brilliant this time. Surely, it was brilliant in the last CoD games too, but 
 this time, it's even better. Sound effects are also flawless.
  
  The only negative things I noticed were the glitches: you can easily get stuck, which can be very 
 annoying. Another thing is the gun recoil: it feels a little more arcade-ish than before.
  
  But other than those, the game is better in every aspect than its predeccesor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: b-e-n
Rating: 7.7
Date: Dec 16, 2006 3:39 am PT
Review:  don't get my wrong it is presented quite well with good graphics and very atmospheric sound, but 
 after the first battle the gameplay gets repetitave and actually really boring. There are a few 
 glitches in the game a A. I characters tend to get stuck in things and are unable to move. It is 
 a good game to start, but early on it gets boring, im not actually sure how long it is as i traded 
 it in and got dead rising (which is far more fun) also its just another war game so there isnt 
 anything new. I got it when i got my 360 along with gears of war, and compared to gears itr is 
 really boring. So if you really like war games you will probably get it, but i wouldn't recommend 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: foolwestcoast33
Rating: 6.8
Date: Dec 14, 2006 4:52 pm PT
Review:  I reserved this game long before it was released expecting something epic like Halo 2 but instead, 
 I was treated to what was call of duty 2 with more players some vehicles that didnt change the 
 game up at all and polished graphics. The single player is comparable to that of last years call 
 of duty 2 and call of duty, so you expect the multiplayer to shine. And it does up until your 5th 
 hour of play and from then on its the same thing, and with more players its some what exciting 
 but takes away from the feeling of being part of a team you can do completely terrible but your 
 team can still whoop on any other players. there's really no strategy except to camp and shoot 
 or try to flank. All said though, its an ok game worthy of being called an expansion pack. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spyderfan1212
Rating: 7.7
Date: Dec 31, 2006 1:19 pm PT
Review:  The tradition of the Call of Duty franchise is that the games made by infinity Ward are almost 
 seperate from the other games by not having any other title besides Call of Duty than the number. 
 Call of Duty games made by other developers are called Call of Duty and than a subtitile that seperates 
 it from Infinity Ward's games. Ubisoft breaks that tradition by letting Treyarch make Call of Duty 
 3.
  
  Call of Duty 3 is a WWII (i hope you already knew this) shooter. The Call of Duty franchise has 
 always been known for its over the top cinematic intense gameplay that seperates it from other 
 WWII shooters. However Ubisoft from now on should only let Infinity Ward make Call of Duty games. 
 I'm not saying this game is horrible but when compared to Call of Duty 1 and 2 its nothing. The 
 first thing I said while playing this game is wow this doesn't feel like Call of Duty. It just 
 did not feel right and I do not know why. The gameplay is essientally the same as Call of Duty 
 2's but it seem less realistic and the battles seem less intense as well. If this game did not 
 have the Call of Duty name haunting it, I would probably not of been dissapointed because I would 
 not be comparing it so hard. In Call of Duty 3, like its predeccessors you have to move from cover 
 to cover or you will likely be eaten up by fire. You also are always accompained by allys who help 
 lay down Cover fire. Throughout the game you pretty much just mow down wave after wave of Germans. 
 While you did this in the other game it seems much less realistic, your men rarely die and it seems 
 like the Germans are the only ones suffering Casualties, even on Veteran mode. I am a Call of Duty 
 2 Veteran and when playing that game on Veteran I sometimes wonder who suffered more deaths, my 
 allys or the Germans. I saw my men get brutally murdered again and again which persuaded me to 
 stay in cover. In Call of Duty 3 I didn't get the same sense, the game almost forces you to run 
 out in enemy fire due to the map design. Don't get me wrong there is some fun to be had but it 
 gets old fast and towards the end your really only doing it for the Achievments. Multiplayer- Call 
 of Duty 3 fixes one of my biggest problems with Call of Duty 2's mp, the German weapons. Finally 
 the weapons seemed evened out, however at the price of the games tactical feel. I loved Call of 
 Duty's 2 mp because it was very tactical, yet still fast paced. Call of Duty 3 on the otherhand 
 feels like an arcady shooter. When I first heard there were going to be tanks and vehicles I was 
 excited. Why? because I played Call of Duty United Offensive which had GREAT vehicular action. 
 I was dissapointed though by the poor map design and the vehicles also feel way too arcady. Sound- 
 Sound is still superb, all the weapons sound great
  
  Graphics- The people and enviorment look very nice. However the Thompson's design makes me want 
 to through up. Call of Duty 3 comes off as somewhat of a dissapointment, than again it had to stack 
 up against its predeccessors which is no easy feat. Ubisoft learn from you mistake and let Infinity 
 Ward make future Call of Duty releases. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brit_4life
Rating: 4.3
Date: Dec 14, 2006 2:54 pm PT
Review:  call of duty 3, is just like the second one which is good, with improved graphics and sound. BUT 
 it lacks spirit, a proper story and something that grabs your attention and hooks you to the game. 
 Im a 360 fan and want the perfect gamer score, but i rented this game and i cant even be bothered 
 to finish it for the points,. the multiplayer is not great either, im a big online player with gears 
 of war and such and when i tried this online i was bored whitin seconds. this game is nice and 
 all but a waste of your time! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reconghost179
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 14, 2006 1:26 pm PT
Review:  Okay , first and foremost this game actually is a realistic war game. There is actually smart AI 
 and nice terrain.. real chemistry to it , for example. Ex 1. The German's actually use their cover 
 to the best of it's abilities, such as if there is a wagon with a dead horse 2 meters away or a 
 stack of hay bails 2 steps infront of you. The will go to the hay, shoot at you for supresment. 
 Then maybee toss smoke gernade and THEN book ass and maybee role to the wagon IF it is more safe 
 than his current position. The German's also use their weapons very well.. aiming wise, melee, 
 how they run with it and how they use it for certin position.. automatic up frot closer to the 
 enemy and rifle back to cover and snipe the enemy. So this time.. boy's and girl's.. your in the 
 war as much as you can be without actually being IN the war haha. Now the terrain is amazing .. 
 maybee one of the best improvements to the franchise besides the AMAZING graphic detail ( Activision 
 actually got men in suits and put it on the computer as best they could , meaning wrinkles ,creeses 
 , dirt/mud, teras ect. ) the grass actually will stay down when you or the computer/player runs/walks/crawls 
 on it.. gernades leave small craters in the earth. Over all the trees ect are good detail and work 
 all better in different way's!! One thing i liked alot about them game is the close encounter battle 
 with a german soilder and your guy actually talks while you play .. ex. i was playing an American 
 level and Sgt. said hey snickles move out and cover the left flank and the guy you play.. pvt . 
 NICKLES says SIR IT S NICKLES SIR! so yeah this gameis pretty sweet . If you like FPS and want 
 a goood WWII / war game . This game will make you very happy. Good X-mas gift or just go buy it 
 if you want it .. it will make you very happy. Oh and i forgot to mention ... Multiplayer is fu***** 
 awesome !!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grope2
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 14, 2006 2:19 am PT
Review:  At last the console has a quality call of duty, the producers have obviously taken a indepth look 
 at what made the orignal PC versions so good and implemented them into tis awesome package, the 
 single player is fun and offers a great deal of variety, and the replayability is awesome which 
 is great news for everyone right? Especially those who don't have online gameplay. The xbox has 
 brought next gen graphics and hardware support to the console and this is why new limits are been 
 reached in games only though possible nd the pc, the online feels just like the orginal call of 
 duty pc vversion with more weapons and better graphics and large battle maps. The online is extremely 
 fun, unfortuanaly you can only be American and German but both teams have clear differentces such 
 as tank strength and weapon strength and accuracy, the online is a brlliant experiance for anyone 
 and is a definate buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: popsadent
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 13, 2006 4:02 pm PT
Review:  In call of duty 3 you play as a basic infantryman or tank commander for the poles, americans, british 
 and french (think thats all of them) , during the liberation of france. The graphics in COD3 are 
 quite a bit better than its last incarnation, but still isnt the best. The models and scenery are 
 fairly well detailed and lighted. There are some envirenments though that look very aliased and 
 staircase like on the edges. The explosion effects are also kind of weak as they look more like 
 a slide show then an animation. but all in all the graphics are good. The gameplay is the standard 
 run and gun style we all love. 'nuff said. Sound as always is top notch. Bringing authentic sounding 
 weapons and vehicles to life. The mulitplayer is fairly good. but nothing eye boggling.
  
  Overall this is a good game worth picking up and spending your time playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metheloon
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 13, 2006 8:44 am PT
Review:  With the little tweaks made to the first two call of dutys this really is a stunning game. If you 
 have played any fps before then this game will be easy to jump into and you only have two put up 
 with a 5 minute max training session and then you'll be sent straight into a big battle. The visuals 
 are stunning and them combined with the little extra bits (planting a bomb, fighting with a single 
 German) makes you really feel involved and the mass of soldiers you are always fighting with does 
 make you feel like just a small but important part of the war. Unlike other games when you always 
 end up destroying entire armies alone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Halo_Freak2
Rating: 6.9
Date: Dec 12, 2006 4:37 pm PT
Review:  The first stupid thing I noticed in single-player mode is that you can't even jump over small insignificant 
 obstacles at all. Even something that looks like its only half a foot tall, no, you can't go over 
 the thing even using a regular jump. The second thing, perhaps the stupidest thing about the single-player 
 is the friendly AI's. For example; while you're pinned down somewhere, say behind a stack of crates, 
 one of your teammate AI's needs some cover too, so instead of going behind the crates right next 
 to you he pushes you out of cover and into the open. Sometimes the AI's just lie out in the open 
 and block the path you need to go down; it's REALLY annoying. And the last thing I'm going to note 
 about the game is how it auto-targets enemies when you aim down the sights, it's incredibly stupid 
 and completely takes the point out of using the sight in the first place. But if you're thinking 
 about buying the game, rent it first if you really want to play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Woozy_Gem
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 12, 2006 3:32 pm PT
Review:  There can be a ton of improvements like longer single player and less glitches. I like the single-player 
 alot because you get to know your squad more unlike the other games, better A. I., and great graphics. 
 In the other games, you would just shoot nazis and complete objectives, but in this sequel, there's 
 a little story line (spoiler) like how SGT. Mcmullin and Dix die and stuff and everyone's all sad 
 and dramatic. You get to learn more about WWII and the Normandy Breakout more too. I really think 
 it should be longer though.
  
  Multiplayer Rocks! It's more like a battlefield game, but really good. The new features like vehicles 
 and weapon classes are really good. I really reccommend this game; xbox live or not, it's good. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dinghy_Dog
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 12, 2006 2:52 pm PT
Review:  :Best Idea:
  &middot; The ragdolls are finally in a Call of Duty game. Rag dolls and awesome graphics. It's 
 about time too because although the Quake III engine looks pretty sweet, it can't keep up with 
 today's high-end industry.
  
  :Worst Idea:
  &middot; Aiming down the sights will autotarget enemies, which takes the point of using the sights. 
 I really wish that was taken out because it makes the game tremendously easier.
  
  :Achievement Difficulty:
  &middot; Pretty straightforward. You basically complete the single 
 player mode on the hardest difficulty, play a lot of multiplayer, just like any 360 game. The only 
 achievements that pull away from that are the shooting with certain weapons through an entire mission. 
 Other than that, a very long achievement process that is actually obtainable.
  
  :Buy or Rent:
  &middot; This is a game that you'll want to buy if you're into war games. Even 
 if you hate the single player missions, you'll definitley have a blast in the multiplayer with 
 friends. There's a good amount of game modes that will keep you busy for a good while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d500elite
Rating: 7.6
Date: Dec 12, 2006 12:08 pm PT
Review:  Well Ive not really played properly ive enjoyed multi-player but some times it can be tricky and 
 a pain, like when you watch a football game and your shouting at your team to put the ball in the 
 back of the net, the one player is good and is well thought up and your always in the action but 
 at times you die to often, which gets a little frustrating but a good all rounder of a game and 
 that little bit better than the previous games. It lacks that little something which could make 
 it amazing, but it still out dose the Medal of oner games.
  
  D500 Elite 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nextdawg
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 12, 2006 8:57 am PT
Review:  COD 3 leaves a little to be desired in the game play it self. The campaign is too scripted and 
 short for my taste. I haven't played on-line yet so I can't comment on that aspect of the game. 
 The sound quality is the best I have ever experienced in a game before. The graphics are great 
 and the weapons are very detailed. I was really turned off by the fact that you can not skip the 
 cut scenes. They were boring and waste of time after the first time see them. Over all I think 
 it was a great game, but, not a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigC43
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 12, 2006 5:28 am PT
Review:  The Good: Solid gameplay returns, graphics are very good, gameplay is great as well, vehicles, 
 several different nations to play as, cutscenes are well done, achievements are easier to earn 
 and are more spread out.
  
  The Bad: It's a bit more arcady than CoD2, quick match isn't so quick, gameplay just doesn't feel 
 quite as good as the last one.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  The Call of Duty series may have only started a few years ago, but it's done so well that it now 
 has three installments and several console spin-offs. The latest in the series, Call of Duty 3, 
 is a very good addition and plays pretty darn well, but just isn't quite as good as it's stellar 
 prequel, Call of Duty 2. The campaign mode of Call of Duty 3 has you fighting through WWII as a 
 soldier from several different nations: U. S., England, Canada and Poland. This gives the game more 
 diversity and gives our neighbors in Europe and northern North America something to cheer about. 
 The gameplay is solid Call of Duty, first person shooting action. Everything feels right, but it 
 just doesn't feel as tight or as tactical as Call of Duty 2. Other than it not feeling quite as 
 tight, everything you loved from Call of Duty 2 is back except for holding your breath while sniping. 
 You can return grenades to enemies and get into a mini-game melee fight with an enemy soldier that 
 are both nice new additions. Also new this time around is the ability to drive vehicles. You can 
 drive a gunner truck into battle online or off and with a friend, gun down the competition. Speaking 
 of competition, one of the most disappointing aspects of Call of Duty 3 was the Quick Match on 
 Xbox Live. I tried to find a match several times, yet each time it took forever to load and I never 
 got into a match. I know my connection is not to blame, so be warned that the quick match isn't 
 so quick. I will give my updated impressions of the multiplayer modes soon.
  
  The visuals of Call of Duty 3 are very impressive, but don't seem to spend as much time on small 
 details such as smoke and building texture as Call of Duty 2. It's still a very nice looking game. 
 The sound effects are stellar as always, so there isn't anything wrong with that.
  
  One last perk about Call of Duty 3 is the new and improved achievement system. Now, achievement 
 points are more spread out, causing you to want to complete a level on single player without fireing 
 or only fireing one kind of gun to gain them.
  
  Overall, Call of Duty 3 is a game that should make longtime CoD fans happy, and is well worth your 
 purchase.
  
  Gameplay: It may not feel as tight as Call of Duty 2, but Call of Duty 3 delivers with solid gameplay 
 and some new tricks.
  
  Graphics: Not quite as detailed as Call of Duty 2, but the rain effects especially look most impressive.
 
  
  Sound: Outstanding as always...
  
  Value: It's $60, but it's well worth it.
  
  Final Thoughts: Die you Nazi scum! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mhfurniture
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 12, 2006 12:09 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 good game. Call of Duty 3........... GREAT GAME!!!
  
  Graphics - CoD 3 has improved on its visuals a bit by adding a bit more details such as the smoke, 
 which looks like real smoke by making it thick which is really hard to see through. The characters 
 also look a bit more realistic.
  
  Gameplay - i noticed that the cut scenes aren't that great, but they wont kill you
  
  Sound 
 - The explosions, gun shots, and everything else is just awesome. nothing wrong with the sound
 
  
  value- the story mode isn't that long, but on hard or veteran mode it will take a while. they have 
 also improved the multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StanleyHandyman
Rating: 7.9
Date: Dec 11, 2006 8:58 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 was a brilliant game last year and was arguably the best 360 launch game. Call of 
 Duty 3 falls very short from Call of Duty 2.
  
  Gameplay
  Good: Classic CoD gameplay, Improved Multi-Player
  Bad: Nothing has changed in Single player, 
 at all, MP40 is very unbalanced for the Germans
  
  Graphics
  Good: Slightly improved animations, charechter ,gun models, smoke effects are still number one
 
  Bad: Ugly looking cutscenes which you can't skip that have replaced mission breifings. Guns always 
 stay shiny even after all the battles.
  
  Sound
  Good: Still top quality sound effects, good soundtrack
  Bad: Reused German speech from CoD 2
 
  
  Value
  The story isn't very long on normal difficulty. Veteran mode will still take you a good ammount 
 of time. Multiplayer is still fun.... if you can find a game.
  
  Overall
  If you were looking for an improved call of duty this is not the game. If you are a fan of world 
 war 2 shooters and absoultly must have this game than by all means by it. But if you are just looking 
 for a shooter ... look elsewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshtheboss
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 29, 2007 8:38 pm PT
Review:  World War II has always been a showcase for great movies and videogames, as players can always 
 imagine shooting down enemies while running and gunning through the harsh terrain of the European 
 battlegrounds. Many of the best shooters have origins in and around the World War II era. However, 
 even with the countless hours of movies and videogames, the subject matter could get a little stale 
 and the war itself can lose some of its initial grandeur, glory and meaning.
  
  Call of Duty 3 is no exception, as it gracefully plunges players into one of the most important 
 wars in history. Yet, as you shoot down hundreds of enemies and help regain lost territory, you 
 cant help but think that this has all been done before. The surefire, tried-and-true formula of 
 Call and Duty is still intact, as players take control of numerous factions taking turns crushing 
 the Axis power of Germany. Previously, players only got the chance to act as Americans, Russians 
 and British soldiers during the war, but in Call of Duty 3 they can now storm the field as Canadian 
 and Polish soldiers as well, adding to the overall effect of how countries became unified for a 
 cause.
  
  While the two new allied factions add depth and originality, Call of Duty 3 feels awfully convoluted 
 at times and often seems hard to know exactly what is going on. Most people know that the basis 
 of Call of Duty 3 is to crush the opposing forces of Germany. The grand scope of World War II is 
 epic enough to create a moving storyline, yet the developers at Treyarch felt it was necessary 
 to give everyone in your squad a name and show unskippable cutscenes before every mission. Not 
 only is this incredibly asinine (honestly, who really cares about a British solider arguing with 
 a French citizen?) , but the games missions move back and forth between the different factions 
 almost on a whim, creating a cluster of *potential* storylines and character plots. It will almost 
 be impossible to follow any specific characters storyline throughout the game, as there are so 
 many, and the numerous named characters and scenarios make the game feel more like a shooter soap 
 opera than a war.
  
  Even with the hard-to-follow storyline, Call of Duty 3 does a good job of offering new and exciting 
 objectives and missions to tackle. Each squad has their area of expertise, so whenever you control 
 American or British forces, for example, you will be shooting a lot of Nazis on foot while infiltrating 
 a building, as opposed to using a Polish solider in a tank. The real exciting factor in these missions 
 is that not everyone will always be fighting on the same plateau. Some missions have you going 
 inside a fuel depot to destroy the enemys transportation, while other missions take you to the 
 frontlines themselves, as you must use cover fire to protect your squad mate strapping a bomb to 
 a tank. Call of Duty 3 does a great job creating a riveting atmosphere full of loud explosions 
 and dead bodies.
  
  But even with the great on-foot missions, as soon as your character hops into a vehicle the game 
 takes a hard right into boredom. The tank missions have never been duller, just simple roaming 
 and shooting affairs which almost always end in disaster as the controls never feel as fluid as 
 they should. Luckily Treyarch has added a new vehicle to the mix, an armored vehicle that the player 
 can both drive and shoot during the course of the game. Although the latter only happens once, 
 you will find yourself driving most of the time through a maze of bullet fire and explosions as 
 you race to the next well placed objective.
  
  Of course, these driving sequence would be a lot more fun if the enemies werent brain-dead most 
 of the timesorry, all the time. Call of Duty 3's enemies are some of the worst ever in a shooter. 
 For a game that has such a great atmosphere, it is almost ruined by the terrible AI. Enemies run 
 at you full speed while you are on a mounted turret, they reload in the open without hiding, and 
 they even shoot at their own squads (it has happened numerous times) . Its a real shame considering 
 how engaging and action-packed the missions are, and one can only think of how much better they 
 could have been if enemies acted more intelligently.
  
  Thats not to say you won't die a lot, because you will. Even if the enemies are dumb, they know 
 how to fire a gun, which is always a bad thing. You will often find yourself hiding from enemy 
 bullets as you try to pinpoint the source of fire, or trying to find a new position to take cover. 
 It's often fun to learn your way around the battlefields since every part of the level is open 
 to kill the enemies, and there isn't a single, designated path to follow. Call of Duty 3 has your 
 standard means of disposing of enemies, with assault rifles, automatics, pistols and rocket launchers 
 of course. Grenades have a greater impact this time around as now enemy grenades can be picked 
 up and thrown back at them to explode on impact. The enemies can also do the same thing as well, 
 so be prepared to play some deadly games of Hot Potato.
  
  Scenarios like this help separate Call of Duty 3 from others in the series, but even with the cool 
 locales you cant help but feel it's all the same. You move with your squads to a specific point, 
 shoot a few baddies, rinse and repeat till the level is complete. Treyarch seemed to notice this 
 endless trend and decided to throw in an obscure, if not pointless, button-pressing minigame to 
 break away from the hectic shooting. Simply put, if you are arming a bomb, you will be commanded 
 to hit a specific button on your controller or turn the analog stick in a specific direction. Not 
 only does this feel completely out of place in the overall scheme of things, the slightest mishap 
 will end in instant death, which means restarting from your last checkpoint. To make things worse, 
 there are times when you will do a tug-of-war sort of game with an enemy where you must wrestle 
 the weapon out of his hands. While the same type of mini-games is in effect here, you must pound 
 the buttons repeatedly in order to succeed, so those of you with slow reflexes or afraid they might 
 break the controller will be in for a very rough ride. Luckily, these button type mini games only 
 happen three, four times throughout the game, so you dont have to worry about it that much.
  
  Even with these new gameplay mechanics, Call of Duty 3 is mildly enjoyable for the fact that 
 it has superb visuals and sound. In World War II franchises, Call of Duty 3 epitomizes what shooters 
 should be in the future, because the visuals are crisp and detailed and allow for a much more realistic 
 depiction of warfare. Even the grass moves as you walk, and craters will form in the ground where 
 a grenade explodes. The music is an excellent mix of high-tension chords and subtle musical ensembles, 
 which blend together into a fantastic arrangement. The music is so well put together it seems that 
 the composer was on the battlefield himself as he wrote that score, its that awe-inspiring and 
 realistic. Coupled together, the visuals and sound provide the best experience in any shooter to 
 date. Its just a shame the rest of the game fails to impress.
  
  The achievements help break up the boredom a bit by offering new ways to play through the single 
 player campaign. Achievements such as completing a level without dying, using only assault rifles, 
 or not firing a shot throughout an entire level add a sense of excitement and depth to the game. 
 Treyarch obviously took some time in thinking about the achievements this time around, and now 
 gamers can also earn points by playing in the online multiplayer as well. The multiplayer aspects 
 are basically the same as previous games, sans a few new maps and upgrades. The multiplayer is 
 definitely a lot more fun to play than single player, and fans of the series will no doubt enjoy 
 what Call of Duty 3 offers online.
  
  Call of Duty 3 could have been more than just another copy of previous installments, but with unnecessary 
 gameplay mechanics, dumb AI, and a forgettable storyline, it brings nothing new in terms of fun. 
 Gorgeous visuals and a great multiplayer simply could not save Call of Duty 3 from being just a 
 different battle in the same tired war. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rentago
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 11, 2006 7:40 pm PT
Review:  I loved this game and its single player, but when I played online for the first time it was complete 
 agony!
  
  Such fools to unbalance the game so much than from before!
  
  Vehicles are useless due to snipers or just people with a gun shooting you out of your vehicle 
 before you climb into it! The car isn't even slightly pretecting you, your just a free kill. Tanks 
 get blown up as soon as you climb into one or try to drive around because rockets blow up a tank 
 in 1 hit unless for some reason I've seen tanks survive 5 shots. The game has a complete unbalanced 
 and unorganized online experience waiting for you to go play :D I can't stand the people who are 
 saying on the game Snipers should do 1 hit kills... WTF!!!
  
  This game is a mess filled with people who have no common sense.
  
  True not all people are 
 idiots atleast 20% of america will save us!
  (90% out of 110% don't know what a molecule is)
  
  Anyways this game slightly lags and has 
 delays making multiplayer more of a pain. Shotgun takes 5 shots (If standing next to the enemy) 
 to kill when online. Pistol takes around 2 shots, Rifles (Scoped or not) take 1-2, Machine guns 
 take 4-6, Carbines take 3-5, Heavy machine guns take 8-12 for some reason (Fast firing rate maybe) , 
 Rockets just don't seem to have splash damage so you really have to hit the guy directly to kill 
 him which in this game still doesn't kill him.
  
  But thats with lag it probably takes less to kill, but thats what I got when I shot my friend 1 
 bullet at a time (Shooting chest, head, or limbs do differant damage)
  
  I have not for one moment found any vehicle useful with all the camping whores from Halo2 in this 
 game. You can't go anywhere without a guy sitting on a roof or a building waiting for you to walk 
 out into the open or a guy on a stair case proned with a heavy gun who never moves. Infact anywhere 
 you go there is a big building that has snipers or heavy gunners in it camping...
  
  I played one game and decided to figure out how cheap this game was. I hate snipers and never use 
 one, but I use the rifle without the scope and aim alot more deadlier than a sniper. I sat in the 
 open and for ever head that popped up I shot easily since the gun stays steady it isn't a challenge.
 
  
  Alot of times no one moves infact they all stay indoors so I have to hunt them down, usualy camping 
 around corners I found alot of people just plain old camping no one moves, no one talks (Except 
 me since I was talking to my self the whole time and people got annoyed) , then when I fly around 
 a corner press the trigger its over... he's dead before he could even hurt me, but yeah camping 
 doesn't win you games you just get experienced players hunting your ass down.
  
  Btw the reason its easy is because everyone plays player matches no one knows how ranked matches 
 work so you always play agenst new players.
  
  Me rambling on how the game is easy for anybody who plays FPS games is just an example how cowards 
 die, you win the battle, but they win the war.
  
  Because they killed the point of adding vehicles to the game.
  
  Seriously I lost track on 
 what I was truely talking about...
  
  Just enjoy the game its fun, but it pisses you off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ultramarine217
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 11, 2006 7:11 pm PT
Review:  Well.... the game is hard to describe. Mainly because the WWII game is about to get used up, but 
 also the game can be frustratingly difficult. The gameplay is the same as all the other Call of 
 Duty's, not much different there, so it's nice and simple. But there are some things that just 
 annoy the hell out of me, like sometimes when you jump into a fox hole you get thrown out of it 
 and land into a group of enemies or other times you jump in it and you take damage when there are 
 no enemies around. The A. I. is still sort of bland and they tend to bunch up in large groups like 
 they are asking to be killed. In other words... its Medal of Honor action... I would personally 
 prefer it if they stuck with the British, Russian, and American campaigns and put good ol' Omaha 
 (not Pointe Du Hoc) as the beginning of the American campaign.
  
  So I'll give gameplay an 8...
  
  The graphics are pretty good. Nowhere near as good as Gears 
 of War but they are still impressive. The 'completely destructible environments actually aren't 
 that destructible at all... only wooden fences and such...
  
  The graphics are a 9 just because they are good.
  
  I don't have any idea why they just stick 
 with one set of sounds but the sounds for the game aren't very interesting. As in the guns are 
 either to quiet or to loud. Also I'm a realism freak when it comes to WWII games, and just to let 
 you know, the sounds are nothing like they are in real life.
  
  An 8 for Sound.
  
  I don't really know what to put for value so I'll just give it another 8, and for Reviewers Tilt 
 I'll give it a 6 because I mainly have no idea what it means... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nyjrad
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 11, 2006 2:28 pm PT
Review:  It's a good game, but it feels too short, especially the single-player campaign. Also the cinematics 
 and loading screens are too long and you can't move during it. It's a nice addition, but its the 
 same thing as Call of Duty 2.
  
  Gameplay: The new actions like returning grenades are a good addition to the franchise. Some elements 
 like the Halo 2-like health regeneration mechanic feels out of place in a WW2 shooter. The action 
 is too slow and the wait is too long.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are improved by a slight margin. But it's just like the same as Call of 
 Duty 2.
  
  Sound: The voice-acting are very good and the explosions and gun effects are just as good.
  
 
  Value: It's really the same repetitive gameplay as COD2. Nothing too special.
  
  Tilt: The story was a bit bad, but the gameplay will make it up for that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wpardue777
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 11, 2006 10:14 am PT
Review:  I bought this game because I liked the idea of playing with up to 24 people at a time and it's 
 a war game ;0.. I played Battlefield and Battlefield 2 -- both of which are great games, but it 
 doesn't have the realism that Call of Duty 3 has. The graphics in this game are excellent and the 
 realistic way in which people move around and how your sight focuses in and out on things is nice 
 too.
  
  Also, this game makes you feel like your in the middle of battle and it's fast paced. You will 
 feel as though you got people crawling all over the map and no place is truely safe. Teamwork is 
 definitely a must in the team battles and other modes of multiplayer. Medics in this game are especially 
 helpful on the front lines when fighting b. c you can bring someone back after they've gotten shot. 
 It also keeps that person from being counted as a kill for the other team.
  
  I think any who plays this game, will love it.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aurelien48
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 10, 2006 2:12 pm PT
Review:  This game again I thought it wouldn't be good like the second one but it turn out fun to play. 
 There some new gameplay that are awsome but some are not that good. For example, the sniper its 
 weaker and when holding breath is too short. The grenades doesn't go that far. But the good gamplay 
 are the vehicules, choose what kind of guy you want to be, and other. this game is good and popular 
 because of the second one. my opinnion is to buy it and buy Bother in Arm: Hell's Highway, then 
 Medal of Honor: Airborn, and finally Call of Duty 3. Thry all have different kind of play but the 
 best is BIA, more relastic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Themilkman418
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 10, 2006 8:11 am PT
Review:  Call Of Duty 3 is a fun game and is a must buy for anyone who is a fan of the series, I will review 
 Call of Duty 3 broken up in different categorys/
  
  Gameplay: Very solid, people complain it's similar to Call of Duty 2 which is the case in some 
 aspects but why change something that works well? The cooking and being able to throw back gernades 
 is a nice touch. The story is broken up into four different campaigns, English, American, Polish, 
 and Canadian. All though personally I was upset their was no Russia The polish and Canadian campaigns 
 provided enough punch for me. The storys in COD 3 go much deeper then they did in COD 2, you really 
 get to see how each soldier feels about certain subjects and how that can hurt or help your team. 
 The Physics are nice, they are ragdoll so it can be done overtime but the death postions look much 
 more realistic then they did in COD 2. Also for multiplayer the fact that the serves can hold 24 
 people instead of eight and that theirs vehicles is very good.
  
  Graphics: Amazing, goes down to every last detail. Really shows how nitty and gritty world war 
 two was. The guns looked like a spitting image of the real thing as well.
  
  Sound: Also very good, you can feel the power of the blasts when you shoot the gun (I liked the 
 sound on the MP40 the most)
  
  Value: Good
  
  Reviewrs Tilt: Personally I felt like COD could of at least been an 9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cervol
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 10, 2006 5:10 am PT
Review:  I love wargames like Call Of duty 3, i think its boring when games got a long training on how to 
 play the game, in this game, it takes 1-2 min then you have made it, and ready to fight.
  
  The mission are good i think, tank maps ( they are funny) .. its easy to win the game, the diff is 
 pretty good, but since there is no health packs ( just dont get to most damage at time) you can 
 easy win the game.
  
  I dont know how the game is on live, but soon i get it;)
  
  Buy this game if you like shooting games! WWII;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mitsu570
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 10, 2006 1:33 am PT
Review:  This is a game you play more and more everyday and you learn to love it. The single player campaign 
 is good but not nearly as good as COD 2. It is a short but chalenging at times (harder difficulty) . 
 The meat of this game is its multiplayer aspect. You get to choose from 5 different classes and 
 each one has it own goals and achievements. The maps in COD3 are immense compared to COD2 you will 
 enjoy finding a great spot for a scout. The best game to play in multiplayer is WAR, where you 
 have objectives to get and defend.
  
  The graphics in the game are great, in my opinion the sound is the best part about it. There's 
 nothing like running straight for a guy and hearing his bolt from his rifle jam up as he tries 
 to fire at you, so you hit him in the head with your trench gun and watch him fall to the floor. 
 Overall i give it a 9.3! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grub62
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 9, 2006 2:17 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty three improved visuals and audio features of the last game. COD3 is more exiting than 
 ever. in my opinion best in the world war two series so far. buy this game. i was especially impressed 
 with the grenades and explosions. the sound is extremly realist. when ur firing that thompson machine 
 gun you really get that bark. The only drop back for this game is that it is pretty similar to 
 the previous game in the series. they have also improved multiplayer options including x-box live. 
 so if ur a fan of first person shooters than COD3 is a must own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slipknot-maggot
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 8, 2006 10:18 pm PT
Review:  Once again, Call of Duty impresses me. This go round' there is much more to be done then previous 
 adventures. The game has some new things, like tanks, jeeps, and bikes. More countries to play 
 as. And a longer story.
  
  The graphics are great like before. But some cool things with the physics that makes the game look 
 awsome. The vehicals look awsome with the lighting, and shadows. The characters details are also 
 pretty neat-o.
  
  The online is where this game shines IMO. CoD3 has every thing you'd expect online plus some more. 
 This was the main reason I purchased CoD3. The online is alot of fun, I played this oline more 
 then GoW, and R6: V! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tundraman
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 8, 2006 7:05 pm PT
Review:  Well what can I say, way to go Treyarch! An amazing game that is a must have for fans of the second. 
 Graphics Better, Sounds making the 2nd look inferior and totaly unrealistic, mind blowing frame 
 rates running 5 times smoother, and multiplayer kicking other games asses, Its a done deal, Get 
 this game!
  
  GRAPHICS: The graphics are fantastic, Enviroments highly detailed, Vegitation so thick and detailed 
 that you could swear that you are taking cover in a muddy hedgerow in normandy, water with such 
 a shine that you could swere that you are there, Weapons surpassing the detail of the Second call 
 of duty, giving you the feeling that you could grab the weapon your self, and fire it and charecter 
 moddles of yor allies, and enemys so to scale with the enviroment that once again makes you feel 
 like you are there.
  
  PHYSICS: Wow, All i can say is Wow!!! Rag doll making the single player and online experiance a 
 whole more immersive. Getting shot in online and seeing your guy fall to his death or being blown 
 in the air by a stray rifle grenade just makes dieing woth it.
  
  WEAPONS: The weapons inclued AMERICA: M-1 Garand, Thompson M9A1, BAR, M1981 Trench gun, M1919A6 
 .30cal, M-9 Bazooka, Springfield M-1903A3, and M1911 hand gun.
  BRITISH-CANADIAN-POLISH: Lee-Enfield Rifle, Lee-Enfield Scoped, Bren, and STEN. GERMAN: MP-40, 
 MP-44, Kar-98k, Kar-98k scoped, P-38, Panzershrek, FG-42, FG-42 scoped, Gewher-43, and MG-34.
 
  
  All weapons sound so realistic and full that you find call of duty 2 just not worth it. And the 
 looks and fetures along with the shine and grit of war just leaves you at a gasp.
  
  VEHECLES: The vehecles including Jeeps, german gun car, Sherman and Panzer tank and motorcycle 
 sound so realistic you would swear that you are driving it.
  
  SINGLE PLAYER: While not as lengty as COD2 it is filled with alot more variaty such as firing mortars, 
 Planting charges and commensing in hand to hand combat with the enemys, Defanatly a thriller.
 
  
  MULTIPLAYER: Amazingly fun and Intense, 24 players, and perfict size maps along with awsome game 
 modes such as Battle, Team Battle, Head Quarters, Capture The Flag, Single Flag Capture the Flag, 
 and war. All very fun. While you can only play as german or american it is still a extreamaly fun 
 experiance. There is a ranking systum but it requires you to wait in a lobby for a cople of minutes 
 to get into a full match but that aside it is a very fun experiance. Weapon classes are very fun 
 and medics are eccential for victory.
  
  All in all The game is a defenate must have for this year and has well met the expectations of 
 people who dissed it for being made by treyarch who were totaly proven wrong. Get this game, You 
 wont regret it!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leroysavage
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 8, 2006 12:09 pm PT
Review:  Again, the closest thing to war that you'd ever want to experience. Enemies don't just pop out 
 of a certain spot every few seconds.... they'll move to flank you, maybe even get a few friends 
 to rush your position. Graphically this game is INTENSE with all the bullets wizzing past your 
 head, the explosions, smoke grenades, flying bodies, etc. In my opinion, the visuals are better 
 than GEARS OF WAR just because of all the intense action that's going on around you.
  
  Sounds is fantastic as always, and the many Suprise elements in the storyline really add to the 
 game's overall enjoyment. My ONLY complaint, is the CUT SCENES, which have to play in their entirety, 
 everytime you quit and come back to play one of those levels at a later date. It's 2 minutes out 
 of your life, you never get back.... and there is no way to SHUT IT OFF. Play the game on HARD, 
 or VETERAN, and you'll see these cut scenes over and over and over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ozzie989
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 7, 2006 8:28 am PT
Review:  COD3 is a lot of fun to play... but it's essentially the same as COD2. With Gears and COD3 coming 
 out at the same time, I opted to rent COD3 and I'm glad I did. It was fun while it lasted but I 
 never got that same sense of being viscerally in the game as I did with COD2. Gears of War, to 
 me, provided the better 'fix' for my FPS needs and provided a lot more in the way of surprises, 
 challenges, and excitement.
  
  Overall, I give COD3 an 7.8 with a dig against the value, especially for those who have played 
 COD2. All that being said, it's definitely worth the rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Freddyk14
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 6, 2006 7:29 pm PT
Review:  This game is definitely worth getting, the gamplay is amazing along with the graphics. The single 
 player is great, and the cutscenes help alot to keep it interesting. Who doesn't love going around 
 the world killing natzis. Also, they made it a lot more interactive this year, allowing u to really 
 put yourself inside the game. You get to actually set charges, performing each step, crowbaring 
 down doors, and have small battles with single soldiers. The game itself is outstanding, but the 
 only downside is that rankled games are nearly impossible start up, unless u like w8ing. The Other 
 wise, this game is absolutely amazing; a good addition to any gamers collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brianmatthutch
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 6, 2006 2:21 am PT
Review:  This game is ok. I like the vechiles and the classes but thats about it. The multiplayer is no 
 where near as fun as COD 2. The controls to me are sloppy. You cant smoothly aim at a person on 
 the run. The worst part about it online is that you cant create a lobby and wait till you get enough 
 people to start the match. You start a match with 0 people and its hard to get a full room unless 
 its with your friends. Then when the match is over you have so many seconds to set up and switch 
 to the next map. It is almost impossible to get in a ranked match and alot of the achievements 
 come from ranked play. The campaign is lots of fun though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gjagiello
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 4, 2007 2:56 pm PT
Review:  The single player campaign is fun... I did run into a few glitches, where I couldn't progress due 
 to my squad being stuck in a room or behind a wall, but restarting the checkpoint got around that.
 
  
  Now that they have patched the Live multiplayer modes, I'm much more pleased and have revised my 
 review accordingly. Ranked matches now work -- although it is rare when you play a game with more 
 than 10 of the 24 possible people, as everyone seems very impatient to get started. You will enjoy 
 CoD3 if you liked CoD2, and the value is really high if you play a lot of online multiplayer. This 
 is a solid buy recommendation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oliebaxter
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 4, 2006 10:36 am PT
Review:  I purchased this game 2 days after its release day and have really enjoyed it. When I first put 
 the game into my Xbox 360, I went in an online team battle match and at first it was quite tricky 
 to get into a game but when i did, theres no sign of disconnection. The lag is completely non existent 
 (unless you have a poor connection and then you get lag kills) . The graphics are astonishing along 
 with the gameplay and it will take a while for you to get bored of it. The story mode is also extremely 
 impressive with fantastic sound and exceptional sound with surround sound. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mr_fox_man
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 3, 2006 2:35 pm PT
Review:  I loved CoD2 and once i heard about this game, i just had to get it! The gameplay isn't much different 
 in single player to the previous game, but i still enjoyed it. The multiplayer is where the real 
 fun is at though, if you can get into a game. Currently the online isn't working too well, i used 
 to be able to get into games fairly easily, but now it is impossible. If they fix this problem 
 a lot more people will enjoy this game. 24 player online is awesome! The graphics are generally 
 better, but clothes look a little too shiny. The blurring effect is something new, and i like it, 
 it feels more realistic. The gun models in this game also look better than its predecessor. The 
 sounds of the guns a nd music are great aswell, although the voices are a bit stereo-typical. I 
 would reccomend this game to any one that likes good WWII first person shooters and once the online 
 is fixed, this game will be even better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CoolMemberName
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 3, 2006 1:40 pm PT
Review:  I had just finished Gears of War (I'm not comparing them, just back story) and went out to get 
 Call of Duty 3 hoping for the best. The first two where incredible and I was expecting the same 
 from this. Sadly though, It isn't. Really I honestly want to say the game was good but I can't. 
 It's not horrible in anyway, it's just that they recycled everything from COD 2 right into this. 
 It felt less like I was playing a new game but more like a remake of COD 2 with new missions. It 
 just had the feeling like I played it through once and desided to play it again. There are some 
 memorable moments and some cool gun fights to be had so it's not like nothing great happens. Some 
 new additions to the game are that you can throw back live gernades at the enemy (finally) and 
 these often entertaining close combat sequences were out of no where a enemy leaps out at you and 
 forces you to grab his gun or knife weilding hand and force him away from you. This involves you 
 rappedly tapping the RT and LT as fast as you can to push the enemy back then when they are off 
 gaurd, you press a random face button that pops up on screen then will cause you to knock them 
 around. Some of the times it can last up to 3 to 4 times you need to do this to take the Nazi down 
 but it is fun. It happens at least once every level so it isn't repetitive. Also you can drive 
 cars and tanks every now and then which is fun but mostly confined to roads and there are jumps 
 every now and then. A bit odd for a WWII game. Really, that's about it on the upsides. I so wish 
 there was more.
  
  Graphics: I am judging this off what the 360 is capable of so far. It looks like Call of Duty 3. 
 Plain and simple. What you saw there is what you pretty much get here. Yes, it does look nice and 
 If you take the time to stop and look at things some textures and surfaces look pretty nice (like 
 grass swaying in the wind and the crushing of grass beneth car tires and tank treds) but other 
 times it looks like they could have put more effort into the game. Character modeling is detailed 
 but most every character is the same besides the main characters. Lightning and rain looks nice 
 but I wish the water effects were a bit more detailed. All in all this game has good, if not a 
 bit average graphics for a 360 game.
  
  Sound: Um, this is pretty easy to fill in. The guns sound as WWII guns should sound. Play any other 
 war games (not in the future) , and you've heard these sound effects. The music is, well, not really 
 there. When there are cutscenes or you are at the main menu there is the average war music to sort 
 of lighten the mood then pump you right before battle. Other than that, it's just explosions and 
 gun fire.
  The voice acting was great. It was cool listening to the conversations and fights that were had 
 on and off the battle field. I'm not sure if some of the accents are fully accurite but they still 
 sounded great. You, as the main guy, remained silent. Kind of weird.
  
  Controls: The controls work great. It's COD 2's controls (which worked great and still do) but 
 with new tweaks. Like I said, you can pick up enemy grenades now instead of running from them. 
 Like in COD 2, a marker on screen shows where a grenade is so you run up to it and when over it 
 it will show a hand gripping a grenade inplace of the normal grenade icon. At that point you press 
 X and then have half the time you usually to thow a grenade to return it right back to the owener 
 by pressing RB. A very helpful thing in this new installment as there are grenades everywhere.
 
  I told you about the staged melee fights so let's move onto driving. Driving is Halo-esque. turn 
 the camera in a direction, your car turns that way. It's fairly easy to drive so anyone that has 
 been behind the wheel of a warthog will be fine here. I still constantly question why there are 
 jumps. There's even a Achievement for getting big air on one! I hope I'm not alone in my thought 
 that jumps weren't a common thing in WWII.
  The game controls well so there are no worriesd on this area.
  
  Over all, the game is about 
 10 hours in length (good amount of time for a shooter, game looses it's charm after hour 2 though) , 
 almost every Achievement can be taken on one play through (multiplayer ones not included) that 
 comes to be over 500G all together, and the difference inbetween the different difficulties doesn't 
 feel to big. The game is good for on and off playing and if you play for Achievements, this games 
 gives them to you like candy on Halloween. Like I said, you can get 500+G on one play through. 
 This game isn't worth 60 bucks but once the price drops itwould be a good buy just as a time killer 
 or rent it and grab all the Achievements and return it (I'm a Achievement whore if you couldn't 
 tell.) so rent it first then see where it goes from there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GhettoTaxi
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 3, 2006 12:03 pm PT
Review:  With Call of Duty 2, I felt as if I was just watching a movie, you don't get into the game much. 
 Whereas in Call of Duty 3, you feel like you are a part of the action and you are in the action 
 a whole lot more. A huge revolution in Call of Duty 3 was the fact that you have to do different 
 button combos (like God of War) for some melee gun fights and planting charges, in Call of Duty 
 2 however, you really only used the X button for the action command. I had a blast from the moment 
 I jumped the stone fence in the beginning as the Americans where you had to move up the hill all 
 the way up until the end. And I have just been going on about Campaign mode. In Multiplayer a huge 
 breakthrough I think they had was the ability to gain ranks in multiplayer as you got a better 
 score, plus that you had kits (different jobs) such as medic or scout which each had their own 
 weaponsets and abilities (I loved the artillery barrage for the scout) And also, up to 24 people 
 per match on Xbox Live (up to 24 if you have system link) I think this game is a great improvement 
 from the second Call of Duty, I am glad they changed so many things about it. I didn't like how 
 you can't jump over debris (jumping over barricades etc.) A good buy if you need a break from Gears 
 of War! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wayne2k7
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 3, 2006 6:02 am PT
Review:  This is another show-boater of some of the 360s capabilities graphic wise.
  The graphics are really good and realistic but the gameplay just feels too similar to the previous 
 installments for me.
  There are a good few additions to the game such as the interactive actions (pressing the correct 
 buttons or doing correct actions as they come on screen)
  I don't own a copy of COD 2 so i don't know how this compares to that, but it feels alot like the 
 first game but visually better.
  The multi-player side of this game however is great. I've spent quite alot of time playing the 
 multiplayer of this game and have been impressed thoroughly by it.
  All in all, a good war game but might be a little bit of disappointment to those who have the previous 
 games as it offers not enough new things! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ghost-Gamer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 3, 2006 2:58 am PT
Review:  The Good:
  Many memorable moments both in the campaign and on multiplayer. The campaign although short, is 
 very in depth and exiting through out. You will find your self amongst hundereds of soldiers in 
 varied semi-destructive battle fields. The combat gets closer that ever with hand-to-hand combat 
 were you will find yourself button bashing for purchase over your gun. Planting TNT on artillery 
 pieces etc. involves you setting the charge and pulling the pin. Hundreds of Xbox 360 Gamer points 
 that are pretty easy to get.
  Outstanding multiplayer. First of it's kind on the Xbox 360 and never gets boring to play. There 
 are a few vehicles available for you and your friends to use and varied weapons with different 
 properties.
  
  The Bad:
  Disapointingly short campaign mode that will leave you wanting more. Some small glitches including 
 non-activating checkpoints that will reguire you to restart at the last. All the weapons sound 
 a bit tinny and similar to each other.
  
  This game is worthy of a place in your collection and will please your next gen eyes. Worth Playing 
 .
  
  Ghost-Gamer 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SolidKeevo
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 7, 2007 1:37 pm PT
Review:  I loved Call of Duty 2, and even though Call of Duty 3 is a pretty big change, I still love it!
 
  
  Gameplay: Nothing much has changed in the gameplay department. Kill Nazis, advance, kill Nazis, 
 destroy tank, advance, defend a house. It is pretty much just like Call of Duty 2, except the story 
 is more indepth. They try to create a bond with you and your teammates, but it doesn't work like 
 it does in Brothers in Arms. A few new additions in gameplay are using mortars, rowing a boat, 
 and close-quarters combat, which is fun. I would give the singplayer gameplay a 8/10 because it 
 does bring some new things to the franchise, but also reuses alot aswell.
  
  Multiplayer Gameplay: This is where Call of Duty 3 shines. Ala lthe old gametyps except Search 
 and Destroy are here, with the new addition of War, a very fun gametype you'll have to try for 
 yourself. The new levels are alot bigger, since they need to hold up to 24 people! Vehicles have 
 been added, and they aren't to overpowered. A tank can be destroyed with one rocket to the back, 
 or you can jump on the tank if you have any grenades and throw one in. The addition of classes 
 are great, it brings alot of teamwork into the game. For the first few games you may not like the 
 multiplayer, but once you find a class you're good at, levels and gametypes you like, you'll love 
 it. Multiplayer gets a 10/10 from me.
  
  Graphics. The same old CoD2 engine is here. Great smoke and explosions, but now it's updated. Lighting 
 is alot better and everything looks alot more dirtier, which is a good thing. It isn't much of 
 an improvemnt from CoD2 though.
  
  Sound: One thing that really made me mad about sound was they recycled voices and other sounds 
 from CoD2, so don't be suprised if you hear the exact same German chatter you did in CoD2. If they 
 just would have kept CoD2's gun sounds, this game could have gotten a 8/10 for sound, because those 
 guns sounds were perfect. But it seems they were changed, and alot of guns sound too weak, or too 
 strong. I believe the sound could have been done much better.
  
  Value. This game doesn't get a perfect 10 in value for one reason, not everyone has a Gold Membership, 
 meaning they can't play online. So for people who don't have Live, this game is just a rent. If 
 you have live THIS IS A MUST HAVE!
  
  Hope you enjoyed my review of CoD3, now go try it out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robjkay
Rating: 5.8
Date: Dec 2, 2006 5:03 pm PT
Review:  Not to impressed with the game. The graphics are great but when playing single and multi-player 
 its pretty boring I think. Kind of wish it was more like Battlefield2: MC. Have to wait a long time 
 for players on multi-player mode, at times you begin to wonder if there is something wrong with 
 your connection. The game play could have been better with it was more intense. Anyway what do 
 I know, I will play with it and see what happens maybe I will change my mind! Also with they stop 
 playinf there story playing, it get really old when yur restarting the game and you have to constently 
 have to listen to the story line. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackadder89
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 2, 2006 6:44 am PT
Review:  I loved Call of Duty 2. It was the first CoD game I had played properly all the way through. After 
 finishing it on the normal difficulty, I braved the Veteran mode, and the diversity that gave the 
 game made it my favourite 360 launch title by far. And whilst I never delved into the online, I 
 was obviously excited to hear that CoD3 was coming out so soon.
  
  Let's get the baics out the way. CoD3 is basically CoD2, however, it has a few gameplay additions 
 and somewhat upgraded graphics. It takes on the same format as the other titles: you play as different 
 allied forces against the Nazis. However, despite these similarities and additions, the game is 
 inferior, and quite a bit so, to Call of Duty 2.
  
  Sure, the presentation has been amped up a bit. More textures, pretty lighting effects and partial 
 rag doll effects on dead bodies. However, at the base of it, it IS just an upgraded CoD 2 look. 
 At this stage in the 360's life, 1 year on, and looking at titles such as Gears of War, Lost Planet 
 and Rainbow Six looking as terrific as they do, you couldn't be blamed for looking past CoD.
  
  The gameplay has been added to. You can now throw back grenades and cook them, but apart from 
 that, all the other additions feel thrown in there to try and make the game more interesting. There 
 will be numerous sequences when you have to take control of a certain vehicle or emplacement and 
 use stupid little minigames and on screen prompts to utilise them. It's a totally pointless addition: 
 not being fun or intuitive. If I have to move a crane in a WWII game, I want to press X, then get 
 on with fighting, not rotate thumbsticks and all that nonsense. Perhaps the factor that brings 
 down CoD 3 the most is the total lack of immersion, due to the abysmal level and mission design. 
 You no longer feel part of the action, partially due to the afore-mentioned on-screen prompts, 
 but also because of the boring, cliched surroundings and A to B objectives without any kind of 
 impact. Any CoD 2 fan will remember fondly charging the German HQ as the Russians, screams of For 
 the Motherland! all around, in CoD3, the best you get is some random running to fix a charge, then 
 it going off next to him; it's more funny than anything else. Veteran is also now, more unfair 
 and frustrating than hard. Shoddy level design means that you'll be getting shot by enemies that 
 can see through grass which is blocking your vision. Not only that but enemies will endlessly respawn 
 out of absolutely nowhere, often in front of an objective point. Glitches are also a-plenty; not 
 only in the atrocious team-mate A. I., but all around the levels. You'll often find yourself stuck, 
 or floating across cover because a team mate has tried to take it up.
  
  Treyarch have also included in-game cinematics, which tell the story of WWII at that time; why 
 try to fix what isn't broken? The black and white stills with the sincere sounding narrator in 
 CoD2 were just fine, but in an attempt to make the game look better, they have made boring cinematics 
 and cheesy dialogue which, by the way, you can't even skip.
  
  It's not all bad. The CoD2 engine is mainly intact, so it plays quite similarly in that respect. 
 The voice acting is also fairly good, and the sounds of battle whizzing about can sometimes get 
 you into a frenzied state. Playing through on veteran will last you about 12 hours, and the multiplayer 
 is enough to keep you going for a little longer.
  
  CoD3 is immensely disappointing. It fails to emulate or capture any of the magic CoD2 created for 
 the 360, and simply falls at just about every hurdle that it tries to take on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matty4321
Rating: 6.4
Date: Nov 30, 2006 8:05 pm PT
Review:  the campaign is a joke compared to call of duty 2, the characters are just boring and have terrible 
 voice acting like almost every video game out there. the sounds of the game like the grenades and 
 the satisfiying pop of the m1 garand arent any better this year theyre just different. you also 
 feel youve played this before but its tpretty repetitive every level so you played this a year 
 ago and youve also played this same bit ten minutes ago. very unsatisfying. the multiplayer is 
 just a copy of battlefield and is not as good. dont buy this game rent it like me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sixersbballfan3
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 30, 2006 7:04 pm PT
Review:  Overall this game is amazing. Single player is very good. This game on veteran is impossible. Turn 
 up the sound when you play for the best effect. The campaign is fairly short, but you are then 
 open to a gigantic world of multiplayer. This is the most intense online shooter I have played 
 since Halo 2, though it is nothing like it. You feel as though you are in a huge battle. (With 
 up to 24 people you pretty much are) The only setback right now is that ranked matches are no good. 
 It takes 30 minutes to get a game started because no one plays them. So you are pretty much forced 
 to play player matches. This is fine except for when people start to team kill, but they are usually 
 booted eventually if they get punished enough. The multiplayer maps are great and don't get old 
 very fast. Activision and Treyarch did a great job on this game and I will probably not stop playing 
 it for months and months to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LinkRemembered
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 30, 2006 5:45 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3, one of the most anticipated games of the year, launched with moderately disappointing 
 reviews from critics, many saying it's too similar to the incredibly successful next-gen predecessor, 
 Call of Duty 2. Fans, like myself, have acknowledged some of the shortcomings, but also focus on 
 the plentiful bonuses of the third installment of one of the better WWII first person shooter franchises. 
 The single player campaign is where most of the disappointment kicks in. The obvious downside is 
 the story. Whereas Call of Duty 2 had you fighting in well-known, highly influential World War 
 II struggles, including the invasion of Normandy on D-Day and the campaign across North Africa, 
 number three sticks you in the events leading up to the liberation of Paris, a less engrossing 
 endeavor to say the least. Cutscenes frequent missions, taking you out of control of your quiet 
 hero to listen to less-than-stellar conversations. Another flaw is the difficulty. Last year, it 
 was hell trying to get from point A to point B, with enemies wisely using cover and throwing wave 
 after wave of skin-tearing bullets at you, testing your nerve and skill with the controller. Now, 
 it is remarkably easy. I don't recall running up to Germans, standing right in front of them, and 
 firing randomly being a good strategy when challenge was involved, but you'd better get used to, 
 because it's gonna be a slow, boring journey otherwise, unless you plan on trekking it through 
 the Veteran difficulty on your first go. There's a bit of challenge there, but those of us who 
 have braved previous iterations know that means nothing. Finally, the campaign is short. Really 
 short. You get to play as four different nationalities (the Americans, British, Polish, and Canadians) , 
 but only through a mere 14 missions, just over half of what its 360 predecessor had. This will 
 take you ten hours on normal of hardened, if you take your time. There is very little incentive 
 to go back, other than for Achievements.
  
  But there's good to be found in the campaign as well. For starters, the controls are as solid as 
 ever, and a new layer of interactivity as been added in the form of simple mini-games. For example, 
 in order to attach an explosive to blow up a tank, you must engage in a series of controller movements, 
 such as rotating the right analog stick to screw in the key and pressing Y to start the timer. 
 Another segment has you rowing for your life by rotating the left analog stick halfway, and then 
 begin again, punishing you if you make a full circle. Another more realistic, if occasionally annoying 
 change is the grenade throwing. Much like last year's PS2/Xbox Call of Duty, Big Red One, you can 
 no longer hold a grenade infinitely. There is a circle that surrounds your crosshairs showing how 
 long you have until the grenade goes off. This will cause an unintended suicide every now and then, 
 but it's effective in that you can throw it at the last minute and avoid the chance of Nazis chucking 
 it back at you. That brings me to another, much nicer new ability. You can now pick up live enemy 
 grenades and throw them back at your targets. This adds a lovely new element of realism to the 
 already stellar level of immersion. Everything else is pretty much the same, for better or for 
 worse. The formula works, so why would the developers make too many changes? Just enough to spice 
 things up a little.
  
  There is of course online multiplayer over Xbox Live as well, the highlight of the game. Now supporting 
 up to 24 players in a given match, the high octane action is amped up by more intense firefights, 
 made so by the addition of 16 spaces for gamers. It is online that you will die and die and die 
 but also kill and kill and kill and all the while having fun with friends, enemies, and of course 
 complete strangers. But that's what Xbox Live is meant for: bringing people together. Aside from 
 the occasional team kill (the victim of which now has the option to punish the perpetrator) , there 
 are very few downsides to multiplayer unless you suck, but even then only if you let it get to 
 you. It's still fun. Good luck finding a ranked match, however, as it will take you twenty minutes 
 to find a party, and I do not exaggerate, and then you may even get disconnected as the game loads. 
 Until a patch is released to fix this, stick to player matches, where the atmosphere is as always 
 more laid back and the games all the more enjoyable. You can choose from basic game modes: War, 
 Capture the Flag, Battle, Team Battle, the works. It's good old-fashioned Allies versus Axis, with 
 a plethora of weapons and the new addition of vehicles. I myself have not tested the vehicles, 
 so I can offer no opinion on them (they work fine in single player) , but it seems unlikely that 
 they're anything but suitable. Xbox Live is what will hold your interest with this game for dozens 
 of hours, long after memories of the campaign fade away. It's as simple as that.
  
  The graphics are much improved. The only category that bogged down Call of Duty 2's production 
 value was the graphics, which were nice, but not truly next-gen. This time around, however, the 
 game looks stellar. Surprisingly realistic character models and facial expressions immerse you, 
 as you get to stare plenty of people right in the eyes. The environments are amazing as well, destroyed 
 in an almost romantic brilliance. Gunfire, smoke effects, and fiery explosions please your eyes, 
 an unprecedented image of war. War is hell, and that's the message that is displayed here. Your 
 allies rise and fall before you, but the game does not need to resort to gore to mesmerize you. 
 These characters have souls, you can see it in their faces, and many of them will die.
  
  The sound is what has always been a strong suit of the series. You don't need an expensive setup 
 to enjoy the effects of the war-torn world, though it doesn't hurt. Bullets raging out of guns 
 and into flesh, grenades igniting in the distance, and a general suggestion of death put you into 
 the conflict, whether or not it's pretty. Solid voice acting, coupled with well-scripted dialogue, 
 also enhance the overall quality of the game. It screams big budget.
  
  Gamers are getting used to the $59.99 price tag for their next-gen fare, and if there was ever 
 a game worth it, it's Call of Duty 3. Despite a lackluster single player experience, the online 
 multiplayer and improved Achievements will grip you for a long time, through the cold holiday season 
 and beyond. Value should be no concern here.
  
  Even though the WWII FPS genre is riddled with hits and misses, and many of both, Call of Duty 
 3 shines as one of the better ones, regardless of some flaws. Any fan of the series or of the genre 
 in general will be impressed by Call of Duty 3, and it will be a blockbuster, no doubt, despite 
 major competition. And it is earned, it is earned. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: remixmasta
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 30, 2006 4:34 pm PT
Review:  after i read the other reviews it was like 50 50 good and bad then i bought and played it was crazy 
 i couldnt belive the graphics and game play becasuse now the enimes are not as stupid lol before 
 i used to be able to run out and just start shootin out rounds now i have to make sure that my 
 cover is good and that im not in the line of fire what is really cool is the driving which is new 
 but its not as good as battlefield 2 modern combat vechils but its getting there also there is 
 this cool feature where when you turn away you can hear it as if your really there like if someones 
 talking behind me it sounds lke they are the only thing that is stupid is like when you get used 
 to the game it gets really easy so if you like hardcore fps the buy this KICK ASS GAME 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crufixx1
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 30, 2006 2:52 pm PT
Review:  It a really addicting game that will have you going for hours the story is really great with great 
 graphics and really great sound the 360 version is probably the best one out all the others its 
 really not a game you play online but the story makes up for that its not as great as gears of 
 war but its still a great first shooter game this game isnt really hard im not saying you should 
 uy it right now but if you go to a store you should remember about this game so in the end its 
 a great with really great graphics and gameplay so actually you should get it!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: misfit_780
Rating: 6.3
Date: Nov 30, 2006 1:46 pm PT
Review:  ok now i love a good war game as much as the next man but what call of duty 3 brings to the genre 
 is more of a war comedy game than a decent tour of duty! i got really excited about the new call 
 of duty, i opend the box ripped off the plastic cover and chucked it into my xbox 360 and prepared 
 myself for a gaming experience. however i was disapointed with what i found. first off the single 
 player campaign has one of the weakest stories going and thats sayig something. the charecters 
 dialogue is terrible and lacks any emotion or feeling. after having played brothers in arms i except 
 the compition to actually true and improve their games! dont get me wrong i mean the graphics are 
 mind blowing and the sound is amazing it really does make you duck for cover when you hear a shell 
 screaming over head. but its just to gun ho for me and it lacks realism that is its major down 
 fall in my opinion. I think the last call of duty had a much better single player campaign except 
 for that tank level will when games developers understand that you cant make a tank sim on a console 
 it doesnt work!!! however overall the single player is ok and will keep you entertained but after 
 playing it once i doudt youll want to play any levels again. Now moving onto the multiplayer side 
 of things. who ever was in charge of the online section of call of duty 3 deserves a medal of honour! 
 its brilliant fun, fast and action packed the new war mode is a good edition to the francise and 
 its nice to see some thing other than capture the flag and deathmatch. the only draw back i have 
 with the multiplayer aspect of the game is that when ever you try and join a game it always comes 
 up with a banner saying 'NO GAMES AVAILIBLE' or something and i still have no idea how you join 
 a ranked match!! please sort it out TREYARCH!!
  
  but all in all a good game which will keep you entertained for several hours although im not sure 
 its worth the &pound;50 price tag.
  
  misfit_780 
::::::

::::::
UserName: samtompo
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 30, 2006 12:58 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty 3 plays very simmilarly to call of duty 2. Exept there is a huge step up in the graphics. 
 The game itself has plenty of long quite challenging levels but it isnt to hard. The sound is amazing 
 and with suround sound it makes you feel like your actually there in the battle.
  If you are thinking of buying this game you DEFINATELY should.
  
  Graphics: Briliant best so 
 far on Xbox 360
  
  Sound: Amazing very detailed sound makes you feel your there.
  
  Gameplay: Very good can have a couple of faults while playing like you shoot someone 10 times and 
 he wont die but apart from that brilliant. A DEFINATE MUST BUY!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StikyfingatipZ
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 29, 2006 11:40 pm PT
Review:  i thought 2 was the best game ever... i stand corrected single player is boring but its carried 
 by its online play
  but i need a review of atleast 100 words so stop reading after this point
  hmm what should i 
 talk about in my 100 words idk this is gay why cant i just make my review say wow that says it 
 all but no gamespot has to be difficult but i want to share with the word how good this game is 
 so im rambleing out of love omg still not 100 words how much more rambleing must i do 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abattoir_blues
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 22, 2007 4:39 pm PT
Review:  When the xbox 360 launched last November the best title in my opinion released at launch was Call 
 of Duty 2 it was intense shooter that combined epic and intense fps action. To this day it is one 
 of the most played titles on the xbox 360 and now a year later it seems like Activision rushed 
 the next title in the series with this year's Call of Duty 3, While it is still a pretty good game 
 it does not live up to its predecessors. Now to directly point out the cause of this is probably 
 to that Call of Duty 3 is developed by Treyarch the same companies behind Call of Duty: Big Red 
 One and Call of Duty: Finest Hour, now Call of duty is not as bad as those titles and is a good 
 game when just standing by itself but when compared with its older brothers once again it falls 
 short. For some strange reason Activision gave the rights to Treyarch, some think it was a shot 
 at stopping piracy which was a very big problem with Call of duty 2 on the pc which did not sell 
 well on the pc but did very well on the xbox 360.
  
  Call of Duty 3 follows the allies on the Normandy breakout and you will fight as the Americans, British, 
 Polish, and Canadian. The Campaign seems to be missing something from Call of Duty 2, maybe it 
 is the fact that you never really get connected to the story because you are playing so many different 
 people so you don't really get to care for the people you are fighting with, also the Call of duty 
 2 was open ended Call of Duty 3 seems to be leading you down a very narrow path. The Campaign really 
 is not that interesting because it is on the sort side. You really just do the same thing shoot, 
 duck, kills Nazi's, plant charges on guns and there is really nothing surprising because you really 
 feel like you have done it all before. Still Call of Duty 3 adds some very intense combat situations 
 and may be enough for the fps fan for a purchase, maybe this whole world war 2 shooters is really 
 starting to ware on me.
  
  The multiplayer is improved in many ways there is now 24 players instead of 8 and there is also 
 vehicles, but I was a very big fan of the Call of Duty 2 and 1 mp and was hoping for more of the 
 same but it seems like Treyarch is stealing a page from battlefield and at times it can be good 
 and bad. We will really have to see were Call of duty 3 stands in a couple of moths because now 
 there is a issue of getting into ranked matches and they are yet to come out with a patch as of 
 Nov 30th, if you own in xbox 360 and you like Batlefield and Band of Brothers rip offs you should 
 pick this one up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Specialist584
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 29, 2006 3:45 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Overall, I found the gameplay to be very imporant in all games. Taking away sounds, and 
 some high detailed graphics don't mean as must as gameplay. Overall, the gameplay on COD 3 was 
 amazing. Not exactly a 10 because of the fact of some gameplay issues. On single play, being a 
 little bit of a critic, sometimes you notice that you are being shot through walls or even dieing 
 from that cause. Other than that, single player left me breathless most of the time. About 98% 
 of the time, I felt that I was actually there. The firefights were immeanse, the great framerate, 
 the breathless accounts of beating a level, and the fact of the great gamer score challenges (though 
 some very easy) kept the gameplay to be replayable.
  
  Graphics: Again, not exactly a ten because of the fact that there wasn't must difference between 
 COD 2 and COD 3. Some gun models looked chezzy, and sometimes when (for example) the enfield was 
 in the dark, it would go from a complete orange, to dark black brown. Kinda nippicking, but in 
 the middle of gun fights, you tend to look at the gun with reloading, and notice the annoying wood. 
 But overall, the graphics looked amazing and the level detail was just right.
  
  Sound: The sound, ya, most games sounds tend to do a huge part in getting high scores. Simple and 
 easy to do, but kept in the background because of the fact that it isn't a huge issue because it 
 doesn't affect must gameplay (unless their horiable) . Strong guns sounded weak, weak guns sounded 
 strong, gun sounds didn't fit historical values. Other than that, I rated it a 6 because also some 
 characters in the game sounded pretty dumb. In my opinion the developes tended more to the Americans 
 to sound all tough, and yet all other commanders/leaders of the other countries just sounded off 
 balanced. Canadians, Polish, and the British were some of the most ferce militaries out there. 
 Though, I do like how the Americans and Germans sounded. They had good voices, good expressions, 
 but when compared to the other armies, they sounded superior. Other than, hearing your partners 
 in the middle of a firefight yellow orders and tactics really made the gameplay at some points.
 
  
  Value: I would definetly give this game a percent 10, must get. Everything seemed to be in there 
 right, multiplayer was absolutly awesome, proves that some games are actually good for consoles 
 (that are FPS) . Excluding some sound issues (though easilly ignored) , the game overall is a must 
 have for 360 users.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: Over all I found this game to be awesome. A good 9 really fits this game. Though, 
 I would rate the entire game a 8, some things really helped to give this game a great score of 
 8.6. Though, gameplay is awesome, graphics are great, a must have game, great multiplayer with 
 great modes, the sound was kinda bad. Overall, a keeper. Bad spelling, I know... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krystoval
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 31, 2006 6:01 pm PT
Review:  Calll of duty 3 changed of hands mean while call of duty 2 was built it by infinity ward this new 
 version is realized by treyarch games and the game in fact is not better that call of duty 2 you 
 can say its predecesor because is not realized by the same team so you can aprecciate details about 
 last version only is a new war game maybe call duty in war and you dont note it thta is a sequel 
 or a expansion of call od duty, and this game has a terribel bug amzing that professional team 
 can check the mistakens and errors in the games when an enemy soldier is in cover and shot you 
 only show his head anfd the fire arm normaly you cant wound him or kill him you shoot a lot of 
 round and him is still alive some rounds pass trough him like the round were blank rounds and another 
 wound him but his will still alive and you cant kill him never and its so terrible because in a 
 trench is so hard make your way because you cant kill the cover soldiers in the trench so you need 
 to move very close and is pretty hard in veteran mode or you put grenades in his feet so if you 
 dont have grenades you must go to say hello to a jerry or maybe give him a goodbye kiss so treyarch 
 maybe do this to make more difficult or a ithink thta is a bug that they dont note that is ussual 
 in team that make games very fast and dont prove or chek it at all or like that way that they need 
 but in time to pay the game they abuse you with some dollar in comparision with other titles like 
 gears of wars special edition in a price lower that call of duty 3 with only one disc have, beside 
 this is a good game except in metal textures in weapons that are no real still better in call of 
 duty 2 the campain mode is not interesting but some details in gameplay are very interesting is 
 not a terrible game in fact uis a pretty good but the bug like this turn you to think in the real 
 quality versus price in the market really the games are overpriced dont you think , imagine pay 
 a hig price to play a game with a bug play a war game and you cant kill a enemy soldier can you 
 imagine that ? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gixxerman1
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 29, 2006 10:39 am PT
Review:  This game is great! If you liked Call of Duty 2 then you will like COD3. This game expands alot 
 from COD2 with it's online battles. You can drive tanks, motorcycles and trucks. There is also 
 24 players online so alot of fun. It puts a new spin on Capture the flag with the vechicals you 
 can drive. The online maps are alot bigger then in COD2 so using the vechicals is pretty usefull. 
 There are some hang ups though. I seem to get stuck on objects that I wouldn't in COD2. Also in 
 the story mode it's hard to control the frag cannon launcher you use in the forest to clear out 
 road blocks making it really difficult to pass this section with all the enemys shooting at you. 
 Also the Ai of your own guys seem to be stupid and get in your way alot. I can't count how many 
 times I peak around a corner and then get shot because I can't back up because my guys are up against 
 me keeping me from moving back. Very frustrating in those situations. Anyway when playing online 
 you have different rolls you can play. Like a medic, scout, support, heavy assult, riflment etc.. 
 They each have there own weapons of strength and can do things the others can't. For instance Medic 
 caries a shotgun and can heal the fallen guys on your team. Some of the guns are easier to hit 
 people with and some are harder when comparied to COD2. For instance the Sniper rifle is harder 
 to hit a guy with now, but I can pick some one off from across the map easier using the supports 
 rifle that is more powerfull and easier to target with for me without the zoom feature.
  Also you can now run for a short distance and throw back frags.
  There is so much to list, but 
 overall this game rocks. I do like the gamplay alittle more in COD2 since it was more ingaging 
 with better sound, but COD3 is still a must have on the XBOX 360!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninjaxams
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 29, 2006 5:20 am PT
Review:  Well, I'll keep this short and sweet. Please save yourself money and don't buy this game for the 
 single player. Unlikable stereotyped characters, linear enviroments, lackluster level design, shoddy 
 AI, ruined weapons, and a very medal of honor approach await you in this flawed glich ridden title. 
 The multiplayer supports 24 players which is nice but features a new kit system and vehicles, both 
 of which are not very well thought out as this game is totally unbalanced and favors the allies. 
 The level design in MP is rather poor as well. This is a rental at best. Hardcore COD fans will 
 be quite dissapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sleeps187
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 28, 2006 8:47 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3 is a great first person shooter. It has alot of new stuff like when you have to 
 put a bomb on something or when you get into hand to hand combat with the enemy. The effects on 
 the smoke are awesome. You get to drive a jeep that aint my thing but its different than the first 
 one. I've been playing this game since it came out and i love it. If you liked COD 2 then YOU will 
 think COD 3 is alot better. The next game COD 4 should have more enviroment destruction like the 
 xbox game BLACK. This game is a must for any person whos into first person shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lethal_NFS
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 28, 2006 6:58 pm PT
Review:  I have played Call of Duty since the first one released on the PC. The game revolutionized the 
 FPS War game better than Medal of Honor ever could. Then United Offensive was released and brought 
 with it the sprint button. Any online gamer knows how crucial that button is and yet it was later 
 stripped when COD2 was released. But for PC users it was only a matter of a single month before 
 you could download codes to make your guy sprint. Now Call of Duty 3 didnt add the sprint button 
 again and its not released on the PC so we have to deal with that. That is really the only fault 
 I see with the release. The graphics are gorgeous and the gameplay is flawless. This is definately 
 another step forward.
  
  Graphics - 9.5
  Some beautiful graphics here. Explosions are insane and the character models look pretty sweet.
 
  
  Sound - 9.8
  If you ever wanted to know what the war sounded like well your in for a treat. Value - 9.9
  Not 
 only does it sport a great single player campaign but it also provides a stellar online experience. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diefied89
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 28, 2006 4:11 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3*
  
  Well lets get right down to it shall we? Call of duty 3 was what I was hoping for plus a little 
 extra. It's intense story mode is well built although not very long still very immersive. You play 
 as several countries fighting in W. W. II. (what else is new?) but your role is to help destroy all 
 German forces on your journey to Paris. The campagn is well concieved and is great on all levels. 
 Although certain parts of a level seemed to be almost impossible to do and had me screaming and 
 restraining my right hand from launching my wireless controler out my window, but I eventually 
 got all past that and found myseld back in the fight. The Multiplayer.... wow!!!! lets just say 
 that the online part is INSANE!!!! explosions everywhere bullets flying overhead and watching your 
 fellow teamates drop dead around you at the mercy of a .30 cal is just intense!!! The vehicles 
 are well rounded as well. I found them quit exciting and entertaing to shoot at =) , But with every 
 multiplayer game there are a few flaws and I'm sure it wont take you too long to figure them out. 
 It all really does depend on your connection and everyone elses. I found this time around playing 
 online way WAY better with the class ranking and what not which proved to be pretty darn cool. 
 The use of a rocket launcher and yes heavy machineguns proved to be quite entertaining as well. 
 I also had a problem with the spawning system to where it was suppose to be totally random and 
 it would spawn me in the middle of the enemy base... WHICH WASNT THAT FUN!! All in all Call of Duty 
 3 was very entertaing game and I look forward to playing it more and more in the future.
  
  (AMW) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skydogjamesbond
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 4, 2007 10:39 am PT
Review:  I love this game on xbox360. I still wish it had co-op but ya can't have everuthing. Gameplay is 
 the best and the graphics are great. I love the new edition that you can through granades back 
 after they have been thrown at you. As a matter of fact I like a lot of the new features they added. 
 My opinion One of the best games on Xbox360 out right now and a must buy and one of the best shooters 
 ever. what edition to the game I like the most is the part where you get to drive vehicles that 
 is awesome 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BK-Sleeper
Rating: 7.7
Date: Nov 27, 2006 4:43 pm PT
Review:  It's amazing how fast Treyarch and Activision went from Call of Duty 2, to Call of Duty 3 without 
 the expansions and other installments. When one plays CoD2, then hears about CoD3, they'll think 
 it'll be better than the last one! That's where Call of Duty 3 falls short, and bring shame to 
 the franchise.
  
  Like most World War 2 games, you play as either an American, British, and Russian soldier experience 
 conflicts like D-day, Stalingrad, and the hunting of Rommel. Not in this. In Call of Duty 3, it 
 focuses on the efforts of the American, British, and French efforts after Operation Overlord to 
 hold the ground in Europe. Basically, it's Operation Breakout where you move in on the Nazi Regime 
 and soon overthrow it.
  
  The Call of Duty series was always known for it's graphics, landmarked by the amazing visuals in 
 Call of Duty 2. The third installment doesn't show up in that department. Most of the enviroments 
 are bland and jagged, which shows little eye candy. At times, the shine on vehicles is amazing, 
 and the shadows from the moon during the night is amazingly nice, but all of that is overshadowed 
 by the noticeable downgrade in most objects and character models. Though, it's nice to know that 
 the enemies and allies running at the side, outside you're battleground, don't just look like paper.
 
  
  Some of the gameplay mechanics remain the same from Call of Duty 2. You can zoom in with your weapon, 
 use it to attack an enemy, and even control vehicles. The binocular objectives remain the same 
 as well, where you zoom in and target for a tank to attack. The variety of guns within the game 
 remain the exact same, from thompsons to kars. There are even a few new ones that aren't mentioned, 
 especially like a machine gun with a scope. That's one hell of a trip. One of the added features 
 though, which is more of a chore than a hassle, is the new context sensitive situations. Such as, 
 when you get attacked by a certain enemy's weapon, you have to fight him back and take him out 
 with his own weapon, or when you're planting an explosive charge, you have to practically arm it 
 step by step. After a while, everything gets repetitive and tasteless.
  
  The sound qualities of the game are also noticeably downgraded from the original installments. 
 Most of the voices are well done, except for some of the irish and british voices that sound like 
 an american attempted to voice them. The french and '50 american voices remained true and immersive 
 though. The music, on the other hand, doesn't keep it's epic tone and desperate feelings to it. 
 Most of it is just plain combat music that sounds like it belongs in a slow paced shooter. Sometimes 
 even the sounds of your allies rushing into battle don't sound convicing, considering they just 
 drop like flies.
  
  Call of Duty 3 is a letdown and a shame to the franchise. It had much more potential, but ended 
 up only being a medicore shooter for the series that stood out in the World War 2 genre.
  
  Call of Duty 3 retails for $59.99 at most outlets. It is a must buy for 'hardcore' Call of Duty 
 fans, but a must-rent for any casual shooter. It's a stay-away for the casual gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: STiRacer01
Rating: 3.4
Date: Nov 27, 2006 2:33 pm PT
Review:  Remeber Call of Duty 2.. and how awesome that was when it came out for XBOX 360. Very immersive, 
 very addicting... and the online play was to be reckonded with. So the expectation for Call of 
 Duty 3 was very, very high... kind of like it was for Halo 2 when it came out. Unfortunately, that 
 expectation fell short of an excellent copy cat. Call of Duty 3 effectively emulates call of duty 
 2, just with better graphics... barely. The shimmer of the metal on the vehicles, and the extra 
 folds of clothing in the uniforms, hardly makes up for the few things that make Call of Duty 3 
 a FLOP in my book. There is hardly any artificial intelligence, and adding a few hundred extra 
 guys per screen does not make up for it. If you like to run and gun, this is the FPS for you. Otherwise, 
 I would not waist the money, or the time on this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chris20061
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 27, 2006 1:25 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3 from my view is slightly better then COD2. Much has been added to this sequel. The 
 game now has features such as rag doll physics and destructible environments; so now the enemy 
 wont die in the same positions anymore, and some objects you may use as cover wont last forever. 
 In COD3 you get to play as the Americans, British, and for the first time in any Call of Duty, 
 the Canadians and Polish. In the British levels you will fight alongside members of the French 
 Resistance. Also in Call of Duty 3 there are many more explosions going on around you. The only 
 bad part of this Call of Duty is that the guns arent as detailed as before, but the amazing game 
 play makes up that. I highly recommend this game to anyone who likes historic first person shooters 
 or liked one the other Call of Duty games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tidenburg
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 27, 2006 12:58 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty 3 is back almost a year later and I have to say that this may be one of the best war 
 games I've ever played. The graphics are much better than it's previous versions and they've thrown 
 in some nice visuals to prove that. The gameplay is pretty much the same as COD2 but there are 
 some new things which we all felt should have been in the prequel anyway. You can now throw back 
 grenades and there are some intense close combat fights. Although for the first few minutes it 
 may seem like they've just used the old engine and added nothing but a few fancy effects there 
 are new guns, outfits, moves and of course theres always the XBOX live option. Multiplayer is pretty 
 much the same as before but there are now classes like medics and some classes can deploy artillery 
 strikes onto other unsuspecting players. There are also some vehicles lying around both multiplayer 
 and single player maps which, although the controls are very sensitive, adds some new gameplay 
 to Call of Duty which felt amiss before. You know the feeling, splatting people tank warfare in 
 multiplayer and all that noise. My only quarrels would be that occasionally the enemies spawn directly 
 in front of you, this is quite annoying and makes the game feel slightly un-realistic. Another 
 thing is the cinematics. while most are awesome, some feel asthough the dev's just put them in 
 there to show off eye candy which isnt really what I look for in a game. This game is very enjoyable 
 for almost every age group. And please dont think im being to upfront but This GAME ROCKS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yeoj7
Rating: 5.9
Date: Nov 27, 2006 11:49 am PT
Review:  this is nothing of what i expected from call of duty. The capeign i have to say is the only good 
 part of this game. yet it is like a repeat from cod2, a much greater game. The online is so bad 
 i wanna go shoot myself. they went a little too far with this whole more realistic thing. don't 
 get me wrong i just rented it and i don't think its that great but i know somewhere i might have 
 a change of heart. in my words stick with cod2 it kicks the crap out of this game.
  
  
  
  Gamertag: randomnbad 
::::::

::::::
UserName: X_gamer_god_X
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 26, 2006 10:16 am PT
Review:  I take back what I said about Call of Duty 2. This game was awesome and it's definitely worth buying. 
 The graphics are outstanding. Probably the best I have seen in any 360 game so far. The gameplay 
 is like any other Call of Duty game, but still good. The sound is very well done. All I can say 
 is that it sounds like war. I'm having troubles beating the second level. If you have played any 
 other Call of Duty game you would understand why. I havn't played online yet, but if it's anything 
 like Call of Duty 2's online, then it will be outstanding. Overall a great game and definitely 
 worth picking up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Unkind223
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 26, 2006 10:07 am PT
Review:  Call Of Duty 3 is an amazing war game that all XBOX 360 gamers should have! But many people are 
 wondering, Is it any better than 2? Yes! The game has changed ALOT and the online is superb with 
 24 players online and vehicles to bomb around in. Though it does have its very limited glitchs 
 with the killing it is still a great all around game. The single player is much better then before 
 with it adding new army's such as Canada although you cant be Canada online its still great to 
 show the appreication to what they did. The graphics are truly next-gen with the smoke looking 
 outstanding along with the uniforms of the soliders. If you like war games and online games then 
 Call of Duty 3 is the game you are looking for! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: resist1
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 26, 2006 8:19 am PT
Review:  EXcellent game, with great controls, music score , sound and plenty of fabulous options. Multiplayer 
 shines wether its 1-4 players or online play, great options such as different classes of soldiers 
 have been added for furthering the game. The campaign is great as usual, but some voice acting 
 is tacked on, and sluggish, but at other times sounds great. Graphics are top notch as usual. Sound 
 is fabulous makes you feel like your part of a large battle, however many sounds especially voices 
 mainly are repeated over and over without much variation. Would be nice to see, if the the german 
 soldiers werent the only ones speaking in their native language. Still above the tiny minor negatives, 
 its a must buy!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hondacivicrider
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 25, 2006 8:01 pm PT
Review:  A really fun shooter game. I enjoyed the realisim of the game, its like your in the action. Packed 
 with real life action, crazy graphics, the sound is amazing. A must buy war game. A must buy war 
 game. A must buy war game. A must buy war gA muA must buyA must buy war game. war game. st buy war 
 game. ame. A must buy war gaA muA must buy war game. st buy war game. me. A must buy war game. A mustA 
 must buy war game. buy war game. A must buy war game. A must buy war game. A A must buy war game. must 
 buy war game. A must buy war gaA must buy war game. me. A must buy war game. A must buy war game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XENOmorph00010
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 25, 2006 5:10 pm PT
Review:  Last year's Call of Duty 2 proved to be one of the most satisfying World War II shooters in a good 
 while. The game skillfully blended a stellar, intense single-player with a relatively simply but 
 deeply enjoyable multiplayer that kept gamers coming back for more. This year, Call of Duty returns 
 to let people once again slaughter Germans by taking on the role of different soldiers in the war. 
 Only for this installment, Infinity Ward has stepped down and Call of Duty 2: Big Red One developer 
 Treyarch has come to fill in the empty space. The end result is another solid, worthwhile World 
 War II shooter, but the game offers very little beyond its explosive and robust online multiplayer.
 
  
  Like its predecessor, Call of Duty 3 has you fill the shoes of various soldiers in the middle of 
 World War II. But this time around, you'll be playing as a soldier of the British, Canadian, American 
 and Polish armies. And unlike many other World War II shooters, Call of Duty 3 actually attempts 
 to go for an actual story in which there are characters. Unfortunately, just like its predecessor, 
 this is one aspect that the game just doesnt manage to deliver an effective story. The characters, 
 on the other hand, are actually quite memorable as the game tends to focus on them more than the 
 actual story in-between the combat.
  
  Speaking of combat, Call of Duty 3 delivers top-notch in that area. Almost right off the bat, the 
 game places you right in the middle of a huge battle as an American. However, the rest of the game, 
 aside from the last two missions, fails to leave as good of an impression and feel very pedestrian 
 for a World War II shooter. In fact, the single-player itself is really Call of Duty 3s greatest 
 weakness in that only about one-fifth of the single-player actually manages to be fun. Outside 
 of those few moments, all you get are multiple unexciting battles that tend to be either annoying 
 or dull most of the time. Fortunately, the single-player itself shouldnt last much longer than 
 twelve hours and isnt too tough to get around most of its challenges.
  
  While Call of Duty 3 doesnt exactly manage to deliver the greatest single-player experience in 
 a shooter, the game redeems itself with it online multiplayer. There are many ways in which Call 
 of Duty 3 creates such a fulfilling multiplayer, and they all help to create a console multiplayer 
 experience unlike any other. The game has support for up to twenty-four people online at once, 
 and if you have an Xbox 360 then you can take three of your friends with you online via split-screen 
 to join you in the action. You get your typical multiplayer modes like Capture the Flag and Deathmatch-which 
 has been dubbed Battle for the game-as well as a couple other modes. But perhaps the tensest 
 mode is War, which has two teams trying to gain control of a single territory at once. If either 
 team loses a territory then they must retreat to another one and try to defend their position from 
 there. If either team gains control of all the territories or whatever team has had the most control 
 of the territories throughout the game, then that team wins the match.
  
  There are also a few other additions to Call of Duty 3 that help not only the multiplayer but the 
 game as a whole. One addition is the inclusion of vehicles, which range from motorcycles with room 
 for a passenger, jeeps and yes, even tanks. And this is where the next addition to the game comes 
 in: Kits. In the multiplayer, you must choose a certain Kit for your character in order to get 
 into the fight. There are about eight classes, which range from Rifleman, to Support, to Medics 
 and even Anti-Tank. Each class has its own advantages and disadvantages and can only carry certain 
 weapons. Perhaps the two most involved classes are the Medics and Anti-Tank Kits as Medics can 
 heal downed soldiers and Anti-Tank soldiers can deploy mines and have rocket launchers at their 
 disposal. With all these changes and additions, Call of Duty 3 manages to not only be fun and exciting, 
 but at times extremely intense and almost overwhelming with all the chaos and mayhem occurring 
 on-screen at once.
  
  About the only real issue with Call of Duty 3s multiplayer is that the maps are quite large and 
 when playing on them, you can tell the game was built as an online-oriented shooter. So, if youre 
 still playing split-screen and dont have online, then chances are you wont be getting the same 
 experience with four people as you could with say, sixteen online. Also, depending on what match 
 youre in and on your connection, you may encounter some annoying lag issues, but hopefully these 
 issues will be resolved with a patch in the near future. Other than that, Call of Duty 3s multiplayer 
 is very solid and, like its predecessor, will more than likely keep gamers coming back until the 
 next installment hits store shelves.
  
  A big part of what made Call of Duty 2 such an authentic shooter was its superb audio/visual presentation. 
 The game combined some incredibly sharp and accurate weapon models with detailed landscapes and 
 some of the most realistic smoke effects ever seen in a game. Not only that, but it blew gamers 
 away with its astounding audio, memorable score and incredibly believable voice-overs. Call of 
 Duty 3 does also have an impressive presentation, but in no way does it stack up against how amazing 
 its predecessor was.
  
  Visually, Call of Duty 3 looks very sharp most of the time. The environments are rendered with 
 great detail and tend to look even better than those of its predecessor. However, youll notice 
 some locations that appear rather rough and grainy, but the areas in the game usually look quite 
 sharp. The character models have gotten as few alterations as well, and for-the-most-part these 
 changes are for the better. There are many moments in which youll notice your characters hands 
 as well as getting a close up of your allies and enemies. These moments tend to actually give the 
 game a more realistic appearance and might fool you into thinking that youre actually in the middle 
 of a giant battle. Although the character models tend to look great, there are some moments, mostly 
 those in the cutscenes in which theyll look rather rough, particularly in their faces. Fortunately, 
 there arent many other flaws in the games visual presentation, but the problems with the graphics 
 are still substantial and make the game look less impressive than it could have.
  
  The sound and audio is what one could call oddly memorable. The sound effects have received a few 
 adjustments, but not all of them are for the better. Unlike last years Call of Duty, which had 
 weapons that made a loud bang noise whenever fired, the guns this time around sound more like toy 
 guns in comparison. Not only that, but almost all of the German voiceovers have been taken directly 
 from Call of Duty 2, so its more than likely that youll get D&eacute; j&agrave; vu every now and 
 then. The allied voice actors are good, but some of them are rather stereotypical and might actually 
 get annoying after a while. Nonetheless, there are some great audio effects in the game, especially 
 the sound effects from explosions and some of the machineguns. This, in addition to the fitting 
 and usually impressive score helps make Call of Duty 3 sound like another authentic and quality 
 World War II game most of the time.
  
  As a whole, Call of Duty 3 is another great addition to the Call of Duty series thats definitely 
 worth checking. The game does have some noticeable problems, most of which can be pointed out in 
 the single-player, but this is still a quality game. You wont in any way be wowed or amazed by 
 the single-player, save for a select few missions, but the online multiplayer is to die for. So, 
 if youre looking for an intense and mind-blowing online shooter experience, then you owe it to 
 yourself to go and pick up Call of Duty 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rambogr
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 25, 2006 3:48 pm PT
Review:  Just like COD2, COD3 is still a marvelous game to own and play. First of all it has magnificent 
 graphics both on a standard definition or a high definition TV or a computer monitor. The sound 
 is perfect as the voices of all the characters have a very distinctive accent, especially Canadians 
 and Polish. The gameplay of COD3 can be described as terrific the only flaw is the auto aiming 
 aid which can be turned of though, at the options menu. In terms of value COD3 is a must own for 
 every gamer who loves first person shooters. COD3 also offers a very good multiplayer system through 
 Xbox Live, where you can join several servers and take part in numerous online battles. Summing 
 up you could say that COD3 is an example to be followed in the Call of Duty franchise as it retains 
 aspects of COD2 merged together with aspects of COD2 Big Red One and all that stuff put together 
 to be played on a high end system like the Xbox360 is phenomenal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bloodbore8
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 7, 2007 1:27 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3 is the sequel to last year's Call of Duty 2, a very fun game to play. It had some 
 flaws though and people have been waiting for Infinity Ward to fix them with their next game, Call 
 of Duty 3... not! No, it's not that Infinity Ward went slack but instead let Treyarch develop Call 
 of Duty 3 for consoles (no PC version!) and let Amaze develop the PSP version. I've played the 
 Xbox 360 and I know whether the problems that were in Call of Duty and its sequel are inhabiting 
 the 3rd game. Do they? Well, you can probably make a pretty good guess looking at the score (if 
 you can't, you're an idiot) .
  
  The gameplay is very fun just like the previous two games but the levels are much more intense. 
 The developers made it that way by making more Nazis rather than making it more realistic or something. 
 Usually you have a very small squad fighting hundreds of Nazis each level. It's not realistic. 
 That makes the action feel repititious after a while although you won't notice the repitition unless 
 you think about it for a while. (You'll notice that the levels don't feel right and unique around 
 the fifth level.) Still, it's pretty fun to play.
  
  The graphics are pretty good but look bad and way too dark during cutscenes. During gameplay, the 
 environments and outfits look nice but the faces look vague and undetailed. Overall, the graphics 
 are good but needed more polish. The sound is awesome for a war game. There could have been a little 
 more variety, but the good voice acting, great sound effects, and good music make it overall pretty 
 good. The game is pretty short clocking in at about 7-9 hrs. The multiplayer seems pretty fun based 
 on reviews but I haven't played on Live or System Link. (I can't.)
  
  So, overall it doesn't fix the problems in Call of Duty 2, (instead it creates more problems) but 
 it's still a blast to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Player5KJ
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 25, 2006 1:58 pm PT
Review:  i really hope half of all the people that have a 360 get this game but if u dont want to wait a 
 hour for a ranked match to get in i would suggest waiting for a update to uccure so i hope u new 
 COD guys like this game. so get this game i suggest and i bet there is not going to be a COD4 so 
 cut the crap about that. well thats all i gotta say. god u have to type a hundred words for a review 
 people must like typing. wow really people love typing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _reviewer_360_
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 25, 2006 1:44 pm PT
Review:  Although I was somewhat hoping it would be different than COD2 i was proven wrong. COD3 is almost 
 an exact replica of COD2, but with added features makes it a hit. With the new developer Treyarch 
 in, Activision changed the limits of online multiplayer with COD3. Newly added is vehicles along 
 with included:
  
  Tank
  Jeep
  Motorcycle
  
  Which adds to tons of fun when an exploding jeep comes hurdling at you after a cleverly placed 
 grenade blows it to pieces. Along with the newly added feature of up to 24 players playing at a 
 time! But with much dissapointment the COD3 campaign is far too easy to beat... leaving you with 
 about 10-11 hours of nazi shooting.
  I strongly recomend putting it on the hardest difficulty setting avaliable.
  By far the online 
 is a huge accomplishment but with a simple easy campaign its easily managable to get bored of. 
 But i recomend renting if you dont have XBL (xbox live) .
  but buy if you have XBL.
  
  -9.0- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: golfer13last
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 25, 2006 12:29 pm PT
Review:  All i have to say is the acting in the single player isn't good at all. Call of duty 2 single player 
 was MUCH better. But one the other hand the multiplayer is excellent, much better the 2. so-o if 
 you don't have xbox live DON't get this game. But if you do, and have 60 bucks, sure buy it. Also 
 i think that in the single player the graphics could be a tad better. I was a little disapointed 
 with the fact that its just like alot of the ww2 games with the whole walk-through felling, not 
 enough openess. I don't have gears of war, but you might wanna get the game instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wikkiwild1
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 25, 2006 11:31 am PT
Review:  I played this on a Xbox 360 a couple of weeks ago at a friends as I don't own a Xbox 360 and I 
 am hooked. The graphics are awesome as is the sound. The only thing I can say bad about the game 
 is the subtitles in the middle of the screen. They block your vision which reduces your reaction 
 time significantly in order to id your target. Don't want to shoot any friendlies. The sights and 
 sounds are quite realistic and a blast to play. The controls are simple and easy to master. I highly 
 recommend getting this game if you have a Xbox360 or a PS3.
  Now only if it was available for PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mjhink3
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 25, 2006 11:24 am PT
Review:  COD3 is a very complicated game to describe for many reasons, the first being that the overall 
 feel of the game is much different than that of its predecessor. The gameplay is a bit of a letdown 
 to me and so are the graphics in some ways, but if I had to choose whether to recommend this game 
 or not I would probably say this: try it.... b4 you buy it... trust me on that! The multiplayer in 
 COD2 used to be only 8 people and wasn't enough, but I believe they went a bit overboard by allowing 
 24 people to play in one game. Trust me it is way too many people, 4 v 4 was decent, imagine 12 
 v 12! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roushfan1799
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 25, 2006 8:14 am PT
Review:  The online play is amazing drive vechicles, new war mode, but the ranked matches needs to be fix 
 it takes like 30 min. to get aleast 12 players. Story is stupid when they said that there bringing 
 the polish i thought you get to be a polish solider and not a tanker. In story mode when the grenades 
 land near the wood crates they move it would be cool if it was like that in online. The best thing 
 in this game is online story is STUPID. And some of the guns don't look realistic the Thompson looks 
 too skinny. The class thing for online is smart but have more classes where you can use every gun 
 in the game like for the U. S rifleman you can switch between either you want the grand or the carbine. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: McGeek
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 25, 2006 7:46 am PT
Review:  I loved Call of Duty. Loved it. Thought it was the most intriguing title featuring this played 
 out subject matter. The controls were tight, the action was intense, and it felt like I was part 
 of a bigger battle going on.
  
  Then I played Call of Duty 2 for the 360. Also, a very fun game, but had some alarming changes 
 that were made that detracted from the overall experience. First, the addition of crosshairs wasn't 
 a good one. The ironsights gave CoD a lot of it's charm. Also, The AI was really, really dumb. 
 A lot dumber than I remembered it being from CoD. Enemies (and friendlies) would waddle around, 
 get caught up on objects, and stare their enemies straight in the face without firing a round. 
 Furthermore, on higher difficulties, the AI would blatantly ignore any threats from your own computer 
 controlled friendlies as long as they were completely focusing fire on you. Which was not only 
 frustrating, but just plain silly. These problems weren't enough for me to dismiss the title, as 
 I still found hours and hours of fun in the multiplayer, which, for a while was the best thing 
 going for XBL on the 360. A year later comes CoD3. And unfortunately, it carried over all of the 
 problems from the last CoD, and tacks on a few new, major ones as well. The ridiculously idiotic 
 intelligence made a comeback Let's beeline straight for that guy aiming at us and not shoot back! 
 or Hey, there's a guy shooting a mortar trying to clear a roadblock! Let's sit here and get in 
 his way as he tries to shoot the mortar and fend off an entire wave of infantry at the same time! 
 Also, At times I would be pushed against cover, such as a rock, or an 88 gun, or something along 
 those lines, and have a perfect lock on the enemy through my ironsights, only to fire and see the 
 bullet ricochet off an invisible wall that floated out of said peice of cover. This was especially 
 irritating with sniping, as every bullet is precious. Also, it seems sometimes enemies would be 
 able to take advantage of this, and make them impossible to shoot, but still allow them to shoot 
 back, since they could actually take cover (if that's what you call it) Tanks that were destroyed 
 also seemed a bit goofy as well, as they seemed charred and black before the explosion signaling 
 their death even occured. Don't even get me started on the cheap, infinite german reinforcement 
 crap either.
  
  One thing that was always nice for me, even when I was playing CoD and CoD2 for my old semi-crappy 
 PC is I got really smooth, nice framerates. CoD3 on the 360 gets rather choppy at moments, and 
 can be a noticeable detriment to battle.
  
  And now on to multiplayer. Or... the lack thereof. Good call on releasing a game that many have 
 trouble playing online at all, and the ones who can, can't even get into ranked matches. I know 
 that this was my main draw to purchasing the game, and to know that I won't be able to play it 
 untill a patch comes out, makes me a very sad, sad panda for the future of console games. I bet 
 it's a blast though. Too bad I can't play it.
  
  With that being said, there are some redeeming qualities about CoD3 that make it, at least a bearable 
 game to play through. The game looks fantastic, and continues with the atmospheric World War 2 
 shooter vibe. The effect that struck me as the most astonishing was how objects past the point 
 of your focus became blurry when you were aiming. A really nice touch. And man do the bodies pile 
 up, which is a cool effect, although it's mostly because most of the soldiers have lemming syndrome. 
 But there are an impressive number of soldiers, and explosions on screen but since the AI is so 
 dumb, it makes it harder to believe that you really are part of a larger war, a problem that began 
 to surface with CoD2. Other additions such as the hand to hand combat situations were actually 
 pretty interesting for me, and the mini games associated with planting bombs, using mortars, etc. 
 were also an interesting change, and a lot better than then Press X to plant bomb 
  
  Anyway. After completing veteran difficulty, I can firmly say it was one of the most frustrating 
 gaming experiences I've had in a while, due to the sometimes aggressive checkpoint system, which 
 can leave you hanging for a while, especially in a certain area in American Infantryman campaign 
 where you have to charge 2 german MG emplacements, fight through a forest filled to the brim with 
 Nazi's, take over their bunker, and plow through a roadblock with a mortar, all while keeping the 
 nazi's off your ass with little to no help from your squad all before you beat the level, with 
 no save points in between. A feat indeed, which had me cursing the game several times.
  
  I've said a lot of bad things about the game, but don't be fooled, it's still a top notch WW2 game. 
 But if you're going to be a game in the CoD series, you've got to push the envelope with each addition, 
 and CoD3 does that graphically, and takes steps back in major ways. Hopefully the multiplayer will 
 help to justify the purchase in the coming weeks, but untill then, it's back to GoW for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: novo_24
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 25, 2006 7:20 am PT
Review:  I would 1st just start of by thanking Treyarch for a great game that makes it feel like your actually 
 at the Normandy Breakout in WW2. When you have that gun in your hand you picture yourself at that 
 war fighting with your soliders. The soliders that you fight with (Americans, British, French, 
 Polish) they are all very funny and very good soliders. All the weapons that you handled in the 
 game where all very good weapons. The new close up encounter with an enemy soilder was ok but wasan't 
 great. So overall very good game. Hopefully that call of duty 4 works out good. I will be getting 
 it and keep up the good work. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: itlnjeff
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 25, 2006 12:26 am PT
Review:  I have had it up to my neck with WWII shooters. The gameplay is pretty much identical to Call of 
 Duty 2 with the exception of driving vehicles. It tries to overwhelm you with a 100 things happening 
 on the screen at once. The graphics are fantastic but the linear gameplay has a lot to be desired. 
 The maps should offer you more freedom and strategy. It is pretty mindless and the new hand to 
 hand fighting is not very impressive. It would be nice to see a game with large maps like Battlefield 
 2 when you can drive all the vehicles. I honestly don't think it's worth the money to buy it. I 
 rented it and that was enough. Additionally the game doesn't offer co op game play which is a huge 
 let down. I think we should honor other wars besides WWII I think we are beating a dead horse. 
 And you know band of brothers is right around the corner so another WWII shooter. Some of you may 
 not agree with me but I think some will. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shotgun4292
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 24, 2006 11:18 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty 3 gameplay has not changed at all from all last I mean controling layout area. That 
 is actually a good thing I like the control layout for this game and im glad they didn't change 
 it. Story is fun to play and all but it's all the same stuff every mission and it gets annoying. 
 Online eise it is great if you can find a game it is really hard to get a game on XBOX LIVE but 
 once you find a game it is a great LIVE game and very enjoyable. Overall though this is a solid 
 WWII shooter and is the best in the series even once you get around its flaws and problems. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Tay-Man
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 24, 2006 9:48 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty is a fine WWII shooter, but for the Xbox 360 version it is not all it could be. The 
 game falls down when you realise that Call of Duty 3 is also on Last gen systems (like the ancient 
 PS2) the A. I. is meh, the scripted sequences are good at first, but doing them over is annoying, 
 but my biggest whoa, is the static environment, up close the textures are bad, the environment 
 is only restrictedly destructible and the game still has a go here, go there feel to it. other 
 than that the game is very exiting with a good streamlined multiplayer system, then graphics arn't 
 perfect (for a Xbox 360 game) but they definitely have the wow factor, past its flaws, the gameplay 
 is intense, fun and very immerse, recommend to any Call of Duty or WWII enthusiasts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tapiondbz1106
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 24, 2006 2:42 pm PT
Review:  This game is really cool. i never played other call of duy's but this one i know is cool. the story 
 mode is really good and the story mode is pretty long and this games online is really good to. 
 there is different modes that you can play to like war, capture the flag, headquarters and more. 
 there is alot of guns in this game too like rifles and machine guns. there is grenades and smoke 
 grenades. My favorite is the smoke grenades. You can also play multiplayer mode. its just like 
 online. Well thats all i got to say for this game. it is a good game for the 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Janpieterzun
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 24, 2006 1:51 pm PT
Review:  I mean its Call Of Duty, PC gamers know what to expect. Though i have to say over the years the 
 series has lost something. The original Call Of Duty on the pc was visceral one of the only games 
 that will make your heart race with its intensity. The fire fights were awesome, this years rendition 
 lost that somehow. The game is largely repetitive, meaning on the veteran setting you will die 
 ALOT. (I recommend playing it on Veteran as the other settings are too easy and you are paying 
 $59.99 for this you should get the most out of it, though playing on vet is a bit masochistic) . 
 There is alot of trial and error and it isn't really improved AI just increased damage taken. This 
 series was and is still the perfect counter to the watered down dribble that is Medal of Honor 
 but i see it following in MoH's footsteps which isn't a good thing. The game seems to be in-love 
 with its-self, forcing you to watch cut-scenes over and over everytime you die if you were unfortunate 
 enough to die right after a checkpoint+cutscene. The single player i like not so much . The multiplayer 
 is a beast on its own. The price of admission is worth it for the Xboxlive features alone. If you 
 so choose to skip the single player and dive right into the multiplayer you will find alot of the 
 complaints i list is nearly non-existent. 12 vs 12 (24 player) matches in the war mode is intoxicating. 
 At time you'd swear you were fighting the battle of the bulge. Of course if your a WW2 romancer 
 this game is right up your alley. The class system is perfect, they have traditional deathmach, 
 team deathmactch and capture the flag but the meat and potatoes is the War mode. Where its basically 
 fight for points of control on huge maps with vehicles couple with nearly NO LAG. They could've 
 packaged this game with the multiplayer alone and it wouldve been worth the price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iBoxCarBobi
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 23, 2006 8:08 pm PT
Review:  Compared to Call of Duty 2, Call of Duty 3 is a lot better in the game play. Although the graphics 
 are not a whole lot better then Call of Duty 2, but it seems like the the developers were able 
 to tap into the power of the 360 and release the inter beast. There are a lot more things going 
 on during the game and on the screen, so the feeling of actually being in the game is intensified. 
 Addition of vehicals was probably one of the best things added to the game. Ever since playing 
 Call of Duty 2 I always wanted to play with vehicals. In my personal opinion, the balance of weapons 
 is one of the worst things in the game. I like the whole idea of different classes and that every 
 class has different ability (Scouts - Calling in Artillery Strike, Medics - Healing people) but 
 the balance between the Allied and the German weapons is just flaud. Out of all the different classes 
 I always play as the Rifle Man. The difference between the Allied and the German rifle is huge. 
 Since the M1 has such a superior rate of fire, the strength Karabiner 98k should have been stronger. 
 Maybe they should have putted in the Gewehr 43 insted of the Karabiner, because that way the game 
 would have been balance. It does seem like the weapon is a lot stronger then the M1, but most of 
 the time it takes 2 shots to kill someone, and before you are able to take one shot and reload, 
 the other person using the M1 is already able to shoot out most of his clip and finish you off. 
 I know that the developers are trying to keep the game accurate to the real weapons, but when on 
 Xbox Live the people who are playing as Allies it is almost always certain that they will win. 
 Other then that, the other wepaons are mostly balanced. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mayham88
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 23, 2006 4:35 pm PT
Review:  This game will have you right in the action. The graphics are awesome, not the mention the sound 
 in this game is fantastic. Its all around a great war game and I would recommend it to anyone. 
 If you liked the first and the second there is no doubt that you will like this one.
  The game also has great cut screens, and they blend fantastic with the gameplay. They really get 
 you ready and into the game and you with surround sound you actually fell like you are there fighting 
 in World War Two.
  
  Go get it today, unless you read this today and its Thanksgiving, then you'll have to wait till 
 tomorrow. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mob7645
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 23, 2006 3:43 pm PT
Review:  When Call of Duty 2 came out last year it turned alot of heads to how shooters were played it offered 
 an addicting online mode and a uniquie healing method that made its replay value a perfect 10. 
 Call of duty 3 brings these same ideas to with a new story to its single player mode and an online 
 support for 24 players. Sadly the Single Player gameplay just doesnt seem as fun as COD2 was. The 
 story doesnt seem like it goes anywere and feels dragged on. But when the cutsences are over the 
 battles are just as fun as ever. Cod2 online was loves by many on xbox live but online supporting 
 8 players per server brought it down. CoD 3 offers a 24 player online mode with nearly no lag and 
 verry fun. If you looking for a good online shooter for your 360 there is no reason why this game 
 should not be a choice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fatam
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 23, 2006 1:57 pm PT
Review:  The Good...
  
  - The Campaign is very fun.
  - The multiplayer is very well done.
  - Including veichles in multiplayer is a good touch.
  - 24 players feels right for the maps.
 
  - Graphics have been improved.
  - Weapons have been abit improved from last year.
  
  The bad...
  
  - Campaign is kinda short.
  - Not as good as Call of Duty 2.
  - Mutiplayer 
 can get laggy at times.
  - Can't find ranked matchs.
  - Story could be better.
  - May be the last Call of Duty set in WW2.
  
  I would recommend this game to anyone interested 
 in a good shooter or if you are interested in World War 2 games, making this one of the best games 
 of the year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xBlitzerx
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 23, 2006 8:32 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: CoD 3 has your standard set of WWII guns for both the Allies and Axis. There are fourteen 
 main campaign missions, which isn't too bad. Most are action packed, some are a bit boring. This 
 installment adds playable missions as the Canadians and Polish, which is new and fun. Physics seems 
 right and the game is fun, especially online.
  
  Sound: The music is great, I really like it. Sound effects are also excellent. Voice acting is 
 decent, helped out by the mostly humorous writing.
  
  Extras: With four difficulty levels plus the online mode, CoD 3 offers tons of replayability.
 
  
  Treyarch did an alright job with the franchise. However there are problems with the game. First, 
 the single player highest difficulty settings seem to gain from allowing enemies to shoot through 
 objects. Also the online ranked matches seem to be hit or miss, although the servers/matchmaking 
 have improved over the last few days. The developers have also said a patch is in the works.
  
  If your a WWII or FPS fan, this shouldn't disappoint you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lagerfeldt1974
Rating: 6.7
Date: Nov 23, 2006 12:34 am PT
Review:  VISUALS
  Call of Duty 3 has quite spectacular visuals, and things are constantly flying around your head. 
 However, there are quite a few bugs in this game including graphical ones such as disappearing 
 water, pieces of wood stuck in midair, etc.
  
  AUDIO
  You can't fault the sound effects and excellent score but a major annoyance is the very bad realtime 
 processing of the voices. They completely lack a sense of direction when playing in Dolby 5.1. 
 Hence you are disoriented when trying to locate your team mates when they're talking or shouting.
 
  
  GAMEPLAY
  Call of Duty 3 is an on-rail type of shooter that goes for cinematic impact. It does succeed in 
 that respect but it feels very limited since player interaction is restricted to a minimum, which 
 is quite unsatisfying. The game's downfall is the many BUGS you have to suffer: graphical bugs 
 (see VISUALS) and gameplay bugs such as falling down a hole and the game ends or a team mate falling 
 down a hole and the game ends, getting stuck in scenery, etc.
  
  MY PERSONAL EXPERIENCE
  Oh boy was I disappointed. In my very first game I experienced: falling down a hole and getting 
 permanently stuck. Game over. A team mate falling down a hole and an event couldn't be triggered. 
 Game over. I also got stuck in scenery other places and saw water on the ground disappear and re-appear 
 several times, a piece of wood hanging in mid-air by itself, and one of my comrades deciding to 
 dance break-dance while shooting. Completely ruined the experience for me. I returned the game 
 the next day.
  
  OVERALL
  A very flawed game with a load of annoying bugs. Not recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChaosBringer577
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 22, 2006 8:47 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3 is the sequel to last year's hit launch title, Call of Duty 2 on the Xbox 360. Featuring 
 some subtle, yet key changes, Call of Duty 3 stands above its little brother with a new, enhanced 
 WWII game. The implemented features make it almost an entirely different game, however much of 
 your time in WWII will consist of deja vu and lots of been there, done thats .
  
  **Story**
  Call of Duty 3 is centered around the events of the Normany Breakout. Taking the roles 
 of American, Russian, British, Canadian, and Polish soldiers, your campaign will span from all 
 parts of Europe in totally different circumstances.
  
  **Graphics**
  
  The first thing you will notice about Call of Duty 3 that is better than Call of Duty 2 is the 
 new, pumped up graphics. Treyarch went ahead and scanned real-life WWII uniforms into their systems 
 and mapped them to their character models, giving a sense of realism never seen before in a game 
 like this. Everything is authentic, right down to the buckles on your soldier's belt, and it looks 
 great. The texturing is clearer, softer, yet still you will see very similar ground textures that 
 you saw in Call of Duty 2. The new lighting system really is the star of the show here though. 
 Glinting off rifle scopes, washing the landscape in a golden yellow haze as the sun sets, it looks 
 great. The HDR lighting really makes the game look better in every sense, enhancing the look of 
 nearly everything in the game. The character models are nice too, but they don't seem to be much 
 different from last year's counterparts. Treyarch did do one thing superbly though, and that is 
 the brand spankin' new depth of field effect. When you aim down the sight of your Garand or your 
 Thompson, everything that you're not directly focused on turns into a blur, slighting your attention 
 to what's in your sights. This makes the aiming much more gratifying, and just adds a cool element 
 to the game. The grass in Call of Duty 3 is somewhat innovative too, believe it or not. As you 
 step through the tall brush, the grass gets trampled, and stays trampled. A nice, subtle effect, 
 but definitely noticeable and a cool thing to point out to your friends. Another thing Call of 
 Duty 3 implemented that makes the game much more dynamic and interesting is ragdoll physics. No 
 longer will only scripted items fly through the air. No, grenades hurl everything from furniture, 
 to plates, to bodies, to guns. It's great. It's cerrtainly much nicer to see your enemies fall 
 in a non-scripted manner that is constantly changing, and I believe it makes the game better.
 
  
  **Sound**
  
  The Call of Duty franchise has always been well known for their soundwork, and how it immersed 
 you so well within the world that you felt as if you were a part of the war. Call of Duty 3 doesn't 
 fail to please, and offers stellar sound once more. Guns are authentic sounding, tank tracks sound 
 great, it all comes nicely together. I'm also loving the new sounds you and your buddies make when 
 you die in multiplayer, and it adds a nice layer of immersion as well. Call of Duty 3 doesn't just 
 use the sound to give you confirmation that you're shooting, it makes you a part of the battle. 
 It makes you a part of the war, which is what makes it such a great feature to have and utilize 
 with the Xbox 360 hardware. Overall, Call of Duty 3 sounds outstanding.
  
  **Gameplay**
  
  If you want to know how Call of Duty 3 plays, pop in a copy of Call of Duty 2. It's basically 
 the same thing. All the controls are essentially the same, with the very welcome addition of a 
 sprint button, so you won't be fumbling around trying to figure out how to jump. Left trigger still 
 aims your gun, and the slight auto-aim is still present. I think this was a great approach because 
 Call of Duty 2 never suffered from any gameplay problems, and as such Call of Duty 3 does not either. 
 Call of Duty 3 is certainly not a unique title in terms of gameplay, but that doesn't mean it's 
 not solid. Quite the opposite, actually, featuring fine FPS mechanics that work great on the Xbox 
 360.
  
  **Singleplayer**
  
  You can go into Call of Duty 3's singleplayer mode in two ways. You can pretend you've never played 
 a WWII game before, or you can accept the truth that you will be doing many similar things in this 
 game that you did in Call of Duty 2. Sure, the addition of Canadian and Polish campaigns makes 
 for some nice new missions and environments, but it doesn't add as much as you'd think. The oldies 
 (American, British, Russian) campaigns still remain, but they're basically the same things you 
 played last year, in a different context. That may seem like a paradox, and it really is. Though 
 Call of Duty 3 takes place in the Normany Breakout, it still FEELS the same as Call of Duty 2's 
 singleplayer. That doesn't necessarily mean the singleplayer is bad, just not really worth checking 
 out if you have already played it on Call of Duty 2. No, the reason you will probably buy this 
 game is because of the...
  
  **Multiplayer**
  
  Call of Duty 3 offers a much-improved multiplayer setup than the pathetic, buggy online game we 
 got last year in Call of Duty 2. First and foremost, for those of you who played Call of Duty 2 
 online last year, Call of Duty 3 is thankfully a lag-free game. It supports a very balanced 24 
 players, and the maps are much bigger due to the increased server limits. The graphics, while still 
 damn good, have been somewhat dumbed down for the online, but it's hardly noticeable. The new multiplayer 
 modes in Call of Duty 3 are frantic, fun, and fast-paced. Some gametypes, such as War, feel more 
 like Battlefield, where as your classic team-deathmatch feels very much like Call of Duty. Call 
 of Duty 3 also included a new class system, similar to Battlefield's. You can pick between several 
 weapon classes, spanning from things like Rifleman, to Support. Each class has unique weapons and 
 feature a rank-up feature, where after a certain amount of kills or revives, you rank up, getting 
 additional ammo or upgraded specialties. For instance, when playing as a scout (Sniper Rifle) , 
 after you rank up, you can call in longer artillery strikes. It's very immersive, and pretty cool 
 actually. Unfortunately, your rank does not go with you from server to server, which would have 
 totally rocked. Aside from that small problem, Call of Duty 3 is all about the multiplayer, and 
 it shows.
  
  **Conclusion**
  
  Although Call of Duty 3 is a great game, it still suffers from some repetitveness and deja vu-like 
 feelings. But, despite this problem, you will find yourself addicted to the great multiplayer component, 
 and undoubtedly play this game for a long time, even if you don't enjoy the singleplayer mode. 
 All together, Call of Duty 3 is a great sequel, and it's hard to not recommend picking it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adzobren44
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 22, 2006 8:07 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3 is a great all round FPS, it has everything you could ask for in a WWII shooter. 
 But this game has alot of little glitches that I think stopped this game from taking off as much 
 as we all hoped. However, if the creators release a patch fixing all these little problems it would 
 be a much, much better game.
  
  The single player is quite ordinary, but still fun. I liked the single player but it never really 
 got majorly intense like the previous games have. Also I think the guns got really repetitive, 
 because you always start off with the army you are's primary machine gun and rifle, but as you 
 start emptying the clips you soon discover that you're going to have to pick up the German's guns. 
 Which i think made it get boring. The Multi player is just GREAT! It lives up to the standards 
 of the previous games in the series and raises the bar. Even with a few glitches and missing content 
 it's still the best console fps Ive ever played.
  I would have likes to be able to select the British and Russians in multiplayer, but the game doesn't 
 really suffer without it.
  The vehicles are great and really fun to hop in with your friends and run people over, except I've 
 found with the bike especially, that it sometimes randomly spins out of control into ditches, providing 
 you as an easy target for those snipers.
  
  All around I think it's a magnificent game and is well deserved for the 8.4 it received. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PSYCO109
Rating: 7.9
Date: Nov 22, 2006 12:01 pm PT
Review:  I think that cod3 has taken a big boost in graphics from call of duty 2 I think that as soon as 
 you get this game you will see this. But call of duty 3 is one of those games in my opinion that 
 after a few games online or playing the story where you just simply get board and star playing 
 just for the sake of it. Maybe this is just me but some of my friends have said this too. The multiplayer 
 is nice to play and has a good variety of weapons, i also like it how you change rank for how many 
 kills you have had in that one game (in player match) . and in ranked matches how your overall total 
 of killed and deaths determines your rank for example 200 kills = lance corporal and 1000 kills 
 = Corporal and so on. Then there is the single player I think that is allot harder than cod2 because 
 there is always allot of action going on and the AI is better. But with there being less chapters 
 I found it quite a short game and I think on normal mode you could complete it in a few hours. 
 But there are good points too for example the new fighting with the Germans idea is where you may 
 walk through a room and then a German will grab you gun and you will have a fight, cool eh! Finally 
 i think cod isnt really one of the best games i have ever played but it certainly stands out from 
 many war games, the multiplayer is fun to play for a few hours and will make you want to play for 
 your rank. And the single player will keep you occupied until you completed it. Overall I give 
 this a 7.8 not because it is a bad game but it is just lacking something that makes you want to 
 play for hours, i just simply get board of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oscarmayer936
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 22, 2006 10:30 am PT
Review:  call of duty is back with the nest yet world war two game. CALL OF DUTY 3 brings you closer to 
 the battlefield than ever before. This game has an awesome online play. The single player is fun 
 as well, however, it can get a little repetetive at cetain times. This game is definetly worth 
 the 60 dollars to get it. If you have like previous COD's then youre going to love this one. It 
 is definetly one of the best shooters for the xbox 360 along with gears of war. As for the graphics, 
 they are great. the smoke looks real and the people have improved greatly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steelerman1
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 22, 2006 2:51 am PT
Review:  i was very excited to get this game, i think i must of played cod 2 more than any 360 game i own, the 
 game rocked it it had so much replay online, i can't say the same about this one, ok if i didn't 
 play cod2 i think i would of liked this game more but it spoiled me. cod3 is not as well done, it 
 has its moments and it is fun, it's just not as good as cod2, am i wrong or shouldn't they improve 
 games instead of takeing a step backwards? the sound is not nearly as well done as cod2, the guns 
 sound awful, the smoke effects are not as good, ok maybe i am being picky but cod2 set the standard 
 and this one doesn't live up to it but with that being said, by all means get the game. it's fun, just 
 not as fun as cod2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sergiosissylala
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 21, 2006 3:46 pm PT
Review:  Well CoD 3 is a great game. It has amazing graphics that topped CoD 2, and for a change a game 
 that doesn't have the exact same sound layout as the previous. The majority of my time spent playing 
 this game has been split screen with my brother, thats where we have the most fun. We beat it on 
 Veteran and have been laying versus forever now. The graphics are no different between the two, 
 single player and split screen. Has a great value and a more in depth story than the last ones. 
 Definately never gets boring even in single player. It's a constant battle and they do a great 
 job of keep the fighting coming. Great large scale battles despite some glitches. The game play 
 is basically the same but still very intense, I'd get, oh wait I did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HUNTO1
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 21, 2006 6:20 am PT
Review:  Graphics- slight enhancement to Call of Duty 2. They are still excellent graphics.
  
  Campaign- the campaign is basically run and shoot but there are some little mini games to take 
 away the run and shoot style. For instance, when you place a mine or explosive you do a little 
 mini game by setting the fuse and all that stuff.
  
  Multiplayer- the multiplayer is the best part of this game. From Call of Duty 2 you only have 4 
 on 4 but on COD3 you can have up to 12 on 12. The new multiplayer game is great too. It is called 
 War and you have to control the areas to win the war. Very fun.
  
  Overall the game is very fun and it is a buy if you own a 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unimpendium115
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 21, 2006 4:59 am PT
Review:  You cant beat the feeling of storming a flag with about 8 more of your team covering your A$$ all 
 the way! this game is amazing IM loving it and I have been playing it now for about 4 days straight 
 until the early hours and most of the guys who are medics on your team are real friendly guys who 
 actually do pick your bones up and give you life when you shout MEDIC! your guy comes and injects 
 you and your up on your feet again. simply brilliant.
  
  OK you want to run and gun then do so but at your own risk lol, sure you can one man army it all 
 the way but its no fun without having a guy covering your 6 ready to shoot hot lead into the first 
 hun that rears his head from an over hanging window to snipe you.
  
  Hide behind the hay bails of in the long grass or simply get into a tank and let your team follow 
 behind for cover and storm that flag baby yeeaah. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonics15
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 20, 2006 2:09 pm PT
Review:  It has only been 8 months since that last CoD, and that too short in gaming years. I thought they 
 rushed this too quickly, and so it would just be a upgraded CoD2 right...... yeah pretty much.
 
  
  Graphics: Minor tweaks here and there and you have CoD2 all over again in the graphics department, 
 same player models, same enviroment, the only real change is that the guns look a little skinnier. 
 Basically same old same old for the graphics scheme.
  
  Sound: same great CoD sound, thats it. Been there done that.
  
  Gameplay: THIS is where we 
 get to the goods!!! Same CoD2 in singlplayer. But Multiplayer made a huge leap in gameplay. Vehicles, 
 Classes, and Map sizes. The vehicles are a fresh look to the CoD franchise, but the 4th better 
 have better handling. The classes are fun and fresh, the medic is the best play, because i just 
 stand over a fallen ally and teabag him, never heal that much, map sizes fit with vehicles but 
 not infrantry.
  
  Good game, no real changes. played CoD2 then nothing much different, just for xbox live. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djord02
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 20, 2006 10:56 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 was easily one of the most impressive and entertaining launch titles for the Xbox 
 360. In fact, I still enjoy playing it. And to anyone familiar with Call of Duty 2, this third 
 installment in the series features the same great gameplay and controls you have come to expect, 
 but it does little to improve upon them.
  
  One new feature involves scripted hand-to-hand combat scenes with enemy soldiers where you are 
 forced to quickly mash the right and left trigger buttons and tap certain buttons that appear onscreen. 
 Quite frankly, its a dumb feature that's more tedious than fun and actually detracts from the overall 
 gameplay. There are other scripted moments like this in the game as well, such as when you plant 
 C4 explosives or aim stationary mortar cannons. Rarey does this gameplay mechanic work, and most 
 gamers will likely be annoyed by them.
  
  On the other hand, there have been a handful of welcome changes to gameplay as well. You can now 
 pick up grenades tossed by enemy combatants and throw them back in their direction. You are also 
 provided with a little more leeway when you accidentally pull the trigger on a teammate. In Call 
 of Duty 2, shooting teammates was an instand gameover, and you had to start over at the previous 
 checkpoint. As you can imagine, this could be pretty frustrating during a fierce firefight, so 
 this update is a welcome addition to the game.
  
  Driving jeeps is also a new gameplay feature, and it's mostly fun. You can even use them in multiplayer, 
 which adds to the overall experience.
  
  On the downside, the graphics in COD3 vary from next-gen beautiful to last-gen drab. The shining 
 moments of the game occur in outside environments, where you are surrounded by individually moving 
 blades of grass and lush foliage. Even the sky moves realistically. Within cities and houses, however, 
 it is often a different story. Sometimes the textures appear downright plain looking up close. 
 However, the graphics in the game appear to get better as the game progresses -- perhaps the game's 
 designers finally figured out all the Xbox 360's bells 'n whistles by the end of their development 
 cycle.
  
  While many of the levels are fun, most lack the sense of creativity, detail and polish displayed 
 in Call of Duty 2. Many of the levels simply aren't as memorable. I suppose this isn't completely 
 surprising since the game was published less than a year after its precessor, but it is noticeable.
 
  
  Random bugs are also noticeable in the game. Sometimes your teammates will get stuck in a wall 
 or fail to do a mandatory scripted event. When this happens, sometimes your only bet is to kill 
 them as a means of restarting the level.
  
  Bugs like this never existed in Call of Duty 2, and I can't help but wonder how much of the game 
 was rushed. Nevertheless, the overall experience is still pretty good. It can be fun to fight with 
 six or seven computer-controlled teammates -- granted they don't get in your way.
  
  Another great feature of the game is its multiplayer. Online play has been expanded to 24 players 
 and now includes vehicles. Both changes are welcome additions and extend the value of the game 
 substantially. The fierce 12 on 12 battles will keep people coming back for more, if simply for 
 a chance of pace from Gears of War.
  
  Overall, Call of Duty 3 is a great game, but it isn't anything particularly new. If you enjoyed 
 Call of Duty 2, you will likely enjoy this game as well. However, you might want to try it out 
 before you purchase it, since it looks, plays and feels so much like its predecessor, which is 
 now available in bargain bins. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wargasm666
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 20, 2006 10:01 am PT
Review:  The Call of Duty series is by far THE best WWII shooter on the market and no one (IMO) has even 
 come close to touching the level of intensity that the guys at Infinity Ward Treyarch are able 
 to pull off.
  
  Call of Duty 3 is the latest outing of the franchise and was done by the guys at Treyarch games 
 (I believe they did the Big Red One ) . I was (at first) a bit skeptical as too how this game was 
 going to be since I never played Big Red One and was not familiar with how Treyarch would approach 
 this game.
  
  I have too say that I am very impressed with this game. The level of intensity and chaos that can 
 surround you at times is truly something that needs to be seen. The opening level to the game stands 
 right up there with the opening level in the last 2 games.
  
  Graphically this is by far the best looking installment in the series. The weather effects, water, 
 smoke, explosions are all top-notch and the framrate is suprisingly very solid. There are times 
 where you will see some low-res textures but more often then not there will be so much going on 
 you won't get a chance to see anything other then gun fire and explosions going off all around 
 you.
  
  The sound in the game is the best there is. On a surround sound system this game will give Saving 
 Private Ryan a run for its money in the audio department. To me, everything seems to be as authentic 
 as it gets and if they wanted us to hear what WWII was like then they have succeeded in doing so, 
 it's crazy. You just need to hear it....
  
  All in all this is a very solid and enjoyable gaming experience and I would recommend it as a buy 
 to anyone who has enjoyed the Call of Duty series. I haven't dove into the multiplayer yet but 
 talking with friends, they say it is the same as CoD 2 and that's a good thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dannyhale
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 20, 2006 8:50 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 was the best launch title on the 360. The gameplay was a lot of fun and the graphics 
 were good considering we didn't have a lot to compare them too at the time. Now comes Call of Duty 
 3, which I am a big fan of the series and bought this title on the release date even though it 
 conflicted with the best game ever on the 360... Gears of War. Call of Duty 3 still has great gameplay 
 and it is a very good game, but they have strived to make this title more cinematic and I believe 
 the overall outcome was a C grade. I can't believe all of the power that the 360 has a the cutscenes 
 that we see in this game look terrible. They are OK, especially compared to the original Xbox, 
 but overall a huge disappointment for the 360. The human hands in the cutscenes look like nothing 
 short of something out of The Thing with their blocky un-human like appeal. It reminded me of the 
 wooden hand in Happy Gilmore. The gameplay was still good and they even added a woman soldier which 
 I thought was a nice touch, because she was tough, but overall this wasn't an improvement in the 
 series. The soft cover that they boasted about is only on boxes and nothing else, and the lack 
 of loading screens is just filled with green army men type cutscenes that I would rather see the 
 loading screen. It didn't live up to the hype and ended abrubtly. I was just playing along and 
 suddenly after a mission was over the credits started rolling and the game came to an end. I never 
 traded Call of Duty 2 because I was astounded by the gameplay, but Call of Duty 3 will go back 
 to the store in the next day or so because I don't care to play it again. The 8.8 rating that they 
 gave may have been closer if Call of Duty 2 wasn't out on the 360 earlier. Basically, get this 
 on a 5 day rental and you can beat it in about 6-8 hours. Also, I think it may have been a little 
 better if it didn't come out at the same time Gears of War did. If anyone hasn't bought nor played 
 Gears of War, I would suggest you get it as soon as possible and play it on a nice HDTV because 
 by far, this is the best 360 title to date. Keep playing. I am starting FEAR next..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LaminateThePig
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 20, 2006 3:19 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3: Pros and Cons.
  
  +Some of the best graphics on any system to date
  +The sound is amazing when heard through a surround sound system
  +Ragdoll psychics
  +Excellent 
 reload animations
  + Soft cover can be blown apart by grenades
  +You can cook grenades
  +Intro movies replace loading bars
  +Polish and Canadian missions add some variety
  +Very unique 
 and varied achievements
  +Detailed Materials section, for reading about guns and vehicles you've used
  +Action sequences 
 are fun
  +24 player online multiplayer makes for some huge battles
  +The new class system is very fun
  +Vehicles are well balanced and fit right in
  +Maps are 
 huge and well detailed
  +The new war mode is fun
  +Games runs at 60 FPS with rarely any lag
  
  -Some minor bugs and glitches in singleplayer
 
  -Singleplayer loses the war feeling of COD2
  -Your squad AI seems dumbed down
  -Enemies can sometimes shoot you through hills or rocks
  -It can be hard to tell if someone is 
 an enemy or an ally
  -No ending cutscene to the game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xantiriad
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 20, 2006 4:27 am PT
Review:  On the whole I am a little disappointed with COD3's single-player but you must still buy COD3 for 
 the excellent multi-player. Firstly, this is still a largely scripted on-rails shooter, much 
 like a last generation game. There are a handful of opportunities to take different paths or use 
 different tatics on the assault but there is still too many forced routes hemmed in by invisible 
 walls and contrived placement of barbed wire, one foot high walls that you cant climb/jump, and 
 logs: it feels more like Medal of Honor than Call of Duty. These invisible barriers also result 
 in getting stuck in the scenery a lot . The invisible barriers extend to soldiers: at one point 
 you have to use a tank to take out machine gunners, but I could clearly see them and hit them with 
 my rifle. The game wont let you kill them unless you use the tank  very last generation!
  
  Secondly, the Interactive Mini Game elements again feel scripted and contrived and detract 
 from the epic scale of previous Call of Duty games. If you have played Tomb Raider Legends, then 
 youll know what to expect with these interludes.
  
  Now for the good news: The basic feel and play of COD2 is retained, along with most of the controls, 
 so if you played COD2 youll pick this up straight away. A few extras are thrown in like tossing 
 grenades back.
  
  The graphics are outstanding and are among the best of any current XB360 game. The character and 
 gun models are extremely detailed (you can see scratches on your gun in HD) , the water effects 
 are excellent and there are now decent particle effects on the bullet ricochets.
  
  The sound is also excellent, with some great metallic gun FX and constant sound track that doesnt 
 detract and changes seamlessly with the action. The sound track is, once again, a high point of 
 the game.
  
  The highlight of this game, however, is the vastly improved multi-player: with the most immediate 
 difference between COD2 and COD3 being the new roles. Rather than choosing your weapon, you choose 
 your role: rifleman, medic, support, scout, etc. and these govern your starting weapons, equipment 
 and skills. These roles have an impact on the more team orientated games  for instance the medic 
 revives downed players and the support role replenishes ammo. It is a nice innovation for the series 
 and it means that useless shots like me can be of use as a medic or support trooper.
  
  The maps are excellent and perfectly suit the new larger scale battles: they range from small towns 
 to a French castle. The vehicles (tanks, jeeps, bikes) are great fun and nicely balanced - tanks 
 are easily taken out by the panzershreck. Most maps are huge which means that the standard all-out 
 death-match doesn't work as well as you end up wandering around looking for people. All maps support 
 up to 24 players. My favourite map is the Dam which seems to strike a nice balance between indoor 
 and outdoor environments and is great for flag and headquarters games.
  
  The basic multi-player game-play is exactly the same as COD2 (except for the vehicles) . I could 
 not discern any major changes other than improved graphics, sound and slightly faster movement 
 - you now have a Left-Thumb-Stick-Click dash feature to run out of awkward spots - but thats about 
 it. I also feel, having recently played Gears of War, the R6V demo and GRAW, that the control method 
 in COD is due for a revamp with a proper cover manoeuvre. All in all, I think the multiplayer 
 is an great improvement on COD2 and it worth buying the game just for the multi-player experience.
 
  
  In summary, the single player game improves on COD2s graphics and sound but remains a last generation 
 a on-the-rails shooter, but the multi-player is fantastic fun with better balance and feel thanks 
 to the roles, maps and vehicles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geraldoh
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 19, 2006 11:20 pm PT
Review:  A fun time, in general. Things look sharper than COD2, but some odd glitches, like weird floating 
 debris falling horizontally from the background toward the foreground. Also, hard to put my finger 
 on it, but just not as fun as COD2 - some of the gameplay just wasn't as good as COD2, in my opinion, 
 and the story wasn't as engaging. For example, a lot of the gameplay as you were moving and shooting 
 in COD2 reminded me of the rush of the jerky, hand-held camera scenes from HBO's 'Band of Brothers', 
 but COD3 didn't do that for me. COD3 is definitely worth playing, but I feel a bit let down compared 
 to COD2, which was just amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shakycurl
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 19, 2006 7:29 pm PT
Review:  IMO the answer is yes in the graphics and sound compartment. but no in the fun factor. as i said 
 above, the graphics in the game are amazing. every gun in the game has a more polished and realistic 
 look to it. the environments are also more varied and way bigger. but somethings still missing. 
 its just hard for me to have as much fun with this game as in part 2. it might just be me, but 
 i think the whole idea of different classes is stupid. i liked how in part 2, anyone could start 
 off with just about every gun. i hate being stuck with a gun i dont like based on the class i chose. 
 i'm not bashing the game at all, i just personally dont like the idea of it. the game will definately 
 provide intense gunfights and pulsepounding action. but once u get through the story mode once, 
 theres not really much reason to beat it over again unless ur trying to get the veteran achievement. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chicken_123_pie
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 19, 2006 7:09 pm PT
Review:  PROS- Stunning visuals, great new effects with rain and light, excellent mapping.
  CONS-Storyline not quite paying dividends and justifying how good the game actually is, repetitive 
 scenery and actions.
  SOUND-Feels somewhat as though you could actually be in the war action situation.
  Best in series, 
 definitely apart from the multiplayer but singleplayer is much better than predecessors.
  Not hoping for sequel because that may not be possible to do (I think we've covered the entire war 
 by now) .
  Could this be made into a movie? I don't know what that would be like although it would be pretty 
 cool yet possibly already been done.
  To conclude, if you are yet to play this game, I recommend you do so, it's just an awesome game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxpay
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 19, 2006 2:42 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3 is a first-person shooter where ou play in World War 2. The graphics in this game 
 are up-to-date with the Xbox 360. Now the game play, its pretty much the same as it was in Call 
 of Duty 2. Just like in Call of Duty 2, you pretty much have to use the smoke grenades in order 
 to survive. The sound is awesome no doubt. While you're playing Call of Duty 3 you'll notice that 
 you're kinda doing the same thing over, but they try and mix it up by putting some driving. Overall, 
 Call of Duty is a great game and its definitely worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Matt_500
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 19, 2006 1:19 pm PT
Review:  One of the best games i have played on the xbox 360 so far. Amazing campaign with good multiplayer. 
 A deffinate must play game. Just bought it today and i couldn't get off it. The cutscenes have 
 been well designed. The game just looks incredible and makes you want to keep on playing for hours. 
 The sound quality is also superb. A big improvement over call of duty 2 which was an amazing game 
 itself. The games controls are easy to get the hang of and they don't differ much from the previous 
 game. This is also one of the very few games that let you throw the enemys grenades back towards 
 them. Great enemy A. I and the difficulty isn't to hard or to easy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elementskate14
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 19, 2006 12:06 pm PT
Review:  Cod3 is an awesome game but the glitches and the feel of this game keeps the game from reaching 
 its potential. Cod3 improves alot over Cod2 but a few things keep it from really being the game 
 i thought it was going to be. The gameplay of cod3 is very innovative and very addictive. It immerses 
 you into the game and you dont wanna put it down until your xbox 360 breaks from over heating. 
 The graphics of Cod3 have improved a good amount over cod2 and the enviornments in cod3 are more 
 destructible and more detailed. There are though noticible things that keep the game from being 
 an awesome sequel. The first thing is that you alot of times get stuck in random parts of the level 
 and have to restart from the last checkpoint. Also, when you are under enemy fire, sometimes the 
 enemies fire may kill you thru a wall or other object which makes for a very frustrating death. 
 Lastly, is the enemies or the A. I. are alot like robots and it doesnt feel like your fighting other 
 humans. Overall Cod3 makes for a great game and is a great sequel but doesnt meet its potential 
 to be the best in the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sasukedevil
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 19, 2006 11:30 am PT
Review:  As of playing the other CoD's I have witnessed lots of content even after playing through the main 
 story. For CoD2 there was lot of content for both offline and online. The CoD2 single player campaign 
 lasted at least 15 hours, depending on which mode. Veteran, the hardest mode in the game, takes 
 at least an hour extra of your time as it's challenging and makes you want to pull out your hair 
 . The difference between CoD2 and CoD3 is not just the single player but multiplayer and online 
 experiences.
  
  Pros - New achievements, levels, a few new guns, two new sides, vehicles, classes, and much more. 
 Graphics look clean and fresh to make CoD3 feel more next-gen. Cons- Game feels edgy in some places 
 and multiplayer isn't as fun as CoD2. The single player campaign would probably last you a night 
 or two if you run through it. Multiplayer isn't as addicting as the last game. Vehicles in the 
 game are hard to control at first but you can get use to it. Only limited amount of vehicles in 
 the game. Gameplay-
  
  The gameplay for CoD3 is the same and that's the good part about this game. There is about 20+ 
 weapons in CoD3 as there was in CoD2. The only problem is when your playing multiplayer... You can 
 only use allies or axles. In CoD2 there was four different sides you can use depending on the level. 
 You can always use Germans on any level. In CoD3 you are only limited to two sides and only ten 
 levels of play for multiplayer. There is some new changes in the multiplayer. There is now classes 
 aside from just choosing the standard side and getting the sides different weps. There is seven 
 classes to choose from...
  -Rifleman
  -Light Assault
  -Heavy Assault
  -Medic
  -Scout
  -Support
  -Anti-Armor
  
  Each with different weapons and unique abilities. When 
 you rank up using your class you unlock more stuff for that class to use on and off online play. 
 You cannot rank up for the offline play and save that ranking. It always will change you back to 
 the first rank once you do another round. There is also vehicles in multiplayer but only two different 
 types and four different models. This is a first in the CoD series to have vehicles in the multiplayer... It's 
 kind of sad that they didn't add tanks but it's nice to ride around with friends in multiplayer.
 
  
  Single Player has fourteen chapters for you to complete. Fourteen chapters is less then the twenty-seven 
 missions in CoD2. Graphics-
  
  The graphics are smooth but once in awhile you'll see a glitch or texter glitcher in the game. 
 You'll mostly see these glitches in single player mode. Multiplayer you'll see some texture onces 
 but barely any glitches that involve characters, guns shooting through enemies head and not hurting 
 them, or ammo glitches. The water effects in this game are quite soothing and when you shoot it 
 the bullets bounce off the water making it look more lifelike.
  
  Sound-
  
  The sound is great and helps make the game feel alot more adventurous. The music in the background 
 soots the chapter of single player and the you rarely hear music in the multiplayer. The only problem 
 about the sound... Is if you hate loudness coming from your T. V. Just be aware that this game is 
 REALLY loud and can be annoying if you play through. I would put the sound down if you want but 
 depends on what T. V. and speakers you have.
  
  Value-
  
  The Single Player is about 10-12 hours long. Multiplayer will keep you coming for more, so you 
 can rank up to be the highest rank in the game. Easy Mode- Should take 8 - 10 hours.
  Normal Mode- Should take 10 - 12 hours.
  Hard Mode- Should take 11 - 13 hours.
  Veteran Mode 
 - Should take 12 - 14 hours.
  
  That's about it for this review and hope you had a good read. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DS-man
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 21, 2007 9:22 am PT
Review:  GOOD- Fantastic Visuals; Smoke and exsplotion effects looks so realistic; long single player; great 
 online multiplayer; realistic battles; new interative features
  
  BAD- Story is'nt engaging; the game has small minor glitches
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  Theres realy no 
 difference between Call Of Duty 2 and this one, so if your looking for a better game than the last, 
 then you'll be disapointed, but that does'nt mean that this one sucks, its acculy better, the story 
 is better and the battle fields are better too, this is realy the best WWII game ever made and 
 its realy engaging, but the story does'nt go no were
  
  GRAPHICS:
  The graphics within the game is outstanding, the special effects are so realistic and the looks 
 on the closthes with the creases look great, but the faces look ugly and there is small little 
 glitches that are notcible, but they'll rarly appire
  
  SOUND:
  If you have surround sound and speackers all over the room, you'll be thinking its like another 
 world war, cos the sounds and sound effects, and voice acting are great!. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxinshoes
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 19, 2006 6:29 am PT
Review:  ==========
  IMPRESSIVE: Offers the same fury and intensity of CoD2 // Excellent ========== sound // Compelling 
 achievements // VEHICLES!!!
  ============
  NEEDS WORK: Plays a bit TOO similarly to CoD2 // Close combat is pretty ============ bland.
  
 
  Call of Duty 3 tells the story of the Normandy breakout, perhaps the most devastating series of 
 battles in WWII for the liberation of Paris. During the game you'll play as Polish and Canadian 
 soldiers, as well as a British SAS commando and of course U. S. Army infantrymen. The narrative 
 successfully and seamlessly tells the story of how all these armies came together, and drove the 
 Germans out of Paris in August of 1944. Naturally, the French make an appearance too, though they're 
 not playable. Character plot and relationships are also intertwined with the action along the way. 
 The first and most striking aspect of Call of Duty 3 is the graphics. Smacking you in the face 
 at a near flawless sixty frames per second throughout, it's easily one of the best looking games 
 we've seen on Xbox 360 to date. The Treyarch guys have outdone themselves with jaw-dropping level 
 of detail; your field of vision contains such a stunning array of soldiers and effects at any one 
 time that you'll definitely need to stop for a moment to take it all in. Soldier animation is particularly 
 impressive to the point that you could show COD3 to your own 'war veteran' grandfather and he wouldn't 
 question this as 'real' with his dodgy old vision. Weather effects such as torrential rain and 
 lightning look amazing while depth of field optics make the view down the barrel of your gun look 
 especially sexy, with a pull of the trigger also lighting up the impressive weapon detail, right 
 down to serial number carved into the deadly black metal. Meanwhile, melee attacks at close quarters 
 with a click of the right thumbstick is an effective tool in itself, although it's a new feature 
 - set-piece close-quarter battles - that prove scariest; although these involve relatively mundane 
 trigger mashing to win, the enemy is right in your face as he grapples to get your weapon (easy 
 tiger) , his teeth grit and (possibly) swearing at you in German too. (Thanks to Kikizo Games. com 
 for this intel)
  
  In all, CoD3 is a well-rounded shooter that perfectly captures the essence of war (or what us MTV 
 Generation saw it as) , this can go right up there with Saving Private Ryan , and if your looking 
 for a fantastic shooter for the 360, look no further than the CoD series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RocKtheCasbaH
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 7, 2007 8:19 am PT
Review:  COD3 used a familiar formula in the COD seres. The original COD was brilliant, Allied Offensive 
 was more of the same but spoiled by being over scripted and far to linear. Likewise, COD2 was fantastic 
 and COD3 is a linear and over-scripted expansion pack. But the single player isn't what you should 
 buy this game for. The graphics are better on the whole with much improved textures but little 
 things like bad lip sinc and lighting mar the over-all step forward.
  
  But this game is more about XboxLive than solo-play.
  
  Multiplayer will be familiar to COD2 
 addicts and is improved in a lot of ways. The maps are bigger, classes and vehicles are introduced 
 as well as new game modes. It does have a slightly different feel it due to the vehicles and the 
 graphics being on the dark side but the feel of the controls is just the same. Any one who has 
 played and loved Return to Castle Wolfenstein will feel right at home here, it's as if the 2 great 
 games have come together.
  
  Overall the single player game is a let down but the multplayer game does make up for it and that 
 is where the long levity is in a 360 shooter.
  
  It's shame that oringal Infinity Ward team didn't make this as with a bit more polish on the single 
 player and some lighting tweaks this would have been AAA. 8.9/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sosajunior21
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 18, 2006 9:04 pm PT
Review:  This game is just unbeiable.......
  
  Gameplay --- Yes similar to last year no doubt but still last game was still awsome..... It still 
 ahs a lot of improvments it is just unblievable! i give it a 9!!!!
  
  Graphics --- doesnt deserve wars... most games... for E. G. PS3 games...... that have good graphics 
 usually odnt have good gameplay but this has probably the best graphics i have ever seen and has 
 awsome gameplay... i give 10
  
  sounds --- usually overlooked but in this game it is huge with sound s iwth explisions voices and 
 bullets being fired i mean its like im really there!
  I give 10!
  
  Value --- I would have spent 2x as much for it.... thats enough lol... I give 9!
  
  I would recomend 
 this game to everbody and every1!!! a instant classic AND revolutionary 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jhw311
Rating: 5.8
Date: Nov 18, 2006 8:03 pm PT
Review:  Treyarch had big shoes to fill by taking over this franchise and IMO they fell short in many ways. 
 While the game may be pretty to look at there is very little substance to it. CoD 1 and 2 were 
 tremendous games that put you in the middle of combat in such away that any mistakes could be overlooked. 
 CoD 3 feels like a movie that can't suspend your disbelief therefore you start to notice all the 
 things wrong with it. It feels very arcade like, stiff and almost bubble gum. If you've played 
 CoD 1 and or 2 then skip 3 and pray for someone else to take over the franchise if Treyarch hasnt 
 managed to kill it. If you do decide to play CoD 3 then try not to laugh out loud during the hand 
 to hand combat scenes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chris_Barton
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 18, 2006 4:43 pm PT
Review:  Man years infinity wards have been the backbone behind call of duty. Both call of duty 1 and 2 
 being very succesful. Now treyarch - the makers of big red one and also united offensive (grey 
 matter who merged with treyarch) have brought out the new call of duty 3. In my opinion it's a 
 great game and delivers everything you expect from call of duty. I was abit disapointed that it 
 wasnt out for the pc, being a solid pc player. The single player is good but it lacks any deep 
 story line or involvment and tends to be. Go to point A and blow/kill/attack/defend. Sometimes 
 you'll do driving missions which is good but can feel frustrating. The difficulty of the game varies 
 aot. Easy is for people who have hands of an 80 year old man or constintaly wearing gloves, normal 
 is pretty basic and can feel challenging at times. Hard can feel really difficult and frustrating 
 and only for people who are will good. Vetran... well unless you have hacks then you better get 
 your helmet on because its absolutey solid.
  
  If you enjoyed call of duty 2 then you'll deffintally enjoy this one but it just doesnt feel like 
 it brings nothing new. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rarndt01
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 18, 2006 3:17 pm PT
Review:  What makes this game so great are many things. First of course are the graphics. They are breathtaking. 
 Secondly, is that you actually feel you are in a squad with a bunch of joes with death as real 
 as the game. The next bullet or explosion could have your name on it. The missions are readily 
 made plain, but a challenge to do at times. Its not always a cakewalk. It took me awhile to get 
 use to the gamepad controls, but after awhile I felt right at home. BTW, I am 64 yrs old and if 
 I can play this game anyone can. Many games I cant play because I dont hit the gamepad buttons 
 fast enough. But with this game and Splinter Cell Double Agent I felt real comfortable with. Both 
 games I say are five star games. Trust me, you'll love em. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kamikazeBEATALL
Rating: 6.1
Date: Nov 18, 2006 1:59 pm PT
Review:  Graphics are quite amazing but it's gameplay is simply identical to call of duty 2's which is getting 
 me really bored of this game. There is a lot of shooting people, but unlike call of duty 1 and 
 2, this gets EXTREMELY repetitive. It seems like they have taken the best parts of call of duty 
 2 and made them suck or just got rid of them and have amplified the worst parts of call of duty 
 2 or just made their own bad parts, like the part where you fight over your gun. The part where 
 you fight over your gun is seemingly the only new feature to this game and frankly it is unsatisfactory. 
 They could have made it more suspensful and in-your-face instead of just a plain old shooting game. 
 There is nothing that stands out in this game which makes this installment just a repetitive good 
 old-fashioned WWII FPS. If you have never played a WWII FPS then play call of duty 3 first and 
 then play call of duty 2, this way it will be an improvement and will leave you something to look 
 forward to. But, if you are a returning call of duty fan (like myself) skip this one and stick 
 to COD 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wwest
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 18, 2006 1:37 pm PT
Review:  Too be fair Call of Duty 2 featured one of the most enjoyeble single player campaigns I have ever 
 played and even though I was let down a little this game still features an great single player 
 campaign. Although some of the missions feel scaled down and more linear then COD2's most them 
 are still rather fun and the last three live up to almost everyone of COD's best mission. I liked 
 the multi theatre approach of 2 but this one only takes place at the Normandy breakout and is more 
 squad based. The action events do spice of the gameplay a little but they could have been more 
 difficult and less predictable. i also wish their was another Tank mission but I thourly enjoyed 
 the one they had.
  
  The multiplayer is a mix between COD2 and Battlefield with the best of both games thrown in the 
 mix. The class system is well balanced and all are worth playing. The veichles are fun, especially 
 the Tanks, and are well balanced into the gameplay. The maps are not so massive that you are just 
 running around most of the time but not so small that your spawning inside a firefight. The action 
 is constant and intense and the game modes and maps are solid. My only complaint is that I would 
 like to see more maps and I wish I could have played with more Allied nations then America. There 
 are online issues right now but they will patched up soon.
  
  The gameplay isn't exactly unique but is solid with many subtle improvements.
  
  Graphics and 
 sound are both excellent and I don't even have an HDTV or good sound 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 319ni
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 18, 2006 12:41 pm PT
Review:  i bought this after being told by people cod2 was the best 360 game out and il be honest, i never 
 played it. well i went out changed double agent for this and came back to give it a go
  and i like it, fast paced action packed, avergae story but its ww2 we all know what happens at 
 the end. so the game itself graphically its superb the whole environment is rich and feels right, 
 the sounds wicked ( and ive got a surround sound and its feels like the normandly landing in my 
 living room ) i have in general 1 gripe about the single player, its too effing dark, fair enough 
 youve got brightness adjuster but, each time you load you need to amend this and do it again, and 
 again, and again .......
  
  the best part of cod3 by far and away is multiplayer, huge levels and littered with great hidey 
 holes for all sorts of mischief, the weapons to are quite fresh as you have light assault, heavy 
 assault ( machine gun ) sniper , anti armour and my fave rifleman. sort of a cross between sniper 
 and assault but the rifles 1st have long range , english version fires faster but german is much 
 more powerful . you them have the ads system ( aim down sight ) this essesntially brings the rifle 
 up to your face to look down the sights, and its great very accurate and means you can snipe without 
 being a weakling and mix it up when neccesary. all in all get this game if you like a good fps 
 as thats exactly what it is, a meaty top notch offeirng with good fx and great sound and for once 
 a good single player backed up with a really good multi
  
  but the darkness issues are a real gripe for me as my tv is dark as is 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheNIM
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 1, 2007 4:14 pm PT
Review:  Even though Call of Duty 3 is, in many ways, the same game as COD2, COD 3 is an excellent game 
 that delivers a great expierience every time you play. I may have only have played it for 10 hours 
 but with only that i can tell you all the great new features like vehicles on the battlefield and 
 how they ruin the life of many infantry. xbox live now supports more players- 24 instead of 8 this 
 makes for huge action packed battles online.. Amazing images make this game look visually stunning. 
 The hand to hand is a major upgrade over last years. Last yeares, the AI was a little wacky, but 
 no more of that.
  
  New weapons for each faction and new vehicles. I love being able to pickup enemy grenades and using 
 them against their creators. The amazing sound effects adds to the realism of the game, and outstanding, 
 but simple game controls give this game another notch in the positive category. A very good game 
 and I could argue it's a step up from COD2 and beats out the same game on the rival PS3 system. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hobbies230
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 13, 2007 5:06 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay from the original Call of Duty and Call of Duty 2 are still alive in the new addition 
 to this World War II shooter series. I am not saying that this is a really bad thing, but I was, 
 however, somewhat disappointed to find out that they altered gameplay in the least.
  
  The same concept is used from the previous games. Shoot, hide, kill move on. Well, that's how it 
 is for the most part. I would have hoped to see some tactical missions and just some more variety 
 to gameplay. As you see in the trailer, you see the player battling it with a Nazi one on one in 
 close combat. That only happens around 5 times in gameplay, and it is a set thing that you can 
 provoke or avoid. Before playing the game, I was thinking that you would be able to trigger that 
 event somehow whenever it was appropriate, but I was wrong.
  
  That is the main flaw with Call of Duty 3. Graphics are up to speed with the newer Xbox 360 games, 
 but there are still some slight things that are king of etchy. Such as the lip-synching. Their 
 mouths don't move with the words very well. Voice acting is adequate, but what really got me with 
 the sound were the new gun effects. The guns don't sound mainstream anymore and now have more unique 
 tones. I enjoyed going around on easy difficulty and blasting random bullets in the sky with any 
 gun I could pick up. Ok, not really, but I did when I first got into the game.
  
  Speaking of difficulty, I'd say this game is right on par with the simple to impossible ratio for 
 gameplay toughness. Like the other games in the series, you still have easy, regular, hardened, 
 and veteran. Easy would be good for people brand spankin' new to the Call of Duty SERIES, not just 
 Call of Duty 3. Normal and Hardened are my preferred choices, and they are my suggested ones for 
 people just trying to enjoy the game. It just depends on how good you are. And of course, the ever 
 so challenging verteran will keep you at you televisions footstep until you beat it. Or, you could 
 take an alternate route and throw your controller at the TV and stomp out of the room. Your choice!
 
  
  Multiplayer have improved in many aspects. First off, I'm soooo glad that there is no 8 player 
 limit on matches. Now you can get up to 24 players, which makes mutliplayer gameplay a lot more 
 interesting and hardcore. But sometimes there can be downsides to that. Spawn killing is sometimes 
 common in matches, for one. The maps are generally larger, obviously, but it seems that (from all 
 of the maps that I have played) that they are all fit for a lot of people. It could be hard to 
 find a match with around 12 people or so. Even if you do, more players will most likely join until 
 the game is full or near full. And the vehicles are a nice addition as well. They are well distributed 
 in whatever maps they are on and evenly matched for the player vs. vehicle and vehicle vs. vehicle 
 situations. Unfortunately, many guns were taken out of multiplayer, and maybe the entire game. 
 You can still choose you weapons anytime you want, and they got more specific with what you choose 
 and made classes for each weapon. this is probably the cause of why they took out so much weapons. 
 Just to name some... M1 Carbine, Grease Gun, and the Gewer. And the only time pistols are available 
 are in multiplayer. And finally we come to the ranking system. As of right now, it is pretty screwed. 
 I takes 10 minutes or so to get a match going after selecting Ranked Match from the menu. It puts 
 you in a lobby and sits there for that unnecessary amount of time for others to join. However, 
 this is most likely just a flaw that will definitely be kinked out soon, because I bet there are 
 plenty of angry fans complaining to the company as of now. Each game you earn points based on how 
 well you did. That does not just mean kill as much as possible, because there is a wide variety 
 of game types to choose from. As you complete things concerning that game type, you earn points 
 as well. After a certain amount of points is obtained, you raise a military rank. Top one being 
 a General. However, there is also mini-ranks WITHIN games. I am not sure if they are in ranked 
 matches, because I have not even bothered to waitfor one to start, but they are in player matches. 
 It is the same system as ranked... ranks, only it is a smaller amount of point that is needed to 
 level up and the rank is based on how you do in that specific game. So it goes away and resets 
 when the game is ended. As far as I know, there are 3 ranks like that. Private, Corporal, and Sergeant. 
 The game was worth buying in the end, though it is tough to say whether or not it is a better game 
 than its predecessor, Call of Duty 2. Although, this game is still great and I would suggest it 
 for Call of Duty fans or just plain first person shooter fans, because they are sure to enjoy this. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uberpwnage1415
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 17, 2006 11:28 pm PT
Review:  Well when I first saw the E3 trailer for COD 3 I thought it looked amazing then I realized a few 
 seconds later how it was definely pre-rendered. Then I read that this game would feature vehicles, 
 multiplayer character classes, and destructible enviroments, so then i was looking forward to the 
 title again. Then I saw some bad reviews and I finally decided the only way to know if this is 
 good is to play it for myself, and so I did. So lets start out with the game's singleplayer. On 
 the singleplayer mode u play as the U. S., Britian, Poland, and French Rebels. When i got through 
 with the opening cinamatics and basic training i couldn't help but think how much it was like COD 
 2. It seemed almost seemed like more of an expansion pack than a sequal. Sure it has slighlty better 
 graphics, but i was also only in the beginging of the game. As i continued on it got better i had 
 to drive vehicles, grenades and tanks could blow open some walls, u can hold grenades after pulling 
 the pin out so it explodes quicker after u realese it, and instead of just watching ur allies throw 
 grenades back at the enemies ore running from active enemy grenades now u have the ability to throw 
 them back, after really getting into it, it was pretty fun, but basically if u liked COD 2's campaign 
 u should like this one. Now as for the multiplayer, I felt this aspect of the game got alot more 
 fun with the war game mode and the character classes, I was also happy to see the edition of vehicles 
 in multiplayer. Overall the game was pretty good and if u enjoyed COD 2 u should enjoy this one. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neyetmare
Rating: 3.4
Date: Nov 17, 2006 2:41 pm PT
Review:  This game sucks! That alone should be enough to put in the review. The single player really is 
 nothing special, it has good graphics but is just lame. It doesnt give you any way to approach 
 the level in different ways. The sound is better than call of duty 2, but the gameplay is definitely 
 worse. The online is the worst part of the game. First of all it doesnt even work properly. Even 
 if you could get into a game every time the gameplay is horrible. It has such delay that you run 
 behind a wall after a guy is shooting at you and you clearly get away, then when your safe you 
 suddenly die 10 seconds after your initial encounter with the enemy. Sometimes you can shoot someone 
 with a whole clip and then some, and theylll turn around like its nothing and pop you once and 
 your dead. The weapons are way out of balance and desperately needs an update. Overall this game 
 is a waste of money and should be refunded to anyone who bought it. ive probably had one enjoyable 
 moment throughout my experience with it and would definatly not recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fyfeb
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 17, 2006 1:25 pm PT
Review:  This game looks great! The game looks like one long cut scene and the environment is gorgeous. 
 There are subtle details like the occaisional falling leaf or a scurrying coach roach that add 
 just that much more to the atmosphere.
  Where it comes short is multi-player. While the ability to get 24 players in a match is great there 
 are some draw back. The maps are HUGE! They need to be for 24 player matches. However, the 8-12 
 player mathces you have with just your friends (aka private matches) can get slow because you won't 
 see another player for a while. I have also notice some clipping issues as well as the weapons 
 for the Allies have an advantage in accuracy and damge over teh Axis weapons. The multi-player 
 lobby is totally different and takes some getting used to, but in a good way (no more waiting in 
 a lobby for minute on end) .
  Overall this is a great game with solid single and multi-player. If you are into shooters and are 
 not bored to tears with WW2 then pick it up because Halo 3 is a year away.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geeksunny
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 17, 2006 1:22 pm PT
Review:  First and foremost - I'm going to come out and say that this review is strictly for the single 
 player portion of this game. I don't currently have an Xbox Live Gold account so I haven't been 
 able to try it online yet. All I could give on the multiplayer would be speculation based on what 
 I've read from other sources.
  
  Now that all that is out of the way it's time to get down to business. Frankly, I really liked 
 this game. I think Treyarch did a really good job on it. Probably not as good as Infinity Ward 
 has with the past two installments but I'd say that they are getting pretty close.
  
  The improvements they made to the experience are definitely noticeable and the presentation simply 
 is top-notch. The textures are a lot more detailed this time around and there seems to be an abundance 
 of bump-mapping on just about everything you see. Shadows are a lot more evident - especially on 
 the character models. The soldiers' uniforms look more wrinkled and a lot less flat compared to 
 the previous games. The trees look better and the fields are actually covered in grass this time 
 (rather than a flat surface with a few scattered sprites of grass) , both of which are happily flowing 
 in the breeze. The only changes in the weather are the occasional thunderstorm, and they are done 
 really well. The rain is really heavy and thick, the lightning flashes look really good, and the 
 cracking thunder is very pronounced. Most of the game is pretty dark and gritty and adds to the 
 theme of warfare. Everything (as expected) looks a lot more realistic this time around.
  
  Everything sounds a lot better now, too. The sounds of the guns firing, most noticeably the Thompson, 
 have more of a bite to them. It just feels like theyre kicking a little more. The music is once 
 again filled out with an excellent orchestral score that meshes with the action very well. The 
 voice acting is, for the most part, really good. A couple of them sound cheesy at times but it 
 doesnt take away from anything. The accents all sound pretty good. The one thing that might bother 
 some people is that everyone but the Germans and occasionally the French soldiers speak English. 
 I may be wrong but I dont think Poles always spoke English, especially when its between their 
 fellow countrymen. But like I said, it doesnt take away from the experience at all. The sound 
 really helps keep it quite immersive.
  
  The battles seem to be on a larger scale than in the previous games. Most of the war zones are 
 taking place on the city streets and in buildings, so a lot of the combat is pretty close quarters. 
 There appear to be more soldiers on each side in most of the battles. This helps add to the feeling 
 of chaos and intensity of the battles.
  
  The storytelling is probably this games weakest point. Treyarch also developed the game Call 
 of Duty 2: Big Red One and in that game the focus was telling a story about a single American 
 troop. In Call of Duty 3 they try the same thing, but do it with four different groups. One is 
 American, the second is British and French, the third is Canadian, and the fourth is Polish. This 
 works pretty well, but the storylines are sliced up and shuffled between the others. You can kind 
 of grow attached to some soldiers in one group and then it will shift right to the next. By time 
 you get back to the first group, youve almost forgotten all about them. Thats not to say that 
 the storylines are bad  far from it. The scenes are presented in a very cinematic fashion.
  
  The game play is pretty identical to that of the previous games with some new stuff added in 
 here and there. You can now cook off your grenades; hold onto them to run the timer out a little. 
 This helps if you want to start a sneak attack on an unsuspecting group of enemies. Run it down 
 to one bar of time left, drop it right into the middle of the group, and have it explode before 
 they have any time to react or throw it back to you. Yes, thats also another new feature with 
 the grenades. You can now pick up live grenades and throw it back at your enemies before they explode. 
 Its kind of risky but it can help a whole lot. There are also new segments that require more user 
 interaction than before. To plant charges on objects like Flak guns and supply crates you initiate 
 the process by pushing a button to place the charge, rotate the right thumbstick to screw in the 
 fuse, and then press another button to pull the pin. There are a couple other segments like this, 
 like paddling in a rowboat and pulling levers on a crane control panel. It helps keep the game 
 play a little more interesting, but not by much. There are a few levels where you are driving a 
 jeep through enemy territory, similar to the jeep chase levels in the first Call of Duty game. 
 They can get pretty exciting, but dont seem to match the feeling of chaos and confusion that the 
 levels in the first game created. Finally, there are some close quarters combat segments in which 
 you are being attacked by an enemy soldier for your weapon. You have to press the R and L triggers 
 alternatively as fast as you can and press the buttons that are shown on the screen to overpower 
 your attacker. The button-pressing is pretty boring, but some of the scenes they produce can be 
 cool. Luckily these segments are few and far-between.
  
  The achievements that you can unlock help add some replay value and keep the game interesting. 
 Of course there are your run-of-the-mill Play through the single player campaign points, but 
 in addition are others that have more specific and special requirements. One requires you to only 
 use bolt-action rifles, another requires that you only use enemy weapons, and one even has you 
 complete a mission without firing a single bullet. If these are different from your usual play 
 style, it can become an incentive to get you try new tactics and methods. Some of them can only 
 be unlocked when you play online in ranked matches. There is also one to have you complete the 
 game on Veteran difficulty for an added challenge. If you like to collect a mass amount of achievements, 
 they definitely add to the life of this game.
  
  So thats about all I can say about this game. It looks and sounds great and is a whole lot of 
 fun to play if you are in to first person shooters. Overall, Treyarch put forth a really good effort. 
 Its not the best, but its still a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheOneDubb
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 17, 2006 11:46 am PT
Review:  Im sure most everyone has heard the antiquated cliche If it aint broke, dont fix it by now. 
 Well, it seems Activision has adopted that same philosophy with the newest instalment of the Call 
 of Duty series. As far as improvements are concerned, Call of Duty 3 is slightly graphically superior 
 to its predecessor. It seems the frame rate has improved and the characters run smoothly with only 
 minor periodic glitches. However, as with Call of Duty 2, the graphics remain to be anything but 
 next-gen. This does not mean the game is inferior or in any way mediocre. It remains to be a great 
 game in a line of great games. --&gt;
  
  One thing I have discerned concerning recent 360 games, as my prior reviews will attest, they are 
 extremely short. This has been a continuing theme recently with curtate games such as Splinter 
 Cell and Gears of War. From a gamers perspective this can be seen as a detriment but for the most 
 part the actual game play supersedes the brief missions and campaigns. However, it remains to be 
 frustrating and seriously hurts the games replay value. --&gt;
  
  Anyone who has played or has been a fan of the CoD series will be able to immediately pick up the 
 sticks and feel at home. Newer players will find that the games controls are easy to master in 
 a relatively short period of time. Like CoD2, the game is fairly easy to complete. It shouldnt 
 take more than a few days to finish playing at a steady pace. Hardcore fans should notice summarily 
 that the Veteran difficulty is considerably more arduous and challenging to complete than Veteran 
 on CoD2. The AI has as much accuracy with their machine guns as they do with their sniper rifles. 
 Sometimes you find yourself thinking Oh hell no, thats Bull Sh! t when they pick you off with 
 a gauge from 50 feet away. They rarely miss, they can take more damage than you, and it seems their 
 weapons are more powerful than that of your own. --&gt;
  
  As with the game, the Live play hasnt changed all that much either. CoD3 online play has never 
 been great but it has never been poor either. Anyone who has played 2 online will easily acclimate 
 to the online play of 3. --&gt;
  
  In closing, I am disappointed that Activision didnt attempt to add anything innovative or creative 
 with their latest Call of Duty game. There remains to be no co-op play if you have a friend visiting 
 your pad and the game play is a carbon copy of 2 but this time it revolves around France. Why you 
 ask? I have no clue. Id like to see the CoD series branch out to include the pacific war as did 
 Medal of Honor because quite frankly, Im tired of killing Germans over and over again. It would 
 nice to fight in Iwo Gima. Call of Duty fan? Warfare history buff? If so this game is for you. 
 If not, this game is still worth the purchase and although it has it own unique faults, its still 
 a great game nonetheless. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matty986c
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 17, 2006 9:48 am PT
Review:  Call of duty is a very technically sound game. The graphics are very good, although the weapons 
 were very shiny. Gameplay is t op notch. The missions were fun but not as fun as call of duty 2. 
 The driving missions weren't that impressive either. It just felt that after the first mission 
 i wasn't in a war anymore. As for multiplayer, they got it right. From the epic feel of the matches, 
 to the new class system, you will have a blast online. And with 24 player support you will never 
 feel lonely. The maps are huge and take a little time to learn. The vehicles add a totally new 
 dimension to the game. You cant just run around anymore, as there could be a tank waiting for you 
 on the backside of that building. Call of duty 3 is a very good buy for you if you liked call of 
 duty 2, and if you just like a good online fragfest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sasdan
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 5, 2007 10:37 am PT
Review:  After playing Call of Duty 2, and hearing about Call of Duty 3, I was pretty excited. After all, 
 COD2 boasted great gameplay, Smart A. I., Good Graphics, and awesome sound. While COD3 still had 
 much of this, some of it was lost, in my point of view, to the holiday rush. Meaning, that the 
 game wasnt quite polished completely. For Example, while the Sound is as good, if not better then 
 COD2, the graphics havent made much of an improvement from the last game. I was expecting a bit 
 more, but I cant complain, because the graphics are still good.
  
  One of my biggest complaints are the glitches . While playing, campaign and multiplayer alike, 
 I find myself getting stuck in places easily. The biggest problem getting stuck is the crouching, 
 where I have gotten stuck the most. However, normally this can be fixed with crouching again. Another 
 complaint I have involves the multiplayer. Once you drive a vehicle out of its spawn point, if 
 its left un-touched for a certian period of time, it explodes. Just like that. I cant tell you 
 how many times Ive walked by a vehicle, only to have it explode in my face, leaving me helpless, 
 and an easy prey for my enemies in the game with me.
  
  Now, other then these minor inconveniences, the game plays very well.
  
  Combat is intense. 
 VERY intense. The first moment of you actually going into battle, you are welcome by a barrage 
 of bullets and explosions, bodies flying, and buildings crashing. A nice little addition to the 
 game is the ability to pick up an enemies grenade and throw it back at them. It can come in alot 
 of handy, because you can save your own grenades for later use. But beware, your enemies can throw 
 your own grenades back at you.
  
  This brings me to the AI. While it isnt the greatest, where enemies can be crouching right in a 
 middle of a hallway, 2 feet away from you, shooting like a madman, it is very good. As mentioned 
 above, they can throw grenades back at you. They also will duck and cover, and in some cases, even 
 blind-fire from behind a box, wall, barrell, or whatever can be used for cover at the time.
  
  Being able to use vehicles in multiplayer is a nice little addition too. It makes it much easier 
 to get around the maps. You can also sprint in Multiplayer, which works as well if theres no vehicle 
 around.
  
  So all in all, the game plays very well, Except for a few minor inconveniences. I recommend this 
 game, especially to any fan of the series. It'll make a great edition to anyones 360 collection. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DevilToPay
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 17, 2006 7:37 am PT
Review:  I absolutely loved CoD2 and spent far too many hours playing it. Couldn't wait for CoD3 to come 
 out, but was dissappointed. Note, I have only spent about 10-12 hours playing, but think it is 
 enough for some observations:
  
  The game seems much more linear than CoD2. Although both are somewhat linear, at least in CoD2 
 most of the time you seemed to have a lot more room to manuever. So far in CoD3 I always feel like 
 a rat in a maze.
  
  The AI doesn't seem to be as good as CoD2. Enemies don't appear to cover very well and their movements 
 are very predictable. Not sure your allies support you as well as they did in CoD2.
  
  Freeze. There appears to be a significant problem with the game freezing to the point many folks 
 can't even play it. See the message boards. I have this problem, but not that bad. Typically, my 
 game will freeze soon after I start playing, but when I restart the console it doesn't happen again 
 -- at least so far.
  
  I don't like the weapons as much -- firing rate, sound, etc. Not sure why they would have changed 
 this, but it wasn't for the better.
  
  Too many video segments interspersed with the gameplay. I want to play the game, not watch a movie. 
 Also, I can't seem to skip the initial intro movies for the various segments when I restart. Yes, 
 I do know which buttons to push to skip these. It just doesn't work. Maybe the load time is so 
 long that they are now requiring you to watch a level intro movie.
  
  In the end, it is still a good game worth buying, but people like me that loved CoD2 will be dissappointed. 
 It is not an improvement and maybe even took a half-step backward. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kramerica1991
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 16, 2006 7:06 pm PT
Review:  Good game, harder sniping ( but you can master it) amazing graphics, and writing this review is 
 getting gay so im just going to hold down y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y 
 y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y 
 y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y 
 y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y 
 y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y 
 y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y yy yy y y y y y 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spokeydoke
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 16, 2006 6:37 pm PT
Review:  After playing Call of Duty 2, and hearing about Call of Duty 3, I was pretty excited. After all, 
 COD2 boasted great gameplay, Smart A. I., Good Graphics, and awesome sound. While COD3 still had 
 much of this, some of it was lost, in my point of view, to the holiday rush. Meaning, that the 
 game wasnt quite polished completely. For Example, while the Sound is as good, if not better then 
 COD2, the graphics havent made much of an improvement from the last game. I was expecting a bit 
 more, but I cant complain, because the graphics are still good.
  
  One of my biggest complaints are the glitches . While playing, campaign and multiplayer alike, 
 I find myself getting stuck in places easily. The biggest problem getting stuck is the crouching, 
 where I have gotten stuck the most. However, normally this can be fixed with crouching again. Another 
 complaint I have involves the multiplayer. Once you drive a vehicle out of its spawn point, if 
 its left un-touched for a certian period of time, it explodes. Just like that. I cant tell you 
 how many times Ive walked by a vehicle, only to have it explode in my face, leaving me helpless, 
 and an easy prey for my enemies in the game with me.
  
  Now, other then these minor inconveniences, the game plays very well.
  
  Combat is intense. 
 VERY intense. The first moment of you actually going into battle, you are welcome by a barrage 
 of bullets and explosions, bodies flying, and buildings crashing. A nice little addition to the 
 game is the ability to pick up an enemies grenade and throw it back at them. It can come in alot 
 of handy, because you can save your own grenades for later use. But beware, your enemies can throw 
 your own grenades back at you.
  
  This brings me to the AI. While it isnt the greatest, where enemies can be crouching right in a 
 middle of a hallway, 2 feet away from you, shooting like a madman, it is very good. As mentioned 
 above, they can throw grenades back at you. They also will duck and cover, and in some cases, even 
 blind-fire from behind a box, wall, barrell, or whatever can be used for cover at the time.
  
  Being able to use vehicles in multiplayer is a nice little addition too. It makes it much easier 
 to get around the maps. You can also sprint in Multiplayer, which works as well if theres no vehicle 
 around.
  
  So all in all, the game plays very well, Except for a few minor inconveniences. I recommend this 
 game, especially to any fan of the series. It'll make a great edition to anyones 360 collection. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JCWojtowicz
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 16, 2006 2:58 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Every thing a fps shopuld have fast paced action with some quick decision making in between 
 with some inovative and simple minigame-like sequences.
  
  Graphics: To put it frankly the best looking videogame ive aver played (i have seen better but only 
 on the ps3) simply amazing some parts look practicaly real if you have the right TV
  
  Note-after completing cod2 on the pc i was a little surprizes it had absolutely no physics but 
 you can see all kinds of stuff exploding falling be it bodies crates or church towers on cod3
 
  
  Sound: The sound is fantastic every bullet every explosion every fotstep sounds perfect the only 
 problem is that the music is sometimes a little bit off pace with what is on screen but this only 
 happens once or twice in the game.
  
  Value: Essential for those new to the 360 or a great christmas gift for one who has one
  
  Tilt: 
 Better than anything infinity ward could have done! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: quagmire75
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 28, 2007 9:41 am PT
Review:  graphics: call of duty 3 is one of the best looking games out there. some textures are awesome, 
 while others arent as good. but the thing that i really noticed, is the movement. the characters 
 move very realistically, and the physics are intact, and quite nice. the soldiers seem to fall 
 dead realistically. running, throwing grenades, boosting buddies over walls, firing weapons, everything 
 just looks smooth and great. it isnt gears of war, but its very nice looking.
  
  sound: this game has insane sound. the weapons sound awesome, the dialogue is loud, clear, and 
 well done. the general atmospheric noises are just really hectic and make you duck for cover at 
 all times. absolutely awesome sound, you will wanna crank up the tv for this one!
  
  Gameplay: Call of duty games are great because the gameplay is easy, yet solid. it isnt the absolute 
 best gameplay, but it is very well done and solid. i like new cookable grenades, and the battle 
 actions make for some fun little mini games that sort of break up the gameplay a bit. overall the 
 gameplay is fun, and will keep you playin for more.
  
  Value: this is a biggie. the single player campaign is fun, and for me, is taking quite some time 
 to beat. the hard difficulty setting is the way to play this game from the start. it is very challenging, 
 and the enemies fire at you realistically. they are almost too good. you can not run and gun nearly 
 as much as a typical cod game, because you will be put on your A$$ faster than you can even fire 
 at the enemy. (on higher difficulty settings.) although i die all the time, and i am a very experienced 
 player, im very glad i am playing through on hard, because the game is going to take a lot longer 
 to beat. the online multiplayer is unreal. i think in many ways its better than call of duty 2, 
 which is huge. it is very impressive, and very addicting. weapons are all well balanced. there 
 are some new additions, such as player classes, vehicles, and new game types. the vehicles are 
 fun, and all can be counter attacked. up to 24 players makes for big chaotic battles in nicely 
 designed levels. i would have to say that treyarch 1-upped infinity ward on this title.
  
  overall the game feels fun and is a challenge, the multiplayer offers some of the best multiplayer 
 fun out there right now. if you like first person shooters, this game is a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickdastick
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 16, 2006 8:52 am PT
Review:  This game plays just like last years game which is the smartest thing Treyarch could have done. 
 The gameplay is solid and the new multiplayer is a blast!
  
  Graphics: A nice step up from last year. Not perfect but a big step from where it was before.
 
  
  Gameplay: Almost a carbon copy of CoD2 which is GREAT!!! If it's not broke, don't fix it! I do 
 like the new grenades and bombs as well as the fact that you can hold grenades so the timer drops 
 down. Very nice touch.
  
  Audio: Sounds even better than CoD2 and that's saying something! So much noise it really gets you 
 into the game even in multiplayer.
  
  Overall it's a great game. I like it more than CoD2 and that is an accomplishment on its own. If 
 you liked CoD2 you will love this game. And if you like the multiplayer of Battlefield, you will 
 love this game too because they do a better job than Battlefield! Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chriss0608
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 16, 2006 6:33 am PT
Review:  While most people say this is merely a rehash of COD2 with new levels and better graphics, I say 
 it's more than that. This is one of those games that allows you to experience the rush or warfare 
 (especially if you have a surround sound system) and get a feel for what it was like to fight in 
 that war. The gameplay is just as good as COD2, with a smooth framerate even during huge firefights. 
 There are a couple of small glitches in the graphics, but they are infrequent and not much of a 
 bother. The visuals are stunning, especially when you see the sunlight filtering in through the 
 trees. The variety of vehicles you can get into gives the game a good departure from the run and 
 shoot 'em up that too many FPS games have. There are some features that I could do without, like 
 the hand to hand combat and the bomb setups, but once again they do not ruin the game. I am no 
 fan of the inability to skip over the cinematic prologues that you have to sit through whenever 
 you start a new level or restart from a checkpoint. On the whole, this is a great game and I am 
 looking forward to COD4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VirginFingers
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 15, 2006 10:29 pm PT
Review:  Many could make the point that COD3 is hardly any different than COD2 from a gameplay standpoint, 
 and anyone expecting a new experience may be disapointed. I have a feeling for this installment 
 in the series the developers took the If it ain't broken don't fix it. stance when it came to the 
 gameplay.
  
  It plays exactly like COD2, but that isn't a bad thing. I personally loved COD2's gameplay, and 
 COD3 is just as enjoyable. This game isn't only about a new campaign and a 3 instead of a 2 in 
 the name. I find the biggest change is in multiplayer, which right now should generally be considered 
 the best 360 game on XBL to date. I find the multiplayer to be alot like BF2 for PC, only less 
 unimaginably annoying and frustrating.
  
  So, basically, from a gameplay standpoint this game is great. Be it campaign, or multiplayer. It's 
 smooth, approachable and enoyable.
  
  Now, as far as visuals, it's a bit odd in my opinion. Looking at the foilage and all the environments, 
 I notice a big improvement. However, looking at the weapons models and the character models, I 
 am not very impressed. The game still looks good, but if you give it a good look, you'll notice 
 low res textures. The effects are good, such as explosions and smoke clouds.
  
  The sound in the game is very good, from loading your gun to an artillery strike, the sounds are 
 all good quality. I especially like the weird strangulation like sound people make on multiplayer 
 when they die, it cracks me up every time. The game seems to run very smooth also, so while it 
 may not have amazing visuals all the way around, it runs smooth and that in many ways is more important.
 
  
  I find the unskipable cutscenes annoying, I am not sure why they where done in such a way. It wouldn't 
 be half as bad if you only had to see it once, but if you quit halfway through the mission at a 
 checkpoint, when you start up again you'll have to view the whole cutscene again. Speaking of cutscenes, 
 the voice acting and movements of all the characters is very well done.
  
  Though this isn't a very in-depth review on my part, I'm just going to be honest. It plays like 
 COD2, has much more potential on multiplayer, better graphics, great sound and environments. If 
 you liked COD2, chances are you'll like COD3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: garrcus
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 15, 2006 9:03 pm PT
Review:  Alright here it is, anybody who has played COD2 and absolutely loved the online multiplayer but 
 wished it allowed for more players and vehicles were salivating for the release of COD3 and probably 
 like me rushed out and bought it on the release date. Sped home and placed it in the 360 anxiously 
 anticipating the unbelievable fun you were about to experiencefinally getting into a lobby and 
 beginning the match ohhh sweet here we go!!!!....... What the hell this sniper rifle sounds like 
 a weak .22 and the scope keeps moving out after I fire so I cant even see my enemys head jerk 
 back and spray bloodDamn it. Well maybe the Thompson or BAR machine guns will be good, nope both 
 sound like muffled popcorn popping and look nowhere near as accurate as those on COD2. And why 
 do these graphics that are supposed to be significantly better look suspiciously worse. The only 
 saving face of the online multiplayer is the War game which is fun with the increased number 
 of players but something is missing here. So I check out the single player campaign and am pleased 
 to begin with because it closely resembles that of COD2 but am quickly let down again by the overwhelming 
 feeling that I am being pushed down a single zigzag path that refuses to allow me to cover ground 
 and clear buildings with any kind of choice or discretion. Thank God I bought Gears of War on 
 the same day, as for now COD3 is on the bench and the veteran COD2 still deserves the start. Infinity 
 Ward please redeem this debacle by Treyarch on COD4 for the sake of all COD fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonofares
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2006 7:00 pm PT
Review:  Whhhooooooooooo Hooooooooo!!! Freakin absolutely amazing in every way!!! Oh man...... this game 
 makes me drool on myself. This is everything a video game should be. It's beautiful. When a game 
 makes me stop playing and just look at the water in the creek and the rocks under the flowing water 
 in amazement...... that's a good game. The graphics are just impeccable and flawless. If you liked 
 COD 1 and COD 2 you are in for such a treat. They improved it in all the right places. COD2 was 
 wonderful and I wasn't sure how they could make it better...... but they did. Now you can hop in 
 vehicles to drive. In multiplayer you can hop in the passenger seat and let your buddy drive and 
 you can shoot or control the gun turret in the back of the jeep. I've only got through the first 
 mission so far and just a couple of games online but man I can't wait to get into it some more. 
 A good army/war/military shooter is my favorite genre I guess and this game is the reason why. 
 If you have and XBOX 360 and you don't buy this game my question would be why do you even own an 
 XBOX 360? Imagine the BAR machine gun with a scope........ imagine when a grenade is thrown at you 
 responding fast enough to pick it up and throw it back....... imagine being shot on the battlefield 
 and the medic in your squad runs over and heals you so you can continue to fight and saves your 
 life...... then imagine CALL OF DUTY 3. So many upgrades have been made to the game. There's a saying 
 that God is in the details. This game proves it. So much care has gone into every little detail 
 of the game that you will have to just play it to experience it. Numerous, numerous improvements 
 and upgrades have been added to the game from COD2. Even like when you're shot and about to die 
 what the screen does seems very realistic to what it might really feel like. It turns black and 
 white and the sound goes out and then kind of fades out. Very cool. I have not one single negative 
 thing to say about this game. As I play it more I may update this and find something wrong but 
 right now my friends this is as perfect a game as I think is possible. Don't be a dumb butt.!!! 
 GEt the game!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Carmelo15j
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 15, 2006 4:16 pm PT
Review:  The single player mode plays like Call of Duty 2, but XBOX Live is amazing. Absolutely amazing 
 compared to the second one. Eight players to 24 players is a huge difference. Also, on the second 
 one you could only have one person. Now you can have up to four players on one XBOX 360!!!!!! Now 
 we can drive vehicles. There are a few different kind of trucks, motorcycles with side car things, 
 and then of course, the tanks. The amazing tank wars are so much fun...... Thats if you are in them 
 of course. If you are walking by, or trying to drive by with a different vehicle...... You are screwed. 
 I rate the online play a 10 out of 10. The single player mode is basically the same as the second 
 one. I enjoy this game very much. It is highly addictive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: defogger
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 30, 2007 4:39 pm PT
Review:  I picked up this game from Blockbuster, shocked at how many copies they had there. First of all, 
 let me say this, I dont know what else they could have named it, but it would have been better 
 than just the plain 3. Now to the graphics. They are much better than COD2 if you payed attention 
 to them, much better shading and reflections. Weather detials are crisp but sometimes make the 
 enemies really hard to see. Now for Gameplay, easy to use and fun as before. Actions for the character 
 are placed well, but that's only the controls. Combat itself is really intense like in COD2. The 
 game moves very well and feels alot like a movie, and the weapons feel alot better now too. Sound 
 is incredable as always, thank god. There is really no story worth paying attention to though and 
 you dont feel any connection to your squad members like you did in COD1 and 2. Overall it is better 
 than COD2 with graphics, weapons, and sounds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WESLY_SNYPES
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 15, 2006 12:24 pm PT
Review:  So there I was waiting to pick up my preorder of Gears of War which I have waited for 6 months 
 to play.... only to have a Gamespot worker tell me that they didn't get the shipment in when they 
 were supposed to. Standing at the counter looking stupid I decided to get Call of Duty 3 so I didn't 
 go home empty handed. It was one of the smartest moves in my gaming lifetime.
  
  Graphics - 9
  
  Fight Night was the reason why I bought a 360 because of what I guessed would 
 be the potential of the system graphically and COD delivered the goods with the subtlety of a German 
 blitzkrieg. The battles you engage in are incredible huge and detailed; so much so that you can 
 even make out individual skirmishes taking place when you are not worrying about saving your own 
 skin. The buildings convey individual levels of damage to an extent that none of the houses look 
 cookie-cutter and you can even damage them to an extent. The soldiers who accompany you on your 
 missions also convey visual indivduality although in the case of the Germans you spend more time 
 killing them to care if they look different.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Gameplay - 8
  
  Treyarch took what was good about COD 2 and tweaked aspects although there are not as numerous 
 or influential improvements as one would expect from the developer. If you have played COD2 then 
 learning to play COD3 will take you all of 5 minutes. A new addition is the ability to pick up 
 a live grenade and return it to its owner. While it makes for a decent fight for in multiplayer 
 sadly, the computer controlled Nazis do not take advantage of this ability like in the Medal of 
 Honor series. In addition, you can also milk the grenade which was also in MOH though should have 
 been long included in the COD series. My only real gripe with the gameplay is that although some 
 parts of the environment are destructible, having the ability to do major damage like providing 
 an exit for your soldiers through a wall while being shelled, was not realized a la Red Faction. 
 In addition, while the soldiers do a better job of staying alive, they do get in your way if you 
 need to make a tactical retreat which is a nuisance at lower levels and at higher levels will get 
 you killed.
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Sound - 10
  
  People with surround sound never had it so good. It is the only way to fully experience and appreciate 
 the game. You can still distinguish the sounds of the different weapons during battle, you can 
 tell the difference between the soldier ally and enemy alike, but the real moments where the sound 
 takes center stage are those scripted events where you are almost hit with explosions full on. 
 Already sounding chaotic during battle, all of a sudden you will hear a loud explosion followed 
 by ringing in your virtual ears, dulling of sound, followed by the gradual return to your senses. 
 If you had the unfortunate luck of being close to an explosion of any kind this game might bring 
 back flashbacks because it sounds as real as it gets. The music is the standard orchestral fare 
 that one can expect from these games and the only difference in this version is that you hear more 
 of it during pivotal moments in the gameplay.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Value - 9
  
  While the single player mode will keep you engrossed, the multiplayer experience can keep you hooked 
 long after the ending credits. Supporting up to 24 players, the online mode resembles the Battlefiled 
 series in that you have to select character classes such as the scout, medic, heavy weapons, rifleman, 
 and support complete with the same features and drawbacks. Having to choose such classes means 
 that in objective based games, the game places emphasis on variety to achieve victory more effficiently. 
 Entering player matches is a lot easier as you do not have to wait for a certain amount of people 
 to join just to start the game that may or may not be on your friends list. While acquiring the 
 achievement points are more gameplay based, they make the game more interesting than merely completing 
 levels on an increased dfficulty like in COD2.
  
  To sum up my review, if you want a quality FPS for the 360 then you can't go wrong with COD3. If 
 you want a good WWII game, you are two for two with this one. If you are not buying into the hype 
 of Gears of War but want a quality game to show off what your 360 can do, then you scored the trifecta. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TSiWraith
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 15, 2006 10:29 am PT
Review:  COD2 was IMHO the best XBox360 launch title last year. COD3 keeps the same gameplay and stunning 
 graphics with a new story. The campaign is superbly done. By mixing various first person accounts 
 (you'll play as a different allied soldier throughout the story) , COD3 will teach you a history 
 lesson on how many allied countries it took to cooperatively defeat the German army and push them 
 back to Berlin. If you like the COD series, this is a MUST OWN game, not only because the campaign 
 rocks, but because the online multi player is better than any XBox360 game out right now. Imagine 
 two 12 person teams fighting it out on intricately detailed maps using various WWII weapon and 
 vehicle sets (of your choice pre-spawn) . The action is insane at times, but that's what makes it 
 so much fun to play. Another key thing to the multi player mode is that even with two 12 person 
 teams fighting each other, I haven't encountered any lag whatsoever. I don't know what Activision 
 is doing to maintain excellent graphics while 24 people are playing on one map, but the result 
 is a top notch lag-free multi player experience. I've been an online Halo player for many years 
 (even before XBL) , and I've been frustrated beyond belief at the amount of lag there is online 
 and how it affects gameplay (which I honestly believe nullifies Bungie's whole ranking system) . 
 If you like the COD series, trust me, this game will not let you down, and you may be telling your 
 friends to go out and buy it . If anything, buy it for the online multi player, because it's well 
 worth the money.
  
  The only gripe I have about the game is the fact you cannot play the campaign online with a friend. 
 As far as I can tell, it's the game's only shortcoming, but the multi player more than makes up 
 for it. This game is easily comparable to Gears of War due to the tradeoffs. COD3's only lack of 
 appeal wil be with those who don't like to use the old weapon/vehicle sets of WWII.
  
  Parents: this is a very good game to buy your kids, because it not only has a lot of replay value, 
 but it also makes learning about of the world's greatest wars fun and interactive. Just be sure 
 to check the rating (I think it's T for Teen due to the violence) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marolia
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 15, 2006 10:24 am PT
Review:  This is just awesome...
  this is my first time playing this game in Xbox 360... and the way it looks is just awesome.
  
 There lots of madness going now in this game.
  The guns look really amazing.... what else... everything looks amazing in this game.
  The gameplay 
 is great but the only problem is...
  when we play in hard level its kinda gets u mad when u get shot by a German every min.. and than.
 
  when u take cover the cover does'nt help u soo much u die really fast.
  For graphics it looks great i mean really great..
  The sound is awesome feels really real when 
 u hear it.
  And for the mutiplayer when i started playing it was damn good.
  Many people can play this time i heard.
  
  This game is a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 08willej
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2006 6:01 am PT
Review:  CoD3 has the best graphics to date, that what it looks like to me anyway when your charging bunkers 
 and millions of bullets are flying by your head and its raining cats and dogs like no other mother. 
 The online is amazing with the classes now, though however there are VERY few glitches, and they 
 are stuid glitches. The guests you can bring online make the game easier to fill up, and the 24 
 player games it would be kinda hard to. There is only one thing i dont like about this game and 
 it is how you can only be american or german on the online play. besides that this is one of the 
 best games ive ever played! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PTWatson
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 15, 2006 4:57 am PT
Review:  Ok I have completed single player campaign, and now enjoying Multiplayer alot. There seems to be 
 one or two issues regarding ranked matches on Xbox360. but so far the multiplayer has been fun, 
 the class system seems even, and you can pick up other weapons anyway. Each class has a special 
 ability, like laying land mines, sticky bombs, air strike, heal or ammo dropping.
  
  The increase in multiplayer matches from 8 players to 24 is nice, meanin bigger and intense multiplayer 
 action. I never played much multiplayer of COD2, so I will not compare.
  
  Graphics compared to COD2, I think are very much upgraded, the thompson, looks amazing in zoom 
 mode, the sight has alot of detail now, likes like a photo to me. The other guns look nice also 
 :D.
  
  Overall, I have had a very nice experience with this game. Its been fun, had intense battle scenes, 
 especially Saint Lo. The begining when you climb over the wall, its carnage. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: m1bob
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 15, 2006 12:08 am PT
Review:  what is not mentioned is the amount of bugs when played online,
  these range from teamkills are possible when using granades and anti armour weapons when teamkill 
 options are turned off,
  invisible tanks, a person can be seen to climb into thin air and it displays no tank on your display, geting 
 stuck to buildings and not being able to move,
  it weapon system needs serious fixing, you shoot someone at nine feet with heavy arms and they don't 
 die, they return fire back with a hand gun and your dead with one shot,
  many other bugs are apparent,
  GREAT GRAPHICS, let down by obviously poor game testing,
  or 
 is it a case of lets sell it and maybe fix the BUGS later???
  SHOULD HAVE BEEN ONE OF THE GAMES OF THE YEAR.
  i would not recommend this if you want it to 
 play online,
  what starts of great ends up in total frustration online,
  hope they address theses issues soon 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kljohns2
Rating: 4.3
Date: Nov 15, 2006 12:00 am PT
Review:  Yeah so there is this crappy game developer call treyarch that made this game. they should be fined 
 for making this sorryass, rushed (make money QUICK) sad unforgivable excuse for a game. single player 
 is boring and the next-gen ai, graphics, and play mechanics like the game is poor and leaves you 
 wondering how this game can get the call of duty name on the box.
  seriously this game pisses me off to the fullest extent and im getting angry just writing about 
 it.
  do yourself a favor and stick with cod2, or if you need a new shooter get gears of war. the developers 
 of gow actually took their time making it and does it show. im not an xbox360 hater but yes indeed 
 i am a cod3 hater. save yourself 60$. this game is complete and total crap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LegendofYaslint
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 14, 2006 10:31 pm PT
Review:  Did you love Call of Duty 2 like I did? If so, then you will really like CoD 3. It's pretty much 
 the same game only with better graphics and an improved multiplayer component.
  
  Controls are all the same as well as the feel of the game. If you played a lot of part 2 then you 
 will feel right at home from the second it starts.
  
  The story is kind of on the short side so this game is just a rental for those who are not interested 
 in online play.
  
  However, if you are a big live fan then you will love this game online.
  
  Any WW2 and/or FPS 
 fan should give this game at least a rental. It's just hard to play it very much when the masterpeice 
 known as Gears of War is taking up all my gaming time. Still a great game though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Goron24
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 14, 2006 6:56 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty one marked a new era for world war two games with its innovations and the sequel did 
 not disappoint fans. Every one including me expected that the third installment in the series would 
 do the same. Not entirely wrong but not entirely true
  
  Game play - relatively unchanged from call of duty two, although there was the addition of the 
 close fight mechanic which mirrors resident evil 4's. the fight mechanic is quite bland and uneventful 
 and just makes me wish they hadn't put it in the game. My one big pet peeve is even when i am behind 
 cover that i get hit, many people like those at www. gametrailers. com in their official review have 
 said that some peices of cover have no collision detection. no collision detection i a ww2 game 
 much less a next-gen game. the online modes are relatively fun but for me it was hard to get used 
 to because just as in the single player you cannot really tell your foes from your allies other 
 than in multi player the people have ranks above their head but if you arent paying attention it 
 does get annoying. Graphics - The graphics do look very good on the characters, as for the scenery 
 they do look a little bland all the plants and things are 2d images which doesnt bother me much 
 but it would be nice to see some polish on a next-gen game. although the character models do look 
 good they come down with a bit of eq2 syndrome in looking like they are doll like, almost like 
 something you would buy at a GI joe store.
  
  Sound - Most of the weapon sounds remain unchanged from Cod2 to Cod3 so these are relatively good. 
 The voice acting on the other hand is very bland and predictable, they could have done way better 
 in this area.
  
  Value - The game takes about 10 hours to complete which is an average length for a game of this 
 day and age, its no oblivion in terms of length. The multi player is where anyone will have the 
 bulk of their fun so if your not much of an online player you will be disappointed. The single 
 player though of average length is relatively uneventful and even on some of the easier difficulties 
 can be frustrating at parts and certain battles. It can be especially frustrating when you are 
 doing the achievement grind.
  
  To conclude this review the game could have been alot better, it is still a good game but no where 
 near where Cod 1 and 2 were. Get it for the Battlefield type online modes 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BadMunky
Rating: 4.3
Date: Nov 14, 2006 4:56 pm PT
Review:  everything feels wrong and the attempt to get more of a story from the other solders feels like 
 crap. i really don't care about the story i just want to shoots some nazi's which is still lame 
 in this game. i can't even tell them apart from my men half the time. anyway yeah im sorry the 
 game feels bad. do yourself a favor and just pay for the extra maps for CoD2 instead of wasting 
 $60 on this piece of crap. plus i think the graphics on CoD2 were better.
  
  to fill up the 100 words fjsdfnsd fjnsdfj sdfojsdfn sdfndsnofs sodijnfdos 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fmobliv06
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 14, 2006 3:53 pm PT
Review:  As I follow my ally's tank across the open field, I can't help but feel that something intense 
 is about to go down. It's quiet... a little too quiet for comfort. The soldiers around me seem to 
 agree, as they are talking nervously amongst themselves. Suddenly, a burst of fire breaks the silence 
 and the soldier in front of me falls to the ground. Take cover! I scramble to the only cover available, 
 the nearby carcass of a cow, and fire a few rounds at the enemy as rain starts to pour down. I 
 sprint from carcass to carcass, felling Nazi soldiers all the way. A boom rings out, and the tank 
 destroys a number of enemy soldiers. Finally the enemy is defeated, and its on to the next intense 
 firefight. These incredible moments are frequent in Call of Duty 3. Whether you're fighting through 
 the aforementioned field or through churches and graveyards, CoD3 delivers on the intensity. The 
 graphics certainly help the game feel authentic, as this game's graphics are some of the best I've 
 seen this year. (Obviously aside from Gears') The sound is loud, clear and realistic. Every weapon 
 sounds good so far and the cries of your teammates on the battlefield are good as well. While I 
 have been skeptical of the CoD control scheme in the past, it turns out that it works very, very 
 well. All of the buttons feel good for what they do. Oh, and by the way, I have never, not ONCE 
 accidentally pressed the melee attack button by accident in the heat of battle, as so many people 
 claim they have. It just doesn't seem to be an issue for me. Also, I have heard some people complain 
 about the motion blur effect when zooming in with weapons. There really is nothing to complain 
 about there either. Finally, I get to the online play. It took me a while to get used to it after 
 playing so many run and gun games online, but multiplayer really is great. I don't know if I would 
 say it is better than single player, but sometimes there really is nothing like playing a good 
 game of Headquarters with 23 other people. Everything about CoD3 screams amazing game, and if you 
 have enough money, there really is no excuse not to buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IBLEEDBLUE33
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 7, 2007 9:35 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3 is excellent in so many ways and I will probably be playing the online multiplayer 
 for many months to come. That is why this review is going to sound strange because I feel that 
 this game drops the ball in a lot of ways compared to its predecessor. We will start the comparison 
 in the graphics. Graphics: While COD3 is brighter and more colorful than COD2 does this necessarily 
 mean better, I don't think so. COD2 had the gritty look of war just about perfectly where as COD3 
 feels just a tad arcadey to me. I think in a WWII game you want a darker more busted look to really 
 capture the player in their surroundings
  
  Sound: In my opinion there is no comparison to which game sounds better. COD2's sound are very 
 more authenic and each gun has a distinctive sound where as COD3's guns don't thump in your speakers 
 the way they should. I think this creates a more war like feeling in COD2.
  
  Gameplay: One word sniper rifle; much more gratifying in COD2. In part 3 the sight does not stay 
 up long enough to watch your enemy drop. I think this is a critical mistake by the development 
 team of COD3. For instance in multiplayer I am constantly looking to the left of the screen to 
 see if I actually got the kill, this is not nearly as exciting as watching your opponent drop to 
 the ground.
  
  I bet your are wondering why I gave COD3 a better score than COD2 considering the graphics, sound, 
 gameplay, and campaign are all done better in COD2. Well that brings us to the multiplayer. COD3 
 hits this mark nearly perfectly and is actually the first game that is going to take me away from 
 the mighty Halo 2, yes it is that good (forget what people are saying about Gears of War) . They 
 have added 24 players with several different modes. The coolest thing however is how you can select 
 from different classes. This brings a completely different aspect to the team play in the game. 
 For instance my brother likes being the medic who is underarmed but moves faster and can bring 
 fallen teammates back up before they die. You also get points for how many players you heal which 
 will give players incentive to be the weaker guy. I however prefered the scout which starts with 
 a sniper rifle and after a certain period of time you can call in an artillery strike, for example 
 on the oppents base. This happens to be very gratifying. There are four other classes and each 
 one has a special function. The best thing about these classes is I have yet to find one that is 
 unbalanced or unfair, each class is important to your teams objective. Without having players balanced 
 throughout the different classes you are more than likely going to lose. Also the ranked system 
 is set up closer to Halo than any other game. You are placed automatically into a game with a random 
 host. COD3 also keeps individual stats in ranked play which I find very cool and also keeps the 
 game being that much more addictive. So if your are an online gamer then you need to buy this game 
 because Treyarch has really tried to give the players what they want in the way of an online experience. 
 But on the flip side if you are a single player gamer and you have played neither COD2 or COD3 
 and you are looking for the most realistic war experience then COD2 is your game. Both are excellent 
 purchases in my opinion and are two of the best 360 games available. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: English_Death
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 14, 2006 1:25 pm PT
Review:  I had no intention of buying COD 3 until possibly after xmas. Because THE big day is near, yes 
 EMERGENCE DAY....
  
  But, I found COD 3 in a gamestation for &pound;39.99 and I thought bugger it . So I get it home, 
 thinking have I done the right thing????
  
  I brought my 360 down into my living room (my wife was really impressed) to try it on my 42' Plasma 
 HDTV.
  
  I boot up the game, turn the TV sound up to drown out the 360 (god they make a row, especially 
 with a cd in) . And watch the trailer...
  
  Cor bloomin blimey the graphics am bloody superb, I mean superb. That good, I drew the curtains 
 (2pm in the afternoon) . HD graphics on this game are stunning, I'll say it again and again, stunning..
 
  
  Yes, the game is more of the same (well nearly, you drive things in this) , but mare if the COD 
 series IS a good thing. The guns, the sound, the sound, the guns. The graphics, oooohhh the graphics. 
 What a great game? I am so glad I bought it. Multiplayer on xbox live is fantastic. I have just 
 played 6 hours of WAR on COD 3. Man it's good. Real fun. However there is a problem.
  
  I can't join games. The game finds the game sessions easy, but then states Joining and then displays 
 Unable find session or something like that. I phoned the help desk for the game and they reckon 
 alot of people are getting this that use routers. And it's because you need ports 3074 open on 
 TCP&amp; UDP and 88 on UDP. I have a DLINK 642i, I changed my settings vis the DLINK helpdesk, but 
 still no joy. So I haven't resolved this yet. But the good news is you can host games and you can 
 be invited into a game, hence my 6 hour stint.
  
  Summing up. If you own a 360 then you must MUST own Call of Duty 3........ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: airman20012001
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 14, 2006 10:52 am PT
Review:  I have been a world war ro video game fan for awhile now and have played every console game on 
 thesubject to date. I have to say this takes the cake for the first time I felt like a part of 
 the whole picture most I feel like a lone soldier but now I am a soldier in an army of coilition 
 forces. some have said they didnt like the story line dont listen this is the first time accept 
 maybe for brothers in arms where you build a relationship with the rest of the soldiers they seem 
 to have reall issues ads to the realism
  graphics are very realalistic best Ive seen in this type of a shooter the battles are intence they 
 are hard but in a good way not stupid like trying to plant an explosive on a tank that shoots you 
 when ever you get close as a world war two shooter this is the best to date and I highly recomend 
 it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tom2cool4U
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 14, 2006 9:18 am PT
Review:  The whole not joing thing only happens sometimes, and when it doesnt work you can just play multiplayer 
 for an hour or so until it stars working again because usually only how long it takes to work again. 
 Its not broken ALL THE GOD DAMN TIME like people say. Theyre just whinging.
  Single player is good aswell but still pales in comparison to the multiplayer. God that is good.
 
  Youll probably keep as long as theyre someone to play with so the values there... 24 people that 
 is (a full room)
  Sounds amazing and Graphics were surprisingly good.
  The gameplays the same as before and thats not a bad thing but it would have been nice to see some 
 change.
  Thats said throwing back grenades is priceless...
  Diffucultlys a bit up and down but not bad.
  Trust me = BUY IT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DFT8
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 14, 2006 5:14 am PT
Review:  if you have played call of duty 2 you gonna see the same gameplay in this game. but this game has 
 much better graphics!! that suprised me. call of duty 2 had one of the best graphics on the 360 platform 
 and they imprived it!! this game looks so good you can see the face expresion of the axis.
  
  but what disapointed me was that exept the new maps and stuff it so like the COD2. feels like 
 it and sounds like it. sometimes you have like a deja vu!
  seen it done it. sometimes it quite booring BUT if you like 1st person shooters on the 360 this 
 is the way to go! but not when rainbow six las vegas: D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: antonius05
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 14, 2006 4:52 am PT
Review:  If you fans like Call of Duty 2, then you'll sure will love Call of Duty 3. The graphics I think 
 have improved a lot, showing more wrinkles in their uniforms and more details on the characters 
 and the environment. The visuals is simply breathtaking because it does look and feel like you're 
 actually in the middle of the war. Playing the first chapter surely shows what the Xbox 360 can 
 do. You'll see smoke floading to the air, grenades exploding all around, screen shaking after every 
 huge explosions. With all of these things happening at once, it sure brings realism to the game.
 
  
  The gameplay controls are the same as Call of Duty 2, but now you can pick up live grenades and 
 throw it back. This can become a learning experience, since you have to do it really quick. The 
 weapons have improved a lot from the graphics to the sounds of the weapon firing. The mutliplayer 
 is really dull at the moment where as the Ranked Matches are currently not working for most of 
 the users. But the programmers of Call of Duty 3 are working on a patch to fix that problem later 
 this or next week. Playing on the Player Matches, it was quite fun, but there are not a lot people 
 are online playing due to the problem with Ranked Matches.
  
  The only thing that really bugs me the most in this game is the fact that a. i.'s on the veteran 
 difficulty are so stupid (talking about Allies a. i.) . because i was doing this one mission where 
 i have to kill the enemies in the trench, for going so far, the allies will stay one place leaving 
 me alone to kill 8 or 10 enemies up ahead. This is not what i call team work, the Allies should 
 be there with you helping you kill the enemies, not leaving me doing the dirty work. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mike360xoxo
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 13, 2006 9:22 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best games out on the market right now, Very fun and VERY intense. most of the 
 gameplay meats up with what your wanting and does a great job with the story. Things that sucked 
 real bad in COd 3 was the sound, it has speaker problems where someones talking right in front 
 of you and it's heard on the left, which really ruins the experence. but the gameplay makes up 
 for that, very. The MAIN BUY for this game would have to be the multiplayer, cods multiplayer is 
 way better then gears, lack of maps but AWESOME, INSANE, and just plain fun battles. some battles 
 in the new war mode can range for about an hours or so, crazyness X 1. This game seems to not be 
 liked by same game sites, well, their stupid. case closed.
  
  on thing that sucked was the grainy look on the cut scenes, thats a real litdown. and the lack 
 of immersive feelings. enjoi. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bremsy
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 13, 2006 7:55 pm PT
Review:  After Call of Duty 2 last year, I was thinking that this game was gonna be awesome. While it is 
 fun and a good game, I can't help but feel that this game went back a couple steps.
  Single player is too short compared to last year. It took me longer to beat the campaign last year, 
 but this one is taking much quicker. Granted some missions are longer and a little more difficult. 
 The addition of Canadian missions and Polish tank missions.. that was nice.
  Multiplayer lacks in a couple areas i find. If you are just gonna play 4 people one system, it's 
 hard to find a map that is small enough for you to find people quickly enough. The system link 
 is probably the way to go for multiplayer if you have the people and enough 360's and Televisions. 
 Online I haven't tried myself and when watching a friend try online, i found some issues around 
 joining games. It wasn't cool. I also found sniping to be a little disapointing in this game as 
 well. Snipers were much more fun in COD2. But machine guns are awesome this time around and the 
 addition of character traits (ie, setting up mines, Reviving soldiers, and ammo supplies) was probably 
 the best addition to the multiplayer.
  Graphics and sound are pretty good. Graphics are slightly better than COD2, and the sound is just 
 about the same. The intense battle sounds really helps define the Call of Duty games.
  I would buy the game simply for system link or for online when it improves. But for 4 player only 
 battles, some people should stick with COD2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: philcorey
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 13, 2006 7:48 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3 is easily the most underestimated game by Gamespot. I usually can see why they have 
 concluded as they did in most games, but COD3 is an exception. COD3 is nothing short of the best 
 game Ive played on 360. Granted I havent played Gears of War yet, but I have played Oblivion. 
 COD3 is the game Microsoft was shooting for with COD2, unfortunately, it was a very good game to 
 say the least, but it was no where near COD3. I have been an ardent WWII FPS gamer for years. Going 
 back to the PC game, Medal of Honor Allied Assault and its expansions, this is the best game since 
 then.
  
  The game is carried out through numerous battles. Most of which actually took place. The settings 
 are very visually appealing. If you have an HD TV this game is going to be a huge jump from what 
 you are used to. This games amazing graphics and engulfing locals are raising the bar for the 
 entire industry. Ive been a gamer for a long time and I have seldom been this surprised by a game. 
 If this is a precursor to Halo 3, I am setting my sights higher than I suspected. Do not be thwarted 
 by the 8.8 review given by Gamespot. This game is a ton better than COD2 which received the same 
 8.8. COD2, however, deserved that, COD3 is far superior. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: judith40
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 13, 2006 6:36 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty is amazing its a succes in every level. At first i thought the game was going to be 
 crappy because it was only a year ago since Call of Duty 2 and they didnt have mutch time to make 
 the same kind of good/ addictitng game but im happy to announce that the game brings as much fun 
 has Call of Duty 2. The graphics look better and from my point of view the gameplay is identical 
 to Call of Duty 2 but if it plays the same you know your going to have a blast playing it. So go 
 buy it, play it, sell it and buy the nest thats coming out nest year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Indyracin
Rating: 6.7
Date: Nov 13, 2006 5:00 pm PT
Review:  Horrible online experience. No join in progress? This is the reason I bought the game, 24 players 
 online? Where is this? I am amazed that this game would go backwards with the multiplayer experience. 
 I hope they can fix this with a patch otherwise I'm getting rid of it. Don't buy this game until 
 fix this issue. Save your money and buy Call of Duty 2. If any one knows of future updates for 
 this game please post it on this forum. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nitrogenCom20
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 13, 2006 2:13 pm PT
Review:  the online is awsome and intense but somtimes (or most of the time) it wont let you join a match 
 and that gets a little frustraiting after awhile
  
  the 1st player limits you to normandy france with only a couple fun levels like st. lo and chamois. 
 the rest are boring missions that you accomplish with two other guys. if you have xbox live this 
 is a must have game
  
  if you dont, i would rent it and beat the single player in a day or so
  
  but overall call 
 of duty brings a solid shooter, good graphics and fun play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mac_20051987
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 13, 2006 11:50 am PT
Review:  This is a very fun game to play especially online because its like you are in the army foreal but 
 other than that its great to play. Some of the momments when you kill someone its funny but great 
 for people that love action and so on. When I first got it I played it so much that I started to 
 dream that I was actually in the game after about 3 days of playing it non-stop. But like I said 
 the online part of the game is very exciting and fun to play. If you buy this game you should be 
 disappointed because so far everyone that plays it hasnt been unless they just want to be seen. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomdelonge0686
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 13, 2006 7:43 am PT
Review:  Some say it s gonna be on pc too! Makes me wonder y cod 4 is gonna be pc only and how cod3 is console 
 only. Whatever this game is awesome... it s just i cant get into on a tv but im gonna tell u the 
 good i saw in it. When cod came out on pc they were employees at EA. They were workers for MOH they 
 ''some of the workers got fired''. So being smart they went to Infanty Ward and made COD. This game 
 killed MOH i couldnt believe the atmostphere was amazing in this game. It's like being in a multiplayer 
 game with everyone doing their own thing with bodies everywhere. Then COD2 came out on the same 
 engine which ppl cried bout but on the hl2 graphics. What amazed me bout COD3 is
  
  
  
  Now the game has somewhat physics :D...
  The graphics r omfg i mean when im looking at the hand 
 u see every detail...
  The uniform finally looks like a real ww2 uniform....
  The game did great at close combat :D when u battle for ur gun....
  
  overall ppl dont listen 
 to gamespot... they dont always know what theyre talking bout... They r like movie ppl always down 
 grading everything.. This game shouldve had a 9 easy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: konichiwa21
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 13, 2006 5:23 am PT
Review:  Gameplay - The game runs on a smooth 60 frames per second , and plays really good online - that 
 is if you can even join a match online. Some of the classes defeat their own purpose - like medics 
 can heal people , but the person they want to heal can just spawn and be there in 2 seconds. Graphics 
 - Amazing next gen graphics , nothing lacking here
  
  Sound - Good sounds
  
  Value - The multiplayer is broken , i've attempted to join about 40 matches and i only was able 
 to join one of them . The rest of the time it says can not join this match 
  
  Good Tilt - Supports fullscreen and widescreen 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gokurocks2442
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 16, 2006 8:47 pm PT
Review:  Very nicely done game with upgraded multiplayer from cod2. A must buy for 360 owners and of course 
 heres why The single player is good not great but good. You play as the Americans with the same 
 old same old accents and of course battles. You get to play as the British which is awesome because 
 you actually get to do Normandy battles with them. The Canadians are also fun to fight with and 
 yes there are accents and yes thats how Canadians talked back in those days believe It or not. 
 You also get to take control of the polish which is most likely the funnest part of the game. You 
 will experience some freezes as you go through multiplayer which is very disappointing but you 
 can live with it. There are some glitches to that can lead back to making you re-do a mission which 
 believe me is really really boring and frustrating.
  
  The multiplayer however is the most funnest part of the game even thou you cant use British, Canadian 
 or polish weapons. This means no sten and most of all no leinfied sniper which keep in mind is 
 the best sniper in the game with a 10 bullet round. The jeeps and motorcycles run very smoothly 
 but can be blown up within 10 seconds if the person shooting at you has a .30 cal, The jeeps are 
 very useless if nobody is running the gun while your driving. I would also like to point out that 
 the death animations suck and are very glitchy and connecting to peoples servers can be impossible 
 if you have a suckey connection. Overall the game is worth it and is worth every penny of your 
 $60 or $70 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roberthalowars
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 13, 2006 1:57 am PT
Review:  The single player game is great sometimes but the game is dragged down by missions like fuel plant. 
 The game is way to easy as well if you play on normal it will last around four to six hours. Vetrean 
 is around about the same diffuculty as cod2. Multiplayer is great when you can get twenty players 
 cause there was one time when i was playing and we all got pinned down in a barn by a tank. We 
 lost but it still was awesome also people can't get into ranked matches unless you wait ten minutes 
 and then there are only 8 players. The jeeps suck cause no one will get on with you. Motorbikes 
 rock sitting in the passager seat has never been better. Visualy its great but there are some rough 
 pacthes. So overall great but if your the U. S get gears if your Britain wait till the 17 th. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tasuke
Rating: 5.6
Date: Nov 12, 2006 11:03 pm PT
Review:  So its the first day i start playing and i thought i was gonna get amazed by stunning graphics. 
 Boy was i wrong. The character designs were crap all the graphics looked like they were just downgraded 
 from COD2. I was so disappointed. The only thing that was good as i played was the sound and the 
 intensity of the battle. Graphics wise i just couldnt stand to play anymore. Especialy the over 
 active story line got to me to. The game was long and that was one factor i liked. Regardless of 
 the hand to hand combat that was setup. Its like all they did was downgrade call of duty 2 in the 
 graphics department and made the battlescenes better. Basicly this is what lead to the death of 
 the series. Regardless of the multiplayer there just wasnt enough in this game for me to like it. 
 Just ruined my experience of labeling call of duty one of the best ww2 games out there. For ture 
 call of duty 2 fans dont touch this... you will be scard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tjkmk
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 12, 2006 8:57 pm PT
Review:  this was a really good game just as call of duty 2 i sugest if u havent tried either one try both 
 really soon ok cuz they rule n army games kisk-@$$!!!
  also if you dont like this game go out n play some other really good army games out right now such 
 as black, socom, other stuff two ok. lastly if you dont like this game then your just wierd because 
 this is a really good game  
 ooooooooo and also send my a message if you felt i was wrong or if you need a friend or if you 
 wanna just talk ok bye 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamecubefan2000
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 13, 2006 1:06 pm PT
Review:  COD3 has been a watcher for me. The graphics in the game look amazing, even if you're playing this 
 on a standard-definition TV. The campaign consists of 14 chapters, and 4 difficulties. Veteran 
 difficulty stays true to COD2's veteran mode. It's hard. I'm very ticked off at the checkpoint 
 system. Somehow, after a good 3-6 minutes, you'll get another checkpoint. COD2 usually had one 
 in every new area you visit in the game. It makes me mad that I had to repeat the same part in 
 a level 20 freaking times!! Other than that, the campaign is a blast. The multiplayer is certainly 
 why I got this game. Instead of 8 players, COD3 supports 24 players. The multiplayer is amazing, 
 and you can also switch from tons of soldier classes. Medics, of course, can heal others and they 
 have the trench gun (known as a shotgun to me) . Support Gunners can drop ammo for others and they 
 have the big guns. One thing that is unacceptable is that ranked games are impossible. Somehow, 
 no one ever joins in your game for a ranked game. I spent over 15 minutes waiting at the lobby, 
 but no one came. Hopefully there should be a patch soon. In the end, COD3 is amazing, and will 
 definitely impress other fans of the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fman12
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 12, 2006 7:56 pm PT
Review:  This game is great. The one big thing I don't like is that they renamed old maps again like brecourt. 
 Other than that it is amazing. The graphics are extremely good. The gameplay is very good. I haven't 
 played online because I don't have xbox live but I'm sure it is very good also. The missions are 
 fun and very well layed out. I don't like driving though. It's a pain in the ass. The difficulty 
 is pretty easy on normal so if your an experienced call of duty player kick it up a notch. The 
 guns are all the same, and of course rifles are awesome. It doesn't take long to get use to the 
 controls. The sound is great and there are all the old phrases. I didn't expect much out of this 
 game, but I was wrong. Sorry for not believing in you developers. If I were someone with an xbox 
 360 I would definitly get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameFreak5577
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 12, 2006 7:45 pm PT
Review:  Well, i got to say this is one of the best Xbox 360 games out there, i really like it, and i think 
 you will like it too. This game is worth $60. The graphics are very real, i love the weapons that 
 are in the game. Too me, the levels are a little bit better than the ones in Call of Duty 2, but 
 any ways, you have to get it, im sure it is pretty good for Xbox, and PS2, but not as good as the 
 Xbox 360 version. But if i was you, i would buy it!!: D Have Fun with it!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jet1926
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 12, 2006 4:55 pm PT
Review:  Multiplayer is the BOMB its fun s h i t single player wasnt fun for me at all though.. but multiplayer 
 makes it up big time, i dont why people are saying that the vehicles handle bad, i think there 
 really good! its so fun driving a motorcycle the graphics are VERY good the multiplayer alone will 
 keep you busy for a very long time i love it when online, someone gets sniped by you and it automatically 
 someone yells SNIPER! it really is an amazing game.. the multiplayer .. that is... the ragdoll 
 could be alot better but its still there and its not that big of a complaint.. GET IT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monkeyboy070
Rating: 6.3
Date: Nov 12, 2006 3:05 pm PT
Review:  First lets start with the graphics. More advanced then xbox, or ps2? Yes. However, hardly the best 
 iv'e seen before. However, ikt is like a combonation of low and high detail in th emost random 
 places. I will be on the back of a tank spotting and the detail on the tank is awesome, the lighting 
 affects look great on it. It looks like painted metal. I was amazed. Later I pick up a Lee Enfield 
 rifle and I'm insulted by how low a detail and miscolored it was. I literally felt like I had picked 
 up a weapons from an old PS2 game. Th eodd combo of graphics compared to the most recent game releases 
 and demos I've played puts the level of detail definitely on the low end. I'm gonna have to dock 
 it for that.
  
  The next part, and more commonly what the ORIGINAL cod games are known for is accuracy. The level 
 of detail and realism they would put into the weapons, characters, and areas. This is both good 
 and bad here, again. The uniforms are mostly accurate with some differences here and there, the 
 vehicles are about right but to be honestly look alot like the previous games. However the detail 
 of the weapons are, in some instances, retarded. For instance, the shine on almost every automatic. 
 Even the MP 40 and 44 didn't have a flat finish. The thompson's entire sheen looked silver, EVEN 
 THE WOOD FOR GRIP AND STOCK! Let's not for got the shark fin barrel sight either. I've been fortunate 
 to be able to play with some neat guns in my times, which includes thompsons and they are that 
 big! My gun shouldn't look like it is happy to see me! I will give them one point though, all these 
 smgs use pistol rounds and now they sound like pistols being shot quickly. That is a bit more accurate. 
 However, the detail put into the weapons and coloring is almost unexcusable and the reload sequences 
 are just rediculous. I don't need ot recock my weapon if I reload it and it isn't empty! This detail 
 has been in video games for years and it is stupid they wouldn't follow it! Massive ding for this 
 one, way more incorrect then correct.
  
  The controls are yet another touch and go type of thing. I was first and for most impressed to 
 see the stick adjustments that I like. I prefer legacy sticks and this offered just what I needed. 
 THe controls felt good throughout the game when you are working for any type of infantry. It's 
 that simple, they hit that part on the knob. However, the vehicle controls on some, more specfically 
 tanks were cumbersome and felt different when you were playing online. To be honest, the online 
 play is much easier then in campaign. Previously it was alot better, i thought, in COD 2. This 
 is only minor as tank play is as big as infantry. Otherwise, good work on the controls, only minor 
 problems.
  
  Sound is good, consistant and frantic like it should be in combat. Nothing else needs to be said 
 there.
  
  Gameplay is split into 2 section. Campaign and multiplayer. Campaign, for me, left alot to be desired. 
 You have less the intelligent AI barging around taking cheap pot shots at you with little consistancy. 
 One time you can take a shot at a guy using an mp40 from an easy 20 yard distance and miss, so 
 he shoots back and all his rounds miss. He'll pop back out again a second later and every round 
 he fires hits you! We are talking about an automatic, that is virtually impossible! But they AI 
 an accuracy system aren't adjust bad for the enemy, you friends will constantly stop you in the 
 middle of some open road because they clustered up around you so you can't move and can only be 
 shot! They have been a cause for much aggrevation.
  Then there are the glitches. I laughed my ass off the first time I took a shot at a german with 
 an m1 garand, and he went flying up in the air like a grenade hit him, then stopped on top of the 
 box he flew on to and did the normal lay down and die routine. The point behind a good game is 
 to drew you in, make you care and try. Things like this keep me from doing that. Overall the single 
 player campaign is bland. This part feels like the same game with a new wrapper, the only cool 
 part being throwing grenades back now. That is cool.
  
  Multiplayer, on the otherhand, may be the only true saving grace to this game. If you were a fan 
 of the cod 2 multiplayer, you will pick it up easy, but the difference is there. This feels like 
 a combo between cod 2 and halo 2. It is hard to describe, but its good. First the maps are huge 
 and well able to accomodate the 24 player battles. It is very easy to have 2-3 seperate fire fights 
 break out and have nothing to do with each other. The open communications helps as well. The gameplay 
 finally feels consistant as well. If a guy fires full auto from a distances a few rounds will hit 
 you, but not all of them. Things like that make the game feel a bit more realistic. The tanks are 
 just the same as they were in cod, annoyingly deadly but able to be overcome by infantry, as long 
 as you are an antiarmor infantry men. The difference categories of infantry work well too. Each 
 one has their own abilities within their category. Riflemen are fast, accurate, and have the ability 
 to launch grenades from their rifle. Scouts not only are the fastest and have the ability to snipe, 
 but call in reinforcements.... it goes on to some carrying extra ammon, medics heall... ect. Makes 
 for some very interesting gameplay and if you don't choose correctly and the other team say, figures 
 out you have no antiarmor, then you may be screwed if they get in a tank. So it also makes you 
 think. Like I said, this may be the only saving grade for this game. The gameplay I give a 9 because 
 the multiplayer makes of a for alot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Are_Ya_Ready
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 12, 2006 2:37 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay- This game plays very well. Great combat and artificial intelligence. Pretty much exactly 
 like Call Of Duty 2. One thing I don't like is that you cannot skip through all the cut screens 
 and things like that, makes the game pace move a little slower than i would like. Graphics- One 
 of the best looking games on the 360. Great crisp graphics. As usual, the smoke effects look phenomenal. 
 There are obvious improvements from the previous call of duty.
  
  Sound- Amazing sound from the voice acting to gun shots.
  
  Value- This is definitely worth 
 the $60 price tag.
  
  Overall Score: 9.0
  
  _Justin_ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Parker626
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 12, 2006 2:12 pm PT
Review:  Yeah I know that the review says that this game plays like last year's call of duty 2. is that 
 bad or something? i do seem to remember call of duty 2 being a kick ass game too. this year's game 
 is much more of the same and that's a good thing, especially if you like first person shooters 
 and WW II games. if you got the money, you got the time, you liked call of duty 2, then buy this 
 game, cause it's a dang good one for all of the genres it falls into. The graphics seemed to have 
 been even more overhauled even more than last year and the detail in this game is flat out ridiculous, 
 or at least to the point where it is exactly what we expect from next gen systems. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andy_Holt
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 12, 2006 1:18 pm PT
Review:  sat down and and didnt stop playing until the credits rolled... .good old saturday...
  
  very impressed. CoD3 played well and looked amazing. bet it would sound brilliant with surround 
 sound.
  
  it really felt like you were in the middle of a war.. explosions, bullets flying overhead, soldiers 
 dying in front of you
  
  finally you get the ability to return granades !!
  
  were a few glitches mind you... like soldiers not moving with you and so didnt trigger the next 
 event... had to load and replay to sort it out.
  A few soldiers ran through closed doors too in trenches too.
  
  really is a must buy !! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Alamo8
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 12, 2006 11:25 am PT
Review:  omg this is the most intense shooter ever!! there are 14 long intense missions that will keep u 
 on the edge of ur seat. the lighting and rain are excellent. the graphicsare as usual awsome and 
 the sound i felt like i was in a real WAR!!!! the new additions like throwing grenades back and 
 close encounter fights are cool. i loved the part when ur charging up a hill when theres mg fire 
 raining on u and rowing the boat while being bombed like hell. this game will probably last u for 
 at least 7 hours and ull come back for the harder difficulties and unlockables. overall this is 
 a great game and a must buy for any shooter fan that just wanna kill some germans.
  
  bottom line: GET THIS GAME NOW!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tyuzfuny
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 12, 2006 11:11 am PT
Review:  2 days ago I picked up this game at Best Buy. I haven't put it down since.
  
  Welcome to Call of Duty 3. This is what Xbox Live is all about. This is the second game in the 
 Call of Duty series to reach the beautiful Xbox 360 and, for the most part, it comes in fine form.
 
  
  Of course, when I got home, right away I went online with my new game. This is what it's all about. 
 Improvements are instantly noticeable with the setup of Player Matches. Now you can be more specific 
 with what game mode, map, number of players, etc. From there it will show you every game that follows 
 those specifications is shown to you and you can decide which one to join. Also noticeable is the 
 fact that you can join games in progress, rather than sitting in a lobby forever waiting for everyone 
 to say they're ready.
  
  Then, once you're in the game, you can choose which kit you want to have. It is basically like 
 choosing a class. If you choose Scout, you get a sniper rifle, a type of grenade or two and then, 
 special to the scout, you can call air strikes once your special meter is filled. Plus, once you 
 get better, your character will level up and you will have the ability to call larger air strikes.
 
  
  Some characters have special abilities like that, and others don't, but I really like the concept 
 of special abilities. Another new thing is the ability to drive vehicles online. There are tanks, 
 jeeps and motorcycles all waiting for you to take them into the battlefield. You can also have 
 multiple people in the vehicles, maybe one shooting and one driving. But it wasn't done as well 
 as it could have been. Driving them is a nightmare, as the handling is off. In Battlefield 2: Modern 
 Combat it's hard to find a spare vehicle because they are fun to drive and everyone takes them 
 out. But here they just aren't any fun to drive.
  
  But overall, the online is great. 24 guys online playing War (You just capture certain areas on 
 the map) is a near unparalleled experience. I do wish there were more quality maps, as there are 
 only 4 I cycle through, but it's still a ton of fun.
  
  Then comes single player. Ouch. In Call of Duty 2, it was a joy to play. But there is a layer of 
 polish that is really lacking here. Even in the the tutorial, the game was weak. You were required 
 to throw some grenades in a barn and I missed a few times, yet the guy running the tutorial said 
 the same thing every time. It was really sickening and sounded amateurish. There also seem to be 
 a lot of bugs, so other than the achievement points, there's no point in playing single player.
 
  
  Graphically, the game is a step up from Call of Duty 2. When you look down the sight of your gun 
 and start moving it, there is a slight motion blur. It's subtle, but looks really great. The grass 
 has also been stepped up a bit, which looks great now. One thing, though, is the Destructible Environments 
 . They aren't. Really, start firing away from a tank at a crate, and it won't be affected. It's 
 kind of a disappointment.
  
  On the audio front, it sounds great, but the sound effects are a little over the top. Hearing guys 
 choking loudly after they were shot is a bit much for me personally. But the explosions, the score, 
 and everything else sounds great.
  
  Going into this week, everyone was talking about Gears of War. But I personally believe the new 
 great online title is Call of Duty 3. It's truly a masterpiece that will be a big hit online this 
 holiday season!
  
  Positives:
  + Better looking graphics
  + Spectacular 24 player online
  + The kit system online is great
  + Even more WWII action
 
  
  Negatives:
  - Even more WWII action
  - The vehicles handle poorly
  - The single player is weaker than Call of Duty 2
  - Repetitive voice work 
::::::

::::::
UserName: muppen
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 15, 2006 3:09 pm PT
Review:  CoD 3 plays almost identical to CoD 2 - but better.
  
  CoD 3 tells the story of the liberation of Paris, also known as the Normandy breakout. You play 
 as members of the British, American, Canadian and Polish army.
  
  As in CoD 2 you start out at basic training camp where you learn to fire your rifle , throwing 
 grenades and so on. The first thing you will notice is that the graphics have improved, not only 
 are they very very nice to look at, it also flows very well even in the most intense battles. The 
 character models and environments looks amazing. You can see details like characters getting mud 
 and stuff on their uniforms and reflections from the sun or the rain.
  
  You have the big orchestral, typical war music playing which adds to an amazing atmosphere and 
 the sounds from weapons, explosions and soldiers screaming is pure awesome.
  
  The intense battles in CoD 3 are very entertaining and will not let you keep still for a long period 
 of time. The multiplayer part of CoD 3 is very similar to that of Battlefield 2. You have diffirent 
 modes like capture the flag, battle and team battle (which is the same as deathmatch and team deathmatch) . 
 The similarity from BF2 can be seen in CoD 3 class system. When a battle starts you can choose 
 to play as diffirent classes of soldiers like rifleman, support, medic, anti-tank gunner, scout 
 and so on. If you want to switch class in the middle of a battle you can do so if you die. You 
 can also get promoted and earn points if you play ranked matches. These points represent your rank 
 in the game (200 points gets you to leuteinant) The multiplayer is very fun to play, you can play 
 up to 24 players on the pretty large and nice looking maps. This game surely proves that WWII games 
 never get old - or boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xXRKOXx
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 12, 2006 10:50 am PT
Review:  Following a game like Call of Duty 2 can be hard. It was a great game, and would be hard to measure 
 up to, but Call of Duty 3 does just that, and, in a way, improves in almost every way. Graphically, 
 this game is top notch. Gameplay is great, and being able to choose different classes, each of 
 them with their own part to play in a battle, makes it that much more fun. I play mostly for the 
 online aspect, as single player doesnt really catch me on these WWII games. But, if your looking 
 for a good WWII game to play online or just to play single player, CoD3 is the way to go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: breezebreezy23
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 11, 2007 10:10 am PT
Review:  I love COD2 and I couldn't wait for the supposed awesomness of COD3. As soon as it came out, I 
 sped over to Blockbuster and rented it immediately. Then I put it in my BOX, shaking with anticipation. 
 It was truly awesome
  Graphics: 11 The graphics are just fantastic. The effects look amazing and the people look lifelike 
 and I really loved the effects like explosions.
  
  Sound: 10 Good as always
  
  Gameplay: 8-9 Very solid no dull moments but I really don't like how your allies can seriously 
 take a billion billion bullets. I agree with Gamespot that it really isn't that much different.
 
  
  Value: 8-9 The game was very solid and the multiplayer is awesome with 24 players now. Vehicles 
 also add a whole new dimension.
  Overall this game was very solid and I had a great time playing the single player. The multiplayer 
 was even better. This is a great game for somebody who loves FPS but it won't change any minds. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mariofan1314
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 10, 2006 11:08 am PT
Review:  When I played the past Call Of Duty games I loved them I was addicted to them, then once Call Of 
 Duty 3 came I wasn't addicted I was super addicted to the series. The amazing graphics and cool 
 new features easily make this the best in the series and it's definitly up for the best FPS of 
 this year. Online has been having some issues latetly for some people with connecting to matches 
 ,but not for me so im not really gonna talk about that anyway, the new mode War in Multiplayer 
 is fun ,but is very short and dosen't require very many players to have a good match (which isnt 
 really fun when it's 2-2!) so I wouldn't really call it a new addition to the series.
  
  Single-Player in the past games wasn't at it's best thats why people skipped single-player in Call 
 Of Duty's 1 and 2. Now this time around people play single-player first because it's much, much more 
 better and you can't talk about single-player in Call Of Duty 3 without talking about Close-Combat 
 one of the new features added. Close-Combat is now a new addition that let's you the player fight 
 the enemy by repeadtly pressing LT, RT until you deliver a final blow (which is usually B, A, Y, or 
 X in a simple push of a button) , but you don't get to choose when it happens and it very rarely 
 happens.
  
  Overall the game has fantastic graphics, awesome voice-overs, nice mulitplayer, cool new features, and 
 a GREAT single-player that will keep many of us addicted and playing for hours (though it is short) . That's 
 why I give Call Of Duty 3 10 medics healing an old guy on the French out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bitelya
Rating: 7.1
Date: Nov 12, 2006 8:06 am PT
Review:  First of all, the multiplayer is where Call of Duty 3 promised to shine, but they completly removed 
 everthing that people loved about Call of Duty 2. You can no longer select your weapon (must sekect 
 a kit ) and there is no per-game lobey. Single player is just OK. Powerful weapons such as the 
 BAR feal more like pea shooters now. Gearman weapons such as the MP40 don't feal right and there 
 are no pistols to be found. Also some historical accuracey problems. Driving parts bring some new 
 action. Overall. a dissapointing sequal to a exelent game (that being Call of Duty 2) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bleach190
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 12, 2006 7:52 am PT
Review:  The biggest flaw in the game would have to be the single player part. Treyarch really messed this 
 part up. At some points in the game you will see enemies flying through the air randomly and then 
 disappear. Another problem is that you men get in your line of fire and then will not move forward 
 until you cross some invisible barrier. There where some transition issues with going from on objective 
 to the next where I was waiting about 10min while there was nothing happening. The part i feel 
 that Tryarch did very well at was their multiplayer. I mean they better have because this was what 
 they were using to sell the game. The addition of vehicles and a 24 player limit really makes things 
 interesting. I really enjoy the leveling up system how your abilities upgrade. The levels don't 
 carry over from round to round so noobs don't have to struggle with fighting high levels and it 
 keeps the game fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sproke
Rating: 7.4
Date: Nov 14, 2006 1:52 pm PT
Review:  The following is a review of Call of Duty 3's multiplayer mode of game play:
  
  Infinity Ward, where art thou? Unfortunately, the company that made the last two installments (COD, 
 COD2) did not work on Call of Duty 3. The result was one of the biggest let downs I have experienced 
 in a while.
  
  I am a huge fan of COD2 multiplayer, and still play it to date. Needless to say, I was estatic 
 about COD3. When I loaded it up, and went into multiplayer, I was just plain shocked.
  
  Now, I don't really know about online multiplayer, but I sure as heck can tell you about splitscreen. 
 Two words: It. Sucks. The multiplayer of the game more closely resembles that of Medal of Honor 
 than previous games. You select a kit, and go out with a preselected weapon. This can range from 
 bazooka to sniper. A new addition to the game is vehicles. They are fun, and are pulled off well. 
 Unfortunately, they were not enough to save my multiplayer experience.
  
  There are no muzzle flashes, a radar that is hard to read, and the physics are horribly off. A 
 punch should definately not send somebody sprawling rag-doll style. The maps are huge, and the 
 multiplayer menu is changed so that there is no way to preview the map, like in previous games.
 
  
  After writing this review, I can say that COD3 online is if not cheap, pretty solid. The amount 
 of people playing are huge and it leads to a good experience. Single player is fun, and the graphics 
 are gorgeous, but seriously, splitscreen is bad, im sorry. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sycosi
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 12, 2006 7:09 am PT
Review:  I don't know anyone who didn't love COD 2! It was simply brilliant, although somewhat flawed in 
 many aspects, and wholey entertaining and gripping WW2 FPS that just blew you away! So my personal 
 expectations of COD 3 were very high, obviously to high! Now we've come to expect mindblowing sounds 
 and graphics, well why not the 360 is next gen after all! So we knew that COD 3 was going to look 
 and sound amazing, which it does. However! The game itself is such a HUGE let down! For a start 
 its short, REAL short! Before you get warmed up its over! There's very little in the way of variety. 
 The storyline is dull and uninteresting. What made COD 2 was the feel and atmos of the game, including 
 the locations! All of these ingrediants in COD 3 are severly lacking. The samey locations and lack 
 of variety make COD 3 a little tedious after a while. Sure the online game has been tweaked and 
 is slightly better, but better than whats already available on COD 2? No, not really. I went back 
 to COD 2 time after time after time to try and get me achievement points or to play online. I can't 
 say the same for COD 3. I've played it, finished it in just under 2 days, and thats it. The recent 
 re-release of COD2 with the additional maps etc was a good idea. Maybe thats what should have happened 
 with COD 3? Make it a COD 2 expansion/compainon. Cos at &pound;40 I feel that this game was a cash 
 in, a bit of a rip off, and poor VFM. Its easy to be critical and there's bound to be a COD 4. 
 So what I include??
  
  Well, different locations, such as Germany, Poland, Japan, Italy and Scandinavia. Different armies 
 and sides, be a retreating German solider maybe? The underground resistance in Norway? Fight the 
 Italians fascists? More variety in missions and battles? These are just a few ideas that could 
 have been incorporated into COD 3.
  
  Overall I was disappointed but that was probably always going to be the case. However the COD 3 
 the developers appear to have been somewhat lazy and arogant that COD 3 would sell due to the success 
 of COD 2, no matter how poor the game. Not enough time and energy has been put into the game itself 
 and it shows, badly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UrMom686
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 12, 2006 6:26 am PT
Review:  I am forced to believe that the bad reviews this game receives on occasion are based solely on 
 the Campaign. The campaign serves no other purpose than to familiarize yourself with the controls 
 so that you don't get destroyed in online play.
  
  The online multi-player is some of the best I've ever seen in a long time. If you have played Call 
 of Duty: United Offensive, the mulit-player in this game is very similar to UO, except it looks 
 amazing, especially in HD. On most of the MP maps, the different classes are very balanced and 
 the game types are well designed. The new gametype, War, is a great addition to the CoD Franchise 
 and has created some of the more intense online battles Ive been in. The vehicles fit in quite 
 nicely, and are not overpowering.
  
  Surely everyone has heard of the difficulties with getting into online games. It is an annoyance, 
 but once you get into a game, just stay there and you should have a great time. To those who do 
 not yet own this game, wait until a price drop and/or a patch released by the game developers/publishers 
 that fixes the issues getting into an online game. Call of Duty 3 is a fantastic game and is a 
 must have for every Xbox 360 owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sko5
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 24, 2007 2:59 pm PT
Review:  Right of the bat i will say this is a great game but if your not a fan of first person shooters 
 dont buy it. It does do justice to the series sending you places youve never been before in this 
 siries but all this means is new terrain the gameplay in single player is about the same exept 
 a touch up on graphics and the satisfaction of ragdoll effects theres nothing quite as fun as watchin 
 some guy fly up 20 feet in the air and come crashing down. But the games ticket is multiplayer 
 eventually maybe even before you finish youll fin youself bored with the single player campaign 
 and go strait to multiplayer now allowin 24 people online make for some pretty intense and fun 
 battles wether its in a blown up city, a small town in france or the countryside youll find yourself 
 in these battles. another great thing about multiplayer is the choice of wether to be a riflemen, 
 light assault, heavy assault, medic, scout, support or anti tank helps alot in making this game 
 much more fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheKretinousQ
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 12, 2006 4:57 am PT
Review:  Basically this is the sequel to last years number one selling Call of Duty 2. Not much has really 
 changed, but the developer: Treyarch, have significantly changed the graphics and other minor detail 
 like planting charges on tanks etc. Anyway online is superb straight out of the box, with new class 
 style warfare also achievements for online play have been added making you want to go on Live even 
 more so than before.
  
  Single player is now fought through the American forces, the SAS, the Canadian Highlanders and 
 the Polish tank crews.
  
  I can't really say that much else about it apart from go and buy it and play it to death as it 
 is truly a superb game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theo_1
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 11, 2006 10:11 pm PT
Review:  Single player is about a 9.4 out of 10 with truly stunning graphics and gameplay is standard for 
 COD (intuitive, and easy to get going) plus the new melee combat mode adds some kick to this game. 
 If your not interested in multiplayer definately get this game.
  
  Multiplayer is a certain let down. I tried all day to join a ranked match and nothing nota ughhh! 
 As a matter of fact when I finally thought I was joining up with some peeps &amp; my 360 froze 
 up 4 separate times. So I turned on 4 of my controllers and played in split screen mode and the 
 maps are not very open nor large as in COD2, all I could find were motorbikes w/ sidecars. Where 
 are the tanks or jeeps why are most of the maps dark or confining? If you are a scout you can call 
 for an artillary strike but the maps suck and I could not imagine more than 12 people on the game 
 let alone 24 multiplayer needs 10 new good open maps like the ones on COD2 if it aint broke dont 
 fix it multiplayer being lackluster brings this down to a 7.5 out of 10 hopefully Treyarch makes 
 some strong improvements via patches and offers several free maps that are more akin to the Maps 
 of COD2 Maps where all different types of players and their styles of play can flourish The maps 
 of COD3 are Terrible and Make you feel like a rat in a maze which is not good for vehicles, artillary 
 strikes, Multiplayer almost seems like Quake which is gay 
::::::

::::::
UserName: falker27
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 11, 2006 7:42 pm PT
Review:  Let me start by saying this game gives me hope that my system is next generation. The graphics 
 and sound are awesome. The AI is pretty good but sometimes they get in your way. I didn't notice 
 two many glitches. My major complaint is a expect the game to take awhile to pass. Not to sit twice 
 and play for a couple hours and you pass the game. I haven't been playing much online but I imagine 
 this game is great game online. Saying all this if you do not play online I would not buy this 
 game! Rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mwr1982
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 17, 2006 8:28 am PT
Review:  I dont need to write a review for this, you know how good these games are so stop reading and go 
 and buy you mug's...... for those who wanna read more well fair enuff. Take call of duty 2 add more 
 chaos and better graphics, more detail with nice sounds and a full on rush of pants wetting combat 
 situations. Just image you stuck in a ditch with bullets flying left and right with your fellow 
 troops dying around you, what do you do - throw a smoke grenade and find a way out - fire and duck 
 with hope you hit something - maybe take on that tank to find a way out or just sit there and hope 
 all will be aright BUT no matter what you do its gunna be one hell of a ride. If you have never 
 played Call of duty then this is an experience you cant miss and what better way than on the 360. 
 Now fall in line maggots 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RandomTask221
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 11, 2006 5:39 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3 seems have come upon us quite suddenly, wile infact it has been a whole year since 
 Activision's game of the year Call of Duty 2 was released. To date, COD2 is my favorite Xbox 360 
 title just because of its great single player aspect as well as its amazingly fun (but limited) 
 multiplayer. COD3 adds to that greatness with some new tune ups in both sound and graphics, plus 
 a new and improved multiplayer that is very very fun.
  
  First off, the graphics are improved over last year's COD2 in many areas. Its not a huge change 
 (Such as Pong to Gears of War) but nevertheless, its still a nice addition. The sound has also 
 been improved, at one point I actually thought I was in France. The gameplay is the same as COD2, 
 which isn't a bad thing, why fix something that isn't broken. Im going to be honest, I was scared 
 that this game was going to be destroyed due to Treyarch's reputation with Call of Duty games. 
 I was wrong, this is a great game that should be praised. The multiplayer, like I said was also 
 greatly improved in this version. Now instead of 8, a new number of 24 people can play in one game 
 server at a time, which is great. WIth new modes like War and Team Battle , this multiplayer is 
 a major hit, plus its so realistic you actually FEEL like your in the game (and no im not joking) ... this 
 game is worth every cent, and I hope you take this review seriously and buy this game, its a winner! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KyleKatarn59
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 11, 2006 4:37 pm PT
Review:  I barely purchased this game yesterday and I have to say this game is so awesome. Somewhat a bit 
 better than Call of Duty 2. There are many campaigns to be now. Instead of three, why not be four. 
 The gameplay is pure excellent and the graphics was so astonishing. People, if you want to check 
 this game out, I suggest for you to own your very copy and add it to your video game library. This 
 is so far the greatest Call of Duty game up to date. Also my message to one reviewer who gave this 
 game a 2.5 score: Man, I bet you haven't even played this game yet. Why would you call people idiots 
 about giving this game a 7.0 or higher score. The only idiot around here is YOU! Reviews are for 
 people who wish to see what game to play and own for their collection, not giving out bad or negative 
 comments. You shouldn't have posted your review in the first place. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BIGDaddySmokes
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 11, 2006 3:54 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3 is extremely fun with its revamped multiplayer. CoD2 was a disappointment when it 
 came to the multiplayer apect. But this year CoD3 delivered possibly the best multiplayer action 
 in any game this year so far!
  Very satifying gameplay, very minimal lag issues, the sound is surperb again this time around as 
 well. Single player campaign story is not too deep but there is still great replay value. The graphics 
 aren't exactly stellar when camparing to lets say Gears of War (in which is simply amazing) but 
 there is still great looking visuals and the framerate holds up rather well. Overall Call of Duty 
 3 is easily a recommendable game to anyone who is a FPS fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lord_andross
Rating: 2.4
Date: Nov 11, 2006 3:12 pm PT
Review:  you can flame me or hate me, I don't really care, those of you playing this and rating it 7.0 or 
 above are complete idoits, however, you hve your opinions. Im a long time fan of call of duty, 
 all the way since it was first for the pc, since this is the 5th game in the series and the 3rd 
 sh#@ty one i must say its a failure, sure it looks much better, but theres no physics at all, no 
 bullet scars, no rag dolls, and other things. The lists so long and im much too lazy to say them. 
 The game feels like it was made my middle graders, the ONLY real succesor to the pc's call of duty 
 was cod2 for the 360. This games the succesor to br1, and btw, treyarch sucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dominican_fines
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 11, 2006 2:34 pm PT
Review:  Ok this game has beautiful graphics, good gameplay and cool new features
  
  In the new features they have
  
  You can drive army cars
  You can shoot behind in a army 
 car
  You can be a Medic and other army helpers
  New cool Guns
  
  The story line is pretty fun even though ive only played like 2 hours and i like the game i expected 
 it to be better its kind of complicated at first the call of duty 2 was less complicated from my 
 line of site it but its ok as long as you can have fun online and offline your ok.
  
  Hope you like my review even though ive only played 2 hours of this game i will for sure update 
 it like in a week. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rcwadsworth
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 11, 2006 1:19 pm PT
Review:  The answer is yes, this is a fantastic pucker shooter and this time the multi play has been done 
 right.
  
  Lets face it COD2 was a very good game but the xbox live was half done not this time I've ben playing 
 sice the game drooped on my door mat. COD3 plays alot like COD2 in single player but that's not 
 a bad thing just as hard as COD 2 (veteran mode) the only draw back you will only be in france 
 fighting the bosch but enough COD 3 looks better then COD2, sounds even better then COD2 (I blow 
 up my sound system opps) the multi player is alot better then COD 2 by miles frankly one of the 
 best online games at the moment clans will love this, will see if it's number one at xmas but buy 
 call of duty 3 it's fantastic!!!!!
  
  Must buy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crs2c
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 11, 2006 10:55 am PT
Review:  this 3rd edition is truly the best in the series. The graphics are top notch and the sound is incredible. 
 The learning curve is easy new users to the series can easily pickup and get right into the battle. 
 The integration of cut scenes into the game-play eliminates the loading screen and keeps the action 
 coming. this series just keeps getting better with age. I have not had the chance to play multiplayer 
 yet, but I am sure it is just as great as the single player mode. This an excellent game. It recommend 
 for the new gamers and old a like, plus it is kid friendly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Squiggle_UK
Rating: 5.2
Date: Jan 25, 2007 10:11 am PT
Review:  Firstly, this game looks and sounds very pretty. I wouldn't say the graphics are a huge step forward 
 over COD2 but there is some nice eye candy that COD 2 doesn't have. Sound is good also but if I 
 have a criticism it's that often, enemy gunfire sounds very quiet and muffled even when they're 
 pretty close to you.
  
  In my opinion graphics and sound alone do not a great game make and it's in a lot of other areas 
 where COD 3 gets pwned by COD 2.
  
  To me this game feels extremely linear and soulless and there are problems. An example would be 
 the British campaign. Much of this is spent running through trenches with your AI resistance buddies 
 on a mission to take out German 88's. So many times I wanted to blow these guys away. They constantly 
 moved in front of my line of fire and caused me to get fragged time and time again by blocking 
 my escape route and just generally getting in the way. This is obviously compounded on this mission 
 by the width of the trench but I've found that the annoying AI behaviour along with many instances 
 of getting stuck either because of them or the clunky engine is an issue that occurs too many times 
 during the game and replaces the fun with frustration.
  
  I like a challenging game, but I'd hoped we'd seen the last of enemies re-spawning from nowhere 
 when it is obvious that you've just cleared the area and moved on. I know it happens in COD 2 but 
 in 3 it seems to be far more often, obvious, and unnecessary. I'm not the greatest gamer but if 
 I'm gonna get pwned then I like it to be done fairly not by an enemy who re-spawns behind me and 
 shoots me up the arse! Personally, I'm not a fan of the more common movie driven storyline in games 
 like COD 3 these days. Developers seem to think that these Hollywood (look at the crap that comes 
 from there these days!!) style cut scenes are what gamers want. I would like to have seen more 
 time put into getting the overall feel and problems with the game sorted out.
  
  I don't want to end up writing a novel here. There are many negative things in COD 3 that just 
 ruin the immersion factor for me, the above just being a couple of examples that came to mind immediately. 
 For me, It just doesn't have the atmosphere and addictive qualities that the previous COD games 
 have. On this occasion I feel the single player campaign is an afterthought to the multi-player 
 and I bought this game for the single player really.
  
  In the end ,what I've written here are only my own opinions. I'd recommend that you rent COD 3 
 before you buy especially if you are a fan of COD2, or wait until you can get it for &pound;24.99. 
 I payed &pound;39.99 and have to say I feel a bit ripped .
  
  I'm hoping that BIA Hells Highway will live up to expectations. We'll see!!
  
  Have fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcod1
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 11, 2006 3:15 am PT
Review:  If this is an actual re-creation of the events that took pkace like the developers have indicated 
 , then god bless the troops, beacause you are not allowed to take a breath of air during gameplay.
 
  
  The game starts with intense fighting on the actual batteground the moment you put the disk in 
 and doesn't let up. I love it, but i also hate it because the (Americans, british, allies) --- Not 
 the French (cough, cough) --- had to REALLY fight this war. I'm just lying on my bed with a controller. 
 This game is way more intense than COD2, so don't expect to just casually run and shoot through 
 each mission. This is a darker game than the last COD.
  
  I can't be; ieve it but they actually upped the graphics even more. If you haven't played it yet 
 an example would be if you were in a lying position on the ground, the grass will sway in front 
 of you, blade after blade. I thought last year's COD had about the best graphics and realism on 
 any game, but this game makes that game look almost last gen. Sound is incredible (Try listening 
 with BOSE head phones) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grendel0813
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 11, 2006 2:52 am PT
Review:  Single player was alot of the same with a production value in its second year on the 360 that you 
 would expect from COD. Online was one the best times i have had on live (except for Halo) . Its 
 clear in my opion that this is the online game to get until Halo 3 and yes i do own Gears of War. 
 I know GOW is the best looking game to date on the 360 but if you what to have that hugh big team 
 battle, you have to go with COD 3. You also for the most part have a more serious bunch of plyers 
 than on Halo or Perfect Dark. Battles feel like battles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamesfreak4ever
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 10, 2006 11:24 pm PT
Review:  9 Graphics
  This game has amazing detail albout80% of the time . Combine this with insane amounts of on-screen 
 activity and youre acttualy in the war 9.0 Sound
  Music from the period mixes with a dramatic score and unbelievably OWNING sounds of battle to make 
 excellent audio. 8. Gameplay
  It wasnt broken so they didnt fix it. The campaign additions are cool but dont really add to 
 the experience. The online features are the pne of the things i wanted for a long time 9.0 value
 
  24 players online with multiple vehicles and character classes. This should be a heavily played 
 online game this for a very long time or so.... hve fun playing the probly 4th or 7th ga, e of the 
 year for the 360 and i mean it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dgraves321
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 10, 2006 11:02 pm PT
Review:  Imagine, the best of the Battlefield franchise mixed with the best shooter on the 360. Add in the 
 best looking graphics you've ever seen, and you have COD3 on the Xbox 360. All of the things that 
 made COD2 the most played 360 game on Xbox Live are back, and new additions are added, like character 
 classes in multiplayer, each with their own special abilities, like the medic, who packs a shotgun 
 and the ability to heal fallen comrades. Or the scout, who can threaten you from a distance not 
 only with his sniper rifle, but his trusty radio linked to the nearby artillery guns, calling in 
 a strike with a simple command. Vehicles are now playable, with tanks, jeeps, and motorcycles available 
 for you to commandeer.
  
  Oh, I almost forgot. COD2 allowed online multiplayer with up to 8 people, COD3 allows a whopping 
 24 players per server, introducing a level of mayhem rarely seen before.
  
  All told, COD3 is the best game I've played for the 360, and one of the best ones out there. If 
 you liked COD2, you will love COD3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amourkiss
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 10, 2006 10:19 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3 is simply amazing, graphic wise. First thing you going to notice is they put a lot 
 of action on screen at once, making the war more realistic, the smokes, explosions, and the distructable 
 environments are all amazing runing at 60fps, very impressive, indeed.
  The gameplay isn't pretty much differ from CoD2, but that's fine to me, cus for every WW2 first 
 person shooter lover, this is as much of what we expect this title is going to improve, and they 
 did it right. It's just like your favorite burger becoming more and more tasty, and you will keep 
 consuming it.
  
  buy this game, totally worth it, for all 360 owners, go get it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CriticalDamage
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 11, 2006 12:11 am PT
Review:  Graphics
  
  Graphics are great, truly shows that you're playing a 360 game. Audio
  
  The sound is good, but it's marginally better than average compared to Call of Duty 2. Some of 
 the music in the game doesn't fit with the battle or cutscene, and the sound of some of the weapons 
 might leave you hanging.
  
  Mechanics
  
  They're great. The character animations and rag doll physics look fantastic for an 360 game.
 
  
  Interactivity
  
  The controller setup from Call of Duty 2 returns, but with some new ones for the ride. Like while 
 planting a C4 charge, you'll press a button to plant the charge, spin the right thumb stick to 
 screw in the fuse in, then press another button to pull the pin. This new button style comes in 
 when you fight an enemy as well. First, you'll simultaneously press the left and right triggers 
 to build strength, then press a button to hit your enemy down. It works well for an Xbox 360 controller.
 
  
  Single Player
  
  Just like every Call of Duty game, the single player is short (14 missions for Call of Duty 3) . 
 Your strongest side will be the Americans, followed close behind by the British. Why the Canadian 
 and Polish sides were added to Call of Duty 3, I don't know. They just weren't enjoyable to play 
 as, and didn't present much life. The action is great. You'll fire upon and melee your enemies 
 frequently, and the last mission of the game is one of the most fiercest and intense missions I've 
 ever played in a game. But the overall feel of the gameplay in Call of Duty 3 feels restricted 
 and held back, not like in Call of Duty 2.
  
  The acting and voice lines said by characters during cutscenes makes it feel like you're watching 
 a war film from the 1960's or 70's, it's just corny and falls pretty thin.
  
  Multiplayer
  
  The multiplayer in Call of Duty 3 is not what I expected, in a bad way. First 
 of all, there are not enough online servers at launch for Call of Duty 3, resulting in a lot of 
 people not able to join any games or play online in general. But once joined in, online didn't 
 quite make the full long jump. It's way too easy to kill your enemy, just 1-2 rifle shots, a few 
 machine gun rounds, or a few quick pistol shots can land you a kill. You can only have a good match 
 if a lot of people are in it. Pretty soon, you'll be in a huge level, with vehicles, bridges, tunnels, 
 sniper spots, and machine gun nests everywhere. It's not as good as Call of Duty 2's multiplayer 
 was, but I'm willing to forgive it for having huge maps, 24 player online capacity, and vehicles.
 
  
  Weapons
  
  Call of Duty has a reputation for featuring authentic WWII weapontry. It still holds that title 
 in some form in Call of Duty 3. Some weapons look good, like the M1 Garand, the Springfield, the 
 Sten, the M11897 shotgun, and the MP40, but some weapons look totally effed up and butchered from 
 Call of Duty 2, like the Kar98, the Lee Enfield, and the MP44. You can tell by the gunshot sound 
 that some of the weapons do a great deal of hurt to the enemy, while some sound as weak as they 
 can be, nearly matching BB and paintball guns. Call of Duty 2: Big Red One
  
  Infinity Ward and Treyarch have been switching as developers during Call of Duty's lifespan. Treyarch 
 worked on Call of Duty 2: Big Red One, then Infinity Ward worked on Call of Duty 2, now it's Treyarch 
 turn to develop Call of Duty 3. All the weapons in Call of Duty 3 nearly, and some exactly, look 
 the same as the weapons in Call of Duty 2: Big Red One, same with some of the weapon reload animations. 
 Online server problems in Call of Duty 2: Big Red One return for Call of Duty 3, which is great. 
 Treyarch didn't do their brightest job on Call of Duty 3, if Infinity Ward still had the developing 
 rights to Call of Duty 3, the true WWII next gen experience would have been achieved.
  
  In the End
  
  Is Call of Duty 3 a good title? Yes. Is it better than Call of Duty 2? Slightly. 
 Does the slogan get closer than ever to the fury of war exist in Call of Duty 3? Somewhat. Would 
 Call of Duty 3 be good as a PC game too? After seeing what multiplayer offered, and a very closed 
 in single player, no. Call of Duty 2 PC games are better of keeping Call of Duty 2.
  
  Overall, Call of Duty 3 is a good title which any console shooter gamer would have to check in 
 to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jets06ya
Rating: 7.9
Date: Nov 10, 2006 9:05 pm PT
Review:  Dispite last years lag issues, cod2 was a great multiplayer game. Colorful huge maps in the french 
 countrysides, constant action. This years game has a different approach. More dark, boxed in more 
 futeristic maps and less action. There are improved weapons, you can choose which kit you want. 
 And you can even drive cars. But the multiplayer just lacks. Outside of that the single player 
 is fairly decent. Superb graphics helps, but the story/gameplay is much like cod2. There are some 
 bigger more epic battles, but they will seem familar to players of cod2. In the end this game will 
 feed your appetite for killing 1940's soldiers and keep you busy. But if you have the chance to 
 buy gears of war or marvel ultimate alliance think about getting them instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CansOfPLEASURE
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 10, 2006 8:58 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3 is a superb game. I agree with most people saying it could be better, but the game 
 is still incredible nonetheless. Gameplay - The gameplay is very similar to the controls of Call 
 of Duty 2. New addition = You can throw back enemy grenades, but you have to be fast because if 
 you're not quick enough to throw it back it'll blow up in your face and you'll more than likely 
 die. AI = Wow. Treyarch and Activision definatly improved the AI. Making them tougher and hellben 
 on stopping you at all costs. They'll try and flank you from all available sides. If you thought 
 the AI in Call of Duty 2 were tough. You ain't seen nothin' yet! Although, there are a few irritating 
 glitches. For example in the first mission when you have to jump over a pipe, a few of my sqaud 
 members got stuck in it for a few seconds and I couldn't jump over. Another example is in one mission 
 you have to row across a river in a row boat with your squad. And when you have to get out a few 
 of my men got stuck for a few seconds. The glitches should fix themselves though after a few sexonds. 
 Despite the minor glitches, the gameplay is awesome. Graphics - WOW. The graphics definatly improved. 
 The characters look even better. The explosion effects have improved a little. The scenery is just 
 incredible. The destructable enviorment is a great new addition. If your enemy is behind a wooden 
 fence and you can't get a shot on them, you can just shoot at the wooden posts and they'll fall 
 off, and you have an open shot at him. And the gravestones can also be destroyed. But they still 
 could have done a little better with the graphics. Sound - The sound is even better than Call of 
 Duty 2 sound. It's even more realistic. The guns sound amazing. The sounds of the explosions are 
 incredible. Definatly one of the best sounding games ever. Value - The value of the game is great. 
 You'll want to keep playing the game over and over, especially considering the multiplayer. I haven't 
 played the multiplayer yet. But everyone is saying it's awesome. But overall the value is high. 
 Reviewer's Tilt - My tilt for the game is definatly high. I've only played about 4 missions in 
 the single player campaign. And I love it. The campaign is very fun and immersive. It can get really 
 intense, especially in one mission when you have to fight off the German counter-attack on a factory. 
 Overall my tilt is high. So overall, Call of Duty 3 is a very superb game. If you are a fan of 
 the Call of Duty series, and if you really liked Call of Duty 2 (Like I did) you'll love Call of 
 Duty 3. This is a must have for all Call of Duty fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomw1234
Rating: 6.7
Date: Aug 5, 2007 11:22 pm PT
Review:  This review is for skilled players who play the game on a least the veteran setting but applies 
 to all modes of single player combat.
  
  First scenario: Capturing the Flak guns (88's) :
  The is the first level that really showed me how idiotic the AI in this game can be. While making 
 my way through the trenches with my ALLIES (??) I found that they would repeatedly get in your 
 line of fire, stand directly behind you as you shoot so that there is no retreat after popping 
 around a corner to snipe a den of enemies, AND they would not advance with you until an invisible 
 barrier had been crossed. For example, the last Flak 88 had about 6 enemies behind barrels and 
 such. I approached and tried to take them out, dissappointed because my ALLIES (??) were 200 meters 
 back firing into the wall at nothing. They would NOT move forward and assist me. Finally, I moved 
 in on the squad at the Flak 88 myself and after exposing myself, killing one or two, and starting 
 my retreat I was killed. WHY? Because my team had finally decided to move up, since I had crossed 
 that invisible barrier and NOW were nice enough to block my retreat.
  
  Second scenario: Clearing the blockade with the mortar:
  First you have to cross a road with 
 a trench on the other side filled with Germans and constantly getting reinforcements. It's easy 
 enough to pick of enemy forces and move forward from tree to tree. The problem is that if you deviate 
 at all from the linearly forced gameplay you're screwed&gt; For example, I decided to work the 
 left side of the field as my ALLIES (??) worked their way up the middle as normal. I got a nice 
 position on the enemy side of the road to the left of the trench so I could pick them off one by 
 one. After about 10 seconds I noticed that every enemy left in the trench was firing at me. I back 
 up slitghtly to find 4 twitching bodies. My ALLIES (??) had dropped their assualt and piled up 
 behind me essentially to die. There were 4 or 5 trees in the area and they couldn't even take cover,, 
 they just all ran around and died trying to get behind MY tree. Idiotic. And this is not even the 
 worst part of this level. Once you take the bunker you find just outside a mortar pointing toward 
 a river with some trucks and such bocking the way through. You are supposed to use the mortar to 
 clear the pass through the river. While doing so, waves of Germans are constantly coming down the 
 hill trying to stop you. The AI here is so beatiful in it's stupidity. You own guys will try to 
 step over you AND the mortar WHILE you are firing so that they get blown in the air and you have 
 to start over because Friendly fire is not tolerated . On top of that the 10 or so guys in the 
 trench with you can't stop the Germans approach so you have to fire the mortar, back out, fire 
 you gun and return to the mortar. Let's say you pop out, machine gun 6 of 8 guys approaching and 
 return to the mortar. You're 8 guys can't even take the last two so you get killed. Don't think 
 this is whining. There is no rhyme or reason to the AI of your guys. Many times when you are approaching 
 a line of the enemy one or two of your guys can always be spotted leaving your squad and penetrating 
 deep in the enemy line and half the Germans don't even see them. It's like the computer controlled 
 players aren't aware of each other except in very close, specific instances.
  
  Finally, I'll say this, yes the graphics are great. And I am a big Gamespot fan but their review 
 on this is totally wrong which is unusual. I say Treyarch needs to stay away from WWII FPS games 
 altogether. They haven't got it. Give it back to Infinity Ward. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: canucksfan19
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 10, 2006 4:05 pm PT
Review:  Story mode is incredible bringing two new factions to the experience.
  Canadians and Polish soldiers are now playable as are the British and the American still in the 
 game.
  
  New features like cover destruction works out well, but doesn't follow up as well as expected.
 
  
  Multiplayer is an experience to play and brings a sense of teamwork that was not felt in other 
 Xbox Live games. Medics actually feel compelled to bring people back int the battle and mines add 
 caution to movement which was not felt in Call of Duty 2. Vehicles add some variety, but take a 
 bit of practice to get the hang of due to some unresponsiveness.
  
  The game is overall compelling and exciting to play and everyone should have a look at Call of 
 Duty 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: archeon_1
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 10, 2006 12:38 pm PT
Review:  As i said... this game, and all the previous Call of Duties are amazing, and great shooters. Call 
 of Duty 2 felt alot different from the first... especially the X360 version. But, CoD 3 didn't 
 'feel' as though it improved the gameplay flaws in Cod 2, or that it was any different from the 
 good stuff. If they're going to make a new game, and its the 3rd one in the series, then it better 
 be one of the best ones. Especially with Cod, because it already has a great reputation and carries 
 that reputation on with stunning graphics and detail, and (although repetative) addictive gameplay. 
 The sound was very good, too. I really hoped that this game would have been revolutionary , but 
 instead they tried too hard with:
  
  1. Getting you involved with boring, and uninteresting stories.
  
  2. Trying to develop a cunnning 
 storyline, in a concept that has been used about a thousand times over again (World War 2)
  
  3. Wanting tomake it be as good as CoD 2, but instead they pretty much made a replica
  
 
  Aside from the bad... I love how they incorperate different cultures who were apart of the war.. 
 like everyone HAS to STOP thinking that World War 2 revolves around Americans, becuse it doesn't, 
 that's why its called WORLD War 2.
  
  I won't by another Call of Duty ever again if its on World War 2. Like, would it kill the developers 
 to make a WW 1 game?... that war is so much more dramatic and different... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paulo111
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 10, 2006 11:09 am PT
Review:  The producers must be very happy. Call of Duty 2 was amazing and Call of Duty 3 is just as good. 
 The sound is amazing, sometimes it almost makes you duck or cover your head for fear of being hit 
 by whizzing bullets. The graphics make it all the more fun just to run up to a nazi and fire a 
 magazine of your thompson into his chest. The new bomb planting system is better than the COD2 
 version, it may be slightly longer than just pressing and holding the X button but it makes it 
 that bit more realistic. BUY THIS GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JeTGoDLiKe
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 10, 2006 9:29 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3 is the greatest World War game off all time the graphics are mind blowing and the 
 gameplay is also mind blowing, You would have 50people on the same screens each person with 500,000polygons 
 then the world detail even with all that it plays 100% perfect. The graphics are the start off 
 the next gen it just shows the power off the xbox360 and gears of war is better graphics but this 
 is a few steps away from looking life like but the game looks real the sound is sooo awesome they 
 sound the same as the real weapons and also the new fighting system where u need to fight with 
 a weapon with a german is really good and im happy that near every countery is in it but just need 
 the Japs!!! but sure who needs em. I give this game a 10/10 becuase you just cant get better graphics 
 for a war game and the frame rate always stays in the 60's which is good becuase it runs twice 
 as fast as call of duty 1 for the pc just goes to show the graphics power off the xbox360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stealthrodent
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 10, 2006 9:26 am PT
Review:  At first I thought CoD: 3 would be a letdown and a failure for the CoD franchise. Partly because 
 there was a new company making it, the one that made BRO. And because it seemed rushed. But... I 
 was horribly wrong. Singleplayer: I only played the singleplayer for about an hour total, but It 
 was very intense and full of action. It did seem a bit cheezy like a hollywood movie and the but 
 it was still very entertaining. The only thing that was missing was co-op.
  
  Multiplayer: The multiplayer is pretty different than In CoD:2. There are vehicles, and the levels 
 are alot bigger, which is good. You pick your kit (class) like in a Battlefield game and when you 
 die, you can call for a medic to revive you. The action normally gets REALLY intense and you'll 
 find yourself saying WOW this is crazy! (or something along those lines) . The different kits are 
 all prretty good and you can still pick up weapons and drop old ones. You can also sprint, which 
 was a much needed addition.
  
  Overall: The feel of the controls and movement is alot like CoD:2. The graphics are better. The 
 sniper is alot different in the sense that it moves around more and the scope looks different. 
 I actually loved the sniper. It was'nt that hard to use and was alot of fun hiding in some brush 
 and just sniping away. You also get airstrikes which is pretty sweet and now overly powerful. And 
 can only be used very little. There is alot more brush in the game to hide in which is awsome. 
 I was in a corn feild being shot at and I dropped to the ground and layed there. A few seconds 
 later I heard the guy coming and saw him pass inches away from me without knowing. It's really 
 fun trying to sneak around in bushes, because usually there will be big firefights going on at 
 a choke point and you can pick off enemy troops from a little bush. There is no kill cam either, 
 so you don't have to worry about that. When you Aim Down Sights to aim your gun, It focuses on 
 what your looking at. I like it and it make it feel better, more relistic. The blur isn't bad and 
 you can still see stuff around you fine. CoD:3 is a great game, and I recommend thet you purchase 
 it, if not, rent it.
  
  I have both Gears of War and CoD:3, Bothe AMAZING games, and I recommend you get both if you can, 
 but I'll have to say that CoD:3 is better and will last you along time with many awsome memories.
 
  
  See you on the battlefield soldier!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Puckett
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 10, 2006 9:15 am PT
Review:  call of duty 3 is a winner ! i like the graphics and the easy control scheme on the xbox 360. has 
 anyone finished it yet ? the weapons, vehicles and different armies are always interesting to play. 
 the reason that i like the call of duty franchise is the great chaos the games present. hey, when 
 you think about it, this should give you more respect for the soldiers fighting back then, even 
 more so now being able to live somewhat in that era of war. well anyway, between call of duty 3 
 and gears of war i have 2 good games to play on the xbox 360 for now and hope this is a good start 
 to what is to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drdrillnfill
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 10, 2006 8:41 am PT
Review:  A solid addition to the Call of Duty series. The single player gameplay is solid with improved 
 graphics and a few new additions that make the game even better. The A. I could have been better 
 but hey it works just fine. The multiplayer is where you will notice the big difference. Tanks, 
 jeeps with a machine gun, 3 wheeled bikes can all be used by you or against you. 24 players makes 
 for a more intense, involved feeling but at times can be hectic. The sniper rifle is much harder 
 to shoot, and the new sprint feature allows you to make dashes from building to builing without 
 being target practice. A must buy for any CoD lover. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: just4pool93
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 10, 2006 8:13 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty is my favorite video game series of all time. I'm a sucker for WWII shooters and that 
 is why I am giving Call of Duty 3 a 10. The graphics are a step up from last years Call of Duty 
 2 and the Online play is no longer limited to only 8 players. This time around it is limited to 
 24 players and now you can drive a large array of vehicles as well. The visual effects are stunning 
 and I really like how the grass gets patted down when you or other players walk on it. The online 
 modes are a lot of fun and I like it when your friend gets sniped your guy automatically yells, 
 Sniper get down! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Galeria
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 10, 2006 1:37 am PT
Review:  Multiplayer is amazing. Having different jobs is good, and even better that most online gamers 
 take there jobs seriously. A medic is just as important as a scout, as well as a light infantry 
 soldier together with an anti-vehicular weaponist. Single player is same as before, but love the 
 new out-of-focus zoom ins. Also, weapons sound so real... and they are shiny... ooooohhh! Will be 
 playing multiplayer for a long time, and i personally suggest to pick a job (known as a kit in 
 game) and stick with it. I am a medic, and a good one at that. It will be better if you choose 
 a job and master it, everyone will actually appreciate your efforts, unlike other games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: b0r3d_2_d34th
Rating: 5.4
Date: Nov 9, 2006 9:34 pm PT
Review:  Let's get one thing straight, the single player is a HELL of a lot better than COD2. The best improvement 
 being that difficulty does not equal the whole freaking enemy army concentrating on you. The graphics 
 look sick and the game is fairly immersive, if you overlook bodies getting stuck all over the place, 
 enemies that bug out and can't be shot (they can sure as hell shoot you though) . That being said, 
 the multiplayer (which is the main reason most of us bought this POS game) is lackluster in its 
 implementation. Right off the bat, you get to wait in a room with a bunch of other people for 5-10 
 minutes, waiting to get enough people to play the damned round. Don't have enough people yet? Just 
 wait, but don't even bother trying to invite any of your friends to play with you because it's 
 not going to happen. You can't invite your friends, you can't join your friends, you can't anything 
 that makes XBL enjoyable. After waiting all this time to get enough people you finally start the 
 match, which tends to last anywhere between 5-10 minutes. The game ends, you cannot keep the game 
 going, you have to get back out and start all over again from the beginning. Rinse, repeat, vomit.
 
  
  Save yourself the nausea and get GOW which, while not all that great as far as multiplayer goes 
 (need some balancing tweaks and more than 4:4) is by far better than this heaping pile of $#17.
 
  
  Again: Single player = pretty good. Multiplayer = crap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: royalpierre
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 9, 2006 8:03 pm PT
Review:  First off I am not dogging on the game. It is sweet and fun and it definitely has some crazy parts 
 which are amazing. The multiplayer is better and more enjoyable. The achievements are well balanced 
 between campaign, multiplayer, and secret. I have yet to figure out the purple heart though. Yes, 
 the sound is better because you can hear the nazi's speak german clearer and the tanks blowing 
 up sound better. Plus, the graphics in general are sweet but they are just the same in COD2. But 
 anyways I just don't see it better than Call Of Duty 2. The levels in COD2 are much funner and 
 more diverse. Plus, I never had a problem with my character locking up in certain spots like i 
 do in COD3. I don't know if anyone noticed but the smoke in this game is worse than COD2 (I'm talking 
 about the smoke when tanks or trucks blow up, not grenades) . I mean it just disappears instantly, 
 it doesn't flow out in the air. But i'm not just going to sit here and nit pick every little problem 
 and detail. I'll just say this, COD3 is just an expansion pack of COD2, new levels and that's it. 
 If you are expecting something amazing you won't get it, enough said. But it is a good game. I 
 wouldn't have purchased if i didn't think so, peace. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mmielnik
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 9, 2006 7:55 pm PT
Review:  When you think about playing a Next-Gen war game, what do you want? The answer... you want realism, 
 explosions, and the feeling that you're in the war. COD3 delivers.
  
  After a quick entry level (very similar to COD2's entry level) you find yourself in the thick of 
 battle. And I do mean THICK. Explosions are everywhere, Nazi's are shooting at you and you're running 
 for cover. COD3 makes everything seem real. When you run your gun bobs up and down, side to side 
 and you can really tell you are running. The game makes you actually feel like your in the war. 
 The movement of your character seems real and there is a sense of weight. You can run and dive 
 and duck for cover as you watch the AI do a suprisingly good job of staying under cover and shooting 
 back at you. The guns look 10 times better and just wait until you aim down on your sight.
  
  Think of COD2.... got it? Now imagine every little thing that bothered you, made better. COD3 
 is basically an updated COD2. Except the fact that campaign is a whole lot better. In COD2 I found 
 myself wanting the level to end because... well enough was enough. In COD3 I find myself wanting 
 more and yelling at the screen after the end of the level. This time around you can actually pick 
 up grenades and throw them back. Plus you can cook your grenades. And you can carry 6 instead of 
 4!
  
  Multiplayer is orgasmic. With vehicles and the whole 9 yards. If you liked COD2's multiplayer a 
 little, than you will like COD3's multiplayer....... alot! Its better by many fathoms.
  
  Basically if you like WWII shooters or just shooters in general you will love COD3. Gamespot's 
 8.8 rating is absurd. 9.3 at the least. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: M00N-CAT
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 9, 2006 7:54 pm PT
Review:  The Mellow dramatic mood is what makes this game astonishing! The game is based in well the cold 
 war and you fight the nazis just like the other Call Of Duty games you feel like youre fighting 
 in this war if you have a LG HD Television! The Storyline is awsome you can do alot more things 
 in this game than previous games. The graphics are very detailed in the every way to suite the 360. The 
 game is a game that makes you want more! The games A. I is pretty good could of been better. The game 
 is long it will probably take you 17 hours to complete but it's worth it and the acheivement points 
 are easy to get if you know what ou are doing. The online play is a little bit laggy if you have 
 a slow connection but it's fun. Overall the game is fun and addictive. I'm going to give it a 9.1 
 for being very detailed and having a good storyline. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nirvana918
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 9, 2006 12:03 pm PT
Review:  So I've been waiting for this game since i beat Call of Duty 2, and i can safely say that i am 
 in no way disappointed! Call of Duty 3 has it all..... amazing graphics, great sound, insane gameplay, 
 and an even better multiplayer than it did last year. I would personally have to say that this 
 is the best in the series. The new multiplayer modes add a whole new dimesnsion to the game with 
 up to 24 players hosted, new modes and, yes, even being able to drive vehicles. the only downfall 
 to online is the 12 year old kids that take the game way to seriously, but hey, that's why we can 
 turn our mics off. I can't wait to see (if there is one) what Call of Duty 4 will look like. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drumerdude361
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 9, 2006 10:07 am PT
Review:  Let me just tell you, I was a huge fan of call of duty 2 and I didnt think it could get any better. 
 But I was ooo so wrong, ok:
  Goods: Best looking graphics Ive ever seen in a first person shooter. It will show what your aiming 
 at when you zoom and blurr everything else like in real like. And the great grphics apply to the 
 multiplayer as well. Also the multiplayer is soo much better in every way. Jeeps, tanks, all kinds 
 of crazy stuff and omg war is the best online game ever. Best part, NO LAG AT ALLLLL. Also, SP 
 is great too. Alot of things you couldnt do before and AI is really smart. YOU CAN BLOW UP ENVIRONMENTS! 
 Lots of fun to have there. And there are many weapons too.
  
  A few bads: The cut scenes in SP surprisingly dont look as good as the regular gameplay for some 
 reason. Also it can seem to be alittle easy in the beginning sometimes and Ive heard the game is 
 sorta short, but its still tight and Im not finished yet. But thats about it for the bads, honestly.
 
  
  If you liked COD2 then you will die over COD3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ToniteWeFade
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 9, 2006 9:56 am PT
Review:  I've been waiting for this game for a long time; it was totally worth the long wait. The gameplay 
 is fantastic, much improved over Cod 2. The new guns in this game are fantastic, and the multiplayer 
 is extremely amazing. The gameplay seems a lot faster in Cod 3 as compared to Cod 2. The 24 players 
 is extremely fun and the maps are huge. Eventually they will probably drop a bunch more maps which 
 is also a huge bonus. The single player is also rather fun. The grass is amazing looking and clearly 
 blew me away. I highly recommend this game to all gamers for FPS. The multiplayer itself is lag 
 free and will provide endless amounts of fun. Pick this title up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maddogcollins
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 9, 2006 5:36 am PT
Review:  But when its near perfect to begin with that is OK by me. More action, some scenes I actually paused 
 and died just to look at the landscape and details. My only gripe and its and its not a small one 
 is its not released on the PC. I would think it would be in the future. Nice to see jumps in graphics, 
 it will be interesting to see how much further graphics can go on the 360. Direct x 10 now here, 
 duo 2, we're in for some real beautiful games in the next year. If your not sure about getting 
 it, go to friends house and play it, you can buy it on the way home. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: renock
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 9, 2006 5:18 am PT
Review:  When I first got the game and put it in I wanted to get some ways into the single player before 
 I started the Multiplayer. Although after a mission or so I quickly realized Why am I playing single 
 player when I pretty much bought this for the multiplayer. Although the single player was pretty 
 fun for the most part some of the things that kind of bothered me was the fact that I really couldnt 
 jump over a lot of walls I used to be able to jump over. Also when I got into some pretty thick 
 battles the music didnt really stick to me. I shouldnt even think about the music when Im playing 
 so if I stop to think This Music isnt epic enough. Then something is wrong. But those are two 
 very small things that doesnt impact it all that much. You cant jump over some walls in the multiplayer 
 as well but once again that is the only problem. The multiplayer has much to offer and is really 
 rewarding when for instance, someone drives by on a motorcycle really quick and you manage to quickly 
 pop a shot off through his head. Pretty rewarding stuff, also when in the middle of a huge 12 on 
 12 battles you feel as if you are really there. Granted in a real battle you wouldnt see snipers 
 or some lone soldier bust across the middle of the battle field towards all of your allies. With 
 the classes, vehicles, war mode, and huge maps this game has multiplayer that will last you to 
 Halo 3 and beyond. I know it will last way beyond Halo 3 for me, Call of Duty 4 anyone!? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThaGrateOne
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 9, 2006 4:55 am PT
Review:  When I do a review I have to compare to Gears of War. Call of Duty 3 is a really great game and 
 has a few things that could have been done to make it completely Next-Gen. The visuals are there, 
 but a few things like rain dripping from the helmets and guns is not present. I was going into 
 this game looking to the a great experience.... but it feels like Call of Duty 2..... with the exception 
 that is graphicly updated from the COD engine. Treyarch and Activision did a really nice job to 
 make a sequel that is holding its own. I do not have any idea how the PC and PS3 will match up 
 or give any extras that this one offers.... but I am thinking they will port this one over due to 
 it being really nice. The sounds are top notch.... the controls are COD 2..... the other thing I 
 notice is some guns (1 or 2) have no VIBRATION FEEDBACK. I don't think its just me... but I noticed 
 that right from the start. The game is a solid buy.... do not get me wrong.... but I believe that 
 a few minor details should have been added. This is a nice and should be looked at from anyone 
 that liked COD2. I have played this for a few hours and the ACHIEVEMENTS are level to leve making 
 it nice to keep up with your friends. The multiplayer is nice and the rooms are user friendly... another 
 shoot'em up online fun addicting game to add to your collection. This game is a solid 8.8 or 8.9. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: H4lo4Lif3
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 9, 2006 1:55 am PT
Review:  If you want a near perfect descriptor of the gameplay in COD3 just pop in last year's hit Call 
 of Duty 2. The core mechanics are identical down to the slight auto aim that occurs when players 
 use the left trigger to look down the sight of a gun. The overshield damage system has also returned 
 allowing soldiers to recover from all damage by resting behind cover for a few seconds. The beautifully 
 rendered smoke grenades are back, only this time there isn't as heavy a stress placed on using 
 them to obscure the enemy's field of view. To spice things up Treyarch did add a few new combat 
 mechanics. The most commonly used technique is the ability to toss grenades back at the enemy by 
 picking it up with the X button and quickly tossing it with the trigger. Running towards an unexploded 
 grenade to lob it in the other direction can be exhilarating but overusing the technique will eventually 
 lead to some messy deaths. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coachz
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 8, 2006 9:27 pm PT
Review:  Activision did a lot of work to make this game they best in the series. They made the graphics 
 a lot better the C. O. D 2 and the game play more involve. The fight sequences you need for those 
 up and close hand-to-hand combat is very good. I know that is game is going to be off the hook 
 when it comes to online play, but Im going to wait until they get all the bugs out first. The 
 one thing they should have worked on is the bodies of the dead enemies. Even thought they can end 
 up in some funny positions, it doesnt make the game feel real life. But other then that little 
 glitch, its a fantastic game to say the least. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cpt_Amazing
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 15, 2006 4:11 pm PT
Review:  Well lets jump right into it. This is a very pretty game, guns look better than call of duty 2 also. The 
 grass will crumble as you walk through, and a hole will fill with with rain. Its very detailed. The 
 A. I is a bit clumsy at times, lets say im on the verge of dying and trying to find cover the A. I 
 will block you and you will die, But this rarely happens. The guns sound great also, and make it 
 more intense. And there are a few mini games to. One part you have to row by turning your thumb-stick, 
 place a bomb by pressing a button than spinning the thumb-stick to screw in the charge, and the 
 part where a German pops out of a corner and you get into a arm wrestle of sorts. Overall if you 
 liked call of duty 2 pick call of duty 3 up. Ohh and I almost forgot another fun part is when you 
 get throw back live grenades! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mkeav8r
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 8, 2006 8:40 pm PT
Review:  COD3...... Wow. I love the multiplayer aspect. Bigger maps, more players, vehicles, new weapons, 
 hand to hand combat. Sounds have been improved and most importantly, so have the graphics. I havent 
 been in a battle with more then 12 players, but hopefully I will soon. I think the release of Gears 
 of War has alot to do with this but i could be wrong. What ive noticed is that ive been having 
 a great deal of difficulty getting into other peoples rooms in Player Match, not sure why.
  
  Frame rates arent perfect, but they are very close to being there. The stuttering is BARELY 
 noticeable, in fact probably not even noticeable to most since it really only happens when there 
 is a lot of stuff going on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshua6775
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 8, 2006 7:16 pm PT
Review:  This game Rocks, bottom line. Fantastic visuals, phenominal sound score and voice over, great controls 
 and a fantastic overall presentation make this game a must have in my book.
  
  Call of Duty 2 was a great step foward for the series. This installment takes what you already 
 know and love about the series and adds some new tricks to boot. You can finally grab a live granda 
 that has been tossed at your feet and heave it back where it came from instead of just running 
 away. You can also cook a grenade you intend to throw by holding the throw button a while so the 
 grenade explodes on impact rather than giving the enemy time to grab it and lob it back at you. 
 I haven't yet played the multi-player, but fully intend to dive into it once I run through the 
 single player. There are some nice achievement points available in both campaign and multi-player 
 modes giving the player incentive to play plenty of each. As much of a fan as I am of senseless 
 violence and gore, Call of Duty 3 manages to give you a chaotic ride through battle after raging 
 battle while not going too far over the top with gore and shock value. With a T for teen rating, 
 this title is suitable for a wider audience than some of the more gruesome offerings for X360. 
 Still definitely not for little Jimmy 5th grader, but not as detrimental as a GTA or a Gears of 
 War on a younger mind. All I really have to say is PLAY THIS GAME. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KreepLX
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 8, 2006 6:10 pm PT
Review:  I remember when Call of Duty 2 was released; it looked good and had compelling visuals and sound. 
 Call of Duty 3 has taken next generation graphics to the next level. Looking at the play video 
 in high definition is no comparison to the real game. I would compare the game play with the Big 
 Red One promotional video for the PS2, the one that was removed from the EU market for being misleading. 
 The game play can be fast and confusing at times but this gives you the feel of an actual WWII 
 soldier. This is definitely worth keeping. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bballdude997
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 8, 2006 6:00 pm PT
Review:  Well, right off the bat.. your thrown into a battle.. just 10 minutes before the first shot is fired.. and 
 where your training is, graphics... are around 3x better than the first, the people who played on 
 1080... for CoD2.. well.. you get BETTER on 420 and.. since i can't use 1080.. i can only imagine
  
  
  
  Sound... INSANE.... I seriously thought I was going to go deaf (yea.. i like it LOUD) 
 and it sounds sooooo real. Explosions SOUND like explosions... guns sound like guns.. and not paintball 
 guns... and just amazing music
  
  Difficutly-playing through the game on normal... im dying alot.. but still making ALOT of progress 
 (NO MORE ACHIEVEMENTS FOR BEATING VETERNAN) but still.. you got WAR HARDENED for beating the game 
 on Vet...
  
  Achivements.. plentiful and fun to get... see for your self
  
  Multiplayer... only played a few games but... the game is EXACLTY like UNITED OFFENSIVE.. with the 
 rank system being the same.. and the game modes.. being slightly different (war still confuses me 
 :) ) and theres TDM DM and CTF and one flag CTF... vehilces.. HUGE maps... large number of players 
 (played with around 10 players.. still tons of action going on) Flaws... yes.. there are alot of noticeable 
 flaws... one being the AI trips up once in a while... running in front of your own gun fire... running 
 into nades (rarely) and the worse.. is.. as gamespot satted.. getting stuck INBETWEEN your allies 
 or an ally and a structure (got stuck inbetween a fence and my teammates. Another one.. I jumped 
 ontop of a fence.. and got caught between 2 dead bodies.. had to restart... these get annoying but 
 don't happen that often
  
  The close combat sequences.. are good.. but very far inbetween (if they were in MP i would lvoe them)
 
  
  Overall: AMAZING GAME.. BEST IN SERIES but if you played just one mission.. you can tell that Infinity 
 Ward DID NOT MAKE THIS GAME... its not as done professionnally as IF... sure.. its better.. and its 
 great.. but it doesn't feel finished.. moslty because of the glitches/flaws.. but still great...
 
  
  
  to sum it up
  
  Call of Duty United Offensive with BETTER GRAPHICS ON THE 360 :)
  
  
  
  must-buy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DominicanAG
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 8, 2006 5:57 pm PT
Review:  This game is just simply jaw dropping. I didn't think a sequel to Call of Duty 2 could be topped 
 off but, Call of Duty 3 proves that to me that it can be. When I first saw videos of this game 
 I'm like I don't think is going to look or play as good as call of duty 2. I started reading all 
 these good reviews and I decided to get the game after all. Man was I glad I got this game. The 
 Graphics in this game are simply beautiful and amazing to look at. I didn't think it could be any 
 better but from the first cut scene in the game you can tell there's a bit of improvement in the 
 graphics. You start off where you left off in Call of Duty 2. The Nazi have taken over France and 
 you're there to eliminate the threat. If you're played Call of Duty 2 you'll know that you'll be 
 playing 3 different soldiers from difference countries. Pretty much the same game plays just a 
 new melee attack that you have with a soldier fighting for your weapon. If you're a fan of the 
 franchise than you should definitely get this game and add it to your collection of first person 
 shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rjwoer
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 8, 2006 5:37 pm PT
Review:  Once again, the Call of Duty franchise does not disappoint. I have been eager for this game since 
 becoming addicted to COD 2. It was hard to wait this long, and even though the game is overshadowed 
 by the release of Gears of War, I am more than pleased with the results.
  
  Not only is COD 3 a beautiful game, with immersive gameplay and heart pounding non-stop action, 
 it is a classic worth playing again and again and again.
  
  It's true the 1st player campaign isn't all that different from COD 2-- but if it ain't broke, why 
 fix it? This is a tried and true format and COD 3 doesn't need to break rank.
  
  The graphics are noticeably improved, the sound effects are outstanding, the storyline is interesting 
 enough to carry the action, and a few key character controls are perfected. Especially the ability 
 to cook a grenade and also to pick up enemy grenades and return them to their source. This is something 
 many of us wanted to do in COD 2 but couldn't.
  
  Overall, this is COD 2 refined, reinvigorated, and polished. If you are a fan of the series -- or 
 like historically based shooters -- don't miss this game. It is simply excellent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GravyFlow
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 8, 2006 3:48 pm PT
Review:  When I saw that Infinity Ward had jumped ship, I was disappointed. I did not like Big Red 1 that 
 much, but Treyarch did not really try to reinvent the wheel with this game. Just improved on it. 
 Larger muliplayer was much needed and it is where I have spent the bulk of my time over the past 
 couple days. I didn't reserve Gears of War, so I haven't gotten it yet and can't compare the two. 
 With a solid foundation, Treyarch just built on the Call of Duty 2 game, making it a little better 
 in all fronts, especially multiplayer. The single player still features solid AI and is fun for 
 a while, but with a class system, and some really great maps, Call of Duty 3's multiplayer impressed 
 me the most. I hope more maps will be available down the line and I hope that more players will 
 fill in the games because they are truly fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PlayaH8tr31
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 8, 2006 3:38 pm PT
Review:  best WWII game yet. .. bar none..... who needed infantry ward. amazing multiplayer and amazing singleplayer. couldn't 
 be more perfect. raised the bar for war games. kills brothers in ams hells highway and airborne. 
 complete masterpiece. even vangoh would sell it as his own.. all i can say is wow.. totally speechlesss.... captures 
 every aspect needed for a great game and the some. It showed WWII from many different aspects from 
 what the americans went through to what the polish and canadian went through. even though the ratings 
 may not show it put can hold its own against gears of war. if not better.. at least i preffered it 
 more. it has awesome weapos like the 30 cal. and awesome missions like d-day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pcfitness1
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 8, 2006 2:34 pm PT
Review:  I'll start by saying, I'm a huge COD2 fan, both multi and single player. So what, it didn't have 
 GOW next gen graphics but, you know what, it ran at a solid 60fps at least and still looked very 
 nice. With the release of COD3 it looks like they were able to maintain the 60fps while bumping 
 up the visuals that much closer to next gen. To me that is amazing. If you are a developer you 
 know how difficult that can be. The graphics are not quite GOW but, i'm totally fine with that 
 and obviously so are thousands of other hardcore first person shooters out there. Thank god they 
 decided to keep it at 60fps. This game rocks once again!!
  
  Whatever you guys at COD3 do, don't let anyone talk you into dropping the fps below 60. Makes the 
 game so much smoother looking and some how you were able to bump up the graphics noticably.
  
  Awsome job! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattyrewls22
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 8, 2006 12:01 pm PT
Review:  This game opens like a movie from the start, it is very intense, but i didn't care for the SINGLE 
 i cared about the multi. I have to say this game easily surpasses the first, and MAN did online 
 own, the vehicles are a tad glitchy, but the gameplay more then makes up for it. the lightening 
 is cool, you think no one is there and then BOOM FLASH you see a group of soldiers in the foreground 
 comeing to nuke your ass. This game is an instant classic! must buy. even though the vehiocledsna 
 are glitchy they're still fun! jkfhaesufsd
  
  Must buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lolgubbe
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 8, 2006 11:29 am PT
Review:  this game is a lot better than all of the previous cod games first off the graphics is damn superb, 
 everything from the enviroments that looks damn great and the lightning and the special effects 
 from the weapons the explosions and all kinds of stuff and the sound is great as always and the 
 characters and just everything looks damn great! now this game has a lot better multiplayer also 
 really good and u can drive vehicles and eveything so that is really good and the singleplayer 
 the weapons everything is just totally amazing man. if u own a xbox 360 then buy this game because 
 this game is awesome and it has really good replay value and u should absolutely get it. this game 
 is also not from infinity ward is from treyarch and they've do a really really good job with this 
 awesome game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: b_wilcox
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 8, 2006 8:45 am PT
Review:  The big question: how the hell am I going to get anything done over the holidays??? Splinter Cell: 
 Double Agent made quite a splash. Gears of War is spectacular. Rainbow Six: Vegas promises to be 
 exceptional. And, oh yeah, my favorite launch game from last winter now has a sequel that bears 
 improvements in every conceivable facet.
  
  Call of Duty 2 was the one game last November that made you think to yourself, You know, this XBox 
 360 thing might just lay a wallopin' on the PS3 when it comes out. You got the sense that if developers 
 like Infinity Ward (now Treyarch) could take the time to harness the raw power of the console, 
 the engaging and mind-blowing games would come in due course. CoD2 was a great game in its own 
 right, but more than anything else, it was THE harbinger of the console's future.
  
  Call of Duty 3 cashes in. Visuals are significantly upgraded and sounds bear more authenticity. 
 The seamless level transition masks the loading times nicely. AI is beefed up. Multiplayer, which 
 was spotty for CoD2 in the first few months, is now a more substantial and carefully crafted aspect 
 of the title. Hell, they even threw in a nice little wrasslin' minigame to boot (the Axis soldier, 
 by the way, is a pretty formidable foe the first couple of times he tries to pry your firearm away) .
 
  
  The story behind these games needs no mention, because it's real, but nevertheless you have to 
 appreciate the designers' obvious desire to replicate the atmosphere of war. Sure, CoD3 still feels 
 like a game but there's a poignancy to it that your average shooter can't capture. Call of Duty 
 3 rightfully will take its place alongside Gears of War, GRAW, Oblivion, and Fight Night Round 
 3 as my list of the XBox 360 Game of the Year candidates. Obviously, with Rainbow Six looking very 
 enticing, it may nudge its way into the stiff competition as well... but that's another review for 
 another day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theevans
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 7, 2006 6:41 pm PT
Review:  CALL OF DUTY 3
  
  Feeling Sick  The Sign of an Immersive War Game
  
  What makes the Call of Duty game series so popular? Is it the remarkable graphics, or the gripping 
 storyline? Is it the earsplitting realism of its sound effects or the nauseating horror of its 
 epic battles? It is all of these things combined that humbly immerse us in the dark days of Europe 
 in the 1940s when evil nearly took over the world.
  
  There are dozens of World War II action shooters on the market, and companies like Activision continue 
 to churn out games based on the gut-wrenching history of the last Great War. Their latest Nazi 
 kill fest is Call of Duty 3 (COD3) , which sidesaddles the timeline in last years shooter of the 
 year for the Xbox 360 a. k. a. COD2. This time the battles focus on Normandy and the subsequent 
 skirmishes in northern France as the allies battle their way to liberate Paris from clutches the 
 3rd Reich. And just like last year, the game lives up to its billing as an unavoidable march through 
 hell on earth.
  
  The graphics in COD3 are nothing short of spectacular. The look of the game is very much the same 
 as it was last year  with its grit and dirty wash of war. The player models, weapons, explosions 
 and vehicles are on par, if not slightly succeeding those in COD2. Desperate firefights through 
 decaying towns and villages, across vast French battlefields in all sorts of weather feel quite 
 familiar. Where the game really shines is the level design. Nazi strongholds seem much more imposing 
 and ominous this time around. The maps feel a bit more open ended  although you still have to 
 complete specified mission objectives to advance your troops. Pounding torrential thunderstorms, 
 countless surges of enemy battalions and extremely intense close range combat make you feel sickeningly 
 close to the real thing. The graphics are not perfect. Some of the drawbacks in this department 
 are the poor facial animations when officers speak to each other and the multitude of invisible 
 walls that keep you within predetermined parts of the battlefield. While the character animations 
 havent really improved over last year, they still offer enough life-likeness to keep it feeling 
 real.
  
  The sound in this game is truly magnificent. This is the best sounding war game on the market. 
 The patriotic soundtrack, complete with pre-mission briefing montages, and some very 1940s big 
 band tunes playing on soldiers radios really capture the essence of the time of the invasion. The 
 voice acting is very strong. Commanders barking orders under fire, enemies yelling German obscenities 
 and allies screaming for their lives sound so realistic that its sobering to imagine the sheer 
 terror that real WWII soldiers experienced when you consider these things really happened. Gunshots, 
 explosions and vehicles are all bang on to their real life counterparts. Turn up your surround 
 sound and duck for cover.
  
  Gameplay. The controls are almost exactly the same as last years Call of Duty - which is to say 
 they are very good. Aiming and firing your weapon uses the standard left and right triggers respectively. 
 In fact all of the games controls mimic COD2s button layout and aesthetic. Activision is clearly 
 going with the if it aint broke dont fix it approach. The downside is that the game sometimes 
 feels simply like expansion chapters of COD2 instead of a brand new game. You continue to use a 
 variety of allied and axis weapons to dispose of the enemy as you make your way to objective checkpoints. 
 A few small supplements have been added since last year. Melee combat involves hand to hand fighting 
 with enemy soldiers by tapping the right and left triggers rapidly and then disposing of him if 
 you gain the upper hand. You can also plant land mines to set traps for unsuspecting Axis platoons. 
 Online play has been substantially improved as well. Its now possible to have up to 24 players 
 competing in online multiplayer deathmatches. This really keeps the epic scale of messy WWII battles 
 available in all game modes. Private custom matches are finally available this year. With new downloadable 
 content already in development, you can be sure to get all the war you can stomach with Call of 
 Duty 3. COD3 is another excellent World War II shooter. It doesnt do much in the way to revolutionize 
 the series gameplay or graphics, but a few notable upgrades and same heart-pounding action make 
 this a worth while shooter for the Xbox 360. If you can handle the games insistent and overwhelming 
 intensity, you will get many consecutive hours of grueling bloody action from Call of Duty 3. Leaving 
 us to wonderwhat more can Activision do with its WWII franchise?
  
  Graphics: 9.0/10
  Sound: 9.5/10
  Gameplay: 8.5/10
  Overall: 8.8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smokethebearplz
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 7, 2006 10:05 am PT
Review:  SINGLE PLAYER
  
  I am an abid Call of Duty fan and this game is a nice addition to the collection. The game is just 
 like the other two but with noticable visual upgrades and performance upgrades. The singleplayer 
 is just like the other two games with not many noticable differences. To be frank the singleplayer 
 always leaves you wanting more and thats what it left me. It can be beat in about 5 hours on medium 
 difficulty. However, the vehicles bring a more intense experience to the game. Mowing down Nazi's 
 with a .50 cal on the top of a jeep is a nice stress reliever. The last noticable difference singleplayer 
 wise is the AI oh mamma. They will flank you left and right; after throwing grenades back and forth 
 while one rambo soldier will run up and try and butt u with his gun which could turn into an intense 
 hand to hand combat moment.
  
  On to the main attraction *THE MULTIPLAYER*
  
  Unlike Call of Duty 2 which only supports 12 players online, Call of Duty 3 supports 24 players!
 
  
  The multiplayer was also completely revamped with a new award point system and class system. The 
 different classes make the multiplayer more strategic and brings back my old Team Fortress Classic 
 days. Each class has its own abilities such as the scout has the sniper rifle and can call down 
 artillary barrages while the engineer class can repair DRIVEABLE vehicles and carry ant-tank rockets. 
 The reward system rewards the hardcore players with enhanced abilities. For example the level 1 
 scout can call down an artillary barrage but a level 3 scout can call down a massive artillary 
 barrage from a further distance with more devestation. Altogether the COD 3 multiplayer will never 
 be the same again and thats a pill I can swallow. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gww101
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 7, 2006 5:11 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3 is an excellent game that delivers a great expierience every time you play. I may 
 have only have had it for 3 hours but with only that i can tell you all the great new features 
 like vehicles on the battlefield and how they ruin the life of many infantry, xbox live now supports 
 24 players instead of 8 this makes for huge and epic action packed battles online. Grass is also 
 a new feature that make for a great advantage even though it does not seem like much. Amazing images 
 make this game look visually stunning. Close quarters hand-to-hand, no more of that crapy slap 
 happy AI, now they will smash your gun from your hands and try to jam the stock of their gun in 
 your face. Finally for the Canadian fans you get to finally play as the canadians or the polish. 
 New weapons for each faction and new vehicles, and a great new feature, return grenade you can 
 now pick up enemy grenades and give the enemy some of their own medicine. Amazing sounds make this 
 game a great pleasure to play easy game mechanics for those who now the series or play other action 
 shooters, gameplay as you can tell from the list is amazing. This is why this game can appeal to 
 anyone even though some levels can be a bit challenging. Go out and buy this game if you want limitless 
 hours of shooting and war on and offline.
  I put the hours up because i know ill keep playing. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
