-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Call of Duty: World at War
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/callofduty5/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Gritty, exciting story.
 Same excellent multiplayer system.
 Four-player cooperative campaign.
 Bayonets and flamethrowers.
 Nazi Zombies.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Familiar setting.
 Familiar game mechanics.
 Familiar guns.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 12, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 8.6, 70 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 5,697 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision Blizzard
Developer: Treyarch
Genre: Historic First-Person...
Date: Nov 10, 2008
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
World at War brings proven Call of Duty mechanics back to WWII with great success. 

  Call of Duty: World at War is a lot like its predecessor, Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare. In most 
 respects, this is a good thing. The guns are tightly tuned, the tone is gritty and mature, and 
 the action is exciting and fast-paced. It boasts the same addictive multiplayer system as Modern 
 Warfare, and even expands the multiplayer possibilities by allowing four players to play through 
 the campaign cooperatively. Like every game in the series before Modern Warfare, this Call of Duty 
 takes place during World War II. World at War does an admirable job of spicing things up, but between 
 the well-worn source material and dj vu game mechanics, there is a pervasive familiarity to the 
 game. Still, though World at War lacks the freshness that made Modern Warfare such a hit, it nevertheless 
 provides a hearty, filling meal -- one that shooter fans are sure to savor.  

           Bayonets are a brutal new addition to your arsenal.      

  The most salient difference 
 between World at War and Modern Warfare is the WWII setting. In the campaign, you split time between 
 two soldiers in two offensive theaters: the Russian push out of their homeland and into the heart 
 of Germany, and the American struggle to wrest Pacific islands from the Japanese. Though you'll 
 alternate between them every few levels, the campaign feels like one solid progression, thanks 
 to the adept pacing.  

  Each soldier's journey begins at a low point. Weaponless and surrounded by the enemy, you get a 
 taste of the despair many soldiers are never rescued from. Though the emotional tone eventually 
 rises toward triumph, you never quite forget the fate you nearly met. The first few levels are 
 a hard scrabble as you and your fellow soldiers try to gain a foothold for your country, while 
 later levels are suffused with a sense of hard-won momentum as you fight bigger battles and push 
 closer to your enemies' capitals. Throughout each level you are accompanied by a superior officer 
 who sets the emotional tone through well-acted dialogue. The vengeful, spitfire Russian pumps up 
 your adrenaline to intoxicating levels, while the grim, determined American provides a sobering 
 influence. This grim sobriety is further enforced by the actual WWII videos, photos, and statistics 
 presented in stylish interchapter cutscenes. The message is, by nature, a conflicted one: Though 
 you may feel like an action hero, you are actually participating in the most horrid of human endeavors. 
 How you ultimately feel about this message will depend on your personal disposition, but suffice 
 to say that the elevated emotional timbre makes for an exciting campaign.  

  Also exciting? Bayonets and flamethrowers, the two standout new weapons in World at War. You wield 
 both in the American campaign, using them to enthusiastically dispatch enemies in trenches and 
 fend off the aggressive banzai raiders. These raiders snipe from the treetops, or pop out of holes 
 and charge you with merciless determination; this aggression makes the American campaign feel uniquely 
 tense. The Russian campaign is slightly more predictable, but it remains vigorous throughout and 
 ends in a spectacularly satisfying way. Explosions and gunfire will cause enemies to lose limbs 
 and copious amounts of blood, making World at War a sight more violent than Modern Warfare. Still, 
 in between the burning, stabbing, and gibbing, there is a lot of crouching behind cover and picking 
 off enemies with your trusty rifle. This kind of action, and most of the other weapons, will feel 
 familiar to anyone who has played a World War II shooter before. It's a well-tuned and exciting 
 familiarity, but it doesn't make any notable leaps.  

  World at War does make a leap for the Call of Duty series by offering two-player split-screen and 
 four-player online cooperative campaign play. It's the same campaign as the single-player experience, 
 though the number of enemies increases for every player that joins you. You can turn competitive 
 scoring on and see who can earn the most points by killing enemies or reviving teammates, and this 
 adds a bit of fun to the campaign and lightens to mood (it's hard to feel grim when there are point 
 values popping up all the time) . There are also special items called death cards in each level, 
 and collecting these will allow you to enable a cheat for cooperative play (for instance, enemies 
 die by headshots only or headshots cause enemies to explode) . These add a little more spice to 
 the pot, but the only tangible incentives are challenges. Completing these tasks (such as kill 
 100 enemies with pistols or take first 20 times in competitive co-op) will earn you experience 
 points that go toward your multiplayer rank (co-op is not similarly ranked) . Cooperative play is 
 fun in its own right, but linking it to the addictive multiplayer ranking system makes it relevant 
 in a whole different way.  

           Multiplayer battles are as fast and deadly as ever.      

  In case you missed it last 
 year, the multiplayer system introduced in Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is fantastic, and World 
 at War has updated it to fit its WWII setting. The hook is experience points, which you gain by 
 winning matches or completing one of the aforementioned challenges. As you earn these points, you'll 
 rank up and earn access to new weapons, new accessories (like sights and suppressors) , and new 
 perks. Perks are special abilities that grant you a wide variety of bonuses, but you can only choose 
 four (one of which is vehicle-specific) . This introduces an engaging element of customization: 
 Will you choose to toughen up by increasing your health and bullet damage, or will you go the stealth 
 route and increase your sprint speed while becoming invisible to enemy recon planes? Perks are 
 well balanced, and you have multiple save slots, which enable you to easily switch between your 
 various pretweaked loadouts. This allows you to take full advantage of this deep, engaging system 
 that is just as great this year as it was last year, albeit slightly less novel.  

  There are, of course, new maps, and the bonuses you earn for kill streaks have been updated (notably, 
 the attack helicopter you earned after seven kills in Modern Warfare is now a pack of nasty attack 
 dogs) . There are also a few maps that support tanks, powerful additions that mix things up without 
 being too dominant. Most of the modes remain the same, though some have received slight tweaks 
 and Capture the Flag has returned after a hiatus from Modern Warfare. The most striking new mode 
 is actually a cooperative game called Nazi Zombies, playable when you beat the campaign (or play 
 with someone who has) . This absurd game puts up to four players in a house that is being assaulted 
 by the undead. Killing the fiends and repairing the barricades earns you points that you then spend 
 to replenish ammunition, buy new guns, and unlock new areas of the house. Each subsequent wave 
 brings tougher, faster, more numerous enemies, and the game inevitably ends in grisly death. Though 
 the random weapon box, assorted power-ups, and skills of your teammates add some variation, each 
 play-through is similar to the last. Still, it makes for some intense, frantic fun and provides 
 a welcome, if slightly bizarre, change of pace.  

  By staying largely true to the formula that made Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare so successful, 
 Call of Duty: World at War has ensured a proven level of technical quality, particularly in the 
 multiplayer arena. On the other hand, one of Modern Warfare's strengths was its fresh approach, 
 and by embracing a familiar setting and familiar mechanics, World at War achieves greatness but 
 falls short of excellence. This is only a bad thing if you are expecting this game to top its benchmark 
 predecessor. If, however, you are hoping for an exciting campaign, fun cooperative play, and engaging 
 multiplayer action, then you'll find a lot to be happy about in World at War.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (455 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: msuspartan11
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 18, 2009 9:54 am PT
Review:  What can I say. This game is great and some even think it's Call of Duty 4 old school. While it 
 would definitely fit under that category, the game creates it's own category. World at War uses 
 the Call of Duty 4 engine so the games movement is relatively similar to COD4's. The thing that 
 can make this game feel much different then COD4 is the weapon selection. These weapons vary quite 
 a bit. In COD4, the online weapon use majority consisted of automatic firing weapons. Well in WaW, 
 the weapon use is much more spread out because it the majority of the weapons are all equal. All 
 have Pros and Cons. This could exclude one weapon though. That is the MP40. Definitely the most 
 used online weapon and some think it's the M16 of WaW. However, that thought differs from each 
 individual. 
  The campaign is definitely fun but is only worth playing once. It gets repetitive after a while 
 and there are not many accessories on the weapons in campaign. After you complete the campaign 
 you are able to unlock Nazi Zombies which is also fun but loses it's thrill after a while if you're 
 playing by yourself. The game is loaded with fun when playing 4 player co-op with your friends. 
 
  Overall the game is good but after a while it loses a lot of enjoyment unlike COD4. It's definitely 
 a buy if you enjoyed COD4 or have been a fan of the Call of Duty series for years but if you aren't 
 in either of those groups, I suggest renting the game and see for yourself. 
  8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LegionOfDeer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 17, 2009 8:24 pm PT
Review:  When I heard that Call of Duty was going to go "modern" I thought that the series was taking a 
 turn for the worse. Call of Duty was a World War I or II game. Going modern was so out of character, 
 that it had to be disastrous, right? Wrong.
  
  The great:
  
  + Great environments make online and campaign fun to play.
  + Combat controls are smooth and 
 tight. 
  + Single player campaign is exceptional. Good mix of mission types, and the story is great. Seemed 
 more planned out than you would expect from a game based on online play.
  + Making your own online combat classes is a superb idea. The customization allows you to play 
 every match in your own style.
  +Getting stronger guns and more add ons as you complete challenges online provides a reason to 
 try all the weapons.
  + The sound is very pleasing. The music is nothing to dance to, but it adds to certain missions.
 
  + Troops actually follow you in the campaign. For once, being a leader in a game actually means 
 something. 
  + Just because you can't see people doesn't mean you can't kill them. You are able to shoot through 
 certain materials in the game.
  + The graphics are sweet. Simple as that.
  + The characters in the campaign do not all distinguish themselves as someone special, but the 
 dialogue works very well with each other.
  + I must admit, they did an excellent job recreating a modern warfare game, so kudos to them even 
 if they step outside their box.
  
  The not as good:
  
  - The game does not filter people of the same level into same games. A high ranking officer online 
 can play a pathetic first timer.
  - I'm all for melee killings, but there is no way knifing someone in the foot should be an instant 
 kill.
  - There are sometimes where your character may get caught when on a ladder going up and down, but 
 it doesn't happen so much that you have to avoid them every time.
  - Campaign may be fun, but it is short. It doesn't have the pull to really make you want to play 
 it over and over either.
  
  My advice:
  
  This game is great. Hands down, it is. Sure there will be times you get frustrated, but you will 
 be drawn back to this game, if not for the online play alone. Eventually it will fade away due 
 to new games coming out and dominating the online market, but until this game completely disappears, 
 the online is still good for a play. 
  
  If you are in the mood for a solid campaign, albeit a short one, this game works. It isn't cheap, 
 even if it has been out for a while, but it still provides more than enough good playability to 
 try it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halloran95
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 16, 2009 8:51 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing. Although I cannot claim that I'm an expert on video games, it's one of the 
 best i've played. First: the single player. You start as a marine in Japan. You make several island 
 raids with many emotional and tense parts. The best part about this is the flamethrower. On several 
 missions, you get to use a flamethrower that easily dominates your enemies. These missions can 
 be hard because of the occasional Japanese attacker that lies await in the grass. In the other 
 part of the campaign, you play as a Russian soldier who survived a German massacre and then continues 
 to fight back against the Germans. This is my favorite part of the single player. The first mission, 
 you are a sniper after the massacre who, along with another general, and you must survive the many 
 patroling Nazis. You then continue to accompany the Russians on their conquest into Germany, where 
 you finish in Berlin itself. Overall, the single player campaign is great. It has realistic cutscenes 
 and details that make you feel a bit more like you are actually fighting a war. The weapons are 
 great and realistic too. The only problem I see in the gameplay is the lack of a cover system, 
 which many first person shooters are starting too add. Sometimes, you die simply because you have 
 nowhere to step back and assess the situation from. On a small note, the pistols seem to do little 
 damage. It takes several headshots to kill someone with one. Then, there is the co-op. This is 
 simply three modes, the first two are just four player co-op on the story mode. There is competitive 
 co-op and also non-competitive. These are extremely fun, especially if you do them with a friend. 
 Then, there is my favorite part of all, Nazi Zombies. This places you in an abandoned building 
 with up to three other people. You start with a pistol and 500 credits. In the initial room, there 
 are five windows. Nazi Zombies begin to attack. You gain credits by killing these zombies and reparing 
 the windows they damage. You can use these credits to move to other rooms. There is an upstairs 
 and another similar room. Although these open up more possible entry ways for Zombies, the first 
 room becomes too tough for four people to handle. Additionaly, you may use the credits to buy better 
 weapons that are placed on the wall. There is also a Random Weapon box that gives you a random 
 weapon ranging from a Kar98 to a Browning to a Ray Gun. Once all the players have been downed, 
 the game ends. This can be very frantic and fun. Finally, there is the multiplayer. First, I will 
 explain the leveling system. You begin with very basic guns, but obtain exp. points by making kills 
 or doing challenges. These challenges range from blowing up a certain amount of vehicles or making 
 a certain amount of kills in a certain way to simply making a certain number of headshots or kills 
 with a certain weapon. Once you gain a number of experience points, you level up. Leveling up gives 
 you better weapons, perks, challenges, and optional clan tags. As you progress, leveling up requires 
 more exp. points but you have (hopefully) gotten better at the game and have better weapons. Now 
 the modes. There are two main sets of modes: normal and the unlockable hardcore. The hardcore is 
 the same as normal but has several adjustments, like more damage, friendly fire, and limited HUD 
 to make it more realistic. The normal is just normal modes. There are many modes, but the most 
 basic is Team Deathmatch. You try to kill members of the opposing team, and the first one to reach 
 750 points wins. Other modes are varieties of this that include objectives and modifiers. Overall, 
 this is a great game and the best, most realistic WWII game. We can only hope that other games 
 will achieve this level of greatness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackskull1997
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 16, 2009 11:19 am PT
Review:  This game was amazing. The reason I think this is because the game had a story to it and it followed 
 right through every level of this game. What I loved is how you got rewarded by beating the game. 
 The reward was Nazi Zombies. Nazi Zombies is my favorite part of the game!!! At first you just 
 think to your self "Wow this is easy". But, you are only on the first level. After the first 5 
 levels it gets harder but by level two you should of bought that extra room with the mystery box. 
 After that buy the upstairs. Not the one in the secret room though keep that one blocked off. When 
 you are upstairs you can buy a sniper inside the closet which is planted inside the wall. I found 
 out about the closet after a week of playing the game. The highest level I have gotten to was the 
 13th level. Can u beat that?
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: orihimefan220
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 14, 2009 5:28 pm PT
Review:  THE best WWII game on the market. definitely. First of all, i gotta talk about the weapons. pretty 
 sweet. I, being a pyro, happen to love the flamethrower and how it ownz nazi-zombie @$$! And the 
 noob tube (rifle grenade) is hilarious. soo nooby. Most of the weapons are honest to god real, 
 i see them in war movies everywhere, like the flamethrower and the thompson and the M1A1garand. 
 I love the double barreled shotgun / martyrdom combo, because im a short range guy. The knifing 
 system is pretty cool, but it seems whoever stabs LAST gets the kill. but its fun having stab wars 
 on multiplayer when i suddenly change to trench gun with the bayonet and become unstoppable until 
 my fiends catch on or start using betties. basically, i think COD: WAW is an all around beastly 
 FPS. Oh, i forgot about Nazi zombies. Its a really fun addition to the game, and if your first 
 random weapon is the flamethrower, youre frigging unstoppable until lvl 12 
  I rate COD: WAW a 9.0 ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halo3fan18
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 12, 2009 12:07 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty: World at War is the latest installment of the "Call of Duty" series. I, Personally, 
 love World war II games. When I bought this, I thought it was not going to be as everyone said 
 it would be. 
  The campaign mode (which i always play first) was phenomenal! The visuals were beautifully well-polished. 
 The guns awakened freshness of gameplay whenever you found a new one. Not to mention the Death 
 cards. Death cards are the equivalent of "Halo 3"'s skulls. Similar to Halo 3, most death cards 
 are counted as cheats, but not for you, for your enemies. (They were easy to find also.) Just about 
 3 or 4 of them help the average gamer.
  The audio is groundbreaking, literally. You hear every explosion, every gunshot, and every grenade 
 that has been thrown at you with great quality. It makes you feel like you really are there avoiding 
 being killed by Banzai attackers and the Nazi war machine. In multiplayer, it is a bit more confusing 
 than in campaign when it comes to audio. You hear explosions, gunshots and you fellow teammates 
 in your ear or in the game yelling. You also hear the Omniscient narrator telling you to "Crush 
 you enemy".
  Mulitplayer does have a positive side though. You can get a wide spectrum of machine guns, Sub 
 machine guns, sniper rifles, rifles, and even shotguns. But the choices don't stop their, you get 
 to choose 3 perks, including 1 vehicle perk. Perks assist you through the in-game experiences. 
 It is also greatly populated with many different game choices. Such as team deathmatch, Capture 
 the flag, headquarters, and Search and destroy.
  The ranking system is much, much easier compared to Halo 3's. Instead of getting one experience 
 point per won game, you get a minimum of 5 points per kill. Depending on what game variant you 
 are playing on you can get up to 50 points per kill. Capturing objectives such as a flag in COD's 
 "Capture the flag" mode, you can get 100 xp points for doing so. 
  The fun of multiplayer doesn't stop at its highest rank, such as other games. You have the option 
 to gain prestige. Which means you start all over again from level 1 to 65, and when you accomplish 
 that again you gain another prestige.
  
  Call Of Duty: World at war does have its negative sides, but they are not large enough to be written 
 about. I recommend buying this game. This is one of those few games that has such a large replay 
 value. 
  
  -Valkyrie 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wl11lam360
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 9, 2009 11:29 pm PT
Review:  There is no denying it, this game is good. But it almost feels like Nazi zombies was put into this 
 game because they knew the story wasnt good enough. I am so tired of getting games today and finding 
 that the story has been cut for xbox live multiplayer. Its so obvious that call of duty is made 
 for multiplayer today. They might as well make call of duty with all the multiplayer maps, without 
 story and free twelve months xbox live gold with it.
  Nazi zombies just saves it, just. Its the thing I play this game for 80% of the time. I cant think 
 of much more to say but I would only recommend this game to someone with a xbox live gold membership, 
 then its fantastic. But the story is so short that I have trouble writing this review, I say it 
 that way as I have already attempted writing this review a few times but could'nt think of anything 
 to say. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmeads
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 9, 2009 8:16 am PT
Review:  9. Call Of Duty: World at War is a game which you can not put down when you start especiallly when 
 you start playing online. The game truly is a awesome game with a stronger Campaign than before 
 and a good multiplayer.
  
  Graphics 10/10-
  The Graphic on this game is very good and in my opinion can not be any better, your teamates, enviroments, the 
 guns and foes have got very good visuals and are really stunning, i do not think anything lacks 
 in the graphics.
  
  Gameplay 9/10-
  The Gameplay is like the whole part of this game if the gameplay is not right then it will go horribly 
 wrong, but this game has got the it factor about it. The way you move is light the A1 is good and 
 not dumb, the levels are good and not repetitive. The Campaign is very good i think it is better 
 than Call Of Duty: Morden Warfare campaign, the missions are in much more detail and longer in this 
 one, you play as an Ammerican and Russian the health is good the screen goes red and it is just 
 fabulous in my words. The online is the best out of the whole game like it was in COD4. The Multiplayer 
 with friends is good i have only played it once so dont know that much about that bit.
  
  Sound 9/10-
  The Sound is exelent the bombs, grenades, Air  
 you are playing this game it is like you are actually there with all of these weopons and everything. I 
 love how the sniper sounds pow with one hit and the guy is dead COOL. The voice acting is good how 
 they change the Ammerican and Russians voice.
  
  Online 10/10-
  I love online on COD games they are always good, so i was expecting this online system to be good 
 and it did not disappoint. I love playing search and Destroy and Team Deathmatch, i dont really like 
 playing Sabotage. All of the games modes are good exept for 1 or 2 but otherwise i love online on 
 this game. The Maps are more bigger than in COD4, my favourite map is Castle and my worst is Makin.
 
  
  Overall 9.5/10
  
  A great COD game as it should be, Online and the campaign is not a let down and i am very proud 
 it isnt. The graphics are sick on this game and probably can not get any better or maybe it can. An 
 AMAZING GAME!
  
  i know this game has not got the reputation it should have got and its praises but try out the 
 game it wont let you down. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thesethcohen
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 9, 2009 2:47 am PT
Review:  Quite a statement there so i'll need justification. 
  
  It had been a while since i last got an achievement so i felt some boosting was at hand, so i borrowed 
 this game from a friend and have had it for about a week now.
  
  First run through on "regular" difficulty gave me a chance to get a feel of the game. What i discovered 
 was linear level paths, forgettable characters and story and overal AVERAGEness. It's, to me as 
 if , there was no comunication between infinity ward and Treyarch. The sheek, fleunt and exciting 
 levels interluded with breath-taking cutscenes have all been replaced by glitchy terrible NPC in 
 game set pieces, which ultimatley look terrible as the framerate can't keep up so it leaves the 
 player frustrated as they watch a 5 second animation that does nothing other than interupt gameplay.
 
  
  "I've just wasted half a mag of ammo on this guy why isn't he dying!!!....... oh right..*watches 
 as NPC teammate pops across the map and jumps and has a CQB fight with him*"
  
  "Regular difficulty" i found was more of a casual joke than anything credible, but that was my 
 fault for playing it through on an easy difficulty. Next run through "Veteran" difficulty. It had 
 been going well and i'm currently on the mission where you have to "storm the plaza" on one of 
 the later missions. 
  
  This mission has frustrated me more than any other, due to the designers desires to make it as 
 "Battlefield" (not the game) like as possible they came to the conclusion that implenting a system 
 which means that inifinite number of enemies run at you until you progress to a certain point then 
 they shall spawn less of them until you eventually gun and run ontop of their spawn. THIS is my 
 main frustration, on veteran you have to do this ? before i came on here to review the game i found 
 my self running away for 4 grenades and being shot at by upwards of 15 enemies then as i lay down 
 an enemy glitches through a wall and melee's me.... quality ... control.
  
  I also found it highly frustrating that you're left being constantly bombarded with grenades which 
 WILL kill you every time. This is because of the fact that it is a constant stream of grenades being 
 thrown. I found that Veteran difficult consists primarily of pressing "throw back grenade" and 
 hoping for the best. 
  
  Another technical issue which annoyed me was the invisible boundaries which prevent you from gaining 
 acess to a place i. e a between a tank and a wall. These boundaries were at the pinical of dissapointment 
 when i couldn't walk past npc's, without getting stuck, as i try and to get past them. This i found 
 was a regular occurence. 
  
  In conclusion, i would have to say the main dissapointment lies with the sloppy programing of the 
 game and lack of care and attention given to the quality of the game. Perhaps if the games industry 
 wasn't so corrupt and money obsessed we'd still be getting the wonderful imaginative, revolutionary 
 games we were getting 10 years ago. Instead we're left with game franchises being run by two companies 
 so that they can release their product on a yearly rota and subsequently producing for the gaming 
 half baked, sloppy games which have been given no good care or attention and have been released 
 as "we need a CoD game this year" 
  
  Perhaps i dont know spending time and making a good game is a thing of the past, the entire game 
 scene has become completely casual and is now plagued with advertising and ironically by trying 
 to make games acessable and fun for everyone (there's more money in it if your 4 year old son can 
 play your game with his nan) they have infact lost the spark and entuhsiam and "making a game for 
 no other reason that fun"... is a thing of the past. This game is further more proof of it..
  
  such a shame.
  
  peace xx
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ferntfactor
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 17, 2009 4:56 pm PT
Review:  ok: so my first review looked at the big picture. now i'm gonna break down the game play:
  
  The good: 
  
  - amazing graphics,
  - this is without a doubt, the best WW2 shooter. hell, 
 it's the best shooter, period, IMO.
  - fast, furious.
  - great excution of weapons.
  - great sound. 
  - great theatres of war.
  - the best value - massive replayability. at this 
 point, this game has cost me about 33 cents per hour. that's what i call worth the money.
  - nazi zombies = good. crass, after a serious war game, but fun all the same. i laugh every time 
 i see "Zombies... Nazi". it's so tongue in cheek, you've got to smile.
  - multiplayer is an absolute riot. and every once in a while a game is so brutal and so non-stop 
 violent, you want to high-5 every stranger in the lobby. what an adrenaline rush. and what a good 
 job facilitating the fun, Treyarch (and Activision... and XBOX Live) . i wasn't a multiplayer guy 
 until this game. i had always heard about the singing, idiotic 8 year olds playing at 2AM that 
 i had dismissed it. well, yeah, they exist and they're irritating, along with the racist southerners, 
 but holy cow, it's a lot of fun anyways. and good on ya, sleep deprived 8 year olds. you're killing 
 machines! i pity your classmates.
  
  the bad:
  
  - explain how, Joe Private, circa 1944 jumps 30 feet in the air, hides under the map and i shoot 
 you in the chest with a full Tommie gun magazine, but you kill me with a knife once my ammo's spent? 
 well, so what. people cheat for whatever reason. it still rocks!
  - dogs. i love to call em. hate to have em called on me. ok, so i have a dog. my brother has a 
 rotweiler. my neighbour had 3 adult pit bulls and 11 puppies. tough critters, but i would submit 
 that if i unloaded 25 rounds from a PPSH into their chest, they would settle down. but in COD WAW, 
 they will get up, yowl and with one playful leap, end my soldiering career. i'm ready to grovel. 
 Treyarch, please fix this issue with some sort of a patch. dog vs. gun - gun wins.
  - please also add a filter that blocks "SupaSnipaKillYou666" from singing while killing people 
 4 times their age. 
  - does my wireless have lag or what? in real life, i swear that if i unloaded 40 rounds into a 
 guy before he looks at me that he couldn't trump me with a dagger. 
  - juggernaut. it's a perk. a legal perk. i love when 6 man teams diss me with juggernaut. guys, 
 i chose a class with juggernaut. i'm on my own. an army of one. no strategy - just run and gun 
 and look for trouble. you have strategies - guys looking for your back - i have me and a gun. i 
 chose it over camoflauge, fast reload and whatnot. 
  - tanks. there are 4 on the map. if one's available, i'm gonna take it. watch out. enough of you 
 are good at hurling satchels and bazooka rounds that i'm a serious target. not getting in and causing 
 havoc is like the US not using the A bomb on Japan. no, too uneven. send in a couple hundred thousand 
 troops to get slaughtered. hell, the tanks are sitting there idling. i'm gonna hop in and do some 
 good for my team. 
  
  BTW, thanks to every ad hoc team that has put up with my gin fueled performances at 2:45 AM on 
 a work day. i know. i cost you the game. i'm sorry. but i still had fun. thanks for being so nice, 
 most of the time. 
  
  hey there are other games when i 've gone 15-1-0, so it all evens out, right? 
  
  Summary: 
 wow! this game is awesome. my marriage is on the rocks, i see Seelow battles in my eyes while i'm 
 presenting to clients the day after, and i think that my vision has been irreparably damaged by 
 5 hours sessions till 5 AM. thanks Treyach. i'm pretty sure you've shaved years off my life, but 
 kudos to you. 
  
  ps: my gamer tag is jayzot. i'm the guy who refuses to hide out and snipe. i'm the run and gun 
 maniac with the bad kill ratio. and i wouldn't have it any other way. 
  
  
  first review:
  
  it's really pretty simple. either you're interested in WW2 - the world's most 
 important and defining conflict ever - or you're not. similarly, either you're interested in futuristic 
 games, horror, ninja street fighting or magic elf games or RPGs or FPS games, or you're not. so 
 bashing a genre you don't happen to like is just plain dumb.
  
  i happen to only enjoy FPS games. i really enjoyed COD 4 Modern Warfare and MOH Airborne and played 
 them both to death. but i found Fallout 3 a disappointment... for me. that does not mean it's not 
 great or rich or and excellent game. for people who lean towards RPGs with a bit of FPS thrown 
 in for fun, great! therefore it deserves reviews that recognize it for its innovation and for whether 
 it works for the intended audience. so, for me to diss it is a worthless review. i happened to 
 not like it at all. i sold it after a few hours of play. still it's a good game, i'm sure. 
  
  so i happen to like WW2 games the best. fighting in conflicts that i know actually happened 
 makes for the ideal gaming experience, in my mind. to see all the clichd reviews giving COD WAW 
 1.0s or even 6.0s is just plain silly. obviously those people don't care for FPS games or for a 
 WW2 context, and that's OK. but clearly the game is an amazing achievement. and clearly criticism 
 for Treyarch is equally silly. i mean, what exactly do they have to do to end this nonsense? even 
 COD 3 was very good, IF you're interested in WW2 and FPS games. Activision works WITH Treyarch. 
 they develop games on a one year cycle. it's smart from an income and franchise standpoint. it's 
 business and they create good value, entertaining, quality games. what's the beef? it only makes 
 sense to leverage technical work already completed and proven in the previous year's entry. it 
 would be stupid and irresponsible for Treyarch to turn up their noses at using their partner's 
 already "in the can" programming. so bash WAW for being just like COD 4 because it works similarly 
 well? duh. 
  
  anywho, 10 million copies of COD WAW have been sold since November 10, and i doubt that everyone 
 of those 10 million feel it sucks. people vote with their feet. meaning they go ahead and buy what 
 appeals to them. so you  gamers, good on ya. there 
 are games made for you. games you no doubt love. enjoy em and the 9.9 million of us who've bought 
 COD WAW and enjoy it will do the same. it's all good.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 3rma
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 6, 2009 6:58 pm PT
Review:  This game is fun. The multiplayer player is almost perfect (lost connection) and it provides a 
 challenge. The problem comes in when you play the campaign. The story isn't that great and it is 
 way too short. There were some fun and interesting levels like the level in the PBYs and the sniper 
 level but everything else is a bit repetitive... Until you pull out a flamethrower or a bayonet, 
 that's when things get a lot more interesting. Throwing mortars was also kinda cool but it didn't 
 last long. Overall it was a good game but the campaign was rough around the edges. 
 
  
 
  
 
  :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FREEKILL117
Rating: 1
Date: Apr 5, 2009 4:26 pm PT
Review:  this game has screwed up all of the great things of the franchise.
  online, messed up.
  campaign was kind of o. k and coop with Nazi zombies was the only thing that kept me from lighting 
 this game on fire.
  I'm seeing a pattern though.
  
  i never played the first Cod game but the second one was great.
  the 3rd wasn't good, the 4th 
 amazing.
  the 5th s**t. It might just be me but I'm expecting a lot from number 6.
  with the coop and Nazi zombie modes give the game 1 step forward. But the rest of the work, that 
 infinity ward did so well, gives Call Of Duty WaW, 99 steps back. MW did the online, campaign, customization 
 and everything perfect.
  WaW did not. In MW a new player could go against a level 55 and apart from skill, a few perks and 
 guns it would be even. Two people of the same skill, with the same weapons and perks could go against 
 each other and it would fall down into who had the best connection 8/10 times.
  
  so all in all, thanks treyarch u just burned, bombed and destroyed the positive gaming that infinity 
 ward gained for the Call of Duty Franchise. Nice one! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Supertramp20
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 5, 2009 1:30 pm PT
Review:  Lot's of people like me thought cod 4 was a breath of fresh air from the WWII games but while playing 
 cod waw I feel back at home again. I'm not saying cod 4 was bad (I actualy thought it was better) 
 it's just that cod waw brought a lot of cool stuff to the table. Flamethrowers, 7 kill streak and 
 you get dogs and tanks. Lot's of people said they didn't like the game because of the guns but 
 I disagree I think the guns are fine. the maps are pretty much equal to cod 4, some good sniping 
 maps, some close quarters maps, and those in between maps. I definaetly like the storyline better 
 in cod waw because it was so much more emotional for both of the storylines. In cod 4 the storyline 
 was trying to be emotional but I just couldn't feel it. But the biggest part of cod waw is NAZI 
 ZOMBIES. This is a fun game thats 4 player co-op and pretty scary from time to time. I hope you 
 enjoy Call of duty world at war 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mgcrider08
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 4, 2009 5:54 am PT
Review:  Alright, let's get it out now. This is a very close product of COD 4, and I think most of us knew 
 that going in. However, it needs to be said that World at War is a great game and is unquestionably 
 a wonderful attempt by Treyarch to create a game worthy of playing. I would contend this is leaps 
 and bounds the best WWII shooter to date, and actually made "The War" a playable campaign (but 
 hopefully this is the last time) . The campaign is very well constructed and the addition of co-op 
 is awesome, because it just adds to the value of the game and offers something the previous installment 
 did not. This also makes war more "grown-up", because it does offer a darker side of what World 
 War II most likely was, and I applaud it for finally shedding some light on the extremely bloody 
 Pacific theatre. I won't spoil the game, but the Allies win the war (just in case you fell asleep 
 in History class) . Also, people that played COD 4 will be very comfortable with the controls and 
 will feel right at home playing the game.
  
  I think, however, this game falls short in multiplayer. It's curse is that it followed COD 4, and 
 COD 4 was so wildly popular because of its completely off-the-charts multiplayer. This is where 
 World at War seems lackluster, because this part of the game feels like it's been done before. 
 I also think the weapons in COD 4 spoiled people, and then having to go back and play with WWII 
 weapons again rubbed people the wrong way, especially people like me who aren't exactly gangsters 
 with an M1. The vehicles were a nice addition, but then you had people living in tanks and for 
 me, it became a noobfest of who could stay in a tank the longest. The sounds from World at War 
 are incredible, though, and I hope the next installment can build on that foundation. I still give 
 this game a "9" because it's genuinely a great game that should be played by all FPS-enthusiasts, 
 and just because it's WWII one more time doesn't mean it doesn't have value. It's an incredible 
 game, just not revolutionary like COD 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wurd
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 12, 2009 4:38 am PT
Review:  COD5 potentially would have been one of the greatest WW2 games ever. The story line is excellent 
 and you really do feel part of the squads in them. It has atmosphere and really draws you in. Some 
 battles are epic and can be very strategic while the weapons are excellent and varied with lots 
 of choice on what to carry. The flame thrower is pretty awesome too... there's nothing more satisfying 
 than flaming out a bunker full of enemies and watching them burn and generally shooting people 
 with any of the guns is very satisying (ok that sounds morbid I know!!)
  But there are 2 major factors that make COD5 far less enjoyable than it should have been.
  
 
  Firstly the amount of times you get killed by grenades is ridiculous and for me completely ruins 
 much of the gameplay. 9/10 times you die it will be by the grenade and it becomes incredibily tedious 
 especially when it's sevral times a level. Many times the grenades seem to appear out of no where 
 leaving you very little time to escape. You have a indicator to show where a grenade is, but many 
 times in the heat of battle you either don't see it or you have too little time to react. If the 
 grenade is on top of you you can throw it back which helps sometimes but alot of the time it will 
 blow up in your hand if too slow. Most times you are cornered in a building or against a rock and 
 cant get away, other times they throw 2 at once meaning you are trapped, you even run into them 
 by mistake and have no chance to react. This doesn't help by the fact the Comp AI can see you where 
 ever you are even when hidden and will always target you rather than your other AI team mates.
 
  WIth this constant dying by grenade, the 'very little health but can quickly regen it' system 
 and respawning enemy means there is absolutely no 'skill' in shooting or staying alive. Death comes 
 very quickly and usually you can't do much about it and respawning enemies mean what's the point 
 of shooting them and wasting ammo? You're far better off legging it to a position close by so they 
 don't respawn and pick them off or hope your squad take them out when they eventually catch up. 
 Sometimes you will find an excellent flanked position and start taking out enemies with your sniper 
 rifle only to find they keep respawning unless you advance which your squad don't do by themselves. 
 Personally I'd like to see COD move away from the respawning enemy type game and have lots of enemy 
 but numbered but some people like it I suppose. Shooting at range you end up saying 'why am I shooting 
 him I know he's going to respawn?' It detracts from the value of your kill really.
  
  Secondly the single player game is ridiculously short. Almost to the point of rip-off standards. 
 It seems by packaging the game as 'multiplayer' they can get away with half a single player game. 
 COD4 was bad length wise but I can't remember it being this bad. It's odd though because they have 
 tanks and aircraft levels that you do just once. The aircraft level is an awesome level so why 
 not have a few more of those. The tank level was a little dull mainly because you couldn't go hairing 
 in like advancing tanks do because you could only take a few hits before dying but still would 
 have been nice to repeat it in a different scenario like in Berlin or something.
  
  It's a shame this game has these major flaws. When you're not dying by grenade or by the enemy 
 you can't see it's pretty awesome and highly enjoyable. Just when I think 'yeah this is pretty 
 awesome.. quick behind that rock to reload.... **** grenade... boom... FFS!!'. When it happens all 
 the time you get seriously pissed with it. Sometimes you'll even respawn at the last checkpoint 
 with a grenade right next to you or someone shooting you in the face (yeah it happened) .
  
  I think the only reason I'm not sending this rented copy back in the 2 days it took me to complete 
 is I enjoy Nazi Zombies so I think I'lll keep hold of it for a little while. 
  With a longer single player campaign this game would be maybe 80-85 rating but there's no excuse 
 for how short it is hence the 75. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benjy117
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 1, 2009 11:57 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty World at War is an ok game for a first person shooter. It's not a bad game and it's 
 not a must have either. Though this one was not created by Infinity Ward its still worth playing 
 through the campaign. 
  
  The game introduced the Nazi Zombie horde which kept me playing it more than the multiplayer. It's 
 something to play until modern warfare 2 comes out. 
  
  I must say that the Call of Duty series is great but I think publishers are just begging for the 
 greenbacks when it comes to this series. They should have waited until Infinity Ward got back to 
 it. 
  The game plays kind of like COD4 .. to me it has dubbed down graphics and the weapons are way to 
 weak as far as multiplayer goes. I'm sure alot of people know what im talking when you go from 
 play cod4 to playing this. The characters seem to move like wind.. reminds me of socom on the playstation. 
 I don't know if its the framerate or something else... the weapons seem to be not as tuned in as 
 cod4s? The mortar rounds are annoying and when the dogs are called you can really see where the 
 latency sets in. I know dogs are a kewl idea but its not this game. The tanks make the game too 
 one sided as well. If you notice there a lot of people who play the Hardcore modes because of this. 
 If you like the MP part of COD4 I would advise you to sit back and wait for modern warfare 2 to 
 come out. I don't think this game is worth the 59 bucks for now ... its a copy of cod4's engine 
 but varies in gameplay alot. The zombie mode takes up for the mp but it can get repetitive after 
 a while.... rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DexRei
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 1, 2009 9:27 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the best yet. The World War 2 setting again is just awesome along with those 
 awesome olden day guns like the PPsh, the Gewhr and the Double Barrel Shotgun this game is taken 
 to a whole new level.
  
  The campaign is the best yet with the dreary and sad American story, pushing through the Japanese 
 Guerilla's defences. Then the speed and adrenaline rush of the Russian campaign is enough to get 
 your blood boiling as you pop off some Nazi heads. 
  
  The game also introduces a new game mode, the Nazi Zombies. In this mode the place has been hit 
 by a Zombie epidemic and you have to fight for survival as you battle hordes of never-ending corpses. 
 
  
  A map pack was also released for this game. The Map pack featured the awesome level Night fire, 
 where you fight through the burning city of Berlin. Also it introduced a new level for the Nazi 
 Zombies mini-game, allowing you to fight back the undead in a whole nother setting.
  
  Brutal, Gory, Blood-filled. Just what we love. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AVIS93
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 29, 2009 1:38 pm PT
Review:  Treyarch's installment in the CoD franchise was, before it was even launched, criticized because 
 of its return to WWII. Treyarch really knew how to change opinions of people. With so many bonuses 
 such as Co-op, Nazi Zombies, a great and insane campaign, and the multiplayer formula from CoD4, 
 this game is the best in all CoD franchise. 
  
  Fans of the series that loved CoD4 will love this game. The multiplayer is so great, with most 
 game modes from CoD4 including my favorite which is Hardcore Search and Destroy. Playing Nazi Zombies 
 with friends is the best! It's just so fun to stop a horde with weapons from WWII.
  
  Map Pack 1 adds to the hype of this game. I mean, it's really worth the 800 points. Three multiplayer 
 maps and one Nazi Zombie map, so much fun! The controls of the game are nice and responsive, it 
 has some nice and good looking level designs and excellent soundtrack. 
  
  I don't understand how people avoid this game because it is based on WWII. Really, actual wars 
 with Middle East are a joke and are so dumb, WWII is the war of wars and Treyarch did an excellent 
 job in bringing this game to us. This is one of the best shooters in the 360 and possibly one of 
 the best of all times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adakin01
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 28, 2009 6:08 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 5: World at War........ The is a sequel to a game that defined a franchise. After 
 Counter-Strike: Source defined the FPS world Cod : 4 gave it a new meaning. Now call of duty world 
 at war has been released and no-one thought it could live up to the expectations cod:4 had left 
 it.
  
  Yet as it didnt quite do that it still contains many astonishing graphics and lively First-person-Shooting 
 action. It has many differnt weapons and you know that activation has done their research on WW2 
 as it contains many aspects of the real-life war.
  
  You play as the british at the beginning and later keep switching to be a Russian Red army footman 
 who can actually kick some ass. The weapons are good and the new na-cht de unto-ten mode (Nazi 
 zombies) is cool as you barricade yourself in a building where the zombies keep coming as you try 
 to last as many rounds as you can. This is quite hard but if you play co-op 
  on-line it makes it so much easier.
  
  LIVE: The on-line multi-player is great and probably 
 the same as cod 4's live features. Although i see no-sense in doing prestige mode as you have to 
 start from rank one again.
  
  So its a graphically great game and one for the ages. It has been number 1 in numerous charts and 
 i can see it being a contender for best game 2009! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eastcoast93
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 27, 2009 2:28 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty World At War is everything you ever imagined from a war game playing in the Second 
 World War, plus much more. The Singleplayer is great as it includes a never touched scene, being 
 the pacific. On top of that there's a Russian campaign, focusing on the Berlin Putsch. The game 
 feels really realistic and you actually feel as though you are in the war. Its great and you will 
 find yourself being nervous, excited and sad at times.
  
  Multiplayer is where this game shines. Like COD 4, there are many levels to go up ( about 70 in 
 total) . It is really addictive to complete challenges, increase your level and play matches and 
 matches online. Apart from around two maps you will enjoy the map selection a lot. They are varied 
 and each offer their own possibilities. You can create your own class and unlock new weapons. The 
 multiplayer will keep you hooked for more than 50 hours + and is a blast. Offline multiplayer is 
 fun too and can be played with 4 players on one console. I had great times with my friends so far.
 
  
  Graphic is good, not comparable to works such as Mirrors Edge, Bioshock or Far Cry 2 but still 
 really good. Otherwise there is nothing to complain about. This game can be played coop offline 
 with 2 players, online with 4 players.
  
  The Achievements are good, though you should be able to beat the game on Veteran if you want more 
 than 300 points.
  
  Bonus- Theres a mode, which is also playable offline coop and online coop called Nazi Zombies. 
 Your aim is to keep Nazi zombies out of the house you are hiding in by closing windows with boards 
 and upgrading your weapons as you reach kill streaks. Really fun and only adds to the perfection 
 of this game!
  
  GET THIS GAME!!!! IT IS PERFECT!!!! MASTERPIECE 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Guitarfreak15
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 25, 2009 7:53 pm PT
Review:  The single player story is intriguing. It's enough to keep you interested until the end. Perhaps 
 it's not so much the story that keeps you playing as it is the gameplay. The graphics are astonishing 
 and the bullet reception is actually good. I personally think game developers are starting to realize 
 the importance of of bullet reception with. GTA4, Dead Space, and now this all offer a more realistic 
 environment to play in versus taking countless bullets to the face and 'walking it off'. Sure, 
 you can just hide after taking a barrage of bullets from the enemy, but when you shoot them, they 
 actually look like they're getting hurt versus just absorbing the bullet and thus blowing your 
 cover. The AI still needs some advancing on for it seems like you're always the main target even 
 if you have 20 or so guys standing between you and the German. As for the online play, it's really 
 not as intriguing as many make it sound to be. Once again, you have unlocks as you advance in rank 
 making it unbalanced in the 'more experienced' players favor. Online as a whole is just a matter 
 of who sees who first. But I guess that is the point of war. Not much strategy involved. The MP40 
 seems to be the dominant gun with the reflex scope for it seems EVERYONE has it. And after unlocking 
 it and playing with it I can see why. It's pretty much a merciless gun. Once again you have players 
 bunny hopping and diving to avoid your cover while still shooting at you. That really gets annoying. 
 what ever happened to 'suppressed fire'?
  
  So all in all the game has it's pros and cons. After all, what game doesn't? If you're a history/WWII 
 buff and love video games, I'd recommend renting this one just for the story line. Don't invest 
 $60 in something you're not going to play more then twice. Or just do it and help our economy. 
 I don't care. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ri8002
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 25, 2009 1:50 pm PT
Review:  Well, Treyarch has managed to make another horrible game.
  
  Let us start off with Campaign.
  Campaign is looks great in the pictures/videos online, but do 
 not let them fool you! It is a very short game, and very easy. I found no skill needed in completing 
 the game, other than on Veteran, in which it seems the only way to get past the area is to look 
 directly down at the ground and run up to the next bunker to let your (unlimited lives) squad kill 
 all the enemies for you.
  
  Coop is a great idea, although it seems that without a host with an unbelievably fast connection, 
 you'll find your enemies dying with a sometimes unforgiving lag.
  
  Nazi Zombies... AWESOME! Zombies is the only reason I gave this game at most a 5 rating. The first 
 Nazi Zombie map was fun, setting up perimeter, taking out zombies while running to the weapon box 
 hoping you'll get lucky with the legendary ray gun! The second map that just came out is beyond 
 fun. It allows you to be outrageously strategic. It was a great idea adding perks and the life 
 saver electric door ways.
  
  Online multiplayer, was very disappointing. In fact, the whole reason I bought this game was for 
 the online multiplayer. It seems as if a 1st year college student in game development took the 
 game engine of CoD4 and tried to make it different. 
  
  Glitches: New glitches are found monthly, ie getting under the map/flying up into the sky with an 
 "elevator" glitch.
  
  Weapons: Some are overpowered, Some are underpowered. There doesn't seem to be that happy medium 
 like in CoD4. This makes ranking up harder since the starting weapons are garbage compared to the 
 guys that stick it out at rank 65. I found it frustrating ranking up in Core mode, thus had to 
 switch over to Hardcore where people die within 2 shots with any gun. A weapon that is underpowered 
 and should be over powered is the rocket launcher. When playing core mode, you can literally land 
 a rocket next to someone's foot and they'll just get hurt really really bad, but not die.
  
  Tanks: TAKE THEM OUT!! Tanks are an awesome idea and I thought it would have been awesome, 
 but it turns out that they are way too overpowered. I counted 4 rockets and 2 anti tank sticky 
 grenades to take out one tank (which btw you only get 2 rockets and 1 grenade at a time since the 
 rockets and extra grenades both fall under the 1st perk) . You can smoke a tank with C4, only if 
 you manage to get it to drive over it, which never happens.
  
  Kill Streaks: 5 kills w/o dying artillery strike. Less effective than the air strike in CoD4, but 
 can randomly go through a building and kill someone if you're lucky ;-) . 7 kills w/o dying gives 
 you dogs, which is an AWESOME idea, but is way too overpowered. In hardcore mode, you die one bite 
 no matter what, which doesn't seem too be that bad, except that dogs take too many shots to kill. 
 You can shoot a dog right between the eyes with a bolt action and he'll still be running at you, 
 it's bad when you're a sniper in hardcore mode.
  
  Spawning: WTH happened? While playing you will find yourself spawning directly with a group of 
 enemies, multiple times a match. Sometimes it works to your advantage (spawning behind someone 
 then shooting them in the back) but this happens on a rare occasion.
  
  All in all the only reason I jump on to play this game is to play Zombies with my buddies. I would 
 highly unrecommended this game. There is a reason this game is now $49.99 and CoD4 is still $59.99. 
 Spend the extra $10 and get a better game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Techdude99
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 24, 2009 8:24 am PT
Review:  == Warning to all potential review readers, I have NEVER owned a COD game, so don't bash me if 
 I say some sort of part of the game is innovative by saying "But that part of the game was added 
 in COD2, doofus." ==
  
  I bought this game before COD4: MW on recommendation from my friends, I bought it mainly for the 
 Multiplayer, and Nazi Zombies, I guess.
  
  My first impression of the Campaign is one of the most gritty portrayals of World War 2 I have 
 ever seen, besides Brothers in Arms: Road to Hill 30, the first seen is Intense, and surprisingly 
 gory, After finishing the level, I decided to hop into some MP, and after playing many online games, 
 I finally ranked up high enough to create my own classes, which I enjoyed immensely.
  
  I was greatly impressed by the polished-ness of the Multiplayer, again, having never played a game 
 of COD online, it was a thoroughly exciting experience, killing my first tank, getting several 
 knifes in a row (yes, I like to get in close and personal) I felt very satisfied. And, due to the 
 release of the map pack (which I bought right after bringing the game home) The Double-XP week 
 was ongoing, so I have been racing up the ranks.
  
  Nazi Zombies was one of the buying points of the game for me, other than the great things I had 
 heard about Multiplayer, and I have a deep love for WWII games, if they aren't screwed up.
  
  Anyway, Nazi Zombies was an exciting and freakish game mode, whilst playing with one of my 
 friends, I was assigned two windows (it was a 2 Person game) and I almost died when I was unable 
 to stem a zombie foothold into the first floor until my friend saved my life, after opening the 
 next door into the random weapons box room, I immediately, after the recommendation of my friend 
 to trade a gun, i got the MG42 and immediately began to lay waste to Zombies and anything other 
 than my team-mate, sadly, most good things come to an end, in the midst of reloading, my team-mate 
 went down after being ganged up by 5 zombies, I hastily tried to save him, but I forgot to remember 
 to clear my flank, and ended up having a nice tasty dish of brain being served to the zombies.
 
  
  Pros:
  * A Graphical extravaganza, eye-popping visuals and arms flying off their respective masters.
 
  * Awesome multiplayer, it was so satisfying my first time getting dogs and unleashing them against 
 my opponents, who didn't see it coming.
  * two guns: Ray gun and Flamethrower.
  * an actually successful representation (at least part of) the U. S Pacific Campaign.
  
  Cons: 
 
  * One tends to be slightly outranked when first beginning, if it weren't for the Double XP week 
 I might have not had such a glowing review of the Multiplayer.
  * This is my first in-depth experience of COD, so it may not help those who have been fans from 
 the beginning, or at least since before I have been.
  * Frustrating problems with the multi-player menu, Multiple times I have been randomly kicked from 
 my friend's session.
  
  I hope this review has been helpful.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Commander-D
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 23, 2009 4:25 pm PT
Review:  Not long after the success of Infinity Ward's Call of Duty 4 Modern Warfare Call of Duty's other 
 development team Treyarch announced the developing of a 5th Call of Duty and what I was surprised 
 about is that the series is going back to WWII and I am sure that other people were as well but 
 a twist in the series is that it is going to be the first Call of Duty game to take the war to 
 the Pacific and reveal the darker side of World War II and the outcome is.... how should I put 
 this Awesome!!!
  
  Graphics: Since Call of Duty: World at War uses the Call of Duty 4 engine the visual presentation 
 shouldn't fall short especially the potential this game had. But for me the graphics are great 
 and have slight improvements. Weapons looks great, Background is detailed and reflects on the mood 
 of the game especially since this is a very dark game, and Character models looks amazing and animate 
 very well, blood effects have also improved and you will see a whole lot of blood in this game 
 but I will explain it more on gameplay.
  
  Sound/Music: The Sound has got to be in my opinion one of the game's strongest aspects. the guns 
 sound powerful and rewarding, the voice acting is terrific, the music is by far in my opinion the 
 best I've heard in a Call of Duty game and fits the action.
  
  Gameplay: Also one of the game's strongest aspects. as traditional Call of Duty gameplay is you 
 are a small part of a very large conflict and World at War is no exception. But to put this short 
 "Brutal" is the keyword for as I mentioned about you will see a lot of blood in this game and this 
 gives improvements to Call of Duty's source material as you can burn enemies with molotovs and 
 flamethrowers, brutalize them with rifle mounted bayonets, and blow off limbs with explosives. 
 Also depending on what weapon you're using and how powerful it is you can literally shoot limbs 
 off or shoot them and see their insides and it's pretty disgusting, and you can literally blow 
 their heads off by shooting them in the head with shotguns in point-blank range, with the .30 Cal, 
 or with the PTRS-41 sniper rifle if you're lucky and as a result if you look at the carcass you 
 can see the spine on the where the guy's head used to be. These elements are what makes World at 
 War stand out from any other Call of Duty and any other WWII game.
  
  Multiplayer: As of any other Call of Duty game especially since Modern Warfare you would expect 
 a great multiplayer and Treyarch did a great job on delivering the goods since the game offers 
 the customizable classes and weapons that well as the same multiplayer modes from Call of Duty 
 (Except Cage Match which is One on One Deathmatch) along with new modes such as War which is Call 
 of Duty's version of Conquest mode from Battlefield and Star Wars Battlefront and Capture The Flag 
 which was absent from Modern Warfare. There is also the new Co-op Campaign mode which let's you 
 play campaign with 3 other players online or with a friend locally. This is also the first Call 
 of Duty game to introduce Nazi Zombies in the series. In this mode up to four players must face 
 against unless hordes of undead nazis where the player (s) can earn points by killing or hurting 
 zombies or by repairing barricade that the undead destroyed. these points can be used to buy weapons, 
 ammo, unlock new rooms of the levels but don't be hasty for even though they give access to more 
 weapons and tactical areas they also give more doors for the zombies to access and makes it easier 
 for them to get the drop on you and finish you off quickly. I recommend playing it with friends 
 since it can be pretty hard especially for newcomers.
  
  Overview: Call of Duty World at War is definitely an awesome addition to the series and is in my 
 opinion one of the best WWII FPS games ever. If you're a fan of the series or if you like seeing 
 limbs fly off, get this game because it is well worth the $60. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaP_Hagmen
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 23, 2009 3:47 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty has always been a funny game to play in compare to old game army like Ghost Recon 
 2, Battlefield 2, Op flashpoint etc this is by far a simple game to play, you don't really need 
 to be very good at FPS as most of the time things are moving so fast you shot and get someone it 
 feel more like quake.
  
  Single player:-
  Graphic are at the best with this outing there have been improvement to the previousversion and 
 you can see that it the weather effect also the overall background movement. The bad guys with 
 pop out at you from anywhere and sniper with shot you from tree, so check them tree.
  
  Once you complete the game you get Nazi Zombie for me the plus of this game, get a few friend and 
 see how long you can stay alive it not that easy.
  
  Mutliplayer
  The MP mode really is the same minus updated graphic and new map, the new maps are a big improvement 
 on COD4 no move shipment guys wohoo.
  COD has always been a game of players with very little skill to play. i've done about a day and 
 have a kill to death Ratio of 1.37 and I would say you would really have to suck to score anything 
 less than 1.10 as most kill are random.
  
  If you like game like battlefield and Ghost Recon 2 (PC) than this really is not for you as will 
 fine not teamwork happens and no skill required, but if ur a big fan of Quake and Halo than this 
 is right up your street as the game is so fast pace. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supermanmega
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 23, 2009 9:55 am PT
Review:  this game is good.... but only if you havnt played cod4
  
  well the single player was ok. short and kinda boring, the same as last year. but! the one thing 
 that made cod4 so amazing was its multiplayer (well i think so atleast) it was great right? good 
 balance of guns and perks, great maps, no annoying glitches...... well not in cod5.
  
  well lets start with the guns.... about 3 or 4 of them are so overpowered its not even funny and 
 most of then take lvl 50+... so now all the high lvls own no matter how good you are at the game 
 and getting high enough to use the good guns takes forever because getting kills is so hard and 
 the challanges suck now. and the guns seem to run out of ammo very very fast...
  
  the maps! the maps are horrible now. almost every house has 3-4 ways to get in so your always getting 
 killed when your snipping, even with bounciing betties. there waaaay to big and you'll just spawn 
 near 3 enemies. tanks are a cheat because theres 3 on 1 map so whichever team has 2 tanks will 
 win.
  
  glitches and other little things that suck. the multiplayer is so glitchy i cant stand it. if you 
 get shot while shooting an rpg, the rocket wont shoot even though it makes the sound. bullets go 
 through enemies. shooting through walls is almost totally out of the game because it never EVER 
 seems to work even though i shoot a browning at a wooden crate..... artillery is useless because 
 by the time it starts shooting, all the enemies have left the area.
  
  overall i dont like this game. cod4 is much better for multiplayer and i play cod for the multiplayer. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RocKtheCasbaH
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 23, 2009 6:28 am PT
Review:  After playing the MP beta and finding it lacking compred to COD4, I decided to give the single 
 player a whirl. And I was pleasantly surprised. 
  
  I started the game with a load of pre-conceptions of what I was getting in to based on COD3, Treyarch's 
 last go behind the reigns.
  
  Where I was expecting badly scripted encounters with medeocre level design I found myslef getting 
 more and more drawn in and enjoying it. It's actually a pretty decent attempt at a COD game. Obviously 
 it's no Infinityward but it's close enough to make the money well spent.
  
  After getting halfway through the single player I plunged in to the multiplayer side and found 
 that that is better now than in was in beta - a lot tidier and smoother. or is it just me? Either 
 way I think Treyarch have made a passable attempt this time round, better than they did with COD3 
 and on the whole it gets a thumbs up from me. Especially for the boot camp mode which lets you 
 fight ranked matches with a level cap of 8 to ease you in to things.
  
  This one will definitely keep me going until Infinityward serve up COD6 later this year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KrAzY_Croat
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 26, 2009 12:10 pm PT
Review:  Developers Infinity Ward and Treyarch are unique in the gaming universe. The developers create 
 new games of the same series one after the other. Infinity Ward's Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare 
 stole the show with great visuals, great multiplayer combat, and a quality singleplayer campaign; 
 a first for the series. Now it's Treyarch's turn, and the series shifts back to World War II one 
 more time. Built on the Modern Warfare engine, Call of Duty: World at War goes toe to toe with 
 the original.
  
  Sharing the same engine, WaW is a lot like Call of Duty 4, and this plays to its advantage. Thankfully 
 taking a breather from the American focused campaign against the Nazis, the story centers on two 
 different characters. These two characters are in separate theaters: the Russian push of the German 
 out of their homeland, and the American assault on the Japanese. Alternating every few levels, 
 the pacing feels just right. 
  
  Each story starts off at a low point. Without arms and hope, the players look deep into the heart 
 of despair. The emotional tone throughout the tale doesn't match the beginning, or areas in Call 
 of Duty 4. The first levels are desperately hard fought scraps, and as the campaign moves on, troops 
 are infused with passion and a will to save their countries. 
  
  A superior officer like in Call of Duty 4, is present to set the the tone for the narrative, one 
 of which is voiced by Canadian actor Kiefer Sutherland. The spiteful and vengeful Russian campaign 
 gets the blood flowing, while the American version shows the grim reality of war. A message is 
 clear; despite the rewarding feel of victory, you are ultimately participating in mankind's worst 
 side. 
  
  Being a World War II game, WaW offers a complete arsenal of 40's era weapons. Well designed, and 
 they all feel right. Added to the mixture, are bayonets and flamethrowers which are greatly entertaining 
 to use. WaW is also more violent and graphic then Call of Duty 4. Explosions will tear off limbs, 
 and well placed shots will paint a bloody mess. 
  
  World at War offers a notable leap to the Call of Duty series; a two person split-screen and a 
 four-player online cooperative campaign is available. Difficulty and numbers increase as the number 
 of players increase. A scoreboard can also be added, this adds a competitive component in which 
 players can earn points for picking off enemies or resurrecting friends. 
  
  Call of Duty 4 is world renown for its competitive multiplayer, but it had its share of problems. 
 World at War deals with certain of them, but also does not solve others. There are less sniper 
 dominated maps, which will be a huge sigh of relief to anyone whom plays otherwise. Most maps are 
 great, and it is safe to say they are more grim, emotional (thanks to World War II) and better 
 designed maps. 
  
  Call of Duty 4's player enhancement system is present, with more added. In addition to weapons 
 upgrades and the usual character perks, a new slot exists for vehicles. These vehicles perks affect 
 newly added Panther and T-34 tanks on certain maps. The rest of the perks remain the same; as players 
 rank up, they unlock more weapons and upgrades. 
  
  Word at War unfortunately does not fix everything that needed to be repaired or otherwise altered. 
 Headshots are still notoriously difficult to produce (even when the only body part an enemy is 
 exposing is his head) . Sniper rifles are still powerful, as they should be; however shots to the 
 knee and below would not be an instant fatal blow, not even in the "realistic" hardcore mode. And 
 S-Mines or more familiarly known Bouncing Betty's, just like Claymores are still as annoying and 
 poorly designed.
  
  World at War offers a few other novel changes from its older counterpart: the kill streak changing 
 from radar, air-strike and helicopter to recon plane, artillery and attack dogs respectively.
 
  Perhaps the greatest addition to WaW however, is the Nazi Zombie mode. This allows up to four 
 friends to fight an onslaught of zombie waves. Not dissimilar to Horde mode from Gears of War 2, 
 players fight these zombies in ever increasing waves of zombies. With every wave, more will come 
 and in greater velocity. To combat these undead, a point system can be used to purchase weapons 
 and ammunition. 
  
  It is World at War's fate to become less loved than its predecessor. The high bar set by Call of 
 Duty 4 fresh approach at its time denies World at War from repeating. However, this game is no 
 simple rehash or modded Call of Duty 4. With enhancements in its sensational multiplayer as well 
 as brilliant cooperative and zombie blasting campaigns, Treyarch's latest game is every bit as 
 impressive as Modern Warfare in its own right. Easily one of the best World War II shooters to 
 date, there is a lot to enjoy and see in Call of Duty: World at War. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ADDADAC
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 22, 2009 10:56 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard that the next Call of Duty game was going take place in WWII again, I thought 
 "Why? Didn't they just take the seires out of that over-used setting?" And when I heard that it 
 was going to be made by Treyarch, I thought "COD: 3 is my least favorite game in the series so 
 far and Treyarch made that, should I even play this game?" When the game came I decided to give 
 World At War a try.
  The game starts out feeling alot like Call of Duty: 4, since they both use the same engine and 
 are in the same series, this makes perfect sense. This feeling stays throughout the whole game, 
 but it also feels like the old Call of Duty games. This may make you think "Why play this when 
 I can play any other Call of Duty game and get the same action?" The answer to this is: it does 
 make some new additions to the series. Even though it takes place in World War II it tells two 
 stories that are rarely told in other World War II games, the Red Army invading Germany, and the 
 Americans Island hopping. These stories are very well told and you'll want to complete each story 
 from beginning to end. The story of the Red Army adds alot of emotion of them finally taking back 
 their country then taking over Germany. The gameplay here is very similar to the other World War 
 II games though, but is very interesting.
  The American campaign is probably the most interesting part of the game. It is the first time the 
 Call of Duty the setting takes place in Japan. During World War II the Japanese were very fierce 
 and brutal warriors and in the American campaign of World At War, they display this very well. 
 Japanese soldiers can be hidden any where, from trees to under ground. They rush at you with bayonets 
 and you have to act very quickly to avoid and kill them. They attack in large numbers and are very 
 well defended. This campaign really ultilizes the new flame thrower, the plants and trees burn, 
 making whoever is in your way easy to take down. 
  The multiplayer is fun but is basically Call of Duty 4's multiplayer with minor changes. Over all 
 the game may feel very familiar, but is very worth-while and brings some new ground to the series. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: howebd
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 22, 2009 5:29 pm PT
Review:  One of the best games on the 360. Pick this one up and you may never put it down. Solid gameplay 
 throughout. kinda short campaign but on and on great game. new map packs are sick with the new 
 nazi zombies! Great job Treyarch. With new map packs coming out after the release of this one, 
 you really can't expect anything less than the best with Treyarch now. Can't wait till anything 
 new comes out. Really buy this game if you have a 360 or ps3! Great graphics throughout the game 
 to go along with awesome game play through out the entire game. few glitches during the game but 
 you can look over those as you look over the entire game as a whole. This game in my opinion is 
 better than cod 4 by a long shot. with unproved graphics and, game play, and the new and exciting 
 "Nazi Zombie" mode, defiantly blows it's previous game out of the water! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Roseph-Chisholm
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 22, 2009 5:13 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 5 is a first person shooter (FPS) that takes place in World War 2 (WW2) like many 
 other FPS games. That's 1 Con (0/1) While the game has a fun and challenging aspect to it and some 
 impossible seeming achievments you have a lot of replay value and can play this game through a 
 couple times. Thats 1 Pro (1/1) Now if you have an Xbox live gold account you can have hours upon 
 hours of fun with friends and rivals a like. Another Pro (2/1) but if you do not have internet 
 or a gold membership you will be stuck with the storyline game which is surprisingly short. That's 
 another Con (2/2)
  
  The game looks nice and well done with some small details and textures in objects something to 
 expect from a next-gen console. Pro (3/2) While looking clean cut there is another side to it. 
 Seeing all the glitches that are being patched weekly and more being found can be a major game-play 
 problem that can and usually does suck the fun right out of the game. Con (3/3)
  
  The guns and other weapons are fun and get increasingly stronger as you go along online or storyline. 
 They have everything from the thompson to a flamethrower! Every weapon has its own unique advantages 
 and disadvantages so everybody can find a gun that they like. Pro! (4/3)
  
  My Final Conclusion: The game is a must own for FPS fans with internet and a gold live account 
 but if you're missing either of those this game is really not worth the $50 that you have to pay 
 for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: taino1128
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 22, 2009 4:36 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Sick storyline; Pacific theater works well; same CoD warfare; flamethrowers, bayonets, 
 and molotovs; campaign can now be played cooperatively; same crazy multiplayer; Nazi Zombies; graphics, 
 gameplay, and sound are still top of the line.
  
  The Bad: Feels like you've played here before; feels like you've shot these guns before; feels 
 like you've played this way before.
  
  
  2007's Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare was a major hit. It was the best selling game of 2007 and 
 was the official game of the year. It combined an intense and engaging campaign along with extremely 
 innovative multiplayer. Following up a game that amazing isn't easy. World at War sticks to CoD4's 
 planted roots and stays mostly the same, which isn't necessarily a bad thing. While you may feel 
 like you're repeating past glory, there is no doubt that you will still have fun.
  Modern Warfare's campaign had intense battles, varied settings, perfect pacing of action, a sick 
 story, and strong AI. World at War is no exception. All of those things fit perfect into the game's 
 WWII setting. Each mission stands out from the others. The enemy and teammate AI are perfect. Teammates 
 still always help and enemies will always punish you for not using cover and for using the wrong 
 weapons. The higher the difficulty level, the stronger the AI is. 
  Few WWII shooters have made attempts at the Pacific theather and all have failed. The American 
 campaign takes place in the Pacific theater with no problems. This is actually the shining point 
 in the campaign for that reason, and the flamethrower. Yes, there is a flamethrower. Burning enemies 
 hiding in the grass and sniping up in the trees is very satisfying. Bayonets and molotov cocktails 
 are also new to your arsenal. Bayonets increase melee attack for convenience and molotovs are just 
 another fun way to burn those who stand in your way.
  The European theater, though familiar, also works without major problems. You finally get to play 
 as the Russians ripping Germany apart, though it starts as a sniper mission in Stalingrad. It also 
 has a "KILL THEM ALL! SHOW NO MERCY! SEND THEM TO HELL!" feeling which makes it more fun than ever 
 before.
  This campaign also doesn't shy away from the brutality of Modern Warfare's campaign, but actually 
 amps it up. You start off both campaign's held as a prisoner and watch fellow soldiers die brutal 
 deaths and become lucky enough to survive. Making an enemy slowly burn to death is just plain cruel. 
 The feeling to the Russian campaign, as stated in the last paragraph, makes the warfare more engaging 
 and makes the player feel pumped up. There is even a mission where Nazis who try to surrender are 
 killed and you hear a friendly say, This is not war! This is murder!" There is also a lot more 
 gore. Blowing someone in half the a double-barreled shotgun is not for the faint of heart. You 
 will also see arms and legs fall off, making this game a bit more violent the Modern Warfare. 
 
  Finally, the campaign can be played cooperatively, both online and split-screen. You can either 
 play just regularly or competing for points, which are gained by killing enemies and reviving teammates. 
 The end of the match states how many points you have gained, but those don't actually go towards 
 your ranking, which will turn some off and makes this co-op a bit irrelevant. 
  Nazi Zombies is another co-op mode where you and three other players are trapped in a building 
 with never ending hordes of zombies who are back from the dead for revenge. You gain money and 
 points by killing zombies and fixing windows from which they will break in. The money can be used 
 to open up more doors and get new weapons. It will say that you gain experience points, but again, 
 they don't go towards your ranking. This may sound irrelevant, but it is unlike anything else and 
 is good for some wacky fun.
  The most important thing that made Modern Warfare such a hit was its innovative and intense multiplayer. 
 It comes back in World at War and improved to fit the WWII setting. Before 3 kill streak gave you 
 a UAV, 5 kills gave you an airstrike, and 7 kills gave you a helicopter. Now 3 kills gives you 
 a recon plane, 5 kills gives you an artillery strike, and 7 lets you unleash a pack of angry dogs, 
 which changes the game more than it sounds. All of the unlockable perks, weapons, and weapon attachments 
 make a return. Obviously, you unlock new things as you rank up and then prestige. They let you 
 customize the the way you play. The War game for Call of Duty 3 returns, which have two teams fight 
 for a flag and then cause the other team to retreat or advance to the next flag. A new addition 
 to this game is that if a player commits 3 team kills in a hardcore game, they are automatically 
 kicked. So no more pulling out the rocket launcher and killing your entire team in Hardcore Search 
 & Destroy, praise God. Tanks are now on some of the maps, but they are either really cheap or really 
 annoying. The tanks move way to slow and take up to 4 bazooka rockets to bring down. This is basically 
 the only flaw in the multiplayer.
  The graphics and sound effects set a high standard in Modern Warfare, though they stayed the same 
 for the most part, they are still high above many other games. The frame rate is smooth at 60 frames 
 per second. The sound effects, as usual in Call of Duty, make you feel like you're on the battlefield. 
 The voice acting is very improved. The characters sound more into the war and say things less repeatedly. 
 Even in the multiplayer, the leaders speaking sound better and are more varied in what they say. 
 The multiplayer characters will also yell a lot more things, they even mention what buildings the 
 enemy players are in on the maps.
  World at War is an excellent game that belongs in every shooter fan's collection. It does lack 
 the innovation that was in Modern Warfare and it is another WWII shooter, but that doesn't keep 
 it from being great. The quality of both the single-player and multiplayer are still high above 
 many other shooters and will keep you coming back for months to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ugly_Genius
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 22, 2009 7:43 am PT
Review:  STUPID KITTENS! ITS THEIR FAULT! um, staying on topic... COD WAW brings alot of good things to 
 the series. like nazi zombies. that is an amazing mode where you and up to 3 friends are trapped 
 in a room, with boarded up windows that increasingly tough zombies try to get through. points accumulated 
 can be spent on opening new rooms, guns, grenades, or a mystery box, which can give you any random 
 gun. even a ray gun that is only available in nazi zombies. the maps are pretty cool, but they 
 took out the small map gameplay. in COD 4 there was shipment, but the smallest map in WAW is double 
 that size. i miss those games... ITS THE KITTENS FAULT!!!! i would buy this game if i were you. 
 but im not you. im me. so i dont make those decisions. anywho, i hope this was 100 words or 800 
 charcters, or whatever the minimum requirement is. i spelt requirment wrong in one of these. i 
 R dumm. peace. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luke89330
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 10, 2009 4:20 am PT
Review:  Last year, I played a lot of CoD4, its just such an awesome game. So when Call of Duty: World at 
 War came out, I didnt even payed attention to it. All I heard is that its made by Treyarch. I know 
 how CoD3 turned out, so I pretty much ignored WaW. I did try out the multiplayer demo/beta before 
 it released, it wasnt bad, I was surprised, but I still didnt consider getting it at all. This 
 year, I somehow got tired of CoD4, so I trade it in. Even though I did not regret doing it, but 
 after that I have NO multiplayer game! I first thought Gears 2 will last me till CoD6, but sometimes 
 I just cant stand Gears 2 multi. So I remembered how WaW demo was. It started to get my interest 
 especially after watching Valkyrie, Defiance, and Saving Private Ryan... I bought a new copy of 
 WaW from ebay, and seriously, I am so glad that I did not force myself to allow Gears 2 to last 
 me till another new multiplayer.
  
  WaW, although it is set in WWII, it is very similar to CoD4, its almost identical. The engine is 
 the SAME, graphics is the SAME, interface is the SAME, guns handle the SAME, multiplayer is very 
 much the same as well. Which is actually not a bad thing... And it is why WaW did not fail that 
 bad... WaW uses the same experience and level system that you get more weapons, perks, challenges, 
 through 65 levels. After 65, you can go on prestige, if you prestige, not only you get achievements, 
 you also get an additional customizing slot (out of 5) for your multiplayer. Experience gained 
 through assist in CoD5 is based on how much damage you dealt before killed by your teammate, rather 
 than a fixed 2 XP in CoD4. Attachment on weapons can unlock by getting kills using the weapon you 
 wish to upgrade. However, by contrast to CoD4, there are no camouflage paintings. So for the amount 
 of headshots challenge, you only get the bonus experience, nothing else. 
  
  The guns in WaW, though obviously are guns around WWII time, it handles like CoD4, I wouldnt say 
 exactly the same because most of the guns in WaW have more recoil, especially for sniper rifles, 
 which is realistic. However, the unrealistic part for example, they have this attachment thing 
 called Aperture Sight, which acts like a Red Dot in CoD4, but I really dont think there exist Aperture 
 Sights during WWII, which according to CoD5, they are basically a glass shaped in circle with a 
 crosshair and a dot on it. Is there such thing during WWII? I highly doubt it. Aperture Sight, 
 also called Peep Sight, is just a rear gunsight, NOT a piece of glass or something. But I guess 
 for players ease, they added it. Unrealistic. I dont like it, I much prefer just old school Iron 
 Sight, but I guess some people really needed it... Other attachments are very similar to CoD4, 
 except they also have bayonet and extended clip.
  
  The perks in CoD5, some of them are the same, like Stopping Power, Sleight of Hand, Martyrdom, 
 Double Kill, Camouflage (UAV Jammer) , Double Tap, and some other ones I cant remember. CoD5 also 
 have the Second Chance perk, it is an edited version of Last Stand that not only acts like Last 
 Stand in CoD4, but while you are not out, people who also have Second Chance can heal you, so you 
 can stand up again. Other ones that Treyarch made up by themselves are uninspiring, pretty much 
 no one uses. So you can tell, there is a pretty serious issue on unbalanced perks. In the multy, 
 they also have this kill 3, 5, 7 in a roll, you get some support kind of system. Kill 3 you get 
 Recon Plane (UAV) , Kill 5 you get artillery (airstrike) , and kill 7 you get a bunch of attack dogs, 
 which I think its a brilliant idea to replace the helicopter. Tanks are in some of the multiplayer 
 maps, some people hated it, because it takes awhile to kill, but I guess its an OK but an unnecessary 
 addition.
  
  Aside from all the multiplayer modes that are the same as CoD4, they have this new addition called 
 Nazi Zombies. This mode is very different from others, and it is created by Treyarch. Its a 4 player 
 co-op game, where you are in a bunker, trying to defend it and stop the slow moving zombies from 
 getting inside, you get money by killing zombies, fix barricades, and reviving downed teammates. 
 Money is for buying weapons and unlocking other areas in the bunker. But there will be more spots 
 for zombies to get in. This mode is quite fun, Treyarch did a great job on the atmosphere, the 
 zombie animation, and the best part is, you gotta shoot 'em in the head! Shooting at other parts 
 wont help much since you only take 2 hits from a zombie to be down. The downside of Nazi Zombies 
 is that no drop-in drop-out, once a teammate leaves, too bad. Also, your purpose of this mode is 
 to try to survive as many waves as possible, there really isnt a task or something to complete. 
 And by the way, playing Nazi Zombies or online cooperative/competitive campaign does not affect 
 your XP in multiplayer.
  
  Now the single player, is where the most frustrations are. Though, if you play it on normal difficulty, 
 its not too bad. The campaign itself is intense and exciting, with few good surprises. But if you 
 play on the Veteran difficulty... then nightmare comes. I didnt notice anything when I played on 
 normal, but when I was playing Veteran. I noticed Treyarch did a terrible job at both friendly 
 and enemy AIs, its just horrible, unrealistic, and its pretty much retarded I can say. The AI is 
 so bad that both friendlies and enemies can be standing face to face firing, and miss. Friendlies 
 can watch and ignore an enemy passing them by and rush into you. So if you are going Veteran, prepare 
 for frustrations, and the Purple Heart achievement! Another thing that Treyarch failed at is spawning. 
 In single player, there is one time, I literally see an enemy spawned in front of my face and killed 
 me... In multiplayer, spawning is one of the big issues. Enemies can spawn in your scope, and so 
 can you...
  
  CoD5, although it has problems, its still a great game compared to other games that are out there. 
 I like CoD4, but I play CoD5 now because I like WWII better.
  
  Goods:
  Multiplayer is, or is about, as good as CoD4
  Nazi Zombie is an great addition
  Allow 4 player 
 split screen and online campaign
  WWII guns handle and make great sounds as they should be
  Great presentations with WWII footage
  Great gore effect
  Some pretty good voice acting
  
 Campaign is a solid experience
  
  Bads:
  Too similar to CoD4, its just like a mod, why are we paying it for 60 bucks?
  Problematic AI
 
  Flawed spawn mechanic
  Uninspiring and unbalanced perks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kennyeckbuttas
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 21, 2009 12:25 pm PT
Review:  The fact is, Call of Duty: World at War is a great game. The only thing that brings it down are 
 just very minor parts of the gameplay, but these very "minor" things turn into a major problem. 
 
  
  I'll get all the bad stuff out of the way first. The A. I., both the enemies and your fellow soldiers, 
 is just horrible. You'll see a Marine and a Japanese standing within kissing distance, yet they 
 are both emotionless. Just two guys standing completely still, until two minutes later the Japanese 
 guy bayonets the marine; great going America. Once while being attacked by a banzai, he froze, 
 the screen didn't, the banzai did. I was lying there as "Tojo" was mounting me. I couldn't do anything 
 but restart the level, mind you I was in the last level of the Marines, pretty far in, after... 
 I guess without spoiling it, I had already gotten the "Guardian Angel" achievement.
  
  For the most part CoD5 is not a very difficult game, but if you ever get killed it will most likely 
 be a grenade. The Germans and the Japanese must have 15 hour courses on how to predict enemy movement. 
 They're constantly tossing grenades. You'll find yourself running away from a grenade just to return 
 to find yet another grenade in your spot. The grenades combined with the A. I. is not a good thing 
 at all. Trying to get out of the trench because there is a grenade there? Too bad, Kiefer Sutherland 
 felt like blocking you, BOOM. 
  
  Now on with the good. The graphics are great. The gameplay, besides the endless grenades, is fairly 
 entertaining. The flamethrower is a great addition into any game, you taking notes Viva Pinata? 
 When you beat the game you get a mini-game in which you kill Nazi zombies. I haven't played the 
 multiplayer, yet but I will definitely be playing it soon. 
  
  Overall, it's a good game, but like most good games there is always one thing. The A. I. is a common 
 problem in a lot of games. I would say rent, but if you're into multi player, and it's XBL is anything 
 like CoD4, then buy.
  
  7.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Welshman25
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 21, 2009 1:59 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty: World at War is just an incredible game. The singleplayer campaign is a bit longer 
 than Call of Duty 4's and just as great. It's got several memorable levels that are fun to play 
 over and over again (mainly the flamethrower levels and the Stalingrad sniping level) . But the 
 multiplayer is where COD: WaW really shines. The versus modes are just as awesome as they were 
 in COD4 and the online co-op campaign is great too. The best part of this game is what sets it 
 apart from COD4: Nazi Zombies! This is my favorite part of the game and it's incredibly addictive 
 and fun to play with friends. One of the great things about the zombie mode is that teamwork is 
 a must. You have to work together to be sure you don't get swarmed from behind. Now lots of people 
 think that COD4 is better. They say that just because World at War is made by Treyarch and it is 
 in WW2, it's not good enough. But I think Treyarch did an awesome job. I actually like World at 
 War better than Modern Warfare. Even though I do like the modern setting better than WW2, flamethrowers 
 and zombies make World at War unique and, in my opinion, better than COD4. Overall, World at War 
 is a must for any fps fan and it is probably my favorite game as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamer_Guy_07
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 21, 2009 7:27 am PT
Review:  Story: 10/10- a classic story of world war 2 theters of war. Real places are used and the missions 
 and characters are realisitic.
  
  Gameplay: 9.5/10- The gameplay is the same as Call of Duty Modern Warfare but that was good so 
 this keeps the good trend. There are alot of wepons in just the single player. I will get into 
 the multiplayer and the Nazi Zombies later. The singleplayer campaign is setup like Call Of Duty 
 Modern Warfare. There are many different weapons and difficulties. There is a classic tank and 
 plane level that hits the mark. If you are an achievement hunter than you can jack the difficulty 
 to Veteren and get 30 gamerpoints for beating a level on that difficulty. The only thing i have 
 a problem with is the fact that in some levels you will see a teammate run up die, then secounds 
 later another guy will run up and die so on and so on. Same with the enemies, and this makes Veteren 
 really quite impossible. The newly added flame thrower is so fun to use and the explosive enviroment 
 is pretty sweet.
  
  Sound: 9.5/10- The sound is amazing, it sounds like real war. They even got a few famous actors 
 to play major parts and this adds alot to be honest. The guns sound real and when the soldiers 
 freak out and start swearing reminds me of any war movie i have seen. For example for a win online 
 Kiefer
  Sutherland will say in his perfect war voiceOUTSTANDING MARINES, OUT F**CKING STANDING, WE KICKED 
 @$$." I like the "umphh" you get from some of the guns. Like for the M1A1 Carbine you can here 
 the power that goes into the bullet that sends it fyling into a mans forehead.
  
  Graphics: 9/10- Though not as good as say Gears of War 2 these graphics are amazing with the odd 
 flaw in a texture that took me a real long time to see while i was pinned down in the evil Veteren 
 mode. The fire looks real and the guns are replicas of the real things. The graphics are as good 
 online to so you won't be missing anything if you play online.
  
  Multiplayer: 9.9/10- ALMOST the perfect ten but i couldnt give it to this category because of some 
 flaws. There is so much to do online. TDM, DM, CTF, Headquarters, Sabatage, War, Ground War, and 
 so on. And there are also many challenges to do like get certain amount of kills for a certain 
 gun ect. There are 12 or so maps shipped with the game and there is already one map pack out with 
 2 more on the way so you won't be bored quickly. The so called flaws (not really flaws) are that 
 if im sitting way back from a battle and someone has a 50 cal and he is shooting at some1 in front 
 of me i will get killed. i look at the kill cam and see the "YOU" arrow pointing to where i am 
 and then the recoil from his gun jumps over to where i am hiding for one shot and it hits me in 
 the head :@. Also juggernaut (a perk) is so cheap because it is :P. If your wondering what a perk 
 is then here you go: you get four perks to put on your loadout. One being an explosive, and another 
 being a tank perk. the other 2 are either weapon perks or health or misc. perks.
  
  The cool thing also about online is that you can make your own loadout. You can choose your perks (see 
 above) and choose your PRIMARY WEAPON, SECONDARY WEAPON, GRENADE and 4 PERKS. On your PRIMARY WEAPON 
 you can put attachments on it like bayonets, grenade launchers, silencers, dot sights and scope 
 ect. Multiplayer will be the last legs of this game.
  
  NAZI ZOMBIES is so sweet i can't get enough of it. Your in a house and there are windows and walls 
 the zombies can come in from. They have to tear down the barriers first and then you kill them 
 rebuild barriers open new section of the house and buy better weapons untill you die which will 
 happen at sometime. There are weapons on the wall you can but or you can go to the random weapon 
 box and get any weapon in the game incluiding a RAY GUN!!! You can do this with people on split 
 screen or online or by yourself. The cool thing is is that it never stops getting harder. I have 
 made it to round 20 and i was like HOLY CRAP this is crazy. In the Map Pack 1 zombie level you 
 are in the Assylum from the campaign level Eviction. IF you have 4 people then you are split up 
 in pairs and you must fight to the middle of the house where you turn on the power. This activartes 
 doors, pop machines (yes pop machines) and an electric shield. When you buy the pop machine you 
 get one of the 3 perks: Faster Reload, Faster Revieves of Downed Teammates, Faster rate of fire, 
 and increased health. This adds alot to the ezombie mode and so yea. Multiplayer is the highlight 
 of this game.
  
  
  Price: 10/10- Big game, endless multiplayer fun and plus NAZI ZOMBIES. I got it for 59.99 when 
 it first came out. It may drop but if it doenst still buy it. it is worth every last cent!
  
  OVERALL: 9.7/10- As said above great game, great price. Buy it TODAY!!!!
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RD1109
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 14, 2009 4:18 pm PT
Review:  The first thing you'll hear out of someone's mouth when they're reviewing COD: WaW is that it's 
 just another WWII game and it's a been-there, done-that kind of game. It's complete bull. This 
 game is nothing like any other WWII game I've ever played before (I've played every Call Of Duty 
 and every Medal Of Honor game BTW) . 
  
  Okay, so we'll start with the campaign mode. It lasts around 10-12 hours, so it's basic FPS length. 
 But the unique thing about this campaign apposed to any other game of it's kind, is that you are 
 playing in two completely different settings during the game fighting against COMPLETELY different 
 enemies. All of the COD games have you playing as two different soldiers in different countries, 
 but this game takes that above and beyond. One mission you'll be fighting as U. S. Marine Raiders 
 trying to battle your way through the Imperial Japanese army who do anything they can to kill you, 
 wether it be hide in the grass with grass-covered suits on and pop out with bayonets, or even strap 
 a bomb to their chest and commit suicide while trying to take you down with them - they will never 
 give up. Then, you go and fight in the Red Army for Russia and duke it out against Nazis (Germans, 
 of course) . They are completely different styles of play and the game forces you to change your 
 tactics every so often to insure that you will never get bored or too relaxed. The campaign has 
 missions where you snipe enemies while trying to remain hidden, where you shoot a fighter-plane 
 minigun, and even when you operate a tank that's equipped with a cannon and a flame-thrower. Nonetheless, 
 it isn't the least bit repetitive and you will enjoy every last second.
  
  Even with the amazing campaign section of the game, the multiplayer is still where the game shines 
 most. There are five types of multiplayer - Core, Hardcore, Co-Op Campaign, Competitive Co-Op Campaign, 
 and Nazi Zombies. The core and Hardcore modes are your standard multiplayer sections that each 
 contain a variety of game modes you can choose from including you standard TDM and DM modes along 
 with a bunch of objective-style modes. The difference between Core and Harcore is that in Hardcore 
 you have limited HUD, miniscule health, no Kill Cam, and a respawn delay time, while in Core you 
 have all of the above. I have to say, not many games comes close when it comes to the spectacular 
 multiplayer component in Call Of Duty. Not only do you have so many modes to choose from, the maps 
 are arranged beautifully, the guns are perfect and balanced, and the ranking system... Oh, the 
 ranking system. Ahhh, how perfect it is. You have a level cap of 65, but you get the ability to 
 gain prestige once you reach level 65. You can prestige ten times. There are challenges to complete 
 for EXP, and you also get EXP for kills, capturing objectives, and finishing a match. It takes 
 about a month to level all the way to 65, so if you go prestige all ten times, it will take a long, 
 long time, keeping you occupied. The Nazi Zombies mode is a mode that allows you to fight increasingly 
 hard waves of German zombies. Each round gets harder because more zombies come, they get faster, 
 more durable, smarter, and stronger. You can buy guns with the points you get from killing zombies 
 and repairing the barriers to keep them away, or even open hidden doors and chests to access new 
 areas. This mode is fun and can be played with up to four players. The other modes I mentioned 
 speak for themselves. They're just Co-Op campaign with up to four players.
  
  Get this game, or else! Just kidding. But seriously, If you want a good shooter, this game should 
 be at the very top of your list. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Handsome-Hall
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 18, 2009 11:58 am PT
Review:  ok let me just clarify one thing this game is good. if you are a fan of FPS i guarantee that you 
 will get alot of fun out of it ,i know i did ,however actually now that i have played through it 
 thoroughly and have sat down and thought about it i cant help but feel that the developers were 
 slightly lazy with game. They have done this all before and i feel that those who have played alot 
 of ww2 games will stuggle to find any originality in this game. You will find that many of its 
 levels are just copied from movies like "enemies at the gate" and that all the guns in the game 
 apart from the flamethrower have all been done before. However you will never feel frustrated about 
 this during the game as the stuff the did they did well.
  
  The multiplayer is just the same as cod 4 but with ww2 weapons and some tanks. It is still fun 
 however.
  
  To to finish off i say this cod 5 is a great game and is a the very least worth a rental and (If 
 you do on the harder difficulties) you will spend many hours on this game having some great fun 
 but ,with all due respect for brave veterans of ww2 who gave their lives for our freedom, this 
 point in history is really starting to get tired. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AnthonyBoscia
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 18, 2009 9:32 am PT
Review:  What happened? It's easy to slam this game since it follows the heels of Infinity Ward's infinitely 
 better Call of Duty 4. But truth be told, World at War is a good, fun game. It's just not top notch.
 
  
  So what went wrong? Well, the setting for one. Didn't we mention we're sick of World War 2? Although 
 I'm really happy at the theaters: the steamy islands of the Pacific and the massive Eastern Front 
 (the real heart of the war) , this game would have been cooler a couple years ago before we got 
 UAV's, NODs and ACOGs. Not to mention the game's rough edges. Treyarch uses the COD4 engine to 
 a T, which makes this almost feel like a mod or expansion. That's not to say that the game isn't 
 great looking, just that it lacks a certain polish.
  
  The single player campaign has its ups and downs. On the positive, the flamethrowers and Molotov 
 cocktails look amazing and are tremendously fun. The ejection sound of the M1's clip never goes 
 out of style, either. The co-op campaign with scoring competition, and optional Death Cards, are 
 really fun. But the scripting came off as very poor. It's so painfully obvious that you don't have 
 to shoot the enemy, you just have to reach a certain invisible checkpoint. So instead of trying 
 to pick targets and find cover, I find myself again and again trying to avoid combat and run forward, 
 like a mad game of Red Light/Green Light. It made the campaign feel like a chore instead of propelling 
 me forward the way Modern Warfare did. Plus, Gary Oldman and Jack Bauer provide excellent voicework, 
 but they are giving extended speechs in the middle of a firefight that I can't hear or don't care 
 about. It just seems sloppy. The Catalina boat plane is OK but not nearly as awesome as the AC-130 
 was, but the tank level is pretty cool as you take out camouflaged 88s. 
  
  The multi-player is essentially Modern Warfare with WW2 weapons. Only the dogs really differ from 
 the helicopter, although they can be irritating when they're not yours. The feature I really loved 
 about this game was that Last Stand is not a perk but a regular feature, and the option for Revival. 
 The Revival perk is definitely my favorite improvement: it really makes you feel like a team player 
 and not just another selfish jerk shooting for a new sight. Plus, the bayonet is fantastic and 
 incredible satisfying. Not to mention the extended gore, which coupled with the game's horror feel 
 and music, make it a moody experience. People seem to have different reactions about the in-game 
 tanks. Personally I like them (I was a tanker though, so I'm biased) but maybe in the future have 
 them as a separate game option the way Domination is. 
  
  So overall, honestly, this is a cool game. The campaign is much better with your buddies, and the 
 multi-player holds its own. But it does just make me impatient for Modern Warfare 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: itchyflop
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 18, 2009 3:36 am PT
Review:  Unfortunately i couldnt finish this cos another 360 failed and im not lining bill gates pocket, 
 but i have played the majority of it. 
  
  There isnt really to much to tell, if you liked call of duty 4 (if you didnt your brain must have 
 melted) , then you ll like this. It feels like an add on pack its so similar, obviously there are 
 different weapons and all other usual aspects and its in a totally different era and place. But 
 in general its essentially the same game. The sound rocks out though, very atmospheric and really 
 aids the games realism. 
  
  The woody nightfall missions are pretty cool with flares going up every where and enemies hurling 
 towards you ready with another add on to the play the bayonet!! yes you can now stab people with 
 your gun!! i found some small frame rate issues and glitches but you will hardly notice them, and 
 to honest theyre quite apparent in most cod games.
  
  So finally, the online maps will keep you going for a while with downloadable content all the time, 
 its a little slow with the usuual style of gameplay available, it looks good to be quite honest 
 (but man did cod 4) . They havent quite captured the realism but it wasnt a bad attempt, the explosions 
 and sounds will deafen you!! The final word is the sheer panic from other ai players and pure "oh 
 my god wars fantastic!!!" appeal is here, as in 4. It totally immerses you in gorilla warfare with 
 enemies hiding popping out of shrubbery, traps etc..
  
  If your a die hard fan, pay 20 quid no more, if you ve just started out, this isnt a bad start 
 for your collection, i highly reccomend cod4 to accompany it, and a good surround system!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: j2johnson
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 18, 2009 1:24 am PT
Review:  * ONLY rated at the "Very Hard" level if playing on "Veteran" difficulty in the Solo Campaign. 
 *
  
  WWII... again... I know, I know. But CoD still does it better than anyone else (in this area, anyway) . 
 If you liked or loved the first 3, then you don't really have a choice here; JUST GET IT! You WON'T 
 be disappointed because you already know what you're getting... the same game as 1-3, but even 
 better. 
  
  I personally loved CoD:4 with their "Modern" approach, but I'm certainly not complaining that they 
 went back to WWII for CoD:5. 
  
  Their infamous and strangely addictive "Veteran" difficulty in the Solo Campaign DEFINITELY lives 
 up to the previous bar set for ridiculously difficult missions to complete. Those of you looking 
 for a VERY LEGITIMATE challenge will NOT be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halfpike95
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 17, 2009 7:24 pm PT
Review:  I think that CoD5 has awsome new features, but the sniping in CoD4 is definatly better. I really 
 like the idea of having attack dogs. It's better to have lots of attack dogs than to have one helicopter. 
 The helicopter is really hard to shoot down and you don't even get credit for shooting it down. 
 But when you kill attack dogs you get exp. I also think that the guns look cooler in modern warfare. 
 I really like modern warfare better. I can't wait until Modern Warfare 2 comes out. Theres a websight 
 were people can vote for what they want in modern warfare 2. I wish i knew what it was called but 
 i heard that people's # 1 vote was to have two attackments on a weapon (replaces perk 1) . Sounds 
 really cool i do hope that they change the perks so thier not all almost the same. I also hope 
 they change the 3rd and 5th kill streak more than they did the last time. It was almost the same 
 as CoD4. Anyways MORE MAPS WITH VERY DIFFERENT TERAINS!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ishoturface
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 17, 2009 4:31 pm PT
Review:  The good: The same great multiplayer - One of the best campaigns in any of the call of duty games 
 - Nazi zombies - Splitscreen co-op and online co-op - superb sound - awesome graphics - very good 
 voice acting - Same great gameplay your used to - More blood guts and gore.
  
  
  
  The bad: some weird glitches and clipping problems - the co-op splitscreen screen is just plain 
 odd.
  
  
  A lot of people were pretty mad when they found out treyarch decided to go back to WWII for the 
 next call of duty game. But i think it was a pretty good idea since the call of duty franchise 
 has never gone to the south pacific.
  
  In the campaign you play as a American marine storming the beaches of several key islands that 
 the allies would need in order to win the war.
  You also play as a Russian soldier in the Russian campaign.
  For once i would just like to fight 
 as one country instead of two or three.
  But playing as two different soldiers on opposite sides of the world does break up the pace. Since 
 you are playing as a marine one missions fighting against the japanese and the next you are playing 
 as a Russian private driving the Nazis from your homeland.
  
  You start the game as a marine who is being questioned and about to be killed by the japanese officer 
 questioning you... Thats when it starts to get gory.. When SGT. Roebuck (voiced by kiefer sutherland 
 aka jack baur in 24) rushes up behind the officer and slits his throat.
  Not that the gore is a bad thing if anything its good. It adds to the reaslism and makes you actually 
 want to crush the enemy.
  The Russian mission start is almost the same.. With dying comrades al around you and the nazis 
 killing any of them that move.
  Now the first russian mission is probably the most heartfelt, After the germans have passed the 
 area you are in you start crawling and then you see someone moving. The person moving is SGT. Reznov 
 (voiced by gary oldman) and his story although short is a good one. For days he had been following 
 a nazi general waiting for the right moment to kill him, but since his hand is hurt its up to you 
 to kill the general.
  The missions probably vary more than that of any other call of duty game.
  One mission you are 
 fighting against the japanese the next against nazis in a tank and the next in a PBY (type of plane) 
 shooting down japanese ships and planes.
  The fire fights are the kind you expect from the cod franchise vast and intense.
  But in codwaw 
 they are the same amount of intense but there is much more gore and blood and during the japanese 
 missions there are banzai attacks and ambushes so may never know where the enemy actually is til 
 its too late.
  The gameplay is the same but thats not bad since it has been good since the first cod for the pc.
 
  There are a few changes to the gameplay like they added bayonets to some of the weapons making 
 the melees more powerful and they also added a flamethrower which is a bit overpowered but im not 
 going to complain.
  Speaking of weapons... There are the same american weapons you are used to like the tommy gun The 
 BAR, springfield (which can actually not have a scope this time around) . The same germans weapons 
 like the mp40, mp44, Kar98k, gweher, and others.. But the best introduction were the japanese weapons. 
 With at least 6 new weapons like the type99 LMG, type100 SMG, a pistol called the nambu and others 
 as well. 
  The campaign may take you 8-10 hours on the easiest (and what is in my opinion the hardest cod 
 game ever) and on veteran the game seems impossible. But once you beat the game.. You unlock one 
 of the best parts of the game.. Nazi zombies.. Which is very linear but very fun.
  nazi zombies pits you inside a building trying to defend yourself from endless waves of zombies 
 who are also nazis (terrifying duo) . But to defend you self you can buy weapons and ammo with the 
 points you get from killing zombies and rebuilding boards on the windows which are keeping the 
 zombies out.
  
  
  But the real star here is the multiplayer.. Its the same formula as cod4's multiplayer but it is 
 still very good.
  The max level cap in cod4 was 55 but treyarch upped it to 65 allowing for more weapons to be unlocked 
 and perks.
  There are your standard deathmatch and team deathmatch game modes.. But the other game mode are 
 probably the best.
  Game modes like WAR which is both teams at the start of each match have to flags but there is one 
 in the middle and each team has to try and capture it. And which ever team captures it has to try 
 and capture the next flag and so on but either team can capture flags as long as they have people 
 near them trying to capture and hold them. There is also the popular headquaters game mode where 
 the headquarters moves around the map and each team has to try and hold the headquarters for as 
 long as they can.
  And there is search and destroy where one team defends and the other has to destroy the objective 
 that the other team is defending.
  Then there is sabotage where there is one bomb in the middle of the map and both teams have to 
 try and get it and then take it to the enemies base.
  And capture the flag is back. After being absent in cod4 which was a shame to be honest.
  You 
 can get EXP by getting kills and completeing objectives in the objective based modes. Some game 
 modes you dont have to do al that good to get lots of EXp points like headquarters where you can 
 get over 500 exp points in one match. But if you do good then your team will do good resulting 
 in more exp points for you. You also get EXP points at the end of each match based on how good 
 you did. You can also get EXP points by doing co-op online but not enough to make you wanna do 
 the co-op all day yo try and get lots of exp but still co-op is fun and you will wanna play it 
 for that reason.
  Most of the maps are based on missions and with new maps to be released soon there will be plenty 
 of variety to choose from. There are also tanks on some maps but they dont change the gameplay 
 a whole lot.
  Of course you start with crappy weapons that have no upgrades at all.
  But the better you do and the more you play the more weapons you will unlock better weapons and 
 upgrades like a scope or a bigger magazine.
  It doesnt seem to take as long to rank up in codwaw as it does in cod4 for some reason.. it might 
 be because there are more ranks in codwaw so they decided to make it a bit easier to rank up.
 
  Like in call of duty 4 when you get a 3 kill streak you get a radar sweep which allows you to 
 see the enemies positions, five kills is a artillery strike and 7 kills instead of a chopper (they 
 didnt exist back then) you can call in dogs to attack your enemies which is very satisfying.
  There are the same perks with a few new additions, like second chance which allows a player with 
 this perk to revive a dying comrade who has gone into last stand. There is also toss back which 
 sets the grenades timer back to 5 when you pick it up giving you more time to get rid of it.
  Since there are tanks they added vehicles perks which can increase the vehicles speed turret speed 
 and lower the amount of time to reload.
  The multiplayer can be fore up 16 players online and 4 players splitscreen. Co-op can be for up 
 to 4 players online and two players splitscreen.
  
  Earlier i mentioned there were some odd glitches and clipping problems.
  What i meant by that 
 was this.
  Some times your Friendly Ai will just run into walls or block your path to the next objectives. 
 And the clipping problems come in where when you see enemies die they seem to fall straight through 
 the map and then pop up again also i notice that some enemies could walk right through some walls. 
 But other than that nothing major.
  
  
  
  The sound is just simply awesome from the weapons firing to the music (which is strangly like electronic 
 music but it seems to actually fit well)
  and the voice acting is absolutly superb.
  
  The graphics are just as good as cod4 which is no complaint.
  
  
  So overall it might just 
 be a copy of cod4 but set in WWII its still very good and should not be missed.
  
  
  Campaign: 9.0/10
  Co-op: 9.7/10
  Multiplayer: 9.9/10
  graphics: 9.5/10
  sound: 9.8/10
 
  gameplay: 9.9/10
  funnessfactor: 9.7/10
  Overall score: 9.3/10
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaShockerJack
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 17, 2009 12:05 pm PT
Review:  I wasn't really impressed with Call of Duty : WAW. I gave it a 7.5, but most of that is solely 
 based on the graphics and presentation of the game. The story lines were OK. But what drove me 
 to the point of insanity was the level of difficulty. And I like to be challenged. I like games 
 to make you figure stuff out, I think that's great. However, this game was annoyingly hard. Like 
 I didn't enjoy it hard. As a matter of a fact, I couldn't wait for it to end. Multi player is Good, 
 but I don't really like Call of Duty multiplayer, I've always been a bit of a Halo guy. The zombie 
 missions for co-op at the end is cool, but it loses it's flavor too quickly for my tastes. I did 
 like the face that the game had co-op campaign online, that was very cool.
  
  Overall, save your money. Hopefully they can do better in the next installment. I know I'll get 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: c52chungyunya
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 16, 2009 1:30 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty: World at war is an awesome game; it's trying to beat modern warfare in every single 
 way. Yet, the action in WAW is not really that well, and it feels dated and a little bit not fresh.
 
  
  A. I.: the AI in WAW is a little bit bad, both enemies and allies, they seem a little bit stupid 
 and weird, because sometimes they'll block your way or stand next to an enemy when the enemy is 
 just 20 foot from them. But of course, if you play the multiplayer part of WAW, it's got to be 
 the best out of everything.
  
  Gameplay: WAW is a 10 hours or less game, it's not trying to introduce the player into tense action 
 every time you play, but most of the missions take place in Eastern Europe and Japan, which introduces 
 you to both organic and inorganic environments. There are several guns to choose from though some 
 guns take times to get use to, the point upgrade system is also quite well, which you can level 
 up and unlock more weaponries. WAW introduces the brutal side of WWII, making you see your allies 
 going down by head shots and hot leads, but these doesn't really effect you, it seems like it's 
 just trying to make you feel "YOU'RE IN A WAR, DEATH IS NOTHING!!!"
  
  Story: You play as private Miller and Demetri, both a soldier that seems powerful and ruthless, 
 WAW doesn't quite delivers the overall tense feeling which you can find in Modern Warfare, and 
 it gets boring after you just kill people. As Miller, you're trying to follow the HQ instructions, 
 which are "Take down this place, advance, take down that place, good job, advance, ohI didn't 
 realize you just broke down Okinawa, good job, you can take out the CD now." As Demetri, it's almost 
 the same thing except you get to follow the captain to kill 3D Nazi models; they keep on reappear 
 every time you go to some where, and it just doesn't feel right to see them shoot at you without 
 doing something else, but they are some pretty decent killers in video gaming history, so it's 
 both bad and good.
  
  Graphics:
  When eye using the Modern Warfare engine, you can expect good graphics, except weird glitches, 
 like an ally will contact with another ally and you see them mix into one person!!! Also on the 
 first Demetri level, when you climb away from dead corpses, you'll find it interesting that you'll 
 be able to see through a person and found it empty inside, there's no guts, which explains the 
 bad AI, but the overall presentation is good, although not as good as gears of war 1 & 2.
  
  Sound:
  The sound in WAW is pretty good, the gun shots and grenade explosions can live up 
 to the standards, but it gets boring in the end, when all you hear from Japanese are "ta-me-li-ca, 
 banzai", and from the Germans you hear "bad words in German", it seems the same all the time, it 
 gets interesting to see Banzai chargers coming, but after a while, you just know what to do when 
 you see them, and it's always the same animation, "push their gun away from you, bring their head 
 forward, dip your knife in, take it out, push the dead man away, then stand up, you're good as 
 new."
  
  Presentation:
  WAW is a next-generation game, but it's not good, it doesn't deserves a 10 or above 9, because 
 it gets boring, you see the same animation, same 3D model, stupid people standing when a sniper 
 is aiming for their head, it's like the same animation over and over, there's no alternative endings 
 in the game, the only option is win, or you restart, and it's also short and repetitive, people 
 who fancy in Gears of War won't like it, who likes Metal Gear won't like it, it was fun at the 
 beginning, but the ending was worst any thing you'll see in gaming history, the only thing that 
 pushes you to keep on playing is the story and the "don't waste money" mothers.
  
  Multiplayer:
  I have nothing to say about the multiplayer, but it deserves to be a 10 out of 
 10, and I promise you I'm not kidding, Halo fans will enjoy this for the rest of your life, although 
 they should've made more maps.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: castsythe
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 16, 2009 8:37 am PT
Review:  this game is worth the $60. WaW uses the same Xbox live multipayer system that CoD4 used, and succeeds 
 in places CoD4 didn't. The cooprative campaign is a nice advance from the one player campaign on 
 CoD4. The campaign as a whole has a nice storyline as expected from the CoD games. the weapons 
 they chose make sense, and most of them you will recognize if you have played any of the other 
 CoD games. The custom loadout system is just like CoD4 which is good. all in all, this game is 
 great, it doesn't lag as much as CoD4, and if you didn't already know which studio made it, you 
 still think it was infinity ward. Also, in my experience, everyone who hates absolutely sucks at 
 it. so if they play it and get better, they will like it. Also, the Nazi Zombies mode is fun, addictive, 
 and exiting. sometimes it is hard to find people to do it with you, but it is worth it when you 
 finally do. the weapons and perks system is great. it has great gameplay. and it is nice that you 
 can also play it on the same console. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marioboy333
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 15, 2009 7:12 pm PT
Review:  This was my first cod game. All my friends told me to get it and i got it. One of the best games 
 in my collections. The campagin mode is good. But the map can take a while to understand. This game 
 in story mode connects to you. when ur leader dies, u actually feel kind of sad. And it can get 
 u tensed up., but what is there to do after campagin mode? There is a secert mode after campiagn 
 mode. It can be really fun. But most of ur time will be on Xbox live. With many weapons to use 
 they can be really fun. Plus there are tons of challanges to help u rank up to get more wepons. 
 I recommrnd the MP40. unlocked at rank 10. It is one of my best guns. Also u can control tanks 
 ,which can be a killer. But you can still be killed by another tank or if someone had a baoska. 
 Even if you have a bad start find ur gun that u get lots of kills with and stick with it. Plus 
 there are many grades and perks. What are perks? there are things u can use to surpuise someone 
 of to spead up something. Well that is it, i recommend this game to anyone 
::::::

::::::
UserName: martyr2k6
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 15, 2009 6:31 pm PT
Review:  I find it hard to believe that this was not put out by infinity ward... Granted, I haven't really 
 played any of their games, save for COD4, but still this is an amazing game!
  
  I wasn't really sure that I wanted yet ANOTHER World War II-themed game to come to existence, but 
 this one was surprisingly good. The story was pretty compelling, the dramatic moments (such as 
 the end of the game) and the controls were almost an exact duplicate of COD 4. Throw in a few more 
 perks, Zombie Nazi's, and the added effect of being able to drive tanks in the single player as 
 well as multiplayer, and you have a rather solid game worthy of the title "Call Of Duty". 
  
  The stong points were numerous in this game. Online co-op mode, sound effects, visuals, soundtrack 
 (my personal favorite part of this game) and newer additions to the already wonderful multiplayer 
 system. 
  
  The weaker points of the game, I would have to add, are that the graphics in some areas seem totally 
 washed out... like it was intended for the original XBox or something. Still, severe lack of achievements 
 for online multiplayer (save for 2, one of which isn't worth anything unless you are a completionist) .
 
  Also the fact that playing through Co-op zombie mode DOESN'T add experience or rank was kind of 
 depressing. Not to mention that you don't have the option to choose a wave to start from (Vis-a-vis 
 Gears of War 2's Horde Mode) . I also found it to be upsetting that, as good as this game is, it 
 didn't allow for more than two-player online co-op in campaign mode. It's nice to be able to play 
 two-player online, but I wanted to play with at least 3 others through the campaign (also found 
 in GoW2 and Halo 3) . 
  
  All in all, I had a great time with this game. I was amazed at how much I was able to enjoy "another" 
 WW2 game. I loved the soundtrack, especially with the incorporation of the heavy guitar riffs and 
 almost industrial sound when a heavy firefight was engaged. This game MADE me want to play other 
 WW2 games. The addition of Zombie Nazis was great, although a bit odd for a war game of this calibur, 
 but fully enjoyable none-the-less. The addition of the perks that were unique to this game and 
 preservation of perks from the previous COD were nice (sans the chopper attack) , and I look foward 
 to COD4MW2's perks. 
  
  If ever you were like I was, and had your reservations about buying this game... lay them to rest 
 and pick it up today, because it is definately worth the money even side-by-side with COD4MW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cresentfall
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 15, 2009 5:31 pm PT
Review:  One, I did not like it and I gave it away, for free. Every CoD game Treyarch made never got a GOTY 
 award. I can understand that because their company doesn't work on their projects long enough. 
 For example, Call of Duty: World at War; it did not recieve GOTY, for one, the physics suck majorly. 
 Although, the company who made the game; Treyarch, thinks that in WW2, they had homing air strikes, 
 wrong! They also believe that shooting someone in the arm is a headshot, come on, even my 10 year 
 old cousin knows that it is impossible for that to happen, unless they have their head sewed to 
 their arm, then it is not possible. 
  
  2: Graphics SUCKED, not even going to comment, the graphics were not good. 
  
  3: Again with 
 physics in the game: The system of shooting was a complete joke, the system of sprinting, a laugh, 
 and of course, the kill cam, Come on, I bet I could design something better. The shooting system; 
 apparent, a shotgun can hit from 500 feet away from a target, but not 5 inches away. The running 
 system, no one can run that long without taking a rest. The kill cam? Ha! and again, Ha! it does 
 not show what really happened. 
  
  In my opinion, Treyarch pretty much copied Infinity Ward, the skills, kill cam, everything. Treyarch 
 should NOT make MW2, or else no one will buy it. Haven't you gotten the message by now Treyarch? 
 Your design team, hell, your whole team is a complete joke! Take some basic classes before making 
 another game! Let Infinity Ward finish the CoD series! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KevinL3085
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 15, 2009 1:00 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty World at War is the latest installment in the Call of Duty series. A lot of gamers 
 were afraid that Infinity Ward not developing it would hurt the game, well you can lay those fears 
 to rest. This time, the game is back in WWII, not modern day and are in the Russian Red Army. That 
 means no more P90s, red dot scopes or 50 caliber sniper rifles. The game feels a lot like the same. 
 That not being a bad or good thing. 
  
  The single player is fun thrill ride however sometimes there are issues with the game on the single 
 player. The enemy AI can feel cheap at times as they usually attack you more than your allies, 
 sometimes running right past them to you. Another time I was infuriated with the game is when once 
 I had to follow my group after clearing a plethora of foes. There was supposed to be a scene were 
 a Nazi uses a flamethrower to kill one of my allies but killed me too. It said to stay close, so 
 I got burned. The first time I was charging and killing all. Once a pillar fell and opened a path, 
 I run to the door. Behind another pillar near was the flamethrower guy. Instant kill against me. 
 The second time I stayed near the group and got killed. Eventually I got past it. Another issue 
 I had with the campaign was the length. It lasted me about 7 hours. The game was kinda of generic 
 too. Most of the time it was just killing a group of Nazis and repeat. The only time it is made 
 different when you have to gun down enemies in a plane or control a tank. However the game is polished. 
 The production values are high and there are nice film footages in the campaign. Also new to the 
 series is 4 player online co-op. Plus, to note, the game is extremely hard on higher difficulties. 
 
  
  The multiplayer is much like Cod 4's. It uses the same engine and experience based leveling system. 
 The only main differences are the weapons, maps, and a few new perks. I didn't enjoy the map design 
 as much as some of Call of Duty 4's but they are decent. The issue with the online portion is that 
 the level of skill isn't matched well. Even though it was an issue in Cod4 too, I expected some 
 some sort of option for a group of similar skilled player to automatically be placed in the same 
 group. There are some instances where the games balances it well but sometimes it can still prove 
 to be an issue. One issue I was hoping to be fixed was grenades. The game sorta three tenths fixes 
 it. In CoD 4, grenades were instant kills and were constantly randomly thrown in the air to kill 
 an unsuspecting player who had no way to prevent it. In CoD 5, the grenades' power has dropped 
 a bit but not too much. Also, at short to medium range, the flamethrower is very cheap. Don't get 
 me wrong though, the online is still one of the best online games out there for the Xbox 360. 
 
  
  Overall the game feels too much the same to me. I was hoping for a semi-significant addition to 
 the online, but I guess you can't add much to a near perfect online engine. The single player feels 
 like the other CoD games and there isn't too much added to the game to improve. It is an extraordinary 
 game for anyone who has never experienced CoD 4's online before, but for previous players, there 
 isn't many new things to like. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deathx112
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 14, 2009 11:59 pm PT
Review:  So COD4 was an amazing game. It had it all, from the online play to single player. Online was just 
 fun as hell and you could sit there for hours and play. But COD5 WaW was a little to much the same.
 
  
  First off im a talk about the good things of COD5 WaW. The best thing i think they improved from 
 COD4 was nazi zombies. This has to be the best and funnest mode In-the-game. It got it all, multyplayer, 
 fear, and fun. But the thing is ya have to have 4 people with mic's or no one will know were to 
 go or what to do. Next is the online play. Bassically the same as COD4, u got your basic hardcore 
 matches and core matches (ie team death match) . Nothing really changed about that exept the ranks 
 go up to 65 instead of 55 from COD4. Last lets see about the story mode. Its okayy nothing special. 
 people just do it to unlock nazi zombies really. Like you have the guns and the actions and the 
 people yelling at ya, but compared to COD4 once again, the same.
  
  Now lets talk about the Bad things on COD5 WaW. I hate, and i hate how there are about 5 guns were 
 after every shot you reload. Personally i do not liek those guns, and to have 5 of em that all 
 look the same, i dunno. Next i dont understand why theer are so many costum classes. liek who needs 
 like 10 different uns and perks, most people just have a normal class and a sniper class. Thats 
 really weird to put 10 in! Also another thing that makes me mad is the gliches. Common you can 
 go UNDER the map and kill every one!?!? That is just gay so now i have to avoid that map online. 
 Also the nazi zombies gliches piss me off beacuse every one dose it!! I want my frinds to look 
 at the leader boreds and be likeo hey that Consoli515 kid got to lvl 60!!" and i go in some 
 dumb game and they do the glich till like lvl 200 and on the leader boards it says Consoli515 200.... people 
 are gunnna start thinking "Wtf?".
  
  Well in the end i know i have more BAD things then GOOD things bt COD5 WaW is a pretty decent game 
 that is slittely better then COD4. I like to say taht i would rather preffer infinity ward stick 
 with making the COD games though. Treyarch dosent really suit it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kroberts11
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 13, 2009 9:29 pm PT
Review:  I got this game about 2 weeks after it came out for my birthday, but didn't play it too much due 
 to school exams and other reasons. However, over my Spring Break, I came to love it just as I loved 
 COD4: MW.
  
  I haven't played very far through the campaign mode yet, but from what I have played, it is just 
 like COD4, with some minor improvements. The graphics are wonderfully smooth, and look great on 
 any TV. The game play is pretty much the same as previous COD games, and in my opinion, pretty 
 easy to master once you get the hang of it.
  
  Like many others, I spend most of my time on the online multiplayer mode of the game. There are 
 so many different modes and challenges to unlock new weapons and perks that it makes this game 
 pretty much impossible to get boring quickly. I myself spend a lot of my time on the Team Deathmatch 
 mode. It just gets so addicting, especially when you start unlocking new weapons. 
  
  One new thing about COD5 that I am indifferent about is the addition of vehicle maps. There are 
 a couple maps where players can use tanks. At first I thought it was really nifty, and I had fun 
 driving a tank around and blowing up multiple opponents at once, however, when the maps keep popping 
 up over and over again, it gets a little redundant (oxymoron, much?) . After you've played the tank 
 levels a few times, you may get sick of them. But on a positive note, there are challenges at the 
 mid-levels that are associated with the tanks!
  
  COD5 is a great sequel, in my opinion, to COD4, and for the time I have played it, I have thoroughly 
 enjoyed it. A great game to pick up for any Call of Duty fan, or anybody who would like to get 
 into the series! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: st0k3d
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 13, 2009 6:59 pm PT
Review:  The Call of Duty series is now a trademark in war styled FPS.
  #5 is no different but it does take a few steps backwards from #4.
  
  CoD4 was the breakthrough 
 from WW2 to well... modern warfare. CoD5 goes back to finish WW2. Personally I didnt think it was 
 the best move. I would have much rather seen them put world at war as #4, end the WW2 series, and 
 then move onto modern warfare with #5. Thats just what i believe.
  
  Starting with the campaign which is typical, but its still worthwhile. It has a dirty, and bloodier 
 feel to it then modern warfare. Only problem i have it with it though, as all the other games, 
 a short campaign. One positive to that though is that there is some replay value to finish veteran 
 difficulty for achievements.
  
  The graphics and controls are sharp as usual.
  
  The weapon selection is good, for WW2 weapons. No modern warfare night vision or scopes but old 
 school rifles and shotguns. They are somewhat annoying because you have to reload quite frequently, 
 but its all part of that historic feeling.
  
  The multiplayer, which is what is selling the CoD games now a days, is excellent. If you played 
 #4, it will seem very familiar only the maps are changed to fit the time era. With the addition 
 of Nazi Zombies, its that cherry on top to finish.
  
  Overall, if you dont have xbox live, the game is solid, good buy, maybe just a rent though but 
 if you have multiplayer and like shooters, this game wont disappoint. In my opinion, not as good 
 as CoD4 but still a superior game. Looking forward to CoD6, Modern Warfare 2!
  
  St0k3d 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stepvac
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 12, 2009 7:21 pm PT
Review:  I got this game about 3 mounths ago and itz been a good game so far until i got about the 60th 
 level of the first prestige. The maps are good and the perks dont do quite as much damage as in 
 cod4. My only complaint about the online play is that you get spawn killed at least 2 to 6 times 
 a game on a good day. Another thing i dont like about it is that veteren is way to hard compared 
 to the previous cod games. I dont care for infiniti ward but im glad they're making the next game 
 and not treyarch. This company failed terribly when they made this game. Artillery strikes last 
 to long and dogs are way stronger then taking down a chopper. Juggernaut gives a huge health boost 
 and stopping power does to much damage. If your a person that hates people who use juggernaut, 
 then dont buy this pathetic game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lockard34
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 10, 2009 6:50 pm PT
Review:  I just bought this game about 2 weeks ago and i got to say AMAZING. the gameplay is fantastic and 
 all the weapons are easy to get use to. multiplayer is also very good. During the multiplayer as 
 you rank up you get a huge varity of weapons, grenades, and perks in which better you during the 
 gameplay. Also plenty of maps to choose from that can meet anybody standards. there are a few downsides 
 graphics are not the as good as they could have been for being on the 360 but still pretty good. 
 the sounds that some of the guns make are a bit on the childish side. And best of all the Nazi 
 zombies this is a fantastic 4 player co-op game that as you progress through levels they get stronger 
 and faster and enlarge in numbers to the point that if you cant work with your teammates then your 
 history. Overall this game is fantasic with it's amazing gameplay and the very addictive online 
 multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Metroidisbest
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 10, 2009 11:59 am PT
Review:  This is an incredibly amazing game. After the certain mind-blowing game that was Call of Duty 4: 
 Modern Warfare, I had little to no expectations for Treyarch's next game in the CoD franchise. 
 I could not have been more mistaken. Call of Duty: World at War, yes, does take us back to World 
 War II, but it is arguably the best WWII game that I have set my eyes and hands on. The single-player 
 campaign was extremely impressive and most of it is for the first time cooperative. And of course 
 the multiplayer is as fun as ever. The only real thing that Treyarch brings new to the table is 
 the chilling Nazi Zombie mode. This mode, which might seemed as though it was a last ditch add 
 on is actually a ton of fun and it poses quite a challenge. It is like playing Modern Warfare all 
 over again, just in a different period of time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nobby1995
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 10, 2009 4:06 am PT
Review:  Call Of Duty 5: World At War takes the battleground back to WW2 in the Pacific and on the Eastern 
 Front. In the Pacific you play as the American Marines fighting the Japanese just as the tide is 
 turning and the Americans are gaining the upper hand against the Japs' and island hopping towards 
 Japan itself. On the Eastern Front you play as the Russians and again the tide is turning in favour 
 of Russia. The first level in the Russian campaign 'Vendetta' has you playing as a survivor of 
 a massacre in the Russian city of Stalingrad. The Germans are far into Russian land and the Russians 
 are struggling to hold the last parts of the city. This is a great sniper level and it feels great 
 knocking off a few Nazis :) . In the next Russian level it is three years later and the Russians 
 have finally pushed the Germans out The Motherland (Russia) and into Germany. It only gets better 
 for the Russians and its quite fulfilling when you have the Germans on the run in Berlin.
  
  The online multiplayer is great too! It's like Call Of Duty Modern Warfare and there are many 
 different game modes so there is a wide range to choose from. The more online players you kill 
 and challenges you complete the better weapons you unlock and then you can customize them with 
 scopes, bipods, extra ammunition, silencers, bayonets and much more
  
  I suggest that if you're a fan of first-person shooters, WW2, Call Of Duty or just want to play 
 a good game you rent COD5 and test it out.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ledman
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 28, 2009 2:57 pm PT
Review:  The MP is the way to go with this game. If you want to do the SP for practice, that's what it is 
 good for. Forgettable story, no real connection with the characters.
  
  Now, the MP is awesome. Great graphics, up to 1080p if you have the capability, as I do: D
  Challenges 
 are great, the guns are great, customizable as you unlock things like scopes and special aperture 
 sights and extended clips and the such.
  
  THE ONLY THING I HATE IS THE GLITCHER'S AND THE BOOSTERS!! If you see any gamers with [Bost] as 
 their clan tag, block them! 
  And the lagger's, who like to lag out the game and everyone gets booted out. That's lame. You all 
 have no life. 
  
  I mean come on... play the game the way its meant to be played and quit ruining the experience for 
 everyone else. Start your own private match and do whatever you want to. I pay good money for Xbox 
 live and my games, and want a good gaming exp, not to play with someone who is just out to ruin 
 it for others.
  
  Go buy CoD: WaW. You will not regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IBLEEDBLUE33
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 6, 2009 3:58 pm PT
Review:  Going into WAW I was skeptical but not for the same reasons as a lot of people. I happened to love 
 Treyarch's COD 3 (multiplayer that is) . What I was afraid of is they would try to copy COD 4too 
 much and get away from 3's formula. Well they did copy COD 4 but they did it better than I thought 
 they could. The mp isn't quite as good as COD 4 but since that game is the best on the market in 
 my opinion that doesn't mean WAW doesn't have a fantastic mp. It just means it is 2nd best. But 
 more on the mp in a moment.
  
  The reason WAW gets as high a score is becasue you can now play through the campaign coop (4 players) 
 which really adds to the experience. You can also earn experience toward mp rank when playing competitive 
 coop. This is really fun and can help new players get their mp rank up before playing. The campaign 
 is short about as long as COD 4's but has better replay value because of the coop. The campaign 
 is also the most realistic take on WWII yet. You switch between the Americans who fight the Japanese 
 and the Russians who fight the Germans. Once you finish the campaign you unlock nazi zombies which 
 can be played with 4 players as well and is quite fun at least for awhile. The goal is to hold 
 off waves of zombies from the house you are trying to defend. This gets really hard after about 
 level 10 and the degree of panic sets in making it very intense yet comical at the same time. Your 
 scores and the level you make it to are also kept on the XBOX live leaderboards.
  
  But the real meat of any COD game lies within its mp and WAW for the most part doesn't disappoint. 
 What Treyarch added is a couple of more gametypes, War and CTF. They also added tanks to the mix 
 (a mixed feeling really) . If you haved played COD 4 then you will be right at home with WAW's mp. 
 A player levels up to 65 unlocking new weapons and attachments along the way. But now here is the 
 reasons that WAW's mp isn't quite as good. First alot of the better weapons are not unlocked until 
 the later levels meaning new players have more of a disadvantage and less reason now to prestige. 
 Although you do get more custom classes when you do. But the main reasons I don't like it as well 
 are the same reasons I am better at it. My K/D in COD 4 is 2.03 and it is 3.02 in WAW. The reason 
 for the increase in K/D is three things - tanks, bouncing bettys, and dogs. All three could be 
 better utilized to make the game more fun. First lets take the tanks they are very powerful although 
 can be taken out fairly easily by good players. But the problem I have with them is they respawn. 
 The stages are under utilizied becasue any good team knows you must control the tanks. So you end 
 up camping tanks spawns so you have a chance to win. My K/D is probably 5:1 on tank maps. But the 
 maps would still be more fun if they were only there at the beginning. I mean you could even add 
 an extra tank to each side at the start. My 2nd problem is something else I utilize effectively 
 the bouncing betty's. They are kind of like the claymores only way better because they are very 
 difficult to see. I felt like I had to startegically place the claymores where as I can lay a betty 
 in the middle and players will still run over it. Granted there are ways around this like bomb 
 squad or just paying very close attention. But the betty's make the so called campers that much 
 more effective. Fix this by making them a little easier to see and longer to actually plant the 
 betty. My last complaint is the dogs. The reason is they stay out 60 seconds no matter what. In 
 COD 4 if you called the chopper a good team could take it out in a matter of seconds without it 
 getting a kill. The dogs however will almost always get at least a couple of kills. My solution 
 is this send out 16 dogs all at once and when they are dead or 60 seconds is up they leave. WAW 
 has also toned down the grenades and the artillery strikes to where they are almost non factors. 
 I would like to see the power somewhere in between 4 and 5. Even with these complaints the mp is 
 still great and having this game along with COD 4 is a wonderful treat for FPS fans.
  
  Overall Treyarch has made a great game worthy of game of the year mention. The COD series in my 
 opinion has now firmly surplanted the Halo series as the best mp experience on XBOX live. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: perezarturo71
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 4, 2009 7:50 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty World at War is great game. However, this is a world war 2 game so dont expect anything 
 new other than the flamthrower, the bayonet, online co op and nazi zombies mode. But this is still 
 a great game to play. the graphics in world at war are great and the controls are the best. Campaign 
 is alright but it is easy to beat. online is just what cod 4 had. And thats good news cause modern 
 warfares was fantastic. there is a new perk where you can revive downed allies. the weapons are 
 balanced and there is boot camp where people from levels one thru eight {not players with prestige} play 
 each other. so online is still da bomb. two new things though in waw are online co op and nazi zombies 
 mode. online co op is great as the experience goes to your multiplayer points. nazi zpmbies mode 
 is damn fun. you play with three other people when you play online but i recommend using a headset 
 as it is very useful here. you stay in this place where you kill off nazi zombies from getting 
 in the place. its kinda like left 4 dead but the zombies are way slower and you kinda have more 
 guns than the game. with that said, call of duty world at war is great a game that you should definetly 
 buy. this game is ww2 but the amount of stuff in this game will keep you busy until the new call 
 of duty comes out. buy this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Avalanched
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 4, 2009 4:16 pm PT
Review:  I have to say. I love games from the World War II Era. Ever since I first saw a commercial for 
 Call of Duty: Finest Hour on TV I fell in love with the series.
  
  Being a Call of Duty "Veteran" not necessarily for on-line multi-player, but completing all the 
 campaigns on Veteran so far, I thought I would be able to tackle this Campaign with the same amount 
 of challenge from the previous games.
  
  I was wrong.
  
  This year, the programming for the game has got the better of it's self. In the single player campaign 
 you have to battle through and unrealistic barrage of Grenades. No matter how many enemies you 
 kill or how many ways you go, grenades (sometimes four at a time) keep coming with pin point accuracy. 
 This gives the feel almost that they are being dropped from above not thrown from a soldier 70 
 feet away. This unwelcome feature makes the last two levels of the Veteran Campaign extremely punishing 
 and require a very gratuitous amount of luck to complete.
  
  The multi-player aspect of the campaign was a welcome thought to me before this game came out. 
 I thought it would be played like Halo's Campaign where up to 4 players could play the campaign 
 as separate characters and it would make the game much easier to complete on veteran.
  
  Not only can you not earn achievements for completing the levels on multi-player, (unlike other 
 games such as Gears of War 1 + 2 and Halo 3) You all are carbon copies of the exact same character. 
 This gives the feel that this feature was thrown together very quickly prior to release and as 
 far as cut-scenes go it does very little to immerse you in the game. Another problem I had was 
 with scoring. If you play carefully and get lots of points, but your squad-mates perish they will 
 be on the ground waiting for you to save them. You may get killed rushing to their aide and then 
 all points are reset back to the last check point. It's a painful annoyance that gives you little 
 control over your own score during the game.
  
  I have quite enjoyed the Zombie Survival mode shipped with the game. Though the difficulty curve 
 for the waves is a little steep, You are never short of action and Zombies are always coming. I 
 didn't like the fact that there are sniper rifles placed in closets like they are big secret mega 
 weapons. Because after the 7th level sniper rifles are kind of defunct against the speedy, numerous 
 zombie horde. One map does get boring after a while too.
  
  The online multi-player has a good set of maps and are usually pretty fun. Spawning can be problematic 
 at times quite often you can be killed twice with the same air strike or killed before you even 
 know you've spawned.
  
  Though I have problems with the authenticity of a Japanese soldier wielding an MP40 in battle, 
 it's nice to have that level of customization when playing online. You can really deck your soldier 
 out to suit your strengths.
  
  This Game gets 6.5 from me because I am a big campaign player and in this rendition of Call of 
 Duty, the campaign was very little fun and the story was less then memorable. If you like Online 
 multi-player with lots of authentic weapons to choose from then this game is right up your alley. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frogcrazyant1
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 1, 2009 7:42 pm PT
Review:  This game looks exactly like CoD4. It plays like CoD4. It pretty much is CoD4, which is why i gave 
 it such a bad score for a good game, this game is great, but its like playing CoD4. Here are the 
 pros and cons of playing this game, plus the achievements.
  
  Pros-
  *The graphics are nice overall
  *The story is nice, but nothing to love about.
  *The FLAMETHROWER
 
  *COD4 multiplayer in WWII style.
  *Co-Op 4 player in Campaign!
  *The Nazi Zombies level.
  *In online, you keep flamethrowe at 65
  *In online, you now go to 
 level 65 instead of 55
  
  Cons-
  *Everything is like COD4.
  *Sometimes it looks worse than CoD4 (PROBLEM)
  *Another WWII game.....
  *Glitches.
  
  Achievements-
 
  These are achievements are easier to get in my opionion than Modern Warfare. The achievements 
 are based on the same stuff you do in the game like CoD4. I have about 500? i think and i havent 
 played much of this yet. Um, plus you get a nice 90 points if you get the blue ribbon, get your 
 right foot wet, and get your left foot wet, by justing playing cooperative and competitive 4 player 
 online and the blue ribbon is winning online. Plus they have 2 zero point achievements for prestige 
 1 time and then 10 times.
  
  Overall-
  this game is better if you have online, but if not, still check it out it good 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nster81
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 15, 2009 8:30 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 blew everyone away in 2007 and I have just recently purchased it after only a week 
 of playing World at War. The reason is simple. The facets of the multiplayer in WaW leave a lot 
 to be desired. 
  
  Starting with the game's single player/co-op campaign. The storyline takes you through Russia, 
 Germany, and the Pacific Islands and is based on real WWII battles, as usual. The setting is very 
 well done, realistic, and is just presented as it should be. Killing Japanese soldiers with a flamethrower 
 is satisfying, though only in the early difficulty settings. On Veteran, this game becomes an extremely 
 frustrating annoyance. Grenades come from 70 yards away, 6 at a time, to kill you or you'll be 
 shot through a tank. There's always something to screw you over ridiculously. With the teammates 
 you get in this game, getting to the second to last mission itself is amazing, though, when you 
 get there, you'll find yourself never playing the campaign again and a big hole in your TV screen 
 with your own controller in it. The campaign has a co-op feature, both competitive and regular, 
 which is pretty refreshing and satisfying to play with friends. This also comes with Nazi Zombies, 
 also, pretty good fun.
  
  Now onto the multiplayer. In my opinion, this game lacks a lot on the multiplayer side. The weapons 
 are not balanced at all. Steady Aim on the MP40, an unbelievably overpowered sub-machine gun, is 
 an unstoppable force. The "Spray and Pray" with this weapon is unbearable, since you obtain it 
 early and almost everyone uses it in this way. Some guns don't match up at all to others. This 
 breaks any balance the weapons could've had at all. That being said, the multiplayer needs a little 
 help, though is still somewhat enjoyable, but, again, Modern Warfare, in my opinion, offers up 
 a lot more. It's also better to have friends to play with instead of random, zoned out teammates.
 
  
  Gameplay: 7/10
  Single Player: Co-Op: 9/10 - Multiplayer: 7/10
  Graphics, Game, and Character Designs: 7.8/10
  Story: 9.7/10
  Voice Acting: 9.7/10
  Replay 
 Value: 8.4/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rtssam
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 27, 2009 12:45 pm PT
Review:  Ive had this for about 3 months now
  And its been the only game ive been playing apart from gh3
  And its absolutely brilliant
  Oh 
 and its ww2 (Don't judge it because its not modern warfare again)
  
  First the single player which is the most cinimatic ive ever seen. The first level you are put 
 in a ordinary soldiers body and you see your freind getting tortured by japanese soldiers and then 
 getting his throut graphically slit with blood staining the wall, Then when the executioner turns 
 to you and puts his knife in your face your saved by captain roebuck who gives you a pistol and 
 a type 100 and its up to you to take over makin toll.....
  There is so many memorable moments in call of duty world at war
  For example.... Second level 
 landing on a island and seeing the person in front of you getting his head blown in half and getting 
 told to take over the whole of peliliu (Prob didn't spell it right)
  Trying to save your team mates in the water from japanese zero's
  taking the final slow motion 
 shot at captain amsel with a sniper
  And taking the russian flag and putting it on the top of the riechstag and i could go on and on....
 
  If anything the campaign is slighty short but will still last you a while if your doing it on 
 veteran on the xbox for gamerscore.
  I also like the horror side of the campaign which are put into the cutscenes too which are videos 
 of people getting executed, flamethrowered and people dying of heat exhuastion and death tolls 
 which can make you genuinly shiver.
  Then in the levels you see your teammates getting shot and some of then crying, It is also gory 
 with endless amounts of blood and limbs flying off
  When you come up behind someone with a double barrel shotgun it is satasfying to see there arms 
 and legs fly off :)
  However its slightly creepy seeing someone with no legs and stomach wide open with blood everywhere 
 trying to use it hands to crawl away and giving up screaming
  
  When you complete the game on any difficulty you unlock the nazi zombies game mode which is basically 
 is you+freinds+zombies=a hell of alot of fun.
  Heres the scenario
  You are trapped in a house with nazi zombies attacking the house
  You and your friends have to 
 fight the zombies off
  To get weapons you have to kill zombies which give you points which there are white outlines of 
 guns on the wall so you walk up to then and press x and it takes away the money and gives you the 
 gun
  You can also spend money to buy different rooms which there is upstairs and the help room.
  A 
 weird part but also cool part it the random box in the help room which costs 950 points and gives 
 you a random weapon and can even get you a ray gun!
  Yes a ray gun which fires green lasers that instantly kill zombies.
  The zombies come in waves 
 starting from round 1 and slowly going up and up each round bringing more faster and powerfull 
 zombies and it really fun when you are getting over run by thousands of zombies on a high round. It 
 usually gets hard on about round 18 and by round 25 its almost impossible which is why you need 
 your friends to help you.
  
  Next is the multiplayer which as you've probely heard is amazing and is why alot of people buy 
 the game.
  The thing that makes it addictive is exp which you get from getting kills, captures, holding parts 
 of the map and planting bombs
  Exp levels you up and unlocks new guns and perks and so on.....
  When you use a gun online the 
 more kills you get the more attachments you get for it
  For example
  gewer 43- 25 kills=silencer
  gewer 43-50 kills=aperture sight
  gewer 43-75 kills= telescopic 
 sight
  Gewer 43-150 kills+Rifle grenades
  When you get to the highest rank (65) you have the option to gain prestige which deletes all your 
 challanges guns perks etc... and puts you right at the start level 1 and makes you prestige 1 along 
 with a 0 gamerscore achievement (Woo! lol)
  You get around 10 maps and 1 nazi zombie map shipped with the game however there is a downloadable 
 map (Makin day) and a new map pack coming out which by the time your reading this might be already 
 out.
  
  Gameplay=9.8
  Graphics=9.5
  Sound=9.2
  Value= 9.5
  Story=9.7 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ffcecil
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 26, 2009 6:29 pm PT
Review:  I have never played a COD game, and I got this one because of its supposedly amazing multiplayer. 
 It might have been the best 60 dollars I have ever spent.
  First, the campaign. It's great. It is really that simple. It is the perfect length for a multiplayer 
 focused shooter. Not 2 hours long, but not so long that it will take forever. It does a great job 
 of showing you the mindset of the Axis Powers that an American Marine or a Russian Soldier might 
 have been up against. You are introduced to all of the weapons in the game and most of the locales 
 that you find in the games multiplayer portion. Well worth a play through.
  Ahh, the multiplayer. It's the reason I bought this game, and it's the same reason you should too. 
 There are loads of unlockable perks and weapons, and plenty of maps. There is a game type for whatever 
 you like. You will have fun however you play. And just when you think the fun is over and you have 
 reached level 65, there are 10 levels of prestige. This game will keep you occupied forever. You 
 will never have trouble finding a match. There are always plenty of players online.
  In conclusion, this game is amazing, If you are a fan of the series, or of shooters in general, 
 you will enjoy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: M4Ntan
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 26, 2009 12:38 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty world at war wasn't expected to be very fun, since the fans of the series has experienced 
 modern times and does not want to go back. But thinking call of duty 4 is better is no excuse not 
 to play this game. It is a classic in the series, though the story is something i learned in school 
 already, it nots like you heard amazing sound effects and f bombs every where in social studies, 
 that was random i admit, also the story of the american raiders and the imperial army was by far, 
 ya by far, my favorite world war 2 story ever, or any world war story ever. The multiplayer, the 
 main purpose of the game, its Great! You'll hear lots of 11 year old british kids that keep on 
 saying the f word and saying americans only eat cheeseburgers and are fat, but just mute them, 
 nothing should stand in your way of having a good old fun time. You might think since you've played 
 call of duty 3 you shouldn't play this, call of duty 3 was my least favorite ww2 shooters ever, 
 thats right my least favorite, but trearch has improved upon there games with the call of duty 
 4 engine, meaning you will probally enjoy it. I say you rent this game or buy it, but only buy 
 if you have a gold membership and don't be expecting good splitscreen, it sucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deltahunter3
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 25, 2009 4:39 pm PT
Review:  The deck says it all, this game is basically Call of Duty 4 in WW2 and it has dogs..... plus a few 
 other things.
  
  The single player experience is just as good as other CoD games, and fairly difficult on higher 
 difficulties. Co-op was a really nice touch, although I wish most of the single player achievements 
 could be gotten in co-op. That was a major letdown, and I don't get Call of duty games anymore 
 for the single player experience. If you want the same good Call of Duty story, then you should 
 have no problems here, it's just that the gameplay hasn't changed much.
  
  The multiplayer experience is nothing I didn't see in Call of Duty 4. It plays almost exactly like 
 it, it's just that the weapons aren't balanced as well. I feel as though some weapons are just 
 plain ineffective at all times. I find myself always using a sniper, because they seem to be the 
 most reliable. Dogs are a good addition, they are annoying, effective, but can be stopped. The 
 airstrike just plain sucks, which is reasonable considering how long ago this was. But you will 
 rarely get kills with an airstrike. The maps are ok, I find that I don't particularly hate any 
 maps, although no maps stick out to me either. Overall a decent experience.
  
  The best part of this game is the nazi-zombie killing mode, much like gears of war 2's horde. Get 
 a couple of your buddies and you can play that for a while. The bottom line is, the only reason 
 I will be playing this instead of Call of Duty 4 is that this is newer, and some different experiences. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Poundage2794
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 25, 2009 4:28 am PT
Review:  I'm going to go ahead and say first that any fan of FPS games should buy this. I had so much fun 
 playing this game, and the Veteran difficulty kept me occupied for HOURS. With two captivating 
 storylines involving the US Marines and the Russian Red Army set in WWII, this game will have any 
 gamer shaking with excitement. This game was not totally glamorous, however. Anybody who buys this 
 game and already owns Call of Duty 4 will be a little disappointed. Besides the storyline and the 
 time period, there isn't much new content. Controls are the same, weapons are similar, and multiplayer 
 is nearly identical. Despite this minor letdowns, Call of Duty: World at War is definitely a game 
 anybody should check out! Oh yeah, there are Nazi Zombies and flamethrowers, just in case that 
 tiny addition may sway some of the skeptical readers of my post to purchase this game. You won't 
 feel like you wasted your money, I promise! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TentacleMayor
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 22, 2009 1:52 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty: World at War follows the same formula as its predecessor, Call of Duty 4: The singleplayer 
 is rather short and linear, but highly cinematic and engaging; the online multiplayer is great, 
 with the potential for hundreds of hours of gameplay. However, the return of the series to the 
 World War II setting is hardly revolutionary and there is nothing to stop veteran gamers from growing 
 weary of it.
  
  The singleplayer mode goes between two American soldiers in the Pacific theatre, and a Soviet soldier 
 in the Eastern Front. The gameplay is engaging for a First-Person Shooter, as the available weapons, 
 the setting and the objectives are different from mission to mission. The storyline is not particularly 
 compelling, as could could after all be expected from a historical game, but the almost non-stop 
 action in varied environments will keep players interested... at least, on the first playthrough. 
 There are also two missions that involve driving
  a tank, which seems somewhat of a tacked-on feature, and manning the guns of an American fighter-bomber, 
 which, while
  obviously limited in scope and duration, is cool while it lasts and a welcome change from the infantry 
 warfare that
  comprises most of the campaign. There are four difficulty levels, ranging from easy to extremely 
 frustrating. The campaign takes about 10 hours to complete, provided the player doesn't get stuck 
 anywhere for long. The music is fine, and it adds to the sorrowful, sometimes eery, atmosphere 
 that the game conveys. 
  
  A new addition to the series that World at War makes is the co-op mode for the campaign. Missions 
 can be played with up
  to three other players, on any of the difficulty settings, either through automatching or as a 
 private game, with the option
  of 'death card' effects, such as instantly exploding enemies, that are collected in the singleplayer 
 mode and then set by the host of the private co-op match. The more players in a co-op mission, 
 the more enemies there will be, which makes for a fair challenge depending on the difficulty level. 
 The main issue with the co-op mode is that it is split first into challenge and campaign modes, 
 and second into four difficulty levels. With 8 different queues, it can be difficult to find sufficient 
 other players to make a group through automatching, especially since few players queue in the first 
 place.
  
  The multiplayer is where the real meat and potatoes of the game is. This game uses an automatching 
 system on public games that, on the popular modes, puts the player in a match within seconds. A 
 full match, depending on the mode, lasts 10 minutes or less, and there is a 2 minute interval between 
 matches. Private games are, of course, also possible, but scoring does not apply to them. Most 
 of the weapons from the singleplayer are useable, although many have to be unlocked by fighting 
 and earning points to rank up, so new players will have a small selection of weapons. They will 
 not be put into a disadvantage however, since all the starting weapons have good potential. Apart 
 from the initial classes that are unlocked by the first 2 hours of multiplayer play, custom classes 
 can be made, allowing the player to choose his main weapon with an attachment, sidearm, grenades 
 and three perks, or special abilities. There is a good selection of maps, big and small, and many 
 gameplay modes. Some modes fall under the less forgiving hardcore rules: no interface, and weapons 
 are deadlier. Some maps also include tanks, which feel like a tacked-on feature that should not 
 be in a game that is almost exclusively about infantry combat. Nevertheless, it does add tactical 
 possibilities. On a final note, the weapon balance
  could be better. Some weapons are clearly overpowered and correspondingly overused: sub-machineguns 
 are deadly even at medium range, the STG44 is the only assault rifle and clearly superior to its 
 semi-action counterparts, and the anti-material rifle has a far higher rate of fire than any other 
 rifle in its class, as well as the lethality and accuracy of a sniper rifle. 
  
  Call of Duty: World at War is a solid, even stellar, but not revolutionary game. It does not breathe 
 fresh air into the WW2 First-Person Shooter genre, though it does nearly everything well. FPS fans, 
 especially fans of the more tactical shooters, should definitely give it a try. 
  
  
  Edit: I have not mentioned the popular Zombies mode as I have not been able to play it because 
 it does not exist in the German version. I suspect this is why private co-op does not work for 
 me either. Had I known these things would be missing, I would not have bought this version in the 
 first place, and I would encourage gamers to oppose this censorship. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xL33TxTALENTx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 22, 2009 11:45 am PT
Review:  This game is by far the best Call of Duty game to date. The multiplayer is much more realistic 
 and the campaign is much more intense. The guns in multiplayer are much more diverse and the gun 
 attachments are much more realistic with the gun they are on. The developers made it much harder 
 to prestige which is what I believe a good thing. In Modern Warfare it was very easy to be good 
 at low levels because of the guns offered at those leves. In World at War, you must rank up to 
 get the more powerful guns which means that going into prestige mode is much harder to do because 
 of all the great weapons you lose. This makes for much more work and determination to prestige 
 but also is much more respectable then ranking up in Modern Warfare. All in all, this game is fantastic, 
 it has its flaws, but is probably the best multiplayer game ever to grace the online community. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Getix-01
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 21, 2009 12:39 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty: World at war.
  Graphics: Athough it's used the AMAZING call of duty 4 engine, you cannot help but notice that 
 the graphics need a bit more polish, as some of the edges of objects are a bit rough or scratchy. ( 
 only if compared to Call of duty 4) . But mainly uses the same realistic textures and lighting effects 
 combined with weird shadows the seem to be constantly figiting make realistic world, creating a 
 believable atmosphere of WW2, even at the reichstag in berlin.
  
  Gameplay: Still has all the characteristics of the call of duty 4 gameplay, which is brilliant 
 as most people would agree not to change a damn thing :D.
  Still creating loveable characters ( Sgt. Reznov ) who move in realistic ways and create authentic 
 sounds... no recycled sound clips  :D. Treyarch have still tried to capture infinity wards brief 
 using sattelites during cutscenes. I think they have done this quite well using maps. Thank you 
 treyarch for the highly addictive ray gun in the nazi zombies mode :) .
  
  Multiplayer: using and adapting on call of duty 4's award winning multiplayer it still feels the 
 same in world at war. Which is good, (obvious to the guys who play cod 4 online) . Now with the addition 
 of the really annoying but fun to use ... TANKS. Still all the great perks that we know and love, 
 and still similar weapons attachments for the fabulous weapons e. g. the aperature sight which is 
 the same as the red dot sight.
  
  Overall, call of duty world at war is a brilliant game but lacks the breathtaking sights from call 
 of duty 4 Modern warfare, but who's complaining... that much.
  the multiplayer make up for it :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ps360x
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 21, 2009 9:24 am PT
Review:  Now to start of the story for cod 5 is near to the end of ww2 but it is different it shows diffferent 
 battle tactics that the enemies use. The campaign is impresive it has a variety of weapons and 
 styles of gameplay.
  
  The graphics are average they have some good effects although the soldier animations are seriously 
 lacking. I like how they have added a realistic gore system into the game which shows a brutal 
 saving private ryan feel about it.
  
  The sound is good each gun has a distinctive sound and explosions add to the ww2 atmosphere 
 
  
  The game plays just like cod 4 no tweaks, the same good old call of duty gameplay controls but 
 by now some sort of cover system would have been nice.
  
  Now this is where the game falls flat, the multiplayer i enjoyed cod 4 multiplayer it was extreamly 
 adictive but what ruined it was things like shooting someone and they turn around and kill u in 
 2 bullets, knifeing someone but then dying and in kill cam u never knifed and then there is killcam 
 worst idea in the world and theae things are brought back into cod 5 but only amplified. I could 
 stand it in cod 4 but now they are much worst and u have the same perks apart from last stand lasts 
 for 3mins so it is easy to kill steel. The maps are rushed, flamethrower is overpowering. Nazi 
 zombies was fun for an hour and got repetative. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RippedPenguin
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 20, 2009 9:02 pm PT
Review:  I have to say I was disapointed. Call of Duty World at War is the same in almost every way. It 
 has the same graphics, same sounds, same effects, and same feel. The only thing they changed on 
 Cod 5 is the sprinting and the gore. The sprinting looks just awful. You know how in Cod 4, when 
 you sprinted, you looked kind of crouched like you were ready to duck enemy fire? Well they basicaly 
 scratched that. Now it is running with your back strait and your arms finaticly swinging left and 
 right. And the gore... is pretty good. The only body parts that can be blown off are legs, arms, 
 hands and heads. Actually that is pretty much everything now that I think about it. Overall though, 
 the type of gameplay is different. The guns are basicaly worse. Its no longer up to your quick 
 trigger finger, but were you go on the map. Where you position yourself rather. I bought it, played 
 it for a month, and then went back to Cod 4. Thats what Im playing right now. Buy it if you have 
 money, but if you don't, don't sweat it. Its not that big of a deal if you don't have this one. 
 They are coming out with Cod 6 (another modern warfare) soon and it is supposed to be the best 
 one in the entire series. Just wait for that one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nevernight490
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 19, 2009 1:38 pm PT
Review:  When this game was announced most Call of Duty players condemned it because it was taking the series 
 back to World War II. This was a very unfair decision to make, as Call of Duty World At War offers 
 the best World War II gaming experience since Call of Duty 2. The singleplayer campaign is probably 
 the most fun Call of Duty campaign to date, offering some great new locations and theatres to fight 
 in. 
  
  The American missions are loads of fun, and gunning down bonzai attackers is a great new experience. 
 Another great moment is the first level, where you are ambushed by a group of Japanese who "play 
 dead" and then bonzai charge you after releasing a flare. One of the greatest experiences is raiding 
 the convoy of Japanese merchant ships in your Black Cat, and then rescuing survivors of a Japanese 
 Airforce kamikaze attack. The American campaign also introduced using mortar shells as hand held 
 grenades, a concept I would have liked to seen used as a perk in multiplayer. The flamethrower 
 is a bit overused in the American campaign, but it is still a very fun weapon to use. The American 
 campaign shows us the horror of fighting the Imperial Army, and shows us what a fearsome enemy 
 the Japanese were in World War II.
  
  The Russian missions start off with a scene very similar to Enemy At the Gates, in which your character 
 hides in a well filled with dead Russians from German forces. Germans walk by and open fire into 
 the well to make sure all the Russians are dead and then move on, another surviving Russian calls 
 you over and gives you a rifle. He instructs you an when and who to shoot. This is a great moment 
 in the campaign. The Russian campaign offers a few mission where you control a tank for the enitre 
 misson, but these levels are easy and short so enjoy the destructive glory of the tank while it 
 lasts. It introduces a few new concepts such as fighting in German sewers and grabbing the Soviet 
 flag and rushing to fly it over the Reichstag, which are pretty epic moments that feel awesome. 
 This campaign almost makes you feel sorry for the last line of German defense as thousands of screaming 
 russians storm the parliament building. Towards the end, this campaign seems like it has been "dragged 
 out". By this I mean long and hard just to offer a little longer gameplay time. However, the feeling 
 of flying the Soviet flag over Berlin and ending Hitler's Nazi Germany for good in the Call of 
 Duty series is a truly great feeling. Congratulations guys, 5 years of battling Nazi Germany in 
 Call of Duty World War II games has finally ended in total allied victory!
  
  Zombie Nazis is a strange but fun addition to the series. It is certainly a fun mode to play every 
 once in a while, but the map is not too addictive. Hopefully the new Zombie map being released 
 in the March map pack will be better and more addicting. This mode is hard, and when you lose prepare 
 to feel extremely angry and frustrated as one little mistake can cost you the entire round.
  
  Co-op mode is pretty bland and boring. You cannot earn the veteran achievements on co-op and 
 there is no real reason to play. Just stick to single-player. Competitive Co-op is the real winner, 
 offering an arcade-style points scoring system and makes the single-player campaign worth replaying 
 for fun. Racking up score multipliers and turning on special "cards" (options to change gameplay, 
 example: headshots only kills) add to the fun and you and your friends will enjoy this mode for 
 endless hours.
  
  Competitive multiplayer really makes this game the best it can be. True, it is pretty much a copy 
 of Call of Duty 4, but why change something that is already amazingly great? There are many weapons, 
 a few add-ons but sadly no camoflage (however, the time period really doesn't allow for much in 
 the add-ons and camoflauge departments) . The levels have a good range from small to large, and 
 a variety of environments with lots of cover keep them entertaining. The ghilly suit is MUCH BETTER 
 then COD4's suit, and blends in better with the foilage. The challenges are back, but most of them 
 are the same as COD 4 so it may seem like you aren't playing a new game, but Treyarch did add some 
 challenges specific to their game which are fun to try and get. The World War II 50 cal equivalent, 
 the PTRS anti-tank rifle, is a great gun to use! It even can destroy tanks armor, apparently. Out 
 of personal experience, I blew up a tank with a shot once! The perks and weapons are great and 
 their are many World War II classics that you will love to be using once again.
  
  In general, the addition of extreme gore and some foul language really immerse you in the savage 
 World War II experience. 
  
  Call of Duty World At War is a very dakr and gritty game compared to its predecessors, but it portrays 
 the second World War accurately. So suit up, because its time to finish this war once and for all! 
 Hitler and the Nazi's will fall! The Japanese will pay for what they did at Pearl Harbor! Are you 
 ready for the most savage fighting of the war? As the Russians said, "Not One Step Back!"
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ashbag
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 19, 2009 10:28 am PT
Review:  The Good:
  - Amazing firefights between you and the nazis
  - Immersive story
  - Jungle locations are a welcome change and add a new challenge
  - Veteran mode is a real challenge
 
  - Graphics are amazing and nicley gritty
  - The musical score builds the atmosphere very well and keeps you immersed in the game
  - Combat 
 mechanic is very good and keeps the pace of the game just right
  - Excellent competitive multiplayer modes and perks system
  - Nazi zombie mode is one of the 
 best and most innovative multiplayer modes in any game 
  - Co-op is a welcome addition
  
  The Bad:
  - Incredibly short, with the campaign lasting around 7 hours
  - Any difficulty above 
 hardened won't provide much of a challenge
  
  The newest in the COD series has suffered from a lot of criticism, with people saying its a step 
 sideways for the series. But the fact of this is that it just isnt true, as there was never any 
 need for activision to change anything technical (the graphics and mechanics of the game were already 
 perfect) . The new pacific setting is a welcome change as are the new multiplayer modes and the 
 combat is as good as ever.
  
  In short, COD WaW is at the pinnacle of what war games should be like and it is worth every penny 
 of your hard earned cash and although the campaign is over all to quickly, you'll definitely come 
 back for a second go and the multiplayer modes will keep you hooked for a good while to come. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Russ32233
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 18, 2009 2:02 pm PT
Review:  this game is my most played live game but it has a few big problems... first the glitchers aka 
 cheats who obviously cant play fair so have to cheat. 2nd is the team killers again people who 
 cant play fair ps im not talking about accidents i mean blatant team kills like at the start of 
 s match. 3rd spawns you right next to a team mate but if they are in a fire fight then you get 
 killed as well or they spawn you right in front of someone who manages to snipe you with a head 
 shot. oh and last stand can get very annoying too. the campaign is short but good but i prefer 
 the story of cod 4. but mainly the multiplayer is my big thing also the problems we get playing 
 agaisnt americans or something because of broadband speeds otherwise its ok for a bit of fun and 
 that but it can get very frustrating when those faults come into it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StrayEagle
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 18, 2009 8:14 am PT
Review:  I was able to rent this game for a few days and found it to be good, however there are many problems 
 with it that sometimes make the game more frustrating than fun.
  
  For instance, you will always die, no matter what difficulty your on. Because apparently, grenade 
 damage doesn't change with each level, and even if the grenade danger indicator is barley visable, 
 you will still die. Another thing I've noticed is that 80% of the time, the enemy focuses on you 
 and you alone. I have seen one guy run into view, right next to a friendly, and instead of taking 
 that guy out he ignores him and attacks ME. There could be 10 different guys next to you and 8 
 out of 10 times the enemy will shoot at you and you alone. You also seem to have swallowed a magnet 
 at a young age because frequently you will have nades thrown right on you.
  
  Also, and it may just be because I suck at it, but there is a level where you must take out a enemy 
 sniper who is hiding in a building. To this date I have never been able to shoot the b-tard in 
 the short 1 sec timeframe you have before he 1-shoots you. There is no way to avoid the bullet 
 either, you can dance all you want that bullet will CURVE to meet you.
  
  However, aside from those bads, this game boasts many goods. For instance pyro-maniacs have been 
 looked at this time, including flame throwers. :D Witch are oodles and oodles of fun to play with. 
 Also CoD goes back to the WWII era but with CoD5's graphics and physics, making this possibly the 
 better of the CoD games based in WWII. The story is superb, at the end of the game I almost had 
 a tear in my eye I was so immersed in it. Of course I won't spoil the ending for you. :P
  
  However, this game, like all other CoD games are plagued with, are much too short. I beat the game 
 in one night. Luckily, Activision has graced us with something to waste the other 4 days of rental 
 on, a new "Nazi Zombie" mode. Where you are trapped in a house, the only entrances being windows 
 that are barricaded. As the name suggests, you must fend off a horde of Nazi Zombies who try to 
 make it to the windows, tear of the barricades, enter your abode, and then proceed to eat you the 
 way only zombies can. :) 
  
  Also, the multiplayer from what I hear is good. Allowing you to either play split-screen co-op/deathmatch 
 or online co-op/deathmatch. However, I have not been graced with Xbox Live nor friends to play 
 it with, so I have no idea how the whole thing goes down.  _ 
  
  All in all this game is good and worth renting or even buying. Just be prepared for alot of frustrating 
 moments. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Archebius
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 17, 2009 7:22 pm PT
Review:  I'll admit it; I got in on the CoD franchise late, picking up 4 a decent while after it had hit 
 store shelves. But I loved it. And when five came out, I was excited about the potential that the 
 game had. 
  
  And it ended up being a really great game. Just not the game it could have been, and those moments 
 of "why the heck is it like this?" tend to overshadow the joy of playing, if only for a few minutes. 
 
  
  The game is very, very similar to CoD4. You have a campaign mode, which is enjoyable and well put 
 together. You play as a Russian for some of the missions and as a U. S. Marine for the rest. You'll 
 clear bunkers, call in air strikes on tanks, dive to the floor of a bombed-out building to avoid 
 being toastified to death by some overzealous flamethrowers, and plant a Russian flag square atop 
 the Nazi capital. The cinematics are extremely well done, and you get a feeling from it that most 
 WWII campaigns lack. However, if you decide to play through campaign with a friend, you'll quickly 
 discover one of the frustrations the game hands you - in co-op, each player's screen is offset 
 in opposite direction of the other, leaving a blue edging that serves no purpose other than rendering 
 a fifth of the screen unusable. Perhaps this can be adjusted in options - it's not annoying enough 
 that we stopped the campaign to try to fix it - but it made me wonder why Treyarch decided to through 
 that in there. 
  
  Once you get through the campaign, you'll unlock a new mode - Nazi Zombies. This has been a highlight 
 of my dorm floor, with each of us whiling away several hours trying to beat our two man record 
 (set by me and another dude) of 23. In this mode, you find yourself trapped inside a house. There 
 is no explanation - like Oasis of the Zombies, they're simply there, and they want you to die. 
 Unlike Oasis of the Zombies, the game mode is fun. You can unlock various weapons, most of them 
 with a set price, and go into other rooms to find more. There's a box that gives you a random weapon, 
 and as the game wears on this box becomes your lifeline, as each time you gain the required amount 
 of money you will put it into the box trying to get a weapon that can actually kill zombies. The 
 zombies come in waves; after eliminating one wave, you get a brief respite before the next level 
 starts. Each successive level has more zombies, and they're tougher. The level is well designed, 
 and while it may take you a few frustrating times to figure out all the tricks, it's a highly enjoyable 
 way to waste some time if you get bored of the online play. 
  
  The online mode is the best part of the game. The levels are much more fun to play on then CoD4's, 
 and the weapons are new, exciting, and seem to require a little more precision than usual. They 
 borrow heavily from CoD4, changing the balance here and there, but keeping the same perk, unlock, 
 and challenge system. Leveling up adds an addictive edge to the game, and there are enough game 
 levels and modes that you could play for quite a while before it became in any way monotonous. 
 However, there are several things that you will probably find yourself getting frustrated with 
 right off the bat, and these are things I wish Treyarch would fix sooner rather than later:
  
  - The spawn protocol is messed up. You will occasionally spawn with the enemy team, or sandwiched 
 between advancing enemy players, or right in front of a camping enemy, or even (occasionally) in 
 the crosshairs of a sniper. Yes, 4 had some issues with this as well, but they seem much worse 
 in WaW. There is nothing more frustrating than dying three times in a row without even being able 
 to take a step. 
  
  - The SMG's startling accuracy and firepower. The MP40 is especially galling, and you will soon 
 curse every player who runs around with a silenced MP. It just gets to you. And, the flawless accuracy 
 of the iron sights on those weapons makes for some frustrating times as a sniper. Nothing like 
 missing with your first bullet only to be laid flat by a guy across the map with a PPSH. 
  
  - Tanks are both frustratingly powerful and frustratingly weak. A player who knows what they're 
 doing can easily evade the tanks so long as he's aware they're there (which, surprisingly, isn't 
 as easy as you'd think) , but especially on War, the tanks feel cheap. Rockets and satchel charges 
 can take them out, but not enough of your fellow players care, making it extremely difficult. And 
 if they manage to get one of yours, the game is almost sealed right there. On the other hand, if 
 you're in the tank, you'll quickly discover that the rounds don't always go where the crosshairs 
 are, and your high explosive rounds cannot penetrate sheet metal, much less sandbags or wood. 
 
  
  All in all, the flaws aren't that serious. But they're frustrating and should have been remedied 
 before the game even launched. If you're willing to put up with them, and aren't looking for anything 
 too different from CoD4, then this is a game that will keep you occupied for a very long time. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aaronfilmltd
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 16, 2009 6:10 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty: World at War brings the successful functions of Call of Duty 4 back to the tired 
 World War II era for more Nazi-killing action. And for the most part, it remains as functional 
 and involving as its predecessor.
  
  Although Call of Duty WaW introduces some new features, a new setting, and new weapons, it falls 
 short on several fronts. To start, the single player contains a lot of theatrical, classic "Call 
 of Duty moments", but fails to really involve you in the story, sending you from the Pacific campaign 
 in the Marines' point of view, to the European theater in the Russian's point of view. The Pacific 
 theater feels slightly unique and different as far as WWII shooters go, but it doesn't make up 
 for the stale characters and tired locations used in the game, neither of which were problems in 
 Call of Duty 4.
  
  Multiplayer is as addicting and involving as in Call of Duty 4, with a few new perks and a complete 
 new set of weapons to go along with it. They also extended the level cap to 65, which I guess was 
 done to make the experience last longer, but ultimately leads to ridiculously slow leveling. You 
 can go for several levels in a row without unlocking anything interesting at all, which makes the 
 multiplayer a bit tedious after a while. Not many of the multiplayer maps are quite as involving 
 or intense as any of the Call of Duty 4 maps, either. 
  
  One of the most unfair additions to the maps are the tanks. Tanks, while fun to use, are ridiculously 
 unfair, and it's not hard to acheive 20 or more kill streaks in a tank. Once an entire team has 
 control of the tanks on the map, they basically win, which makes some games a simple race for the 
 tanks rather than a tactical team deathmatch. It definitely is a change from the challenge and 
 tactical thinking of Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare, mostly for the worse.
  
  Call of Duty: World at War feels fresh and new for awhile, but eventually you wind up wanting to 
 go back to Modern Warfare. It's still a solid game, in spite of its shortcomings, and is great 
 fun with friends. If you haven't played Call of Duty 4 yet, I definitely recommend that game over 
 this one, but if you're a CoD4 veteran and are looking for something new, CoD: WaW is the game 
 to get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vonstalhein
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 16, 2009 4:08 pm PT
Review:  The Call of Duty franchise is a bastion of tried-and-tested gameplay mechanics awash in a sea of 
 confused military themed shmups. It's a series of computer games that make war fun but, crucially, 
 manage not to glorify it; at least not in too irresponsible a way. It is also however, a slightly 
 confused franchise, thrown like a hot potato (or perhaps passed back and forth begrudgingly, like 
 a precious toy betwee siblings) between developes Treyarch and Infinity Ward. The latest installment, 
 replete with unncessary subtitle 'World at War' aimed at padding out what, presumably wasn't a 
 catchy enough abbreviation, was developed by Treyarch. Like their first stab at the series, it 
 falls short of expectations, like a dud grenade: It looks the business and you can imagine it having 
 some serious impact, but it just fails to deliver. Not in the sense that it's green and makes everyone 
 run around screaming briefly before looking slightly embarassed, although on reflection that analogy 
 holds true too.
  
  World at War has issues that are forever in the periphery of the mind's eye; they aren't even noticeable 
 at first, and for many will never progress beyond mild annoyance, but they persist nevertheless 
 for veterans of the war. I mean, CoD franchise. For example, the hit detection seems somewhat fickle, 
 and this is in a sense a damning flaw if you care to dwell on it, as there is nothing more jolting 
 than hurtling headlong into a dramatic firefight only to have to follow up a round that seemed 
 unfailingly to you to have hit the damn enemy (DAMN HIM!) square in the cranium. Nor, for that 
 matter, is it particularly gratifying to have to empty an entire cartridge of a bolt action rifle 
 into a flimsily clad Banzai soldier. To refer to the previous installement, it seems we never encountered 
 this issue; your targets would crumple satisfyingly (excuse my bloodlust) when shot. Granted, they 
 were being shot with technology years advanced from Lee-Enfields, but suffice to say the pace is 
 interupted in WaW by stubborn, stoic enemies. 
  
  The A. I of your squadmates leaves much to be desired also. Being pushed from cover by a myopic 
 private is mystifying to say the least, especially when one is attempting to play on one of the 
 harder difficulties. My advice regarding the higher difficulty settings incidentally, is 'don't'. 
 They suck what fun is to be had by depriving you of any added respites, leaving you quite simply, 
 to die over and over again, killed by near invisible tree-snipers or mad Banzai's whom your reflexes 
 are not augmented by coke/coca-cola enough to counter.
  
  However, the game has plenty of high points. Set-pieces, lighting, the gritty realism and unflinching 
 attention to detail as well as an admirable determination to demonise the Japanese as utterly blood-thirsty 
 maniacs prove to be genuinely unsettling.
  Graphical brunt is also abundant, and the sounds of battle are as vivid and evocative as ever. 
 
  
  To judge WaW entirely on its own merit would be do to a disservice to the notion of progress in 
 a franchise. To mark it too harshly on account of the previous efforts of Infinity Ward would be 
 to akin to ignoring the entertainment to be had because there are 'more fun' games to be played. 
 The issues that hold this game back from being a truly worthy continuation hinge more on your expectations; 
 suspend those and you will encounter a gripping, intense, albeit brief foray into a side of war 
 not yet shown.
  
  
  Oh, and the Nazi Zombie mode is inspired, and should be expanded upon post-haste! 
  
  Ddddd 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unknownman25
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 16, 2009 3:26 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty: World at War returns the Call of Duty franchise to WWII and it does a great job. 
 
  
  Campaign: The campaign puts you in the shoes of both a Russian and American soldier battling through 
 countless Nazi and Red Army soldiers towards the final days of World War II and does a great job. 
 There are Banzai attakers on the red army, these are soldiers who hide in pits or in tall grass 
 and pop out as you are walking by, this adds to the intensity. Also tanks several tanks have flame 
 throwers and there are several vehicles to mix up the action. I will also say that some levels 
 are rediculously hard on Veteran so be warned! The sound and visuals are also top notch.
  
  Multiplayer: The multiplayer is on par with it's older brother ( COD4 ) and while the maps might 
 not be quite as good the action is no less intense. Several new features in the game are tht most 
 of your sniper rifles no longer start out with scopes, they must be unlocked by getting 25 kills. 
 The level cap has also been raised to 65 and once you get there you unlock a handheld Flamethrower, 
 Boucing Bettys are also in my opion more effective than COD4's Claymores as they are harder to 
 sprint by. 
  
  My final verdict is that Call of Duty: World at War is an awesome war game with a good campaign 
 and awesome multiplayer. 9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: awflipman
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 23, 2009 2:46 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty: World at War, or Call of Duty 5, is being played by everyone across the world. But 
 why? because of it's amazing multiplayer. However multiplayer isn't the only fun thing to this 
 game.
  The main story takes place in WW2, You play either in the shoes of an American private or a Russian 
 soldier. As Pvt. Miller you fight on to push the Japanese back. You can use guns such as the M1 
 Garand and the Thompson machine gun. As the Japanese fall back, you see your team fall at your 
 sides. His side of the story is fun, but it is still not as cool as Pvt. Peternko. As Demitri, 
 You fight the Russian side of WW2. Sgt. Resnov is a total badass and makes this story awesome. 
 You fight against the German soldiers in the streets of Europe. You use weapons ranging from the 
 Mosin Nagant in the first sniper mission all the way to the rapid fire PPSH. His mission last all 
 the way to taking of the Reichstag, which is one of the most fun missions I have ever played in 
 a first person shooter. After completing the game you unlock Nazi Zombies, which you have probably 
 heard all about already. Playing through the story in veteran mode is the most challenging and 
 fun thing to do. I haven't completed it yet but, man is it fun.
  On the menu there are three options: Solo, Cooperative, and Multiplayer. Cooperative is exactly 
 what it is says. You can do split screen with two people or you can do up to four people online. 
 There is cooperative and competitive. In cooperative you play together in order to complete the 
 mission, but in competitive you play with each other, scoring points for kills and completing objectives.
 
  In multiplayer its the same, addicting online mode that has come with all other major first person 
 shooters. There is a ranking system where you earn experience for kills and assists. As your progress 
 continues, you unlock more and better guns and perks. Each perk gives a special ability to your 
 character, making things easier or harder depending on what guns you use with your perks. The maps 
 are taken from the missions in the game. My two favorite maps are taken from the american missions 
 which are Castle and Courtyard. 
  Overall Call of Duty: World at War is a great game, with amazing replay value. With the DLC coming 
 soon in the spring, this game will be sure to be the best first person shooter for a long time. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Redhairboy491
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 15, 2009 12:43 pm PT
Review:  Ok before all of you start pushing in your right analog sticks in a frenzy rush to knife me, let 
 explain my piece. First ill admit that the story in Call of Duty 4 is wayyyy better than it was 
 in Five. However, the addition of nazi zombies (which i do have problems with that will be explained 
 later) dogs instead of helicopters, and the finer selection of weapons makes it the winner to me.
 
  
  Story: Reminded me a lot of medal of honors stories, which was good, but the american side felt 
 very impersonal. The russian side made it feel like reznov was trying to get into your pants or 
 something, though in the end it turns out he's a total freaking badass. 7.5/10
  
  Multiplayer: Beware! To those people who were extremely annoyed by juggernaut, it's still around 
 and in promise. Another noobish and annoying thing i've seen players who will put it on AND have 
 last stand on, which means they've only got to hit you with half the bullets that you need to kill 
 them. Also, though the m16 is gone, it has a new, possibly more annoying, successor. The MP40. 
 Now ill probably get a lot more hate for saying that, but come on people, it's the truth. It's 
 to strong, and unlike the M16, this babies fully automatic and has a longer clip, plus you can 
 add the extended clip feature. It has the drawback of supposedly being shorter range, but when 
 you've seen it kill somebody with an stg44 across map, you tend not to believe that. There are 
 new perks and the addition of dogs is better because the helicopter was always to easy for me to 
 take down, and thus to easy for my opppenents to take down. The days of hiding in buildings are 
 gone, go fido go! 9/10
  
  Graphics: Pretty much the same as Call of Duty 4 with a few improvements to go along with the times. 
 8/10
  
  Gameplay: The gun's sound and recoil is realistic and they adapted the multiplayer formula very 
 well for the WW2 settings. At first i thought that having to work to get the scope for a sniper 
 rifle was going to be real annoying but as it turns out i now just keep the scope off and use the 
 iron sights. The bipod for the Machine guns need to have more spot placements or more maneuverability 
 because, while i use it in headquarters or simliar base games, i haven't ever seen anyone else 
 use it yet. 10/10
  
  Other: Nazi zombies. While it might have been a good idea to begin with, it lost its appeal very 
 quickly when players just started looking for glitches. The only way they could lose was if they 
 jumped down into the masses. Giving credit where credit is due, they fixed the first glitch, but 
 more have been found, and why i won't run them for the people who want to use them, nazi zombies 
 doesnt really have any appeal to me anymore. 6/10
  
  Final: A so-so story and noobish people online save this game from true stardom. People, listen, 
 i dont care if you use juggernaut, i don't, but i dont care if you do. But don't use it with last 
 stand! And seriously don't use it with the freakin MP40. If your gonna have good k/d, make sure 
 it's because your a good player, not because your have invincible set of perks. A guy who makes 
 his own class but has 1.5 k/d is far the superior player to a guy who is 2 k/d but uses MP40, juggernaut, 
 and last stand. Tanks, while some people complain, are easily destroyed by a couple of well placed 
 satchel charges, and the knife, as always, doesn't make sense to me, but whatever, ill just tbag 
 em next time. Wonder if i should buy em dinner first....
  
  -BB Aries- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HypnoDirge
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 15, 2009 10:03 am PT
Review:  Riding heavily on the coat tails of Infinity Ward, I would still expect more than I got out of 
 this waste of time. While the multiplayer is solid, it offers nothing that MW didn't bring us already. 
 While they hit a soft spot with the zombie horde, I've done that before too. 
  The single player campaign has some of the worst level design I've seen lately. Every where I look, 
 I see my comrades fighting this war right along side me. Why is it that the Germans only seem to 
 recognize me as a threat? I'm a bit surprised that my TV didn't develop permanent burn marks from 
 the damned grenade indicators. I enjoyed the voice work (as long as I didn't have to sit through 
 5 minutes of it every time I died and had to restart a checkpoint, oh, about a billion times) . 
 I have always liked that guy from The Lost Boys, and you certainly can't go wrong with Bram Stokers 
 Dracula either. It's nice that two of the best vampires from my younger days could get together 
 and bring me back to a simpler time. It helps to ease the morbid enjoyment of burning down a tree 
 to get to that pesky sniper.
  I am not happy with this addition to the series. I say if Treyarch wants to do another one, they 
 should start it now and wait about 5 or 6 years before they even think about trying to sell it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamerichard
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 15, 2009 5:28 am PT
Review:  Being the sequel to one of the greatest war games of all time, World at War has a lot to live up 
 to. The game has received some bad reviews, but I think those critics are purely a comparison to 
 Modern Warfare, which is very unfair for a game that tries something a bit different than its predecessor. 
 
  
  Call of Duty has once again returned to world war 2, though this time it's partly set to the fight 
 against the Japanese in the southeast. I won't call it a new take on a war game, but it's quite 
 fresh for a CoD game. It's also a lot bloodier than previous games in the series, and it feels 
 fitting for a game grittier and darker than other war games on the market. The overall presentation 
 is awesome with Kiefer Sutherland briefing you on the American missions alongside seeing real war 
 footage and war statistics. This makes for the best presentation in a Call of Duty game to date. 
 
  
  World at War looks great. It uses the same engine as Modern Warfare, and it still holds up quite 
 well. It can't compete with Gears of War or the latest Killzone 2, but it doesn't stand in the 
 way for enjoying the game. The sound is just brilliant though. Sound effects comes at you hundreds 
 at a time, and it's all so chaotic it's exhausting. 
  
  The game isn't particularly long, and the multiplayer is much the same as in Modern Warfare. It's 
 just wrong to say that a game is horrible just because it's not as good as its prequel. The game 
 is very entertaining, and manages to stand up with its own feel and identity in the Call of Duty 
 series. Some missions are a lot better than others, and neither the A. I. nor set pieces are very 
 impressive. But the game has its fair share of good things like the weapons for example, allthough 
 having shot with a Thompson a hundred times before, it has never felt this good. And one of the 
 things the game actually does better than its superior prequel is the change in controlling factions. 
 Here you switch between controlling an American and Russian soldier, and they feel very different 
 being set in the pacific and in the middle of Berlin. 
  
  World at War is definitely worth playing and plays better thn most war games out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YouCantSeeMe12
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 14, 2009 5:50 pm PT
Review:  This is a really good game that you should get if you have online. If you dont that is really sad 
 because you will only play for a little because the story is short. The only thing that is good 
 about story mode if you dont have online is that there is alot action, shooting, frags and much 
 more! If you have online you could hit up with up to 4 players and beet the story. Nazi Zombies 
 is also a very fun game mode to play. Offline or Online. It is a game mode that you are locked 
 up in a house an zombies trying to get you from the outside in. When I play with my friends alot 
 of people screaming because zombies are going to them. I also like is that thier is a secret mystery 
 box that you open it and a random weapen comes. That could also play up to 4 players. Online is 
 almost the same as COD4: Modern Warfare. You know perks, challenges, prestige and graphics. My 
 opion is that if you are a big COD fan and you love FPS, you should really get this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joeysav1
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 13, 2009 5:17 pm PT
Review:  I usually agree with the Gamespot critics reviews. I use this site to determine whether or not 
 I will purchase a game. I personally feel that 8.5 was a generous score for this game.
  
  I have played all of the games in the COD series. I am finally bored. World at War brought nothing 
 new to the table. The AI is so incredibly poor that even playing on increased difficulty the AI 
 soldiers would sometimes stand next to you for 10 full seconds before they decide to shoot.
  
  The graphics in World at War were good and the game mechanics were what you would expect. The 
 only other positive thing that I can say is that I enjoyed the way the story line was split between 
 the American and Russian soldier. 
  
  With that said, every level seemed the same.... plow straight ahead and kill stupid AI soldiers. 
 
  
  Maybe I am just bored of WWII FPS games. I gave the game a 7 because of the Graphics, Game Mechanics 
 and story were ok but I was completely bored with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kevindodd
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 12, 2009 9:28 am PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  
  Call of duty world at war's gameplay is outstanding.
  However it has familiar gameplay to it's predecessor call of duty 4: modern warfare.
  World at 
 war has familiar game setting and familiar game game mechanics to 
  modern warfare also.
  
  Gameplay rating:
  9/10
  
  Graphics
  With Detailed graphics you can't go wrong with 
 World At War.
  As They used the COD 4 engine they have the same great detailed graphics.
  
  Graphics rating:
  9/10
  
  Story
  The is very good indeed, it has improved the lengh 
 of the story's time from COD 4.
  Great detailed story, with detailed history what happened in the eastern front in WWll.
  8/10
 
  
  Multiplayer
  
  Wih great online multiplayer and addictive ranking system you probley play the multiplayer for 
 hours and hours.
  
  9.5/10
  
  
  
  The new features on World ar war are good like the new nazi zombies and new feature guns like the 
 flamethrower are great but is that all to World at war.
  
  World at war is the great game but if you have played Cod4 before don't expect that much new features.
 
  
  The Good:
  
  
  Exciting story, New modes such as nazi zombies, Same excellent multiplayer system, 4 co-op campaign, 
 Great voice acting.
  
  The Bad:
  
  
  Familiar setting, Familiar game mechanics .
  
  
  The Rating on World at War is 8.5/10 because they have added new great features to the 
 game but they have used the same seeting as modern warfare.
  
  This is still a 'good' game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chikinstien
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 11, 2009 11:50 pm PT
Review:  Between a rocking story line and amazing online multi-player options, this game really has it all. 
 Just fast paced enough to keep me awake and not so fast that I lose interest because I can't keep 
 up, I found myself up into the wee hours of the night playing this game. The campaign alone kept 
 me occupied for hour on end. And then I discovered Nazi Zombie... an I fell in love. My brother 
 and I play several rounds daily. It never gets old. NEVER!
  
  My only gripe about this game is I tend to get... stuck. Not in a way that I can't extricate myself, 
 but I usually end up having to look down at my feet and figure out what I need to step around in 
 order to move forward. This would be easily fixable if you were able to climb over the terrain, 
 and for the most part you can. But it's always when you need it most that you miss the ability 
 to fly over rocks and fallen logs like in Halo.
  
  This game feels great, looks great, and most importantly, GAVE ME ACHIEVEMENTS! Far too many games 
 have achievements that are so hard to get that I never worry about them. In this game, you get 
 achievements for all the things that you already do. See a tree? Have a flamethrower? Ah heck, 
 LET'S TORCH THE TREE!!!! *bleep bloop* Achievement Unlocked. Very satisfying
  
  All in all this is a solid addition to a very well made series. Ignoring a couple of clumsily placed 
 obstacles and you have what could possibly be my favorite shooter of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geodisicdome
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 11, 2009 6:08 pm PT
Review:  So everyone has been playing typical world war 2 FPS games for years, so when it was announced 
 that the new call of duty was doing it AGAIN, there were mixed reactions from gamers. How much 
 longer can we play games in the same setting with the predictable story that we are all too familiar 
 with?
  I picked up COD5 World At War shortly after release, and have played about 40-50 hours. Single 
 player is graphically similar to COD4, which already beautiful is still not a problem. The game 
 also handles in the way you have grown to expect from the call of duty series. All the controls 
 are the same as before, which is good for fans of the franchise like me because it's easy just 
 to jump in and play. 
  This time around you get to play as an American fighting in the Pacific and a Russian fighting 
 Nazis. I personally enjoyed the Russian side of things more, but burning japs with flames can be 
 cool too. There are some great in game cinematic sequences to back up the solid gameplay mechanics.
 
  As a huge fan of Call Of Duty 4, the multiplayer was easy to pick up and play with good success. 
 When it comes down to the multiplayer in recent call of duty games, the fact is it just takes a 
 lot of time to 'get' it. Most people don't do well for the first month or so. A lot of it is about 
 learning every square inch on the map which takes time.
  The new maps seem varied and good for various game modes, but I am not happy about the addition 
 of tanks to a few of the multiplayer maps. I don't use tanks, so its annoying when you get killed 
 by one, in the same way it's annoying when you get killed by a damn RPG in COD4.
  Is this game worth buying? Yes. Multiplayer dude. Seriously. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IAMTHEJOKER88
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 11, 2009 4:16 am PT
Review:  I'll start with the single player before i rant about the multiplayer,
  
  The single player introduces two campaigns, the Americans as they battle in the south Pacific, 
 and the Russians as they battle through Germany to Berlin. The Pacific campaign is by far the more 
 fun to play as you have to battle the Japs with bayonets and flame-throwers whilst they snipe you 
 from trees and rush at you with a kamikaze-like attitude. Despite this, it does not really throw 
 like its predecessor Modern Warfare did, although the soundtrack and vocal acting is brilliant 
 with an addition of Kiefer Sunderland to the COD Franchise, as a player i was never really engrossed 
 in the story-line unlike Modern Warfare where i genuinely felt i was part of a squad. The level 
 design is average, being varied and sometimes rather predictable i would give level design a 7/10. 
 The graphics here are almost if not worse than Modern Warfare which is a real down side despite 
 the development starting at the same time as Modern warfare.
  
  
  The Multiplayer, almost an exact replicate of COD4 which is not a bad thing although is bad to 
 those who wanted a change and are now bored of the COD4 setup. Classes, weaponry etc are customizable. 
 Although there is no gun camouflage, (which makes sense.) Despite now being historically accurate 
 as some of the firearms and exceedingly accurate, the weapons are of good mix with the five main 
 classes in mind, a rifleman, a submachine-gunner, a heavy gunner, close-quarter combats class, 
 and a sniper.
  People familiar with COD3 will know of the tedious multiplayer vehicles and they once again are 
 introduced in multiplayer by Treyarch. The Tanks tend to be very frustrating as a 'noob' one might 
 call can jump into a tank first and then annihilate everyone and then act like he's the pro. They 
 are realistic... but quite honestly i could have done without.
  
  The online maps have a ridiculously poor level design, despite the graphics being more than substantial, 
 they are so badly set out that the frequent encounters between two players usually results in luck. 
 The spawning is bad, and enemies can frequently spawn behind the player, or in another absurd position, 
 and in other cases can result in a team spawning in the same place and being picked off one by 
 one by their enemy. The guns used online are quite frankly dull and boring to use, with the only 
 interesting or different weaponry being the flame-thrower, sticky grenades and Molotovs (though 
 the Molotov's are extremely bad as grenades) .
  
  Probably the best and only new idea Treyarch has come up with which is actually credible is the 
 Nazi-zombie mode which provides a break from the multiplayer Versus action. Four Players against 
 and unlimited amount of zombies. (Although after four playthoughs each lasting 40 minutes i became 
 bored.)
  
  All in all, by all means buy the game for the thrill of the single player campaign but i will now 
 be returning to playing Cod4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zorack2005
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 10, 2009 7:42 pm PT
Review:  Alright Call of Duty World at War isn't a bad game but we have seen it before. It does have beautiful 
 set pieces and it does a good job pulling you into the action. But after a while of the same thing 
 during the campaign and especially after we've seen all this before, it begins to feel old and 
 becomes a bit boring. The zombie Nazi level at the end of the game was a nice touch and worth playing 
 the campaign through to unlock it. However there is one thing that really bothered me about the 
 campaign mode split screen. When you go to the split screen mode it does it in such a way that 
 its wasting some of the screen space on the useless background. Also during the co-op campaign 
 the game skips the level Stalingrad which was one of my favorite set pieces. Overall, it isn't 
 a bad game but to me it's not worth a high price tag either. I'd recommend renting or waiting until 
 the price comes down a bit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Biged619
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 10, 2009 5:07 am PT
Review:  This game is a worthy addition to anyones xbox! a must buy if you are either
  
  1) a spawn killing noob
  2) a hardcore player
  3) a COD Fanboy
  4) a lover of multiplayer
 
  
  I must say that the multiplayer is the highlight in this game, The fast-paced brutal shooter can 
 be brilliant fun when matching up against angry 6 year olds with snipers and thompsons or with 
 a pro who has a name like IOwnSalad. There WILL be moments when you fell like you are going to 
 throw your controller at the wall with frustration but thats all normal with WAW. It has some great 
 modes like team deathmatch and capture the flag aswell as some COD favourites like Search and Destroy 
 great fun... until you shotgun someone who has juggernaut. The perks are brilliant aswell so are 
 the challenges and weapons! And there is a Prestige mode aswell so you can lose all your hard work 
 and start again! *Sarcasm* 
  
  The Singleplayer is fun aswell. Its Extremely Cinematic (and thats just the first level) And pretty 
 gory begging (your being tortured with a fellow soldier who has a cigarette shoved in his eye and 
 his throat slit) then your saved by Keither Sutherland! stuff blows up you get slashed with a sword 
 and dragged to safety. Oh yes did i forget to mention the flamethrower? BUUUUURRRNNN YOU BLLLEEEDINNN 
 BANZAAAAIII!!!
  
  In short this is a must buy for pyros, small annoying kids, pros, and not very serious gamers that 
 just want to have some fun.
  
  Shine on you crazy Banzai!
  
  Oh yeah did i forget to mention that the achievements are easy and plentiful?
  
  Oh yes and 
 my Gamertag is: Vires Pervasor add me if you want :P
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Johonywuzhere
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 9, 2009 7:13 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty World at War is an amazing game, but has some dissapointments. Returning to WWII makes 
 it have a worse backround, but has the same greatness of Call of duty 1,2 and 3. 
  
  The campaign did not have the same great campaign like the other Call of Duty games. It was short, 
 kind of frusturating, and did'nt keep you excited. Although adding a tank mission, it was too boring 
 and didn't have enough action to be a great message. The helicopter mission was also frusturating. 
 The helicopter mission in Call of Duty 4 was great and fun and had plenty of action. This helicopter 
 mission had the worst turret weapon ever. It was like a machine gun and the scope was terrible. 
 The campaign was short, but when you unlock it you get nazii zombies. Another bad thing is that 
 you can't save your progress for co-op. You also can only unlock nazii zombies on solo campaign. 
 
  
  The multiplayer once again is amzing. The weapons are not very good, but some maps are amazing 
 and the new perks are very good. Using the same type of online gameplay as Call of Duty 4, but 
 you can go up to level 65. You can play split screen multiplayer also. You can play co-op nazii 
 zombies online which is great.
  
  The graphics are still looking the best, using the Call of Duty 4 engine. Although some weapons 
 may look cheesy, everything else looks great.
  
  Call of Duty World at War's tanks are okay add-on to online play, but in the campaign they are 
 terrible. The biggest add-on is definetly the nazii zombies mode. It is basically like Call of 
 Duty Resident Evil, but your stuck in a building. You have to breech barriers and kill a certain 
 amount of zombies to make it to the next level. You need to buy new weapons as you grow higher 
 levels. A great fun add-on to Call of Duty World at War.
  
  With some dissapointing things like the campaign, Call of Duty World at War makes it as a great 
 fun multiplayer game and manages still to be amazing. I would give it a 8.75/10, but thats not 
 an option so I will go with a 9/10.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheBadguyX2
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 9, 2009 6:28 pm PT
Review:  Its just as fast, addictive, and fun as the previous installment. The new features such as the 
 singleplayer co op is great with the new competitive system that pits up to 4 player against each 
 other on a singleplayer mission in a race to the end to see how will obtain the highest score. 
 The new singleplayer challenges the give you exp towards your multiplayer rank are good but not 
 a necessary add on since you will spend the bulk of your time in the actual multiplayer that has 
 tons of challenges and unlockables and is still just as good as COD4. But the newest and best feature 
 I like the new Nazi Zombie mode which throws waves of infinite spawning levels of zombies at you 
 and a couple of friends until the eventually overwhelm you and the rest of your squad. The game 
 hasn't changed much besides the setting, but but with the same old addictive multipalyer its still 
 one of the best shooters you can possibly buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Awesome_Ad
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 9, 2009 1:50 pm PT
Review:  Well my first impression, (without even playing the game) was oh god, another world war 2 game. 
 but when i started to play ther new CoD, it came to my intensions that this game isnt as bad as 
 i thought it would be, yes it has the old weapons, classic maps in a way, but there are so many 
 elements that trey arch and the creaters that have put into this game. The story was pretty good 
 as you are not just one team through the campaign, you are a russian team called the red army, 
 and the american marine raiders. agaisnt nerchwat i think its called, which i supposingly think 
 is the Nazis and the Imperial Amry which is the Japanese. All in which you can be oline. And online 
 isnt that bad either, i though it would just be gun to gun action, quite repetitive, i was wrong, 
 different kill streaks, were rewarded to you and your team, a 3 kill streak is a recon plane which 
 will locate enemys, a 5 kill streak giving you a power full artilery strike which you can place 
 anywhere on the map, and a 7 kill streak rewarding you with a pack of vicous dogs, which beleive 
 me, they are vicous. So this game came a suprise to me as it was pretty awesome being a non modern 
 war, but world war 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowDragon720
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 8, 2009 5:37 pm PT
Review:  When I got this game for Christmas, I was expecting greatness. Well, I got what I wanted. This 
 game is just really fun to play with a friend in split screen or a random person on Xbox Live Nazi 
 Zombies. The campaign is extremely fun with amazing missions that stand out such as Vendetta and 
 Black Cats. Veteran is a little too outrageous with all the grenades being pelted at your position. 
 Even though campaign has an extended time for 'nades to explode, sometimes your only option is 
 to get the hell out of there when 8 of them are amazingly placed at your exact position. All in 
 all, though, campaign is pretty fun.
  
  The online multiplayer aspect is great with a satisfying amount of different game modes and maps, 
 and not too long into the game and you'll be picking out your favorites. Also, you can play most 
 campaign missions in competitive or cooperative modes on Xbox Live. There is a wide variety of 
 different guns from the MP40 to the M1A1 Carbine, and you'll soon be owning when you find your 
 best gun and put it to use in the Custom Classes mode. Finally, there is an option to Prestige 
 and lose all of your perks and guns but you get more Custom Classes with each one and it gives 
 lots of replay value going through the ranks again.
  
  Campaign: 9.5
  Veteran can be annoying, but it all simmers down to a pot of fun.
  
  Multiplayer: 9.3
  It's 
 just phenomenal at it's best but sometimes with the bullets not registering and the glitches going 
 around it can get annoying.
  
  Nazi Zombies: 10.0
  SO MUCH FUN! Seriously, the Nazi Zombies don't die easily but this mode is extraordinarily enjoyable!
 
  
  Overall: 9.0 (Not an average) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: icandoit9
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 8, 2009 12:29 pm PT
Review:  Wow this game is amazing. I have had it for one day and i am addicted. Sniping is amazing and fun 
 to do. I suggest this to many different people because it is amazingly fun and addicting. I recommend 
 this to every one. I reccomend this to everyone. I recomend this to everyone. This is amazing amazing 
 and I suggest it to everyone. This is a really amazing game i suggest it to everyone. Wow this game 
 is amazing. I have had it for one day and i am addicted. Sniping is amazing and fun to do. I suggest 
 this to many different people because it is amazingly fun and addicting.
  
  
  Wow this game is amazing. I have had it for one day and i am addicted. Sniping is amazing and fun 
 to do. I suggest this to many different people because it is amazingly fun and addicting. I recommend 
 this to every one. I reccomend this to everyone. I recomend this to everyone. This is amazing amazing 
 and I suggest it to everyone. This is a really amazing game i suggest it to everyone. Wow this game 
 is amazing. I have had it for one day and i am addicted. Sniping is amazing and fun to do. I suggest 
 this to many different people because it is amazingly fun and addicting.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tiago_Matos
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 8, 2009 6:28 am PT
Review:  The war in the pacific is much cooler than the europe theater... i was already bored of normandy 
 and places like point du hoc... although call of duty 2 is still a masterpiece... this is the best 
 call of duty game ive ever seen. Plus some new weapons like the deployable MG42 and Browning 50 
 cal. are awesome just pick one these and cut them to tiny bits. I love the M1 carbine and Thompson 
 M1... those are my favourite weapons. So, if you didnt play this game yet... go forth!!! :D What 
 an awesome game!!! Much better than modern warfare... ww2 is the more violent theater of war!!! 
 The graphics engine is excellent... and the in game a. i is also amazing. The best Thing in Call 
 of duty series are the realist copies of the weapons... the only call of duty that hasnt done 
 that in perfet conditions is Call of duty 3.. its horrible!!! But World at war has proved to be 
 the best shooter of the series... I think that most people will prove me right. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BoringGlorioso
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 8, 2009 6:15 am PT
Review:  World at War can be described in 1 word. Amazing! This is why. Cod 4 engine is probably the best 
 there is. Add in its mulitplayer and new setting/guns. You get the game of the year. Or years. 
 The campaign is relatively short, only being 15 levels, but you really get your bang for buck when 
 you run this campaign. You play as the USMC in the eastern theater, and the Russian forces in the 
 european theater. I dont want to spoil the ending, but I will say it will satisfy anyone out there.
 
  
  MULTIPLAYER
  
  OMG WTF you cannot describe mp. it is amazingness. well, cod 4 mp was really good. I MEAN Good. 
 So you throw in new perks, maps, guns, models, and game modes. you get cod 5 mp.
  
  I reccomend this to most anyone who likes a good fps. even if you are not into the whole single 
 player, you wont go wrong in the MP.
  
  Overall, you cant go wrong with call of duty world at war.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cyberspider2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 5, 2009 6:04 pm PT
Review:  When I first found out of this game and found out treyarch was making it, I thought it was not 
 going to be good as infinity ward's masterpiece Call of duty 4. I was dead wrong. Call of duty 
 world at war is a great game considering many of it's criticisms. The campaign of call of duty 
 world at war is stunning and it is fun and cintematic. the campaign gives a realistic depiction 
 of world war 2 and could be a good game when studying about it. the campaign also has campaign 
 co-op which can be used to earn xp (reminiscent of rainbow six vegas 2) with also the aid of death 
 card which is very similar to call of duty 4's intel, halo 3's skulls and gears of war 2's cog 
 tags. When your finished with the campaign, you've unlocked Nacht der untoten better known as nazi 
 zombies.
  this mode is like gears 2's horde mode but you have to earn points to gain new weapons and reach 
 new parts of the house. 
  
  going away from campaign is the extremely fun co-op that has always gave the call of duty series 
 it's popularity. there is so much to unlock and the perk system is back. the engine is also enhanced 
 and is silky smooth.
  
  Treyarch, you have made another great game on your hands :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmiisha_796
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 4, 2009 6:18 am PT
Review:  CoD 5, is evidently the fifth installment in a long running franchise of first-person shooter games 
 mostly based on the epic battle of World War II. The only exception is the award-winning fourth 
 installment of the series, Modern Warfare.
  
  Well enough with the history lesson. Now with the review. For one, the most notable pro is the 
 awesome graphics. This is mostly due to the awesome game engine featured in the fourth game. Which 
 also had awesome graphics, but that was a no-brainer.
  
  The game also had some good atmospheric presentation. You can really feel the excitement of tip-toeing 
 through a field infested with Japanese guerrilla soldiers. Or standing at the beach during nighttime 
 with no cover what so ever. 
  
  Other than that, the game doesn't introduce anything that's worth looking at. Or worth playing 
 for hours on end, like it's predecessor. For the fourth game brought a lot of new and exciting 
 concepts to the table, the fifth just plays copy-cat and imitates everything. Nothing really improved 
 from the fourth to the fifth. It just was the complete same. Thus, at the end of the day, it was 
 a pretty boring. The only thing different about this game, is the storyline. Mostly, nothing else!
 
  
  Well, the multi-player was solid, you have to give the game that much. It's always fun to burn 
 down your online buddies/opponents with your new flamethrower. Oh, that would be one of the rare 
 new things in this game.
  
  So, to sum up a rather short review, if it wasn't for the elaborate language, an even shorter review, 
 this game is only worth it if you want a history lesson. Other than that, this game is just the 
 same game as we've seen in the previous installment.....
  
  So, I'd suggest that you either pick up the fifth game or the fourth. Not both..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Garuda414
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 4, 2009 1:49 am PT
Review:  World at War is a step down for the Call of Duty series. Modern Warfare was a lot more fun and 
 entertaining. The campaign has a lot of good ideas and it keeps you going the first time you play 
 it. The second time though, you just start to get bored. Especially on the Veteran difficulty, 
 the AI are just ridiculous. In a firefight, if you are even behind like 10 squad mates the enemies 
 still shoot you directly. Even if someone is in the Germans face they still shoot you. Its incredibly 
 unrealistic and can piss you off at times. The guns were done well though thankfully. Theirs a 
 large array of weaponry in the game and they all shoot and sound like they should. Multiplayer 
 is like Modern Warfare for the most part. the maps aren't the greatest but they keep you occupied. 
 The online achievements should be better cause they are all single player, but o well. The best 
 part of the whole game is zombie mode. If you have afriend to play this co-op with you do it. Its 
 extremely addicting and a great idea. If you are a fan of Call of Duty's pick it up, but if not 
 i would buy something else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: palooka123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 3, 2009 6:00 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty! World at war is One of The most popular games at the time of me writing this. I go 
 on line and play
  At least 1 hour a day and I've played up to 8 hours straight. In the online play there are a bunch 
 of things but I'll get into online play later for all those non-live users. In the campaign you 
 go through many different missions as a bunch of different people in different army's. The campaign 
 is considerably longer and better than modern warfare, one which lasted all of 1 hour, Now world 
 at war's campaign lasts you about 5-8 hours of fun. Then comes my favorite part, the on line play. 
 You stiII get to unlock weapons create classes and level up as always, Once you are level 65 you 
 first Off get a m2 flamethrower. The bad thing about that, is the M2 Sucks anyway. Then you also 
 have the question, Should I prestige? I recommend it but some people have other plans. I personally 
 feel like Sitting back and playing a few matches right now! The bottom line is that you will enjoy 
 this game a bunch and it will last you a very long time and you should not bother renting it, just 
 buy it. NOW!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sliencerz123
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 3, 2009 4:42 pm PT
Review:  My overall opinion about the game is not bad. At first I thought it was another shoot em up game 
 but it much more. Okay you fight Germans and Japanese people in the pacific but in the end it pays 
 off with the Nazi Zombie mode it is like a dawn of the dead in video game mode. However! I do not 
 like that it is after the campaign mode in the game which seemed crappy at first but I guess they 
 saved the best for last. If I could rate the game just on the Nazi zombies it would get a 10 because, 
 it makes the game interesting and cool. The game has class, original, a lot of action, and always 
 making you want more. but you might not be into that stuff of stop playing it, I don't know. but 
 the planes the mortars, bombs, boats. some things never change I guess.... or do they but not call 
 of duty I think that could be 2009 game of the year if it was made in 2009. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vikinghero1
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 1, 2009 7:54 am PT
Review:  The game has received alot of hate and I don't why. The game was great. The campaign was amazing 
 and really put you into thet battle. The graphics were amazing. I really enjoyed blowing arms and 
 legs off while rolling the the singe player. As for the multiplayer, great. I was disapointed that 
 Treyarch didn't change the only set up at all. The challenges were the same only with different 
 names and guns. Also the sniper rifles should've got ghillie covers for the expert challenges. 
 But all of that still doesn't take away from the fun of shooting poeple and seeing them being amputated 
 by bullets. The new zombie mode was amazingly fun and I would do that forever if you got exp from 
 it. The campaign co - op was a nice add and did give you exp for beating challenges. Getting together 
 with friends and blowing Nazi heads off in Nazi Zombie or just regular campaign is fun whenever 
 you do it. The multiplayer maps were really great even though they were from the campaign just 
 altered a little bit, but some maps like Seelow and Outskirts (my favorites) were not like the 
 campaign. Overall the game is amazing and i would recomend to any World War 2 gamer or a fan of 
 Call of Duty. Unless you are a hater of this game because its WW2 again so you guys can stick with 
 your CoD 4 (great game too, I play alot) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cwray27
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 31, 2009 5:49 pm PT
Review:  When you first start playing the game, it is fun, but then after around the secong mission, it 
 gets boring, and you find yourself doing the same thing over and over again. It then becomes work, 
 not fun. The only good things about it are the Multi-player mode, and the new mini game that they 
 added at the end of the game called "Nazi Zombies", so thats the only reason anyone should work 
 through the entire game till the end. I would not recomend this game to anyone except those people 
 who think of video games as "work" and feel the need to play them on the hardest diffuculty there 
 is and attempt to beat it over and over again so they feel like they accomplished something (PZWNED!) , 
 or the hardcore CoD fans. Rent this game before you buy it, and be sure to keep the reicept incase 
 you get bored of it after a week (like I did!) . Overall, its a very mediocor game, and I expected 
 much more from the newest update in the Call Of Duty seires. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Syk0_k03r
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 31, 2009 3:31 pm PT
Review:  so, this is treyarch's shot at another COD game using COD4's engine. at first i was excited... 
 despite the fact that it was WWII, i thought that it would fix the problems COD4 had... did it? 
 NO! instead it provided a very boring singleplayer experience, and a no different multiplayer experience.
 
  
  the singleplayer is one of the things i just loved about COD4... it was addicting and i played 
 it about 10 times, and yet i still want to play it again. 
  
  so anyway, i rented COD waw recently, and i played its singleplayer... because thats what i do 
 with every game i rent. so first it was... pretty good, it was intense and i kinda liked it. but 
 then i played through 3 more missions and i didnt really like it. it wasnt very boring, but it 
 wasnt fun. so eventually i finish the game... and it felt like a chore. it was sooooooo boring 
 i fell asleep on the couch and woke up at about 3 IN THE MORNING right after i finished the campaign... 
 i was really proud of myself for completing it, because throughout the whole second half of the 
 campaign, i was on the verge of falling asleep every time i played, it was that boring. i dont 
 even know how did i manage to beat it... well im done with that, thank god
  
  off to the multiplayer. the multiplayer in COD4 is one of the things that got me as to "what is 
 the fuss about it?" i expected this one to not have such overpowered weapons and perks... i guess 
 i asked for too much... but still, the outcome of victory online in this game is the same as COD4, 
 its either "first one who shoots" or who has the better class... which again is what EVERYONE USES 
 like in COD4 with the m16 with stopping power and martyrdom. i mean, multiplayer gods like BF2 
 ,CS and TF2 have challenge... here, none at all
  
  cod waw i a big disappointment for me and is probably the most BORING xbox 360 game for me. i mean 
 at least hour of victory is funny, but this.... nope
  the only reason it gets 4/10 instead of 1/10 would be the graphics 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hikaru_Isamu
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 30, 2009 6:05 pm PT
Review:  After Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare had such stellar feedback, some people were afraid that the 
 return to World War II would be a failure. It's safe to say that World at War has proved those 
 people wrong.
  
  The campaign is short, but while it lasts it pulls you in. It offers plenty of variety, allowing 
 you to shoot up people on the shore, call in artillery strikes, drive tanks, flamethrow Japanese 
 soldiers, and bomb people by hand with mortar rounds. You play as two soldiers; an American on 
 the Japanese front, and a Russian on the German front. Both instances are engaging and provide 
 an involving story to take part in.
  
  The multiplayer is what will keep this game on your shelf, however. If you played Call of Duty 
 4, you know what to expect, except this time you have more levels to climb, and different maps 
 and weapons to play with. You can also drive tanks this time around. Everyone can find a weapon 
 to their liking, so the game is adaptable to your style of play.
  
  If I have any complaints, they are that the campaign is too short and there aren't enough multiplayer 
 maps, though. However, none of these qualify not purchasing this title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackhalflife
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 29, 2009 8:22 am PT
Review:  Well its finally up, my review of Cod World at War. Now to start up almost everyone thinks that 
 Cod World at war is Cod 5 well guess what
  ITS  sure it comes after Cod 4 But?
 
  this game stands out! because if you compare every game in the Series it is Cod 8 and if you call 
 it Cod 5 its like calling Godzilla tokyo S. O. S. Godzilla vs MechaGodzilla 3 you want forget it 
 that... lets move on any way this the third Cod game I have played and if you read my Cod 4 review 
 you will know that I have played most games... but?... the first Cod game I played was Cod finest 
 hour by spark interactive and I think its safe to say that this one is way better then finest hour
 
  
  Story: you go back in to WW2 and play as 2 marines pvt Miller from USA and pvt Dimitri from Russia 
 the USA fights the Japanese and the Russians fight the Nazis I actually cared about the charectors 
 more in this game than in Cod 4 and I think the Story kind of focuses more on the Russians fighting 
 the Nazis
  well thats it on the Story I think they could of improved on the Story mode with to slots.... 1 
 is the USA story and..... 1 is the Russian story I don`t now about you guys but that could of made 
 it better than going from 1 part to the other!!!!
  
  Multiplayer: I don`t think it should of copied Cod 4`s Multiplayer but its still very good, you 
 can level up and unlock new perks and weapons but, if you have read my Cod 4 review you already 
 know that, theres a new feature that has been added it is Co-op, so you can play through the campaign 
 with friends... well usally I don`t like Co-op but I actually had fun playing Co-op with people 
 on xbox live...:-)
  
  gameplay: gameplay is kind of the same as Cod 4 but still fun
  
  graphics: the graphics are really good and its a littile bit darker than Cod 4.... usally Cod 4 
 was a bit bright and realistic..... Cod World at war is more brutal and much darker than Cod 4 
 but still as realistic.... perhaps its because its Back in to WW2.... and WW2 was a very very brutal 
 time.....
  
  Nazi Zombies: :-0 ...... thats right Nazi Zombies ;-) remember at Cod 4 when you complete the Campaign 
 there was an Arcade mode, but In Cod World at War when you complete the campaign alone... you get 
 a Co-operative mod called Nazi Zombies and its more fun than the Arcade mode in Cod 4.... there 
 is a building in a creepy area and zombies try to get in and eat your brains but the mode is best 
 when played with people online..... because if you go in it alone you will die!!!!!!!!.... because 
 alone!..... i got to round 4 but with people I got to round 17!!!!... so if you are going to play 
 Nazi Zombies do me a favour........ play it with friends online or off...
  
  The goods:
  -Great Story
  -fun Co-op
  -still great graphics
  -fun multiplayer
  -Nazi Zombies is fun 
 with friends
  -fastpast gameplay
  -better then Cod finest hour
  
  The Bads:
  -a little bit fustrating
  -copied Cod 4`s multiplayer
  -Cod 4 is still better
  
  Overall:..... 
 well not Surprizingly...... I love this game!!!! the people at Treyarch well.... they done a great 
 job if Resistence 2 or Gears of War 2 didn't come out last year, Cod World at war would easily 
 have been the best Shooter of 2008. I had a fun time online with this game and you should definataly 
 own it!! if you loved Cod 4 as much as I did and even though you go back in to WW2 I still highly 
 recommend buying this game, but .... if you havent played Cod 4 yet.... play it frist this is jackhalflife 
 signing out...;-) ... bye
  
  Story: 9/
  
  Multiplayer:10
  
  gameplay:10
  
  graphics:10
  
  overall: 9
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: phillyeagles123
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 29, 2009 4:51 pm PT
Review:  Yep, I gave Call of Duty: World at War a 4.0. Now before you start giving this review a thumbs 
 down and flaming me and what not, at least hear me out. I gave this game a 4.0 because it describes 
 what this game is: poor. It is a poor game that seems to have been thrown together hastily and 
 without putting much thought into it. Here are a the top 5 reasons why this game gets a 4.0 from 
 me (In no particular order) :
  1. First of all, the game engine is exactly the same as Call of Duty 4. Treyarch played it too 
 safe for this one. Now if you're like me and played Call of Duty 4 to death, this game is just 
 same old, same old. If not, then by all means enjoy this game. 
  2. Moving on, the weapons are unbalanced. This game is a run n' gun, spray n' prayer's paradise 
 because the only good guns in this game are the machine guns, and you unlock most of them in the 
 higher ranks. So the new players are left with garbage guns and bolt-action rifles that are useless 
 without a scope on them. 
  3. Which leads me to saying that the hit detection in this game is terrible. It makes sniping a 
 pain to obviously shoot someone in the head area, only to hurt them or miss them completely. Then 
 the person will shoot me once in the leg or something, and I will die.
  4. Now the campaign isn't that bad, but it's mediocre at best. There isn't much detail in the characters 
 and you don't see much development in them. It would also be better if the enemy realized that 
 there are other guys on your team. It seems like they think you are their only enemy and they only 
 shoot you, which makes campaign annoying.
  5. Still on the campaign topic, Call of Duty: World at War on Veteran = Call of Duty: Grenades 
 at War. I thought Call of Duty 4 was bad with the grenades on Veteran. It's like the only weapon 
 the enemy has is an unlimitled supply of grenades. They throw them like they're hot potatoes. So 
 if you're in the open, you will get shot down and if you're behind cover, you will get spammed 
 with grenades.
  Now I can honestly say one good thing about Call of Duty: World at War: Nazi Zombies is really 
 fun. It is a must-play with friends online. But, Nazi Zombies alone cannot make this game a game 
 worth playing for me. There's just too many bugs and issues with it for me to like it. Now, this 
 is simply my opinion. I know many of you guys really like this game, and that's fine. If you like 
 this game, that's okay. I don't hold anything against anyone who likes this game. All I have to 
 say is this: I was not disappointed with Call of Duty: World at War. That is why I gave it a 4.0. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tehfireballer
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 29, 2009 4:47 pm PT
Review:  I'll start this review by saying the single player really makes this game great. You feel just 
 how intense it is within the first 5 minutes of the game. Also, the switching between both sides 
 is really balanced. I actually didnt care if I was playing the russian/german or the american/japanese 
 campaign. Unlike the first and second call of dutys, I didnt feel really disappointed when I was 
 switched to the russian side. Also, the introduction to gore was a great addition. Its a hell of 
 a lot more satisfying to shoot someone with a machine gun and watch their arm blow off and watch 
 them grab at their stubs then to watch them simply fall over.
  
  However, the multiplayer isnt as great. The multiplayer also has some gore, but not as much. Also, 
 The introduction of tanks has left me incredibly pissed off. Everyone makes a mad dash for the 
 tanks and then whores them for the whole match. This introduction to the multiplayer aspect was 
 one of the most stupid ideas I've ever seen. Also, most of the ordinary rifles are almost useless. 
 This may seem hard to believe, but if you're bored enough you can push through it.
  
  In short, Call of Duty: World at War is a pretty good game. I wold actually rate it about a 7.8 
 because of some unavoidable things about world war 2 (the guns, the tanks, the dogs, the artillery) 
 that i cant stand. However, the single player and ZOMBIE MODE! more than make up for it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimmy8118
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 29, 2009 1:02 pm PT
Review:  World at War is great First-Person-Shooter that I highly recommend purchasing if you like Call 
 of Duty, Shooters, or World War II.
  
  The Good - 
  - Challenging campaign
  - Great multiplayer
  - Fantastic weapons
  
  The Bad -
  - Uninteresting story or characters
 
  - Same multiplayer as Modern Warfare except set in World War II
  - Odd multiplayer maps
  
  Almost every game in Call of Duty has been on World War II so far now. We need something new, 
 how about the Civil War, or even the Revolutionary War. World War II is getting old, and everyone 
 knows it. However, World at War is a great game with a lot of different game modes, weapons, and 
 unfortunately not much has changed since the Modern Warfare experience. The campaign's difficulty 
 has been tuned up a bit, making several of the missions even harder than "No Fighting In The War 
 Room" from Modern Warfare. Some missions in the game such as "Heart Of The Reich" make "No Fighting 
 In The War Room" look like a joke. This isn't a bad thing, it's a challenge, and that's how a lot 
 of people want it.
  
  The Multiplayer is extremely satisfying, it uses a lot of the same things that made Modern Warfare 
 a great game. Unlike Modern Warfare where the campaign was single-player only, now players can 
 play with 3 other people in the campaign. Also you can turn points on to see if you outscore your 
 friends. It seems these weren't really important to making the game satisfying, or enjoyable. Since 
 several games (most notably Halo 3 and Gears of War) have already co-op game modes, and since they 
 have done things so much better than Call of Duty, it's too familiar and boring. 
  
  However, like Gears of War 2's Horde Mode, Call of Duty: World at War has game mode called Nazi 
 Zombies. You're stuck in an abandoned shelter and Nazi Zombies come breaking into the house trying 
 to kill you and your companions. It's really fun and enjoying, it reminds me a lot of Left 4 Dead, 
 it's almost as exhilarating as Left 4 Dead, and will give you nightmares. Unlike Horde Mode from 
 Gears of War 2, Nazi Zombies is rumored to keep going on and on, no limit. The highest I've ever 
 gone to was level 51, but that was with everyone of my teammates with the Ray-Gun. That's it, a 
 Ray-Gun.
  
  World at War seems to be more of an update from Modern Warfare set in World War II, rather than 
 a true sequel. But that is by no means a bad thing, World at War is an excellent game that you'd 
 be insane not to check out. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bmassarani
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 29, 2009 6:31 am PT
Review:  First, let me say that this review is only on the single player game. Second, let me say that Call 
 of Duty: World at War is a great game. Third, man I am tired of WW2 shooters. So you are probably 
 asking why I bought it? It was on sale, and it has had great reviews.
  
  Honestly the game is REALLY good. The story line is good, nothing spectacular, but the cutscenes 
 really well done and help to involve the player. Excellent voice acting (thank you Jack Bauer) 
 and fun to use weapons all add the excitement of the game. The difficulty level has definetly been 
 notched up from COD 4, but not to a ridiculous level (just look out for grenades) .
  
  I really want to give this game a rating in the 6's (actually I did until I was writing this all 
 down) , but the game itself is very strong. Following all COD fashion you play 2 sides (American 
 and Russian) and there is a good amount of different mission types (sniper, tanks, etc..) . Honestly, 
 I figured with the success of COD4 we would see the series take a turn for more modern style shooters. 
 To me, another WW2 shooter seemed like a step backwards.
  
  The Good - Story, cutscenes, voice acting, the overall production value is very high.
  
  The 
 Bad - Personally I am sick of WW2 shooters, if you havent played many than you'll love this game
 
  
  The Ugly - Let's see what else the COD team can do. Modern Warfare was awesome... following it 
 up with another WW2 shooter was a let down.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: r3dmond
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 28, 2009 8:40 pm PT
Review:  I'm a big World War 2 fan so needless to say CoD: WaW was the first game I bought when my X-Box 
 returned from microsoft. I have played through all of the main call of duty games to date and when 
 I heard my Call of Duty dose for this year was going back to World War 2 I was excited. Unfortunately, 
 much like Call of Duty 3 it just wasn't as good as it could have been.
  The game has fifteen campaign missions and you can beat them on recruit in a matter of hours. The 
 problem is two-fold because the story isn't as fleshed out as previous games and replaying it on 
 veteran is pretty difficult. Unlike Infinity Ward games which divide nicely into chapters where 
 you can really get to know your teammates CoD: WaW has you pretty much flip between an American 
 Marine and a Russian Conscript. While this is like most other games it's done roughly every two 
 missions. Now these aren't two Halo 3 length missions these are short things and with all of the 
 gun-shooting you have to do getting to know your squad-mates is impractical. Should you let Roebuck 
 die on Okinawa you feel little or no sympathy and absolutely none for Polonsky, compare this to 
 when the sniper captain in Call of Duty 4 is merely injured when I practically swore a vendetta 
 on the helicopter that killed him. Next, replaying this game on veteran when enemies spam grenades 
 and continue to spawn, sometimes even after clearing the area is downright annoying. Treyarch if 
 you are reading this, the reason no one like grenade spam online is because it's cheap and doing 
 it in single player is cheaper.
  The major selling point here is the pacific campaign. This little flip means two things, bayonets 
 and flamethrowers. Yes now in single (And Multiplayer) you can stab people with gun-swords and 
 burn their buddies with the M2 flamethrower. While these where fun for a while I started to lose 
 my amazement at this cheap trick and once this magic wears off with you you'll realize killing 
 imperial infantry is just like killing Nazis.
  The only other single player thing I need to mention is Nazi Zombie mode. This is a real replay 
 booster as once you beat the game you unlock a level where you are trapped in a house and need 
 to kill Nazis, who by chance, are zombies. The main downside is some weapons are seriously nerfed 
 in this game mode and superior weapons like the M1-Garand are near pointless.
  Moving on to the multi-player. This is exactly like CoD 4 only in World War 2. You can upgrade 
 weapons, unlock new ones and curse when someone won't die until they are directly in front of you 
 because of juggernaut and then they drop a frag grenade. It's annoying and angering.
  Overall, this is CoD 4 in a new wardrobe. The step back to the great war is shocking an under any 
 other circumstances I'd say avoid it. However, this game has just enough to redeem itself and I 
 think you should definitely pick it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paul_GameFury
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 28, 2009 3:40 pm PT
Review:  Welcome to the Call of Duty off-year. Two different developers switch off making the series and 
 this year's, Treyarch, has earned the title of 'the other Call of Duty guys.' That doesn't mean 
 their games are bad; they are still quite fun. It just means they don't have the same wow factor 
 as the far superior Infinity Ward does.
  
  World at War plays like a direct sequel to Call of Duty 3 (which makes sense since that was Treyarch's 
 last CoD game) . The series goes back to World War II and playing through that conflict is beginning 
 to get a little stale. There is a beach landing scene that is insanely intense and ends with your 
 character swimming underwater in slow motion while bullets streak by and you allies get shot up. 
 It would have been a really epic scene if it was an almost exact duplicate of the beach scene from 
 Call of Duty 2. One part of the game takes place during a campaign that starts in Stalingrad and 
 ends in Berlin while the other part takes place in Japan. The Japanese sections help add some variety 
 since that side of the war isn't portrayed very often in games.
  
  The game plays exactly like the rest of the series. So much so that the developers didn't even 
 include a tutorial. They just expect you to know how to play already. Basically, they are saying, 
 "We hope you haven't played any other shooters since Modern Warfare, or else you're going to be 
 confused." It's still fun and exactly what you expect from the series, although each new game is 
 even shorter than the last; this on can be completed in under five hours. At this rate, the tenth 
 Call of Duty game will be over in about an hour. What makes this worse is that a few of the levels 
 are artificially lengthened by repetition. For example, one mission sends you through several similar 
 looking underground trenches and you must destroy three mortar emplacements that look exactly the 
 same. It is incredibly disappointing to see things repeated in a game that is so ridiculously short.
 
  
  Although I had quite a bit of bad things to say about the game, I still had a blast playing it. 
 The action stays intense throughout. There are several highlights, like a mission that puts you 
 inside a plane and makes you run from one gun turret to another while defending your aircraft from 
 all sides. The final mission (without giving too much away) takes place in large room that is constantly 
 being flooded with an impressive amount of enemies. This was probably my favorite level in the 
 series so far. The game definitely continues to build torward the end and doesn't have it's best 
 levels half way through the way many other games do.
  
  The graphics are excellent. Everything looks almost real and characters react realistically when 
 under attack. While the sound is good, some of your allies talk way too much, especially early 
 on. The fourth level is a sniper mission where your spotter never stops talking. The entire time, 
 I was just waiting for him to give away our position because he was so loud and wouldn't shut up. 
 Near the end of the mission, the Germans are shooting flamethrowers through the windows and the 
 only clear spot is along the floor. After about ten seconds of this going on, your spotter yells 
 something along the lines of, "They've spotted us! They're trying to burn us out! We need to crawl 
 along the floor!" Thanks, Sherlock.
  
  Many people have heard about the zombie mode that is unlocked after finishing the game. At the 
 end of the credits, there is a respectful quote about World War II veterans that is immediately 
 followed by 'Nazi Zombies' being plastered on the screen in red. Honestly, I have to say that this 
 mode is completely unnecessary. This is a serious game about a real life conflict and zombies have 
 no place in it. It is borderline disrespectful. The mode is kind of fun, but if I wanted some co-op 
 zombie action, I would play Left 4 Dead. At least there you don't need to play through the whole 
 game before you are allowed to fight zombies.
  
  World at War may be a step backward from Modern Warfare, but it is still fun. The game is more 
 of the non-stop action we have come to expect from the series. Just don't expect the revolutionary 
 gameplay that we got from the last title in the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killerbasa
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 27, 2009 11:46 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game on sale and am now considering demanding my money back. The story is quite lame 
 as it has little depth in it and the multiplayer is imbalanced.
  
  Let's start with single player. Hordes of enemies gets boring quick, a few interesting sequences 
 but other than that its lame.
  
  Multiplayer is imbalanced due to submachine guns. Single-shots and semi-autos are a huge handicap. 
 Tanks are far too powerful because they shoot quickly and are nearly impossible to destroy. The 
 weapons do have that vintage attraction to them but then the devs throw in lame attatchments like 
 aperature and telescopic sights and silencers that were not really used in WWII (but sniper scopes 
 were.)
  
  I was on the fence about getting this game as it looked somewhat decent but I started to loathe 
 CoD 4's multiplayer after about a week of total play time. This game isn't nearly as decent as 
 CoD4 (that game is betterbut not by much) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kirbyowns
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 25, 2009 9:10 pm PT
Review:  Only get this game for 60$ if you have live. The campaign is too short and multi player is as fun 
 with only 4 people. The shooting is fine with auto assist. The guns are good and balanced but are 
 nothing new. The best part is to make your own class with perks and guns. Also leveling up is fun. 
 You can find a game quickly online and the game modes are fun. There are plenty of game modes to 
 choose fun and is a great WW2 shooter with a fun campaign. For me the campaign is sad when one 
 of your marines dies (not a spoiler, just any normal marine.) The campaign can get you going and 
 is fun all the way through. This is one of the few games that i thought being in a tank or boat 
 was fun. Call of duty world at war nails the controls, aiming, and multiplayer and is a must get 
 if you do not have call of duty 4 or you like any WW2 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheMisfits1829
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 25, 2009 7:49 am PT
Review:  CAMPAIGN= 9.0
  campaign is fun and energetic, a total blast!!!!!
  But still it does have some things that can change. Its not unique. This is just another WW2 shooter, 
 I could name at least 20 others WW2 shooters.
  My favorite level is Vendetta cuz it is absolutely amazing (sniping mission) !!!
  One thing i like 
 is that they added playing as the marines against the Japs. Weapons arent that unique nor amazing.
 
  LIVE= 8.0
  good but not great. there are waaaaaayyyyyyyy to many glitches out there. For example is that there 
 is one where you can crawl under the map withou anyone seeing you so you just pick everyone off.
 
  Tanks are waaayyyyyyyyyyyy overpowered, it takes what like five bazooka shots to kill one. Thats 
 3 people!!!! and mostly the team with the most tanks win. 
  So over all its a good game. But not game of the year. I do think that this is a good WW2 shooter. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bwags
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 23, 2009 12:18 pm PT
Review:  Hundreds of WWII games have been created; each trying to accurately recreated the most brutal, 
 deadliest conflict in history. And, after thousands of bodies, gallons of blood, and millions of 
 bullets, it can be said that Call of Duty: World at War is the most successful recreation to date. 
 Using the uber-powerful COD4 engine, Treyarch has created the most immersive, technically proficient, 
 bloody battle recreation, which only fails for its lack of originality.
  
  The campaign (roughly 12-15 hours) puts in the boots of a US boy (Private Miller of the UNMC 1st 
 division) trying to escape and get home, and a Russian Soldier (Private Dimitri Petrenko of the 
 Red Soviet Army) who experiences the horrors of the Nazi invasion into Stalingrad, and the bloodthirsty 
 satisfaction of pushing them back into Germany, and assaulting the Reichstag. 
  
  The Eastern Theatre is more or less a World-War-Two-By-The-Numbers experience, and you'll often 
 feel as though you've done it a million times before (which you probably have) ; however, that's 
 not to say it doesn't have it's moments. The sniping mission is a thrilling pursuit for revenge 
 and assaulting the Reichstag is the highlight of the game. 
  
  Treyarch breaks new ground, and finally lets players step foot on Japanese soil in the games Western 
 Theatre. This story, told from the Americans point of view, can almost be considered a separate 
 game from the Eastern Theatre. The first thing you'll notice is the plush scenery, beaming sun, 
 and beautiful palm trees; however, this isn't just a romp in the sun. The enemies are completely 
 different  The Japanese, who were masters of guerilla warfare, will perform ambush attacks, and 
 climb up trees in order to pick off you and your squad with a sniper rifle. Lucky for you, Treyarch 
 has evened the playing field by letting you wield the M4 flamethrower. This weapon of destruction 
 can clear a mortar pit, scorch Tojo in the trees, and is sure to become an immediate player favorite.
 
  
  The entire game (with the exception of the sniper mission and the gunner mission) can be played 
 cooperatively with up to 4 people via XBOX Live. It offers competitive scoring and transfers all 
 the stats and XP you earn over to your multiplayer rank (more on that later) . In addition, COD: WAW 
 implemented Death Cards, which are hidden across all thirteen levels and can be used to altar gameplay. 
 For example, the six of clubs card turns all bullets into paintballs. These hidden perks spice 
 up the gameplay, and increase the co-op replay ability.
  
  Multiplayer makes its triumphant return, but unfortunately, not much has changed since last time 
 we played it. The ranking system is still in place, as are the challenges, barracks, and perks, 
 which have been modified to fit the World War II era. Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, and capture 
 the flag have all returned, and the only new in-game enhances were the inclusion of vehicles and 
 the switch from helicopter assaults to packs of dogs assault (seriously. No joke here.)
  
  COD: WAW is a great game. It is polished and an absolute delight to play. It is without a doubt 
 the best WWII experience to date. Unfortunately, this game also shows how well a game can do when 
 it DIRECTLY copies another games format. This game was expected to great, considering Treyarch 
 had nothing to develop for this game. Since they were using the COD engine, the game was basically 
 developed for them. Their work was mainly crafting a story, which they failed on that account  
 the story progression, live cutscenes are all derivative of COD4. The Nazi Zombie mode, which I 
 have purposefully left out until now, is not worth mentioning, as a likening to Gear's Horde Mode 
 and Left 4 dead accurately describes it. So I ask, what has Treyarch done to actually be able to 
 put their name on this game? They made a great game, but are they the ones to thank for it? Or 
 should be thanking those who came before who's brilliant ideas have been recreated into COD: WAW. 
 Bottom line, if you can look past Treyarch's copy-and-paste game design, Call of Duty: World at 
 War is stark, gory, and exhilarating ride through the world's bloodiest conflict. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Benevolentbob
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 22, 2009 9:52 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare was, and still is, revered by many. When it was announced that Call 
 of Duty 5, rather World At War, was not only being developed by Treyarch rather than Infinity Ward 
 but also going back to the over saturated world war II market most people including myself were 
 worried. I was very pleasently surprised once I got to play it for myself.
  
  Visually the game is pretty much Call of Duty 4 on steroids. A few more details here and there, 
 possibly a little more sturdy, but nothing that noticable unless you were really looking for differences. 
 It seems the two things the developers really worked on were lighting effects and fire effects. 
 Those are the two things I saw significant improvement in.
  
  The soundwork is great. There's plenty of well done voice acting, an unfortunate rarity in gaming. 
 The soundtrack itself is very tense at times and heroic/epic when it needs to be. The gun and explosion 
 effects sound great as well.
  
  The gameplay is essentially what you had in Call of Duty 4 but expanded upon. Everything is solid 
 and the shooting is tight. The campaign is very intense, very cinematic, and much longer than the 
 one available in Call of Duty 4. You can slo play through it on co-op this time around, which always 
 makes things more fun. The multiplayer is essentially the same this time but in world war II rather 
 than modern combat and the dreaded helicopters have been replaced with the even scarier attack 
 dogs. One cannot forget the awesome nazi zombie that you unlock by completing the single player 
 campaign. It really is a ton of fun to play with friends. Very sound gameplay, but nothing innovative.
 
  
  This is an awesome game that's a ton of fun. It may not be the most revolutionary game out there, 
 but it will certainly quench your thirst for brutal first person warfare.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamakarmica
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 22, 2009 1:50 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare was considered an instant classic to many who love FPS. World at 
 War, the WWII FPS made with the COD4 engine, creates one of the most visceral experiences of a 
 FPS WWII game.
  
  The single player campaign seems to be more intense and involving than that of COD4, but the theme 
 of technology creating an emotional barrier towards the gruesome ways of war is absent for obvious 
 reasons. Instead, Call of Duty: World at War turns up the intensity in numerous and often bloody 
 fights that may leave you cringing at some of the more violent moments. World at War sort of relishes 
 you being in the most frightening of places in the war and when it keeps you in this state of dread, 
 it's where the game truly shines.
  
  The multiplayer is simply an once-over of the multiplayer from COD4, which is hardly a bad thing 
 at all. I do wish they added a little more to the game when it comes to multiplayer.
  
  In the end, World at War is simply for people who want a sort of "mod" of COD4's engine. If you 
 prefer the theatrics of World War II, then World at War might be your cup of tea. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UVERproject
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 22, 2009 1:44 pm PT
Review:  Graphics
  They were very good. It's no Call of Duty 4 but the scenery of the jungles was very pretty and 
 those Japs are very sneaky. No wonder we got destroyed at Pearl Harbor. They blend in very well 
 with the scenery and the stages in Germany are well put together the atmosphere feels like theres 
 a war going on with debris flying everywhere and smoke. It's a pretty game to look at. P. S The 
 Japs hide in trees.
  
  Gameplay
  Same controls as Modern Warfare but here what gets me down about this game. the old school WWII 
 guns. the action is very fast paced like Modern Warfare and if you have to take 4 seconds to reload 
 your gun, somethings wrong. Put the action was fast paced and that's an upside. Some stages are 
 a pain cause the germans only know how to fight with grenades and half of the time thats how I 
 died, or the fact that I was always was left with little ammo. These WWII guns have very little 
 ammo capcity and I had to grab new guns along the way but the germans or Japs have no ammo in their 
 guns either. How is this a war if there is no ammo to kill each other with. Terrorist solution 
 right there. let them have the guns we keep the ammo. They can shoot air at each other.
  
  Story
  Like in Modern Warfare you follow two people's stories. One in Germany and the other in 
 Japan. Intreging twist? Who cares. The story is easy to follow and they give you these cool animated 
 old school war commercials where they broadcast whats going on in the world. I thought that was 
 clever.
  
  Overall
  The one thing I enjoyed about this game was not the might I add Co-Op story mode. Yes Co-op story 
 mode, way to bandwagon COD. I had my brother play through the story mode to get to one thing, and 
 one thing only. Nazi Zombies. The "Zombie Mode" is the funniest thing on this game. Take Horde 
 Mode in Gears and throw in Zombies with you in a little hut where you have to buy your guns with 
 points you get from boarding up the safe house your in and killing said zombies and there you have 
 it Zombie Mode. Way to copy Gears COD5. I don't care though. This mode is online multiplayer. The 
 Zombies get harder too kill as the waves go on. They come from the randomest places. It a fun experience. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: W1ckedGo0se
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 21, 2009 8:02 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty World At War Does a good job at taking most the good from Call of Duty 4 and putting 
 it into a WWII shooter... The thing it missed was the Joy of it being about modern warfare... We 
 have played far to many WWII shooters and because of this the story felt like a Giant Chore just 
 to unlock Nazi Zombie.
  
  Nazi Zombie was Really the only thing they added to Call of Duty 4 to make World at War other then 
 a new skin and story... At first glance Nazi Zombie is really cool and fun to play with friends, 
 but after a few goes you wont care enough to give it a second chance... 
  
  The online is the same thing as 4, but with new skins for all the weapons and some not so fun maps... 
 It all reminded me of the good old days where I used to mod Halo 2 ( No online Mods, but totally 
 new maps for lans with friends) , but sadly I had more fun with the modded maps from halo 2... 
 
  
  The online maps in Call of Duty World at War are small in quality and a pain to put up with because 
 of the Cheap add on they tried to throw in to make it fun... The Tank... Basicly, the tank ruined 
 most of the maps for me and the rest were ripped apart by glitches (Half the maps people could 
 get under) and just poor design.
  
  Now that I've ripped on the game enough its time to saw what they did right... They left there 
 Online Level thing and challenge thing pritty much the same. This may be one of the best things 
 about this game, but still means Call of Duty 4 is much better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coolcats1
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 21, 2009 6:22 pm PT
Review:  ive played call of duty 2, 3, and 4 but none of them compare to call of duty: world at war. Things 
 i like about it is that it introduces some new features to the series like the popular flamethrower 
 and flame tank. ( makes the game alot easier. Also the very cool and crazy raygun wich can be found 
 on little resistance, and nazi zombies. And sense its a 1 hit kill makes nazi zombies a breeze. 
 Thats another thing i like is nazi zombies. I like how it takes the horror from resident evil or 
 left 4 dead and put the skill you need like in gears of war, to go further on. And the all new 
 call of duty 4 player co-op is just well insane. It makes the campaign and nazi zombie mini game 
 so much more fun. Some levels i really injoyed are vendetta (lv 4) relentless (later lv)
  and downfall (lv 12) . These levels are the most action packed for me i would say. Last thing i would 
 like to put out is i like how you dont just face nazi's in this game you also face japenese banzies, 
 kamikazis, and infantry. Its a call of duty experience like no other. I would say this game is 
 a must by and the co-op is a must do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oneatatyme
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 21, 2009 2:16 pm PT
Review:  This game is really great although i eally liked the modern warfare maybe they can come out with 
 another one similar :D down the road it would be great. The gameplay is awesome i have a really 
 nice surround sound so it keeps call od duty erally live for me i dont know why gamespot is giving 
 it a 8.5 but you should really get this game co op is tight and the weapons are sick more blood 
 would be nice and realistic behavior so go mogindei shhmogindei !!! and get this game what are 
 you waiting for to hear the best review THERE IS NONE !!! so as you can tell now in trying to fill 
 up this space with more words because i need one hundread or more inn order to submit this review 
 . call of duty also offers many map packs that are really cool and some yet to come out but i would 
 like to see more team affliated tactics in this game. Online is nuts not all like cod4 but same 
 consept you can now go online to help your rank just go to callofduty. com and choose world of warfare 
 and it will take you through a bunch of optional missions that can accept so for those slow ranking 
 ones its worth it and its an awesome addition to the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mynameishihi
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 20, 2009 5:01 pm PT
Review:  Since i first put call of duty 3 into my play station 2 i was a big fan of the series i loved the 
 way it put you in the jeep or tank and let YOU make the decisoins on where to put the air strike 
 or throw a smoke grenade when ever you want to. When call of duty 4 came out i was thrilled the 
 graphics 10/10 the game play 9.5 the multiplayer 10/10 the satisfaction of the complete game 9.999/10. 
 over all it was a solid fast action game. 
  When call of duty 5 hit my computer screen i had high expectations. I hate to say it but it was 
 the exact same as call of duty 4 except much worse weapons and diffrent missions with the same 
 consept. I don't want anyone to think that i don't like call of duty 5 i still really like it (especially 
 the split screen) how ever i do like call of duty 4 a bit better :- (. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thex360
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 20, 2009 10:41 am PT
Review:  Even though they chose to do this one during WWII they did a good job. It masters the COD gameplay 
 that they always had. It has many different levels that very in difficulty. The flamethrower is 
 fun to use but is really only good at close range. Activision did master this game for sure. They 
 finally added coop feature to it which you can play on competive where you play through normally 
 but for points as well to see who got top score. They multiplayer feature is always fune where 
 you have ranks and also get to backstab people or just go through shooting like crazy while you 
 charge him/her. It added a Nazi Zombie minigame in it where you go through levels surviving the 
 horde or Nazi Zombies. Overall I would rate the game 9.0/10. The mutliplayer is always fun to do 
 when you get bored of the story or zombie gameplay. I would reccomend it to any COD fans. Another 
 feature that Activision does is double XP weekend where when you play online you get double XP 
 on every kill and such. And when you rank up you unlock weapons and features. you can customize 
 what your perks are and weapons that you use which is really fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FreezerFries
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 19, 2009 7:29 pm PT
Review:  Although Call of Duty: World at War is a good game, I thought this game would have been way better 
 since Call of Duty 4 was so awesome! I got my hopes up way too high for this game. The campaign 
 isn't very intriguing and you'll probably not want to go back and play it again. The online multi-player 
 is alright but I still think that COD4s online was more fun. I went back and played the campaign 
 on COD4 and I really fell back in love with the game. There are so many highlights in that game 
 that makes you remember it and love it. After playing this game I just finished it and I never 
 really went back and "remembered" many highlights in the game. I like Call of Duty: World at War 
 and I do think that it is a good game, but if you're thinking that this game is a game that you 
 will love even better and enjoy even more than COD4 then maybe just go rent this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hardrocker2244
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 19, 2009 4:43 pm PT
Review:  This game is really tough to rate. Online multiplayer is some of the best I've ever seen, and the 
 campaign is great too. However when you compare it to the last installment in the series, it falls 
 short. This game's most notable difference from its predecessor is that it goes back to being a 
 World War II game. That's not necessarily a bad thing, just the campaign doesn't do much to let 
 you forget that you've played these weapons and battles in other games. The sound and graphics 
 are incredible, and the controls are just as incredible as they were in Call of Duty 4. The addition 
 of 4-player Co-op is awesome, and playing it online is great too. The online multiplayer works 
 the same way COD4 did: you gain XP and level up to get new weapons and perks. This works incredibly, 
 and is more addicting than any other FPS on the market right now.
  
  This is a must-own for (almost) any gamer. If you don't have online play, it's a good buy, but 
 not the must-own single player game of 2008.
  
  This is an incredible game that falls just short of perfection. It's not quite as good as COD4, 
 but it's definitely in the same league, and is one of the best games of 2008. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cantius
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 19, 2009 12:19 pm PT
Review:  Being that Call of Duty 4 was my previous game, my opinion of World at War is slightly different. 
 The former, being the far superior game, and the latter, being a more watered down, but still a 
 fun game. Nevertheless, Call of Duty: World at War is a decent FPS game set in World War II. It'll 
 last you atleast two weeks or more, but, if you have friends, the game is way more fun. So I suggest 
 you have some friends to play with you online, or you won't have as much fun with random people.
 
  
  Story [?/10]
  The story depicts the two sides, Russia, and the USA marines, going up against their enemies. The 
 enemies are, the Nazi and the Japanese, in which you violently fight in campaign mode. You'll see 
 some of the horrors of war throughout the story, and the stuff you'd see if you were in World War 
 II. There's really nothing much more to say, other than that your a soldier in each side, and go 
 along the missions. 
  
  Gameplay [8/10]
  First, I'll cover the single player elements. As you go through the story mode, you'll find out 
 that you need to use every bit of cover as possible, and not rush. Whether throwing grenades to 
 scare the enemy, or throwing molotov cocktails to burn them, you'll need to use every weapon you 
 find to it's fullest ability. There are four difficulty modes to the story, and I'd recommend to 
 go normal if you want the best experience, and then veteran (hardest) , for the achievements. Anyways, 
 the game isn't that hard, or too easy. The difficulty is just right for you to have fun, and to 
 tell you that the enemy A. I is actually trying to kill you instead of just standing there. There 
 are useful commands you can do to save yourself, such as proning, and sprinting to go to the nearest 
 cover. It's really Call of Duty 4, but World War II style, and less cooler weapons. For my opinion, 
 I'd have to say that the gameplay is fun as Call of Duty 4, but a little worse. The most frustration 
 I had was that your allies would tend to steal your cover, or block your movements when there's 
 a nade near you. I've also had a time when an ally threw a nade at me in a tunnel, killing me. 
 That's probably one of the few reasons I didn't like the campaign in veteran. There are variety 
 of missions for you to enjoy in Campaign mode, and it'll last you quite awhile if you take your 
 time, and not rush.
  
  Lastly, the Multiplayer elements, which I had a few problems with. It's pretty much the same as 
 what I described in the single player section, but with an added flavor to it. Most importantly, 
 you have real humans as your teammates, instead of scripted A. I's. Sometimes, your teammates aren't 
 as good as the A. Is, but, some also use brilliant tactics, such as one sniper atop of a water tank 
 telling the others across the field that an enemy tank is coming. This is why I love the multiplayer. 
 There are a lot of modes to play, such as Free for All, Team Deathmatch, Capture the Flag, Domination, 
 and many more. One problem I had with the multiplayer was the spawning system, which was pretty 
 bad. What I mean is, that in certain modes such as Headquarters, the other side can spawn right 
 by you and kill you from behind. The spawning system isn't that bad, but it sure is a mess. I also 
 forgot to mention about Perks, which are special abilities you can use. These can include Juggernaut (More 
 health) , Overkill (Wield two primary weapons) , and many more to ease your matches. Now, as for the 
 weapons, they each have their own stats, but some outclass the others. Not all weapons are useless, 
 but if you want to improve your KDR, you'd need to use the best ones, which have slightly unbalanced 
 stats. Eh, that's all I can say about the weapons, but let's discuss about the maps. The maps are 
 pretty well done, and they all have strategic points you need to use to destroy the other enemy. 
 You have the occasional two story snipe building, and tall weeds you can use for undetection. Finally, 
 the kill streaks. The kill streak bonuses are back and brutal. When you reach a three streak, you 
 get a recon plane which picks out the enemy locations. Five streak nets you an artillery strike, 
 where you pinpoint the location for the strike. Seven streak nets you the attack dog command, where 
 you summon dogs to attack your enemies. There are some problems with the dogs when your against 
 them. For example, when you run away from them, and one attacks you from behind, they pull your 
 weight back and kill you after the second attack. Another problem is that you die from two hits 
 from the dog. Now that's a bit overpowered, wouldn't you say? 
  
  Overall, the gameplay is really fun, but you may get bored with this game after a while. (Like 
 me.)
  
  Bonus -
  There's a zombie mode you can unlock, as soon as you finish the campaign mode. Whether you want 
 to test yourself how long you can survive, or play online with your friends, it's up to you. I 
 thought that the zombie mode was a neat easter egg, and I think it should have some downloadable 
 content just for it.
  
  Graphics [8/10]
  I know, an 8? Well, it's not as impressive as you think it is. Even though it doesn't compare to 
 the steroid graphics of Gears of War, or Fallout 3. But it's still good no matter what you say. 
 The character models were well done, and they captured the look of Japanese soldiers, and the look 
 of well trained USA marine soldiers. The environment captures the World War II feeling, and pulls 
 you through to it's own world. Treyarch did an impressive job with the environments, which goes 
 from a battle across a large airfield, a vast jungle in the night, or through the capital of Berlin. 
 Overall, Treyarch did a great job with the graphics, and they captured the battles of World War 
 II pretty well.
  
  Sound/Music [8/10]
  I thought Treyarch did another fantastic job with this section. For the sound, you can hear the 
 vicious sound of a sniper rifle, raining bullets from a browning, or to the sounds of a shotgun. 
 The voice overs were superb, and each soldier talked as if they were in a situation in World War 
 II. The music was also well done, and each mission had the right tone of music to fit them. In 
 conclusion, this section was good.
  
  Final World -
  If your looking for an awesome campaign mode, and a short, but lasting multiplayer, then look no 
 further! It's not as epic as it sounds from some other people, but this game is the epitome of 
 7. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SympathySama
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 19, 2009 11:54 am PT
Review:  With bullets whizzing overhead, artillery shells bombarding around you, and the emotions left through 
 this game. The Campaign mode can really grow on you. Blood, gore, violence.. It seems almost TO 
 perfect. Well, in fact, it is. Multiplayer adds a LOT more to the game, although it leads familiar 
 traces from Modern Warfare with the perks and challenges, it's still fun. Sitting in the cold brush, 
 with a scoped spring field rifle in your hands. Silently awaiting the enemy to trott by. And the 
 graphics.. Well, they do borrow a bit from Mw. But I guess that's the charm of video games! Although, 
 from time to time it can get a little annoying with shot gun juggernauts running around, you'll 
 get used to it after a few hours. This is by far, the most amazing game of the series. Let's hope 
 the next one is even better! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zero0911
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 19, 2009 6:43 am PT
Review:  The campaign is awsome and is very fun but i really just care for the multiplayer stuff and its 
 great just like COD4, except it takes a while to get use to. Also, the biggest and most annoying 
 thing is players cheating and using lags to get underneath the map and shooting from below. But, 
 you can still blow them up but good luck without a tank. The aimers on the gun are a lot better 
 then COD4 and are all pretty nice. The maps are all interesting but some get a little too big but 
 you learn how to get around that. The tanks are a little crazy, you have the other team take control 
 of them all and just completely destroy your team, or your team could do the same or you just have 
 one tank doing some to little damage. But, i like the tanks they make things more interesting, 
 until they oppents own all 3 then you get annoyed. A little downer how there is no point in headshots 
 in this game, unlike COD4 you get some camo for the gun but now you just get exp. The graphics 
 are amazing. But over all i think this game is a ten out of ten. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GAW14
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 17, 2009 11:06 am PT
Review:  Call Of Duty: World At War is like a re vamped Modern Warfare it is all it is cracked up to be 
 and by re vamped i mean way better graphics more guns and better weapons. You still do pretty much 
 the same thing through out the whole game as you do in Modern Warfare. Run through each and every 
 level and shoot any thing that moves. So you are in the second world war the games research is 
 outstandingly accurate so that makes some of the people that like history like this game even more. 
 For you guys who like to shoot stuff and see blood squirt out this is the game for you. Even though 
 the A. I isn't very good and some of the enemys just satnd there looking at you that can some times 
 be very good it could help you if you are in need of assistance. Well all around Call Of Duty: 
 World At War's multiplayer is exactly the same as Modern Warfare except you can go up to higher 
 levels and the new weapons that arein the game. So Call Of Duty: World At War is a perfect 9/10 
 at least. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alexmurray
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 17, 2009 8:47 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty World at War or Call of Duty 5 is the next game in the long running call of duty franchise. 
 The first thing you will notice in the game is the striking similarites to Call of Duty 4. Sure 
 all FPS's are the same but this is almost identical. Call of Duty W@W doesnt bring much new to 
 the table but improves on the original. Graphically the same to COD 4 as it uses the same graphics 
 engine, the changes are in gameplay. 
  
  Unlike Call of Duty 4 where the beginning weapons in mulitplayer are some of the most powerful 
 the beginning weapons in world at war are weak, meaning that with all the players ranking up and 
 prestiging the weapons on the battlefield are balanced. You will find yourself at early levals 
 picking up weapons from dead players to supsetute your weak arsenal. 
  
  The only innovation in the game is the zombie easter egg mode after compleating the story mode. 
 But this is the only motivation to compleating the disapointing been there seen that story.
  
  To sum up Call of Duty 5 is a small improvment to Call of Duty 4. But this improvment is only 
 seen on the Muliplayer modes where you will spend most of your time.
  
  Multiplayer Call of duty 5 Call of Duty 4
  Singleplayer Call of Duty 5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zauriel_MU
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 16, 2009 3:42 pm PT
Review:  This game, if it had come out before Modern Warfare would have been rated higher. It really feels 
 like COD:4 in a WWII suit. Not that this is a bad thing.
  
  I will start off with the Cons of this game. Nothing in this game wows you or brings you into the 
 conflict. We have played and fought with these weapons before and though the pacific theater was 
 different from the European one this game really just is another WWII game. Though it could be 
 argued this is the best so far.
  
  What this game does well, I will say, is that it portrays the often ignored portion of the war 
 both the Russian advance on Berlin and the War in the Pacific between the Marines and Imperial 
 Japan. These theaters are not glossed over or simply Call of Duty 2 or 3, dressed with the Japanese 
 flag and some jungle settings. No, this game feels different and the cut scenes show the true brutality 
 of war. In the end this game feels sadder, more serious than any other WWII game I have played 
 to date.
  
  What this game does, it does well, and continues the Call of Duty series in a proud fashion. But 
 it does nothing though to set itself apart. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ACDC_Girl
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 15, 2009 11:15 pm PT
Review:  I loved the game. However, I found that it was too short for the style of game that it is... The 
 multi-player was good too but in the multi-player death matches I wish there were more equal matches 
 when it is set up... Having other players at higher levels while you are in Boot Camp mode playing 
 a beginner multi-player wasn't really that fair but there isn't much you can do about it when Party's 
 are working with each other... Another thing I wouldn't have minded is if there were more options 
 of playing co-op mode without being on Xbox Live, because I would have liked to have been able 
 to play more on the game with my husband. I also would have like a higher level set for the beginning 
 of the multi-player... I love the single part of the game but I think the multi-player levels needs 
 more work and thought put into the skill level of players and when it is time to change to a higher 
 skill level.
  All and All this is a game that I would recommend to all types of gamers, I think few things need 
 to be changed. If you were more prone to the Xbox live the group games are great but when you are 
 new to the system it is a hard game to jump to multi-player formats from single player format. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Setsuka13
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 14, 2009 9:24 pm PT
Review:  Ok. This game is a lot like last years Call Of Duty 4, but instead of fighting A modern war, you 
 go back to fight in World War 2. But before you groan about another WWII game, you should know 
 that this one is a lot different than COD 1, 2, and 3. It's also a lot different than other WWII 
 franchises like Medal of Honor and such. It's the best WWII game ever for a few reasons and those 
 reasons I shall list below.
  
  The Good
  -It uses the same awesome engine that made COD4 look so good.
  -More detailed explosions and 
 limbs now can come off.
  -Interesting and engaging story.
  -The weapons feel nice and balanced and there are a large variety of them.
  -The online play 
 that made COD4 so great, returns here with a few adjustments. (Vicious dogs instead of a chopper, 
 removable limbs, maps are a little better designed, leveling up is even more fun now that there 
 is a reward.)
  -Prestige mode actually now has a point to it.
  -Again, multiplayer mode is great here and it is lag free.
  -Nazi Zombie mode is fun and adds 
 a lot of hours to your disc.
  
  The Not So Good
  -Not as fun as COD4 (Weapons are less fun, maps aren't as memorable, etc.)
  -Almost exactly like 
 COD4 online wise. (Same structure, same fighting, etc.)
  -We've seen almost everything in this game somewhere else.
  -Overall, just not as good as COD4 
 was.
  
  Now, this game is good in its own right. It's fun, it's lengthy, it does nearly everything a FPS 
 should do and it does it right, and the online play is still addicting. But, because it is SO similar 
 to COD4 and that it doesn't take many risks, its kind of a stall game to get our COD craving until 
 the real deal comes out. COD: MW2
  
  Last Note: COD4 is similar and because of this, if you like (d) COD4, you will surely love this 
 as well. But don't expect it to beat COD4 in greatness, because it doesn't. It plays safe with 
 WWII and that's what you'll get. Another WWII COD game with the addicting multiplayer and great 
 graphics of COD4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daddymc
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 14, 2009 1:31 pm PT
Review:  Old School. Old School. Old School. Old School. Old School. Old School. Old School. Old School. 
 Old School. Old School. Old School. Old School. Old School. Old School. Old School. Old School. 
 Old School. Old School. Old School. Old School. Old School. Old School. Old School. Old School. 
 Old School. Old School. Old School. Old School. Old School. Old School. Old School. Old School. 
 Old School. Old School. Old School. Old School. Old School. Old School. Old School. Old School. 
 Old School. Old School. Old School. Old School. Old School. Old School. Old School. Old School. 
 Old School. Old School. Old School. Old School. Old School. Old School. Old School. Old School. 
 Old School. Old School. Old School. Old School. Old School. Old School. Old School. Old School. 
 Old School. Old School. Old School. Old School. Old School. Old School. Old School. Old School. 
 Old School. Old School. Old School. Old School. Old School. Old School. Old School. Old School. 
 Old School. Old School. Old School. Old School. Old School. Old School. Old School. Old School. 
 Old School. Old School. Old School. Old School. Old School. Old School. Old School. Old School. 
 Old School. Old School. Old School. Old School. Old School. Old School. Old School. Old School. 
 Old School. Old School. Old School. Old School. Old School. Old School. Old School. Old School. 
 Old School. Old School. Old School. Old School. Old School. Old School. Old School. Old School. 
 Old School. Old School. Old School. Old School. Old School. Old School. Old School. Old School. 
 Old School. Old School. Old School. Old School. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raikoh_
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 14, 2009 1:37 am PT
Review:  Treyarch takes us back to the trenches of World War II, as we fight the Japanese and Germans on 
 both fronts as the Americans and Russians. You'll take up arms as Pvt. Miller, as he stuggles to 
 take Pelilu and Okinawa from the Japanese, and Pvt. Petrenko as he marches forward to free Berlin 
 from German control.
  
  The American perspective is pretty boring, although a little refreshing since we're not fighting 
 Nazi's for once, but, the Japanese. It's always the same though. "We fought to get this far and 
 we're close to the end," or "we've been cut off from supplies and the bodies are piling up". Then, 
 it comes to an abrupt and disappointing ending. Although, it does feel rather cool to fight along 
 side of Keifer Sutherland, who provides excellent voice acting.
  The Russian perspective, however is a lot more interesting. You'll find yourself assassinating 
 certain high ranking officers, and escaping death more often than not. It also makes for the lame 
 American ending with quite and epic one. However, there's a lack of those epic moments that Call 
 of Duty 4 had. Like when we had to rescue that chopper pilot from that downed Cobra, only to get 
 blown up by a nuclear bomb. Then, briefly traversing the wasteland that resulted from the blast, 
 combined with the events moments before, was one of the best moments I've experienced in gaming. 
 The graphics are just as good as they were in Call of Duty 4, and the sound, along with the voice 
 acting, is top notch.
  
  You'll find yourself doing a lot of the same things you did in Call of Duty 4. As a matter of fact, 
 you'll notice a lot of things from Call of Duty 4. It improves some aspects and hurts others that 
 came from it's predecessor. The veteran difficulty is just as hard, if not harder due to the increase 
 in grenades enemies will hurl at you. The spawning system is at times, your worst enemy. It will 
 occasionally decide to spawn you near your allies, who will some times, be in the process of getting 
 gunned down. There's also the occasional hit detection issues. I've occasionally been knifed by 
 people who stabbed at nothing but air.
  Treyarch also added a few new modes, like capture the flag and now there's Co-op! Lest we forget 
 the Zombie Nazi mode you're rewarded with for beating the game. In zombie nazis, you'll find yourself 
 fighting off a horde of zombies inside of a building. You'll get rewarded with points for damaging 
 zombies, and building barriers to keep zombies out.
  There's also the addition of vehicles and some new perks. Multi-player games are lagless, and there 
 aren't as many issues as there were with the 4th title when it was released. There's a wide variety 
 of weapons to choose from, yet you'll probably only see the same few while you're playing the multiplayer. 
 The flamethrower will bring out the pyromaniac in anyone. You're still rewarding for killing other 
 players, but instead of getting a helicopter, there's an annoying pack of dogs. They're easier 
 to deal with but, they still strike fear into my heart when I hear them barking and the sound of 
 chains clicking together as they draw closer. They also added the new momentum system which gives 
 you various bonuses, like decreasing the time it takes to capture objectives or making you run 
 faster.
  
  All in all, Call of Duty: World at War is a good game. It's got plenty of similarities with the 
 4th title, but, there are some things that make World at War stand on it own. It's a solid title, 
 but, Call of Duty 4 vets are more than likely going to find the games various faults and stick 
 with Call of Duty 4. Others, will enjoy the improvements made to 4's formula and enjoy the game 
 immensely. It's a solid title, and CoD4 vet or not, you'll still probably enjoy the game. I only 
 have one question to ask Treyarch, where the hell is Price? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AssassinExDeus
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 14, 2009 12:47 am PT
Review:  I am not going to bother with your typical review. Graphics, sound... etc. Theres plenty of reviews 
 with that in there. This review is gonna be split up into section. Online maybe offline. Zombie 
 mode, SP... etc and how I feel about each.
  
  First I got to say WW2 is only dead when its done wrong. Mostly people who have no sense of adventure 
 get sick of WW2. Theres really not much left anymore in games. So enjoy whatever you get. Although 
 if its done right it should be fun. I really want Vietnam games, jungles are fun. 
  
  Single Player Offline:
  Well SP isn't anything amazing like COD 4 was. Its fun and all but it 
 didn't leave me wanting more SP like COD 4. And if anything this SP campaign was a pain at times. 
 Sometimes I wondered what the developers were thinking when they did certain things. So nothing 
 amazing here.
  
  Single Player Online:
  In COOP it sucks even more. Mainly because the difficulty is through the roof. Now I only played 
 around 15 times in SP online so maybe its diffrent or theres another way to find a server so the 
 difficulty isn't so high. But every time I played it impossible for a squad of us to move 500 feet 
 with out all dying. So another negative for me.
  
  Single Player (offline with a friend) :
  It actually isn't bad with a friend. What game is bad 
 when you have someone playing next to you? But once again game wasn't as amazing as COD 4s SP.
 
  
  Nazi Zombie (MP, friend or offline by self) :
  COD 5s best mode period. Everyone since the first WW2 game and the first zombie game has said "What 
 if there were Nazi Zombies?". By yourself its fun but kind pointless simply because its to hard 
 to do it alone. With a friend the screen is split into some crappy smaller then normal tiny squares 
 and it is funner. 
  
  But the best play is online with 4 people! Assuming everyone is a team played because a few waves 
 in these zombies are brutal! And it only takes one played that is new, messing around... etc to 
 mess it up. And once that happens people tend to quit which send the game into a "game over" spiral. 
 So make sure even if no one is using a mic that you still say what you intend to do or what someone 
 to do like "Don't open that door" or "Hey there coming in that window!".
  
  MP (offline with a friend) :
  MP can be fun when its just you and a friend. Its even more fun 
 when you throw in perks! 
  
  MP online:
  Now I admit I hated COD 4 online. Totally sucked. But this I like online. I got to 65 and all that 
 and it was fun. Some weapon things you earn that are nice, some weapons are nice... etc and the 
 flamethrower is a godsend!
  
  But there are some thing that I don't like. Dogs are just plain to long. You can usually die and 
 respawn and die again from them if not a third time too. And often times knifing fails if not perfectly 
 lined up. Some of the perks like Juggernaut are stupid. While the rest of the perks everything 
 else. 
  
  Jugg is the one thing that makes you have more health, which practically give you advantage. Some 
 people say this is not true and doesn't. But I walked up to my friend with a sawed off shotgun 
 WITH the double damage perk on and he didn't die point black shot to the head. This proves how 
 unfair Jugg is.
  
  There are other things online that are annoying to like people that do nothing but camp specific 
 areas with specific weapons for cheap kills. Map glitchers. People that instead of going for an 
 objective rush the other teams spawn and spawn kill. Tanks on maps is just an annoying thing in 
 some maps you'd think they die after enough explosive shoot at them. And even they have perks so 
 they can be "better". I forgot some of the others. But as much of blast as MP is it has some major 
 issues that need to be fixed to and I am sure they will be.
  
  Overall the game is great for Nazi Zombies online or with a friend. MP is awesome too, but hopefully 
 they will fix the MP. I'd rent the game first to see what you think. I can't honestly say if I'd 
 buy the game or not. No one I know likes it that much. And since I maxed out my level already I 
 don't really care to play it that much more anyways.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gadeos
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 13, 2009 9:03 am PT
Review:  OK, it's been a real while since COD: WAW came out and just recently got my hand on it and, to be 
 honest, only online mode got my full attention.
  In fact, I won't say anything about it since it's way too cool, just like COD4 was, but with the 
 classic taste of COD3 which was one of the best. Really awesome and Graphics, as usual, great.
 
  Only gotta complain about how little do environment react to your behavior (there are wine bottles 
 that won't explode no matter what you do to them) .
  Now, as for campaign mode, I can't believe developer didn't do much about enemies' AI, I mean, 
 you can actually predict what enemies are going to do. Also, for no apparent reason, there are 
 parts where enemies keep coming and coming, kind of reminding me old 8 and 16 bit classics, just 
 that these guys in COD know just how to fire at you even if you shoot 'em, freaking annoying.
 
  There's no reason to play campaign mode in this entry, other than being a cool history lesson, 
 nothing else.
  Buy it but having in mind that it's only worth it for online playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lazy_trash
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 13, 2009 5:49 am PT
Review:  My experience with WW2 shooters started with Medal of Honor on the PS. At the time, awesome game. 
 My brother and I spent months just playing 1v1 deathmatch with each other. Then Medal of Honor 
 2 came out. Way better
  
  Then Day of Defeat. AWESOME! WW2 SHOOTERS!
  
  Then medal of honor 3...
  
  Then day of defeat source...
  
  Then call of duty 1, 2, 3, 
 brothers in arms, castle wolfenstein, company of heroes, battlefield 1942, just about a million 
 other....
  
  How many times can you kill, die, repeat? It seems shooters these days are always just trying to 
 be medal of honor in different skin, or Day of Defeat. Why not make another Half Life? Or a new 
 Halo? Or maybe just make up something good? I suppose if you're going to make a WW2 shooter, this 
 one has it nailed, but it's been done so many times that it doesn't grab my interest. And this 
 is just me obviously, the game was the top selling game for the xbox over the holidays... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamer-clemm
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 12, 2009 2:44 pm PT
Review:  ------------------------------
  Gameplay: A-
  Storyline: A
  Sound: A
  Graphics: A++
  Replay Value: High
  ------------------------------
  
  Call of Duty World at War is another 
 one of those World War II games, but this is somewhat different. Sure, I bet most of you are like 
 "Not another WWII game!" but in this game you play as the Americans and Russians. In the Russian 
 campaign you are against the Nazi's, while in the American campaign you are fighting the Japanese.
 
  
  World at War is actually pretty intense! When you are fighting the Japanese, they have people shooting 
 at you, not just from in front of you, but in the trees as well. Also while your trying to kill 
 them, you have Japanese charging at you with Bayonets. You get to use a flamethrower in this game 
 to, it makes killing the Japanese a lot easier.
  
  The music that is in this game is awesome. Its a little metal-like, which I absolutely love metal 
 music. The graphics in this game are made from the same engine as Call of Duty Modern Warfare. 
 So in all, this game is pretty sweet!!
  
  When you finish the game, at the end you get to play Nazi Zombies. Which you are in a destroyed 
 building, running around keeping an eye for zombies (which are Nazi's) . You got to keep the windows 
 covered with wood and if the zombies rip it down, you can kill that zombie and put new boards on. 
 Its pretty unique if you ask me.
  
  ---------------------------------------------
  Recommend?
  I would recommend this game to anybody who is a fan of WWII games or would like to 
 shoot zombies at the end of the game!
  --------------------------------------------- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alfred66
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 12, 2009 8:39 am PT
Review:  You play as the russians and you play as the Americans.. The russian campaign has more story to 
 it and takes place in more urban habitats... And the American campaign surprises us by taking the 
 war to the japanese side of the war.. like its predecessor COD4 the games campaign mode is very 
 short.. Therefore, I believe that in the multiplayer gameplay is where its all at.. There is still 
 a level system in COD5 with which you can progress and unlock new fancy weapons... and of course 
 handy perks.. I think that these perks have an unfair advantage over newer players but you can 
 always gain xp after matches.. There are a selecting of weapons to suit your preference which gives 
 you a very open way of playing the game. The game looks incredible online or off.. If you have 
 this game and don't own an xbox live card I urge you to do so.... And for whoever hasn't played 
 this game... you should at least rent it... Im talking solely about the xbox360 version but i will 
 be sure to review the pc version once I have updated my video card...
  
  I hope this review has helped you
  
  So Chilax 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wmwm
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 12, 2009 3:45 am PT
Review:  Can't we just forget about World War II and move on? Some games did it right, but it has just been 
 used so many times and now is getting extremely exhausting. Call of Duty: World at War is the 5th 
 main installment in the series, (not saying that it is CoD5, though, just the 5th game.) Now then, 
 the Call of Duty series has to be one of my favorites, even though some games in the series are 
 not really as good as the others. One of those is WaW. One of the new things in WaW is that we 
 finally set foot on Japan's battlefields. The campaign in WaW is solid, as they have been in previous 
 CoD games. But think this, games are supposed to have characters that actually mean something to 
 you. You are supposed to feel just a little bit sorry for them when they get slaughtered by a bunch 
 of terrorists, like in CoD4. But when one of my buddies that I tagged along with in the American 
 campaign in WaW got bodied by some Japanese dude, I didn't feel anything for him at all. Actually 
 I was sort of happy. Now I know that that's a very stupid thing to criticize, but I just wanted 
 to point that out. Now on to the BIG things. The difficulty of the campaign seems more difficult 
 in WaW than in earlier CoD games. That could either be explained by the fact that you die quicker 
 in this game or the thousands of enemies chucking grenades at my face on Veteran. The campaign 
 length is solid, and some things (like the special vehicle level) are better in this game than 
 in earlier ones. Also the now Co-Op mode is pretty fun as well. Now I know most of you don't really 
 care about the single player, because you can't get it through your thick skulls that online is 
 not the only thing that matters. Also, one quick thing about Nazi Zombies. Now, I know it's great 
 fun and all, staying in one house for hours shooting zombies to kingdom come, but, that single 
 mode does not make the whole game better. Sure, it's a great boredom solution but it eats away 
 your whole day and you don't even notice. And yes, I also know that video games do that too but 
 still. Anyway, let's go on to the multiplayer. Hardly anything seems changed about the online except 
 new maps, weapons, and perks. But all the online modes were just taken from Call of Duty 3 and 
 4. And the maps are so big that most of the space in it isn't even used anyway. Most new perks 
 are useless, (especially the Vehicle Perks) , and the gameplay just feels the same. Oh, and the 
 vehicles are extremely cheap and pointless. The weapons seem pretty bad also, mostly because I've 
 already seem them before in earlier CoD games. I know they can't really change the gun selection 
 but I'm just saying. So all-in-all, a decent shooter but doesn't really deserve the praise that 
 it gets. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jwhedon
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 11, 2009 6:25 pm PT
Review:  Can't we just forget about World War II and move on? Some games did it right, but it has just been 
 used so many times and now is getting extremely exhausting. Call of Duty: World at War is the 5th 
 main installment in the series, (not saying that it is CoD5, though, just the 5th game.) Now then, 
 the Call of Duty series has to be one of my favorites, even though some games in the series are 
 not really as good as the others. One of those is WaW. One of the new things in WaW is that we 
 finally set foot on Japan's battlefields. The campaign in WaW is solid, as they have been in previous 
 CoD games. But think this, games are supposed to have characters that actually mean something to 
 you. You are supposed to feel just a little bit sorry for them when they get slaughtered by a bunch 
 of terrorists, like in CoD4. But when one of my buddies that I tagged along with in the American 
 campaign in WaW got bodied by some Japanese dude, I didn't feel anything for him at all. Actually 
 I was sort of happy. Now I know that that's a very stupid thing to criticize, but I just wanted 
 to point that out. Now on to the BIG things. The difficulty of the campaign seems more difficult 
 in WaW than in earlier CoD games. That could either be explained by the fact that you die quicker 
 in this game or the thousands of enemies chucking grenades at my face on Veteran. The campaign 
 length is solid, and some things (like the special vehicle level) are better in this game than 
 in earlier ones. Also the now Co-Op mode is pretty fun as well. Now I know most of you don't really 
 care about the single player, because you can't get it through your thick skulls that online is 
 not the only thing that matters. Also, one quick thing about Nazi Zombies. Now, I know it's great 
 fun and all, staying in one house for hours shooting zombies to kingdom come, but, that single 
 mode does not make the whole game better. Sure, it's a great boredom solution but it eats away 
 your whole day and you don't even notice. And yes, I also know that video games do that too but 
 still. Anyway, let's go on to the multiplayer. Hardly anything seems changed about the online except 
 new maps, weapons, and perks. But all the online modes were just taken from Call of Duty 3 and 
 4. And the maps are so big that most of the space in it isn't even used anyway. Most new perks 
 are useless, (especially the Vehicle Perks) , and the gameplay just feels the same. Oh, and the 
 vehicles are extremely cheap and pointless. The weapons seem pretty bad also, mostly because I've 
 already seem them before in earlier CoD games. I know they can't really change the gun selection 
 but I'm just saying. So all-in-all, a decent shooter but doesn't really deserve the praise that 
 it gets. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 417alum
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 11, 2009 2:03 pm PT
Review:  
  I bought COD4 the day it came out and have put in well over 15 days worth of online play. I can't 
 remember a game I have played so intensely for such a long period of time. Knowing that, however, 
 To start things off, here are my likes and dislikes about COD: WaW:
  
  Likes:
   Fun gameplay mechanics
   Gorgeous graphics
   Intense campaign mode
   Flamethrower is 
 hella-fun
   AI is smart and adaptive
   Some very clever level design
  
  Dislikes:
   You don't care about the characters in campaign mode
   Split screen is kind of a weird setup
 
   Flamethrower is overused
   The story just kind of throws you from scene to scene without much storyline
  
  I have now 
 put in about 5 hours into the campaign mode and can safely say that it's a complete blast to play. 
 I was a little disappointed in the fact that if you play 2-player split-screen, only player 1 will 
 be able to use the flame thrower, but it was still alot of fun. A few things to note on the campaign 
 mode are:
   You can play split-screen with 2 people on the same system
   You can play 4-player over live
   You can play co-operative or competitive
   After you 
 beat the campaign mode, you unlock a zombie mode!
  
  Now even though the campaign can hold its own, this game wouldn't be nearly as attractive without 
 the online multiplayer portion. This is the real reason I needed this game. Here are 4 reasons 
 why I think this game will surpass COD4 as the online game of choice for the Xbox 360:
  
  1. Level Design
  You would think that a game that uses the same engine as COD4 would control 
 and feel identical to that game. Fortunately, it does not. Some of the reasons for this is because 
 of the level design. The levels they offer in COD: WaW are so far ahead of the levels in COD4 that 
 you wonder why nothing like them were in COD4. My favorite example of level design superiority 
 is the night-time beach level (Makin) . There are so many different types of areas here. There are 
 a few high points, some great hidden areas, and a few wide open spaces to carry out a great strafe 
 fight. The other two levels are equally as varied, but the glow of the moon on the ocean and how 
 it bathes the objects on this particular level is just mind blowing. Not the most colorful level, 
 but it's the one I get the most kills on.
  2. Weapons
  I know many gamers grumbled when they found out that the new COD game would be set in the WWII 
 era again, but I love the guns of that era. They seem to demand more skill in aiming and require 
 you to do less run-n-gun, and a little more strategic positioning. Now, it's not so much so that 
 it nullifies your ability to run-n-gun, but it seems to reward you for being a bit more patient. 
 It might be because of the type of weapons I like (rifles) , but one thing's for sure, the guns 
 completely change the way you look at this game, compared to COD4. So far, my favorite gun is my 
 suppressed MP40. I haven't even gotten close to playing with every gun in the game yet, but after 
 playing 10 rounds of free for all with that bad boy, I can safely say it's the best gun for the 
 job.
  3. Perk (s)
  Are the perks completely different, you ask? No, not really. Well are they a lot better than in 
 COD4, you ask? Not quite. Then what?!?! Well, I'll tell you... There is one perk that makes the 
 whole perk system shine, and that is the 2nd chance perk. Yeah, it's almost identical in every 
 way, to COD4's last stand perk, but this one is actually 2 great perks in one. It not only gives 
 you the ability to whip out your pistol, after being downed by an enemy, in a last attempt to get 
 the last laugh. No, it also gives you the ability to revive a downed teammate that is currently 
 in the 2nd Chance stance. I know many gamers disliked COD3, but being a medic in that game and 
 reviving your teammates over and over was just as rewarding as getting the same amount of kills. 
 I was really looking forward to this perk, but when I actually got to use it, I realized it's full 
 potential. It's truly the best perk I've seen.
  4. Sound
  The sound in this game is completely out of this world. I am listening to it in 5.1 surround, and 
 after playing 2 minutes of the first game, I realized the sound in this game was so far beyond 
 any other shooter I had ever played. The sound of the guns in this game are just plain ridiculous. 
 I'm not talking bass or loudness, I'm talking about sound positioning that is easily as good, if 
 not better than Saving Private Ryan. And then, on top of that, you throw in some of the best ambient 
 sounds and you've got the best sounding war-like situation you'll hear for some time. Nothing beats 
 walking through the jungle area in Makin, while crickets, frogs, and rushing water fills your ears 
 with it's tranquil sounds, only to be shattered by the sounds of bullets whizzing by your skull 
 cap. And I'm not even going to describe the rush you feel when you hear enemy footsteps or dogs 
 rushing to your location... This is one of the first reasons I've found to NEED a 5.1 stereo for 
 console gaming.
  5. Graphics
  Ok, the graphics aren't leaps and bounds better, and the frame rate is still locked in at 60fps 
 (thank goodness) , but the big difference is the coloring and lighting. I spoke a bit about this 
 earlier and I'll expand a bit here. The coloring in this game is close to matching the amount of 
 colors in a Rare game (read: Kameo) , but it's done in such a way that the colors don't intrude. 
 Instead they enhance the scenery in a way that makes you feel as if you're actually in an area 
 that's living and moving. The contrasts in the levels of COD5 are done so well with colors. The 
 beautiful calming pink apple blossom-filled trees in the Japanese Castle level pull you away from 
 the carnage just long enough to be snapped back after being blown to bits by a grenade. The lighting, 
 on the other hand, is something that cannot be ignored in the night level. Everything is bathed 
 in some of the best moonlight I've seen in a game. Sure, there has been better lighting in other 
 videogames, but not moving at 60fps in a game as addictive as COD5 is. The main draw here is that 
 no matter how beautiful things look, it's still all locked in at 60fps.
  
  There are two other, more personal, things that really excited me about the game as well. The first 
 is that I loved how the kill limit in Free-For-All set to 30 instead of 25, and there are also 
 12 players per match, instead of the 8 person limit that was set in COD4. The second thing that 
 blew me away is the addition of the Bren as a Light Machine gun. I absolutely loved this weapon 
 in COD3's campaign mode, but it wasn't in the online mode of that game. The mere sight of this 
 gun, in COD5, made me giggle with glee. It has quickly become my son's and daughter's favorite 
 gun so far. I have yet to put in alot of good time with it, since I really want some alone time 
 to really play the game. Last night I only played one out of every 3 games since 2 of my kids wanted 
 to play as much as I did.
  The menu systems are nearly identical to COD4 and the challenges and whatnot are all very similar. 
 I'm not sure there will be much of a reason to play COD4, now that this game came out, but you 
 never know...
  
  Some of the annoying pieces I found about the game are:
   Occasional spawn points that lead to instant death
   No more spray-and-pray gameplay (Not 
 that I mind)
   Same amount of players online in team-play games as in COD4 (Only 12 Players) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Unholy_Terror
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 10, 2009 10:08 pm PT
Review:  I'll just start off saying that I haven't played COD4 (blasphemy, I know) . I just never got around 
 to picking it up. But I did get this game, mainly because it had splitscreen co-op.
  The campaign is very good, by the end of it (which wasn't too long, but it took me a few days to 
 beat) I was surprised at how attached I had become to some of the computer characters. The campaign 
 follows the end of WW2 in both the Russia/Germany and America/Japan fronts and every few missions 
 you switch between which story you are following, but this isn't really bad. My first solo run 
 through was on the 2nd hardest setting (out of 5 I believe) which definitely added challenge and 
 there were a few parts where I died many times in the same place, but I blame the difficulty more 
 than the game. The game also captured the feel of war very well. You are occasionally ordered to 
 do something by name, but usually you just feel like a soldier that is part of a bigger army.
 
  Even though the campaign was good, people really want COD for the multiplayer and World at War 
 does not disappoint. The game supports 4 player splitscreen and online co-op campaign which is 
 fun and you can play with a point system so there is some competition between players.
  The competitive multiplayer is also a lot of fun. There are several good levels and the perk for 
 playing is that as you gain levels/ranks you unlock more weapons and perks. Also as you use weapons 
 you can unlock iems to add to the weapon through certain challenges (e. g. if you get 25 kills with 
 an MP40 you unlock a silencer) . Also as you get kill streaks you get one time use perks (at 3 kills 
 you get a recon plane that shows where enemies are on your map, at 5 kills you get an artillery 
 strike, and at 7 kills you unleash dogs that run around and kill enemies in 2 hits if they are 
 not killed and they respawn for a minute) . I have found these to be very balanced and give you 
 something to strive for as you run through the hectic battlefields.
  Possibly the most fun part of this game is Nazi Zombies. In this you are game you and friends (splitscreen 
 or online) trie to defend a house from waves of zombies (Similar to the house battle in Resident 
 Evil 4, except COD style, co-op, and longer) . You can unlock new rooms that hold new weapons to 
 buy, but they also open new windows for zombies to enter. It starts off a little slow but after 
 a few waves you are trying to balance reloading, boarding up windows, reviving allies, and shooting 
 zombies. 
  This game is also somewhat gory. It isn't quite like Gears of War, but bullets cause spurts of 
 blood and explosives take off limbs very often (especially in multiplayer)
  However not everything in this game is great, there is some problem with glitching online such 
 as getting into an area where zombies can't attack you and the infinitely more annoying glitch 
 that allows you to run underneath the map and you can effortlessly aim upwards and shoot your enemies. 
 It's also a little disappointing that if you look down you don't have feet, but that's a pretty 
 minor thing.
  Overall this game is a lot of fun and I recommend it to any fan of FPS or WW2 shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shootingrobot98
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 10, 2009 8:46 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 was a good game, but I did find it kind of off. The graphics were extremely ugly 
 up close, campaign was painstaking short, and the game's modern setting is trying to glorify an 
 extremely delicate problem today. The plot (and if you have even seen that "Putin Call of Duty 
 4 Review", even I agree with Putin) is trying to glorify the War on Terror, and modern war in general 
 by trying to make it seem like the U. S. Marine Corps is the only branch of the military. You don't 
 have an IDEA about how many of my friends say that they will join the Marine Corps once they are 
 of age. Me, I know better that war is a bloody, filthy hellhole and going to Iraq right now, insurgents 
 will not just appear with guns-a-blazing well in your sights, but come up from behind you and toss 
 a grenade that you will not see until you see your bloody arm and your friend's severed head on 
 the floor next to you. And all that violence, is accomplished in World at War, and anyone with 
 hopes of serving in the Marine Corps to kill terrorists with an M16A4 in one hand with an AKM in 
 the other, will probably change their minds in an instant here.
  
  First off, I applaude Treyarch for fixing a lot of the graphical issues in Call of Duty 4, mainly 
 the fact that up close, the graphics just take a major turn for the worst. In fact, they look like 
 Playstation graphics up close. Here, even compared to the Unreal Engine 3, they maintain the graphical 
 upkeep, and I am very happy about that. Sound effects are decent, but they are a massive upgrade 
 over Treyarch's previous game, Call of Duty 3.
  
  The multiplayer is also vastly improved, and now with tanks in the multiplayer, that improves the 
 experience drastically. The most important improvement, if I think so, is now that the weapons 
 are evenly balanced. No more encountering nothing but M16A4's, M60E4's and M82's in the multiplayer, 
 and, sincerely, severe unbalancing in the weapons was why I got off CoD 4 in the first place. With 
 this improved multiplayer, I am still playing this game.
  
  The extra modes (especially Nazi Zombies, which is ONE OF THE MOST ADDICTIVE AND RIDICULOUSLY FUN 
 GAME MODES EVER) are a nice addition, but the co-op is seriously glitched. This especially pisses 
 me off during the ending cutscene, in which the slow-motion (for some reason) is gone, and it takes 
 the epicosity out of the scene. I think the only reason to have co-op is for the Zombie mode, which 
 is just as fun with friends.
  
  The game's level of violence is vastly more realistic than the previous game, so that seeing people 
 getting arms and legs blown off during off, just imagine that this will happen with greater effect 
 in modern conflict. Besides, I prefer the World War II setting because it is not fake like the 
 misleading plot of CoD 4.
  
  I don't know what to tell people, it only matters what you prefer. Unless you want to fall for 
 the misleading plot and Marine Corps propaganda that seeps from CoD 4, choose this game. If not, 
 well, good luck dealing with your PTSD or being dead! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: headcrabsrule
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 10, 2009 7:26 am PT
Review:  World War 2 yes i know people are sick of WW2 games. But this is awesome. Mainly for the reasons 
 that there is Disembowelment, and NAZI ZOMBIES!
  If you read my Dead Rising Review you would know i love my zombie stuffs. Other than zombies. The 
 game is actually really dam good. I really enjoyed the 4th one and i also enjoyed this. I actually 
 think it is better than the 4th (no not only cause of the zombies) The graphics haven't really 
 changed but the sniping mission were really awesome! This one goes onto the shelf of games what 
 not to play when family come around, unless if you really gotta. It is more violent which is good 
 cause to me i think it is showing what war really was like. Medal of Honor is good but it needed 
 blood to make it realistic. That to me folks is what makes a really good war game.
  Online has a few bugs, but that is only what i have heard. I haven't yet gotten Xbox Live (saving 
 money) I like it how there are 2 kinds on countries to play as. I feel as though they mainly focused 
 on the Russians but still that's cool i found there missions way better than the American ones, 
 and the ending rocks!
  So in my opinion if you love you war games and you don't own this and you are sick on WW2 genres 
 but you wanna get it cause it will look cool with your other collection of COD games (takes deep 
 breath) get this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sol_Invictus-80
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 8, 2009 3:59 pm PT
Review:  So many people have just been blinded by the hype. CoD 5 is simply shameful. Apart for the amazing 
 graphics, of course, but we all knew that CoD looks good. Everything else is garbage:
  
  The game engine is ANNOYING as hell. You are not a human, you are a dot with 2 arms and a rifle, 
 hovering in space. You are surrounded by invisible walls and forced trails. Worst of all, you see 
 lots of nice animations all around you (soldiers crouching, taking cover behind obstacles, peeking 
 behind walls, crossing a river holding their rifles above their heads, etc.) , but you can do NOTHING 
 of this as you are still the same, sad, senseless flying dot with almost no interaction with the 
 environment. You cannont "feel" the game environment as you simply are not part of it, in fact: 
 you cannont adapt to the different heights and shapes of covers, unlike all other soldiers you 
 see; you cannot interact as sometimes you can jump over a fallen tree, other times you can't just 
 because they forgot to add the "jump" interface in that specific point. Ridiculous. At the 5th 
 game with this same obsolete approach, the programmers should *really* have updated the engine.
 
  
  The audio and in general the multimedia compart is horribly UNINSPIRED: between-missions briefings 
 look like they have been (poorly) made with PowerPoint. The entire game is cursed by a terrible 
 pseudo-epic-rock-electronic soundtrack. All this has absolutely *nothing* to do with WWII nor with 
 its atmosphere, of course. Depressing.
  
  The gameplay is simply FRUSTRATING. You'll regularly experience: your comrades crossing your line 
 of fire and getting killed (thus displaying "mission failed" due to friendly fire... yeah, sure) ; 
 they are also utterly incapable of providing any decent cover or coordination, of course. Enemies, 
 on the other hand, sometimes hit with incredible precision, other times stand like lobotomized 
 at 1 meter from you doing absolutely nothing, awaiting just to be killed. And of course, the infinite 
 respawn of enemies is so damn irritating and senseless... it makes support roles 100% useless (just 
 a waste of ammo) , forces you to advance constantly (but this for one would be good) , and gets you 
 killed so many times because a bad guy spawned just behind the wall you are advancing toward, where 
 there was no one just 1 second before. Also be ready to dodge grenades (or die trying) about 50% 
 of the time, which soon loses its realism and becomes so damn frustrating. Ah, and do not try to 
 play the game at Hard difficulty thinking it would last longer, as I did: it just becomes more 
 frustrating, not funny at all.
  
  The story is FLAT and BORING, period. No mission worth remembering (you won't remember any at all 
 in the end) save for the last stage, Russian, which is quite epic and original. All the rest is 
 "been there, seen that" about 100 times in previous CoD too. You have to "follow your tank", and 
 you *know* that tank is going to explode 5 secs after mission start, along with the poor idiot 
 soldier who walked next to it. You have to start a heavy assault, and you *know* that the guy just 
 next to you will die dramatically with a bullet in his head during the game-engine cutscene; or 
 the transport just next to yours will explode in a dramatic fireball. Etc. etc., the programmers 
 abused this kind of clichs so much that now they all became horribly boring, cold and flat.
  
  All in all, this game is absolutely to be avoided. Do not buy it, as it is a waste of time 
 and money. CoD seriously needs to reshape, as it has lost any kind of exciting atmosphere, charisma, 
 charm. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TriforceCybern
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 8, 2009 2:51 pm PT
Review:  Ah yes. The new addition of CoD. This game is one of my favorite games of all time. 
  
  The story is amazing, with CoD's expected graphics with all the drama you need for WWII. A lot 
 of people say CoD 4 is better, but there's something about this game I like better. Argue with 
 me if you want, but I liked the single player of World at War more than CoD 4's modern one. Then, 
 there's the big step for Call of Duty: Cooperative Campaign. You can hook up with 3 other friends 
 in a 4 player co-op with the optional addition of death cards. Death Cards are like Halo 3's skulls, 
 either making the campaign more fun or more frustrating. (My favorite death card makes the bullets 
 that come from guns into paint balls!) But like the single player campaign, cooperative with spark 
 interest for you and your friends. 
  And to top off the cooperative, the creators of CoD 5 put in a Nazi Zombies mode to compete with 
 the singe player/cooperative campaign. This game type is unlocked when you beat the campaign on 
 any difficulty. This game allows up to 4 people to battle against hordes of Nazi Zombies, getting 
 a sum of points for each kill. With enough points, you can buy extra weapons and use a mystery 
 box for a random weapon; if your feeling lucky. 
  
  Now for the matchmaking. The only thing about this game that ticks me off. The tanks, pointless 
 perks, and the glitches. Every other matchmaking game I play, I'm getting shot at from glitchers 
 under the map. A glitcher would send me a message saying, "We only use the glitches to our advantage, 
 as anyone would use something to their advantage in the battlefield." But thats the thing: In a 
 real battlefield you can't start jumping, fall like a ghost underground, and can still see above 
 you and start mowing down innocent players. Think of it this way: the creators of Call of Duty 
 World at war didn't want to put these cheap glitches in their maps, so anyone who does use these 
 kind of glithers are considered cheaters. So in other words, play fairly and not like a hacker. 
 Remember what I said about the tanks? Well, they ruin the multiplayer. They need to be shot 4 times 
 by another tank's main gun, 4-6 bazooka rockets, or countless satchel charges (C4) . So people can 
 drive around in a tank and get some easy kills before exploding. Now for the perks. Perks like 
 Flak Jacket, Gas mask, and Shades are pointless; nobody uses them. You shouldn't either. Nothing 
 else to say. Oh, and here's something 
  I didn't mention: Dogs. If you get a 7 kill streak in matchmaking, you get to call a pack of dogs. 
 It takes 3 shots from a semi-automatic rifle to kill them, and they move so fast, if try to shoot 
 with a sub machine gun, you'll probably miss. Oh yeah, it takes 2 hits from a dog to kill you, 
 and on Hardcore it takes 1. So if the Helicopter from CoD 4 and the dogs from CoD 5 had a killing 
 contest, dogs would win by far. Even though this seems like a lot of bad stuff about this game, 
 it's just the detail. I highly recommend this game, especially if you've played CoD 4 or 3 before 
 or if you like a great shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrfidget
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 7, 2009 7:38 pm PT
Review:  The Call of Duty series has been a series that was gradually deteriorating in quality until COD4 
 game out and was a mega-hit with its incredible online multiplayer system. Treyarch has taken the 
 COD4 ingredients (and engine) and put it into it's sequel where it returns to the series' World 
 War 2 roots.
  The campaign of COD5 has you playing as two different characters, an American named Pvt. Miller 
 and a Russian named Pvt. Petrenko. Each campaign is short, but if you put the two together you 
 get a campaign of decent-length. It's very cinematic and pretty fun. At times there are battles 
 of epic scale that inspire awe with the player. But the campaign alone doesn't generate enough 
 value for a purchase.
  The multiplayer component of COD5 is very good. It has many great maps and many great modes. Its 
 even fun, and deep, outside of actually playing. You can organize your weapons, classes, attachments, 
 perks, and clan tag. (mine is 'ZAP!') You're bound to have a lot of fun playing multiplayer.
  My personal favorite part of the game is Nazi Zombies. You, alone or with others, have to defned 
 yourself in a large house from an infinite wave of nazi zombies. It is unlocked after you beat 
 the single-player campaign. You can do two-player splitscreen or two-to-four players on Live.
 
  You can also play through levels in the campaign co-operatively or competitively. Competitive 
 play is fun because you and the other player are trying to top the other in enemy kills. Getting 
 kills with short periods of time in between each other can raise your score multiplier, and REALLY 
 raise your score.
  So, if you liked COD4 and Left 4 Dead, Call of Duty: World at War is a game you're very likely 
 to enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tusserte
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 7, 2009 4:32 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty: World at War represents a mix between the classic Call of Duty World War II games 
 and Call of Duty: Modern Warfare by attempting to bring us the best of both worlds. Although the 
 game has returned to the World War II genre (a strange but certainly not damaging move) , it still 
 maintains the gameplay aspects that caused critics to rave about the previous game in the series.
 
  
  The latest Call of Duty game once again tries to put the gamer in the shoes of a typical Allied 
 soldier during the war, allowing us to play as American Pvt. Miller in the Pacific and as Russian 
 Pvt. Petrenko in Eastern Front. The campaign alternates between the two characters' stories to 
 create cliffhangers and add perspective. Great voice acting by stars such as Gary Oldman and Kiefer 
 Sutherland show that Call of Duty 5 is going all out this time. Easily, the campaign is the highlight 
 of the game (as it is with most Call of Duty games, in my opinion) .
  
  The campaign takes about 6-7 hours to complete and has a lot of replay value. I've found that there 
 are much fewer glitches with the gameplay (no more shooting through walls or lucky potshots across 
 half the map) , so that I might even be able to finish the game on Veteran difficulty this time. 
 I was surprised to find that COD5 still finds new ways to make the same old genre interesting. 
 Although there were many cinematics and features similar to the previous games, the improved graphics 
 (they finally figured out how to do lip-synching correctly!) and slight modifications still make 
 them bearable and practically unnoticeable.
  
  The best part about the campaign is that it can now be played in co-op mode. Online, up to four 
 players can run around reviving wounded teammates and creating a whole new system to beat the game 
 on Veteran difficulty. The split-screen allows for only two players, but is still a lot of fun.
 
  
  Another great addition to the co-op mode is the new bonus "Nazi Zombies" game mode, where up to 
 two players offline and up to four players online can work together to fight off waves of stumbling 
 undead Nazis. This is great eye candy and will keep the gamers that obsess over high scores occupied 
 for many long nights. I, however, am not one of these gamers, and I am one of the few who will 
 tell you that the game gets boring after a few tries when the map starts to feel stale and the 
 waves of zombies start to feel repetitive.
  
  Although the online co-op gives Call of Duty the best replay value of the series in terms of the 
 campaign, I found that the multiplayer aspect of the game was somewhat lacking. Don't get me wrong, 
 if you liked the multiplayer in Call of Duty 4, I'm sure you won't have a problem with this one. 
 The addition of tanks and swapping the attack chopper for attack dogs as a kill streak bonus definitely 
 spice up the game play. My problem with the multiplayer in the last two Call of Duty games is that 
 weapons and perks have to be unlocked by playing a lot. This is unfair to gamers like me who don't 
 have much time to spend playing games. I really hate jumping into a game and finding that all of 
 the opponents have the good guns with special scopes and attachments and the good perks while I 
 am still using the default character classes. This is my complaint, but I'm sure it is not an issue 
 for most gamers.
  
  Call of Duty 5 was able to keep alive the tradition of providing great gaming experiences through 
 its improvement of graphics, improvement of weapons and balancing, and addition of online co-op. 
 Even though the genre has returned to World War II, a lot of the gameplay still attempts to copy 
 the features of Call of Duty: Modern Warfare. In a sense, this was an attempt to give us the best 
 of both worlds. Personally, I preferred the games before Call of Duty 4 came around and kind of 
 wish that we had returned completely to the way things were before Modern Warfare. However, it 
 seems that the new multiplayer experience is here to stay whether I like it or not. People will 
 be playing this game for a long time, and I would recommend buying this game as a very safe addition 
 to anyone's collection.
  
  For more reviews like this, please visit my site at http://www. thebiasphere. org/ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cloud878
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 7, 2009 1:46 pm PT
Review:  Last year Infinity Ward created a godly game in an already godly series of games, they called it 
 Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare, they stepped away from the usual WWII gameplay and made it modern, 
 it worked out fabulously and provided a solid and engaging experience. After a few months of Modern 
 Warfare's release Call of Duty did the usual, they flip-flopped companies. Treyarch, the creator 
 of the average COD3 took over the next game. This worried me, I didn't like Call of Duty 3 at all. 
 After the release of this game, I'm satisfied.
  
  Call of Duty: Modern Warfare takes you back to World War II, yet again. What a drag right? Well 
 it mixes things up and brings you to Eastern and Pacific Europe, and instead of constantly fighting 
 Nazis, they throw in some Japanese too. This is a nice addition and makes World at War mildly unique. 
 Is this game a completely new experience? No. You still have mostly the same weapons, the same 
 controls, etc. Although I would've preferred modern again, I think they did a terrific job with 
 the usually boring WWII.
  
  I really like the darker atmosphere on World at War. Usual WWII games don't show you how it really 
 happened. This shows the true terror of war. Blood flying, limbs falling off, rabid dogs attacking 
 you (which rocks) , that stuff. The first cutscene shows a Japanese soldier burning your counterpart 
 in the eye with a cigarette, then slashing him with a sword. That proves that this isn't no cake 
 walk.
  
  The multiplayer is good, but nothing has change from Modern Warfare beyond a couple more levels 
 to upgrade to. If I didn't know, someone could convince me that this is just a WWII modded Modern 
 Warfare. That's not a bad thing, but I think they could have added more. Even if it's so similar, 
 the multiplayer will likely keep you addicted.
  
  Now, time for the real negatives. The biggest flaw is just how glitchy it is, numerous times this 
 game has glitched up and made me have to restart. Teammates get stuck, you get stuck, so many glitches, 
 if this was less glitchy I would give it a higher score.
  
  Overall, COD: WAW isn't Modern Warfare, but I'm happy Treyarch made it enjoyable.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bujenablow
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 7, 2009 3:38 am PT
Review:  First, let me say that I played the beta (which should have been called a demo because it was intentionally 
 released weeks before the game came out and that doesn't possibly fit the definition of a beta 
 thus being for hype) and own a copy of this; I'm a level 65 and my k/d ratio is 1.23 so I have 
 enough experience to know what I'm talking about.
  
  The good -- the game isn't that horrible of a game. The single player is decent and the multiplayer 
 is decent, pretty much like CoD 4. There aren't any major problems with anything in the game, only 
 minor problems. The physics are good and it is basically CoD 4 but WWII style. Players are kicked 
 after teamkilling 3 times, but if you play a game type with very few people then they can just 
 come back into the game by chance. Hosts can't be kicked though, but not a big deal because you 
 never really know when you're the host. There aren't many spots where you get stuck and retry hundreds 
 of times like in CoD 3.
  
  The bad -- It is basically CoD 4 converted to WWII. Not a big deal, but somewhat shows the lack 
 of imagination held by the developers.
  -- Maps. The maps in this game are okay, not the best though. The maps with the tanks are horrible, 
 especially Downfall and Outskirts. Those two maps are my least favorite and here's why. Outskirts 
 looks like a cool village map, but everything just seems disorganized and cluttered with random 
 open spaces for where a sniper can get you from across the map. Also, there are too many little 
 places for people to camp. Downfall however is just too open and is difficult to navigate without 
 being shot by someone waiting on the side. It's hard to explain, but if one compares them to the 
 Godly maps from CoD 3, then these new maps are obviously crappy. In the best words explaining why, 
 it's because there isn't a "followable path" like in CoD 3, but more like everyone is in a random 
 spot camping (this is most likely attributed to the spawns) . It would have been better to just 
 take the old maps from CoD 3 and rework the graphics rather than add new crappy maps.
  --Spawning. The spawning at the beginning is typical, one team on one side, the other on the other, 
 but this depends on your gametype. Headquarters for example spawns people in random places so you 
 are many times beside an enemy; good for one, bad for the other. After the initial spawn though, 
 it all goes to **** The game does not take into account the location of an enemy, thus spawn killing 
 is introduced and happens very frequently. Sometimes when I play HC War I get so mad I can't help 
 but laugh at how ridiculous the spawning is. Sometimes I will die up to 9 times in a row without 
 firing a shot and with only walking up to a few steps.
  --Historical accuracy. The more realistic a game is, the better it is for me even if it degrades 
 the fun, but catching realism correctly is difficult to do. First, the gun add-ons. If you're a 
 person that likes realism like I do, then this will piss you off. The flash-hiders, silencers, 
 and the little scopes for guns other than bolt action rifles, are stupid. Sure they're fun to play 
 with, but the problem is that yes although these existed during that time, they were hardly if 
 ever used on weapons. It just barely annoys me. The biggest bullcrap in the entire game though, 
 to me worse than the spawns, bouncing bettys. These are like the mines in CoD 3, but they jump 
 out of the ground to waist height and detonate. Yes I know that is what they do in reality, but 
 one has to step on the detonator in order for it to trigger. In CoD WaW all one has to do is simply 
 walk within about 2-3 ft. and it will jump from the ground and explode. Also, in the game you can 
 put it into any ground surface which is inaccurate, and they sense you through walls, which is 
 just crappy engineering in the game.
  --The knife. If you have ever played Halo 2 online for a fair amount of time then you can relate 
 to what I am going to say. I thought the whole knife as immediate melee was ridiculous in CoD 4 
 because he pulled it out and put it away incredibly fast, under 1 second. I think it would have 
 been better as a separate weapon and if they still did gun melee. CoD WaW is the same, but the 
 knife has an auto aim that seems random. When it actually does lock on it misses, and when you 
 just randomly slice it hits. Also, when you stab at someone once locked on, your character will 
 glide about the same distance to the target as it did in Halo 2; which is about 5-7 ft. Last, lots 
 of times the enemy will appear to knife the air, and that happens when the auto target works. Blood 
 also comes from nowhere. This air stabbing effect is because of the latency issue in the game.
 
  --Dogs. First of all dogs are just, in my opinion, one of the dumbest things ever. 7 kills will 
 give you these incredible killing machines, but they are horribly unrealistic. Depending on if 
 you play regular or hardcore, the dogs and there killing sprees hugely. In regular it is rare to 
 see dogs get very many kills, but in hardcore they usually go on crazy killing sprees. The thing 
 that bothers me the most is that, since I enjoy realism, it only takes one bite from them to kill 
 you; and it doesn't matter where it bites you. The first time I noticed how stupid they were was 
 in the beta in hardcore on Castle Rock. I jumped up on a small pillar thing and thought I would 
 be safe, but I was wrong. One bite from the dog on my ankle and I was dead. I think it would have 
 been cooler if they had put a fighter plane like a P51 or something in to do a few flybys and mow 
 down anyone its line of sights. Also if they had allowed the other team to call in a plane to and 
 then they could dogfight, and depending on whichever team was doing better, their plane would win. 
 Also, it says that the dogs have to see you in order to go for you. THIS IS NOT TRUE!!! I have 
 been in a building, not moving nor shooting, countless times hiding before the dogs even come out 
 and they still find their way to top floor of the house I'm in.
  --Artillery. Sometimes it kills you when you're safe inside a building. That's all.
  --Perks. 
 Martydom, Last Stand, and Juggernaut. Martydom- it only sucks when its in hardcore and it is completely 
 unrealistic. Juggernaut, for people who aren't good enough so they have to **** everything up. 
 Last Stand is the same as Juggernaut, but even worse because they have a very good chance to kill 
 you. I wish they had made like CoD 3 where everyone gets downed but couldn't shoot and there was 
 a separate medic class.
  --Latency (lag) . The biggest problem in this game by far. This game's latency is so horrible and 
 easy to notice that when I first learned how bad it was I was stunned that they didn't fix it right 
 away. Sometime you will be well around a corner then killed and you will go to 3rd person watching 
 your guy fall but before he falls he is pulled back a few feet to where he was on the other person's 
 screen.
  --Rifle grenades. The new noob-tubes from CoD 4 but not as bad, but I was hoping that I would never 
 see it again.
  --Campaign. single player is great, but on veteran there are two problems. First, the enemies throw 
 countless grenades. This makes you have to run elsewhere exposing yourself so they can then shoot 
 you. At any given time, I will have about three grenades thrown at me in under a second. In about 
 a minute, sometimes the average can reach as high as 30 grenades (I've done my measurements) . Second, 
 the enemies with machine guns, light and heavy, will kill you instantly once you come around their 
 corner. Sometimes they won't even be looking at you and they will turn suddenly and roughly and 
 instantly kill you before you can even aim.
  --zombies. They should have had more maps, because it gets old fast.
  
  These are only the 
 issues I have problems with, other reviews may disagree but that just there opinion. Just be aware 
 that they exist.
  
  Now, these aren't major problems, but they all add up to be extremely bothersome and angering. 
 If this game had taken more from CoD 3 than 4 then it would have had much more potential. Definitely 
 rent it before you buy it.
  
  Minus these problems this game would easily be a 9 to 9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gokileviathan
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 6, 2009 10:10 pm PT
Review:  I was truly satisfied from the amount of enjoyment that I got from playing C. O. D 2 (the same goes 
 for C. O. D Modern warfare) . Now when i play C. O. D World at War, It keeps me up all night and I needed 
 to sleep really bad but I couldn't and my body got to the point where it was about to crack. The 
 graphics and sound was astonishing, the movie-like gameplay was superb and as for the Russian commentary 
 in this game... Remarkably Outstanding. I suggest playing more "C. O. D" games than "Brothers in Arms"... games, 
 because it has too much obscenity and it is too darn real. I don't want to be in the army but I 
 want to play the game so really and truly, I don't want to feel any of it coming from games like 
 those. Anyway, I would have this game as my no. 1 choice in becoming the Game of the Year and i 
 agree to that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cpuchess
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 6, 2009 5:05 pm PT
Review:  First let me say I really like this game and have enjoyed it as much as COD4. The graphics are 
 very sharp and the mechanics work very well for the most part. I don't usually like playing the 
 campaigns and usually only play them to unlock things. However this time I did both, the campaign 
 was a lot of fun to play and lasted a long time. It was one of the rare campaigns I wasn't bored 
 to death with (e. g Halo 3) and may even play again.
  The online is also a lot of fun to play. Though there does seem to be some problems with cheating. 
 I had people appearing to be under dirt piles and you can't see them. Of course they can see you 
 and they kill you.
  The worst part of this game is the Matchmaking system. How I absolutely hate it. You are totally 
 at the mercy of the system and have no way to set map preferences. Some maps are better than others 
 and sometimes you just get tired of playing on them. Either way it would be very nice if you set 
 what maps you want to be matched with. For the most part you are able to leave a room before the 
 game starts if you see the map is something you don't want to play on, but sometimes it just takes 
 you to the map without ever visiting the lobby. 
  Now that games like GOW2 and Killzone 2 have bots, it would nice to have a customizable interface 
 that would allow you to play in offline games exactly the way you want to play the game, against 
 bots or with a combination of people.
  To sum up, the game is certainly worth getting and you won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Owned3
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 6, 2009 4:27 pm PT
Review:  The campaign has many missions and many of them aren't very fun. Lets start off with the russian 
 tank level it annoyed the hell out of me i couldn't see where those missiles were coming from it 
 took me at least 10 minutes to figure it out. The story is simple basically you just got to fight 
 deeper and deeper into germany for the Russians and for the Americans you just got to blow a bunch 
 of crap up. Now some of the guns are good and fun to use but some... just Suck really bad like 
 why was it even made if it sucks.
  
  The campaign started strong i liked the first 5 missions but after Their land, their blood most 
 of the missions were the same thing GET THE PANSERSCHREK, KILL THE GERMANS, KILL THE JAPANESE. 
 A few of the missions midway in the campaign were fun like Burn em out was cool except for all 
 those annyoing japanese guys in the trees. The air craft level wasn't that bad. The last 4 levels 
 were good. I can't say much about the AI but it's so annoying every 30 seconds they throw a grenade 
 unfortunately i'm not kidding sure you can throw it back but your better of just running away.
 
  
  Now as most of you heard there is a zombie mode but honestly WTF where did zombies come from sure 
 it's fun first couple of games but it gets boring real fast. The multiplayer is good it can definantely 
 test your patience when all those high levels kill you all the time. It's fun when you start to 
 get kills and new better guns and level up. Create a class is cool. 
  
  That"s about all i can say it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PerkinsGamerFTW
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 6, 2009 3:43 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 5 was highly anticipated to be a fresh start from the European Theater and focus more 
 on the Pacific battles. It was also said that it wouldn't be as good because it was developed by 
 Treyarch, which developed Call of Duty 2: Big Red One and Call of Duty 3 which could have been 
 better. It has an unusual mix of gameplay, both Pacific Theater and European Theater through the 
 eyes of a Russian conscript.
  
  The singleplayer was fun, the levels with flamethrowers were every fun. The mission "Black Cats" 
 brings the awesome gameplay that Call of Duty: United Offensive and Call of Duty 2: Big Red One 
 brought us in a large aircraft. In this, you play the part as a Petty Officer named Locke who is 
 a gunner on the PBY Catalina named Mantaray. After destroying 3 Japanese cargo ships (which is 
 really fun) , you can shoot down Zeroes and destroy PT Boats attacking survivors from the sinking 
 of American ships south of Okinawa. I personally pulled in 5 survivors on the veteran difficulty. 
 But, the singleplayer campaign mode, is shorter then the Call fo Duty 4: Modern Warfare campaign 
 believe it or not. I finished it in about 5 hours on recruit.
  
  The multiplayer could use some improvement. It has the feel of Call of Duty 4 multiplayer, but 
 in a more... wooden feel. The fact that it is almost exactly like Call of Duty 4 challenge wise, 
 makes it more boring. They even tried bringing back the red dot sight, it is a cool attachment, 
 but is it looks really simple and historically incorrect. There are more game modes, which is a 
 good thing, but some such as the mode Ground War are useless. Ground War is basically the game 
 mode War first, then Team Deathmatch, and so on and so on and so on. The addition of the flamethrower 
 which you get on Level 65 and the PTRS-41 Anti-Tank Rifle that performs as a very powerful sniper 
 rifle is a nice touch. There are also new Japanese weapons and the Ray Gun which can either be 
 found as an easter egg in the level "Little Resistance" or given to you randomaly in the "Nazi 
 Zombies" mode of co-op gameplay.
  
  Co-Op is fun, Nazi Zombies is challenging... and scary but it is fun to fight these things. I personally 
 say in the mic: "What is the probability of a whole horde of zombies attacking an isolated bunker 
 in god knows where with only 4 guys in it for no reason?" The Competitive Co-Op is fun to keep 
 your score up and try to kill more Germans/Japanese before the other. I just do the Campaign Co-Op 
 to get the XBOX 360 achievement though.
  
  The cuts to the other character builds the suspense and make you want to complete the campaign 
 to see waht happens to the characters.
  
  I give this game a 8.0 for good gameplay, good co-op, and a nice addition of weapons. It's downsides 
 are multiplayer, the shortness of the singleplayer, and the fact that it feels like a combination 
 of Medal of Honor: Pacific Assault and Call of Duty 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AllyBongo3112
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 6, 2009 2:57 pm PT
Review:  Everyone loved Call of Duty 4.
  
  Call of Duty: World at War, is CoD 4, but its around 100 years earlier.
  
  First of all lets 
 take a look at the Single Player. There are 2 campaigns which keep on alternating throughout. The 
 1st one is the Marines taking Okinawa (including the Makin rade) and the 2nd is the Red Armys' 
 advance towards Berlin. This is officialy the best single player campaign ever. You could take 
 it easy on 'Regular' difficulty or try your strength and show good you really are by headign through 
 the missions on 'Veteran' difficulty, as the motto goes 'You will not survive'. 
  
  The storyline is one of the best ever created. Obviously main outline of it all was already written 
 100 years ago, but with everytihng else, like the characters and how they interact with each other 
 throughout the game give almost a second storyline inside the first one.
  
  The online multiplayer is in more ways than one, better than than on the previous game in the series. 
 For example, just the added feature if ur teammate is on last stand, and you have last stand as 
 a perk you can go and revive him and save him from a death.
  
  Extra Match Types eg. War, Capture the Flag add to the World War feel. The running commentary that 
 goes along with the game cann really get on ur tit ends, but uve just got to deal with it. The 
 voice chat is as ever superb, and the maps are absolutely amazing. There is one massive problem 
 that could destroy the game altogether. There are about 10x as many glitches on CoD5 than they 
 were on CoD4. On WaW you can get under around 5 maps now, there are bayonet jumps (although they 
 don't do that much harm tbh) and it really spoils the fun, if u keep on getting killed by a person 
 that is underneath you that u cant even shoot back at.
  
  The weapons are amazing, as expected, with my personal favourite to be the 'Thompson' which is 
 a fantastic Submachine Gun. The Perks are flawless and the added bonus of unlocking extra Create-a-Class 
 slots as you Prestige. Also the addition of Dogs instead of a Helicopter as got to be fantastic.
 
  
  All-in-All this has got to be the greatest World War II fighting simulation game of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darthvader57
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 6, 2009 11:58 am PT
Review:  COD4 finally got it right when then created the best shooting engine since golden eye for the nintendo 
 64. Theyve used the same engine here cause why fix whats not broken? And I agree 100%. This game 
 could have gotten a perfect rating from me except for three things. They wait too long to patch 
 severe glitches in the maps. Connection problems online have many people shooting 10 feet behind 
 their enemies on kill cams, and its not modern day warfare. Look, the other call of duties were 
 ok and like I said they got the great formula of the perk system for replay value and the best 
 engine ever. SO I understand why they felt like they had to remake the old call of duties. But 
 can we move out of the old world wars so i can give them a perfect ten? How about COD VIETNAM or 
 COD GulfWAR, AFGANISTAN. Anyway. buy this game for sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warstomp
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 5, 2009 8:17 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty World at war is the next in the call of duty franchise. It takes the series back to 
 its roots of WW2. The game follows both american island hopping and the Soviet invasion of Berlin.
 
  
  Singleplayer: The singleplayer starts you out as an american seizing control of Japanese islands 
 in the WW2 island hopping. It seems like an interesting take on a WW2 game. Has not really been 
 a Pacific Theater of WW2. It soon switches over to the Soviets pushing back the Germans and invading 
 Berlin. The problems then become obvious.
  
  The main issues with its singleplayer is the AI is plain retarded. At times they will stand there 
 just waiting for you to shoot them or your allies just stand there are not do anything to help 
 you. Making it feel less and less epic.
  
  The next is some of the major operations of the game begin to show their faults. The main fault 
 is the invasion of okinawa this mission had the chance of saving and making the campaign amazing. 
 It instead was a fairly lame and unlike Call Of Duty 2's Great Normany Invasion. Which was a very 
 exciting mission. Unlike COD2 the AI is plain retarded and its just about as unepic as Call Of 
 duty 3. 
  
  This does not mean all of the singleplayer is bad some of it is pretty decent. Some is somewhat 
 epic. But most of the sequences like the tank scenes are just unepic and boring.
  
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
 
  The multiplayer is somewhat better then the singleplayer.
  
  It does suffer from the same faults as cod4 like having many glitches including a out of map glitch 
 for every map. Most of the matches I have played are filled with cheating glitchers to use it to 
 kill you from under the map. It is sad at how poorly Treyarch failed COD again.
  
  I think it would of been much better if it was released before COD4 but because its a step back 
 in time there is not much to get excited about. If you've spent the last few months ranking up 
 in COD4 its just about the same thing but different weapons from a different period. With an even 
 more limited selection.
  
  Thats not to say its all bad it took some risks and interesting turns. I think some of the city 
 maps are done better then COD4 because they have more open spaces and more buildings to enter and 
 use. 
  
  There are also some really massive maps covering large areas perfect for sniping. Stuff like this 
 save the multiplayer from plain fail. But the gunplay and everything just feels worse then COD4.
 
  
  I do give them props for actually including somewhat of a co-op with the entire campaign and the 
 zombie missions being co-opable.
  
  Overall its somewhat fun but its a better rent then buy. Make sure you try it before you buy it. 
 Its just not that great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thpghalo3
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 5, 2009 6:23 pm PT
Review:  Well COD World At War is the 5'th game in the seriese but it feels more like 4 and a half. Cod 
 Waw runs on the same excat engine as COD4. now iff you played COD4 alot you will find this game 
 quite stale. So the story mainly take's place in 2 locations russia and the pacific. you play on 
 2 teams mariene raiders and the red army. on the marienes side you fight the japinese in real historic 
 battles. and on the red army side you fight the germans. now the story in This game is stale and 
 verry boring, it's really repetive and stupid also. you basicly do the same thing from start to 
 end. because there is really no story at all, all you basicly do is infltrate bases and conquer 
 them. that's it. now the multiplayer is basicly the same as COD 4. the graphics are pretty mutch 
 the same as COD 4 just a little bit better. so all around the game is kind of a dissapointment 
 and if you are looking for a new multiplayer game get quantom of solace or resistance 2. I give 
 Call Of Duty World At War A 7.0. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Setho10
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 5, 2009 1:24 pm PT
Review:  NOTE: This review is only for the single player portion of Call of Duty World at War, and is scored 
 accordingly. Please take that into account when reading this piece. Thank you. 
  
  The Call of Duty franchise has been a staple of the first person shooter genre this decade, starting 
 out life as a PC exclusive before entering the console wars for the second iteration. With four 
 numbered games and a half dozen spin-offs behind it, Call of Duty returns with World at War. The 
 same formula that has been present since the first game is here in spades with almost no alteration 
 or innovation to speak of. This is Call of Duty through and through, and though the formula works 
 as well now as it did five years ago, it is starting to feel a bit long in the tooth.
  
  Call of Duty World at War features more Call of Duty cliches than I care to count. The game starts 
 with your character being rescued from execution by former comrades, proceeds to a beach storming 
 in which your boat is destroyed on the way in and your captain has to pull you ashore, then sends 
 you off to Stalingrad where you are pulled from amongst your fallen friends to continue the fight 
 against the Nazis. Throughout the game you will assault bunkers, plant C4 on mortars, mount machine 
 guns, take control of an assault plane, command a tank, snipe an enemy general, and much more. 
 It all sounds incredibly varied and exciting, and it would be, had all this not been present in 
 the series since the very first game. It's not that the game is terribly broken, although I did 
 encounter several game breaking bugs, and it's not even that it isn't fun, it's just that the same 
 thing is only fun for so long.
  
  If you've played any of the other games on 360 you'll be right at home in World at War. Each level 
 starts with a description of the battle at hand, after which you are dropped into an epic firefight, 
 which just doesn't seem as impressive as it used to. You'll find a good twenty teammates and equally 
 as many enemies battling around you, while planes drop bombs from overhead, mortars pound your 
 positions, tanks duel in the background, and buildings crumble in spectacular fashion. It all seems 
 great until the classic problems just start rearing their ugly heads. And honestly they just seem 
 a little more noticeable now than before. Enemies, like always, will continuously respawn out of 
 nowhere until you reach some trigger that causes them to randomly disappear. AI is completely scripted 
 and will utterly break if taken out of routine, and the environment is only destructible in small 
 dedicated chunks. Your allies will help you only when they are supposed to; normally you'll have 
 to take out every enemy yourself. You are a master at most any weapon found on the battlefield 
 regardless of origin, and, of course, merely looking down the sights of a gun will lock you onto 
 the body of your target. Yes this is Call of Duty without a doubt, but it's Call of Duty going 
 through the motions, and without the weight and depth of the modern setting, this franchise feels 
 more dated than ever before. 
  
  World at War uses Modern Warfare's engine to power the game, and as such it looks and feels pretty 
 dated. While some engines manage to hold up well even years later, this year has been such a banner 
 year for improved technology that the weak textures, lack of interactivity, and loss of color seems 
 very 2007. Treyarch attempted to spruce things up with the inclusion of the flamethrower on the 
 Japanese front. Given infinite ammo and an impressive range, the flamethrower is by far the best 
 weapon in the game and a great addition to the Call of Duty formula. Players can burn their foes 
 to death, and the environment will burn along with them. If Far Cry 2 hadn't done propagating fire 
 much better earlier this year the effect would be rather impressive. While fire in that game spread 
 like one would expect fire to, in this game is is constricted, burning down trees and plants, but 
 not spreading like one would expect from "propagating" fire. Still, the weapon is fun to use, and 
 being the only new addition to the game other than the Japanese setting, it is successful at adding 
 a little something unique to this incredibly cliche title. 
  
  In addition to the fire in the game not really acting like fire is supposed to, it doesn't really 
 look like fire is supposed to either. In fact, the water in the game, as well as the grass, trees, 
 and character models, all look pretty week. Even the notoriously bad Gambryo engine used in Fallout 
 3 managed to render characters more realistically than this game. On the other hand, the characters 
 are voiced rather well, with the character's direct superiors sounding very convincing. The rest 
 of the game though, again, sound like every other game in the series. The German MP30 assault rifle 
 looks and sounds the same in this game as it has for the past five years. Maybe the sample rate 
 is higher, or the textures more detailed, but honestly, this gun, like the rest of the game, is 
 the same as always. 
  
  Call of Duty World at War is a game that goes through the motions. It never tries to transcend 
 the series it is contained in. It never tries to be anything more than Modern Warfare in WWII, 
 and because of its modest aspirations it succeeds in all of them. But honestly, Call of Duty has 
 been around for years, and with a new game released every single year, the series is really starting 
 to become a case of been there done that. This review could go into detail about individual aspects 
 or levels of the game, but anyone who is interested in this game has almost definitely played the 
 games that came before it, and so know exactly what they're getting. If you're new to Call of Duty, 
 or even if you jumped on the boat with Modern Warfare, then World at War may seem exiting or even 
 fresh. For those of us who have been playing the series since its inception though, it's safe to 
 say that we deserve something more than what we got this year with Call of Duty World at War. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: screenhustla
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 5, 2009 11:58 am PT
Review:  Alright, after playing through most of the campaign and about 4 hours online I've come to the conclusion 
 that Treyarch tried too hard. Call of Duty 4 to a lot of gamers who are a fan of the First Person 
 Shooter Genre consider it a classic online and off- Treyarch (makers of COD 2,3,5) obviously didn't 
 catch on to what Infinity Ward (Creater of COD 4) brought to the table. COD 5 basically looks like 
 COD 3, and I would argue that online COD 3 has better graphics. The only thing that Treyarch seemed 
 to get right was larger maps, but they messed it up by adding too many tanks for one map. Off-line 
 COD 5 continues to offer exciting moments, but the AI they provide for help couldn't shoot the 
 ground they stand on. All in all Call of Duty 5 is a good game with a lot of flaws- hopefully COD 
 6 (by Infinity Ward) which is due to come out in November 2009 will help the series regain it's 
 momentum. 8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bperdue
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 5, 2009 6:59 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: CoD World at War features standard CoD controls, so most fps fans will be able to maneuver 
 with ease as they play. Your weapons change depending on if you are fighting as a Marine or a Russian 
 soldier. The biggest change in the weapons department are flamethrowers and bayonetts. The flamethrower 
 has its advantages at close range, has unlimited ammo, is great for run-and-gun tacitcs, but lacks 
 punch at anything past medium distance. While modern warfare gave players a much faster feel of 
 combat, world at war slows things down a bit. This change of pace is great as it makes things more 
 realistic (you are no longer a special forces soldier, so it makes sense that things won't be as 
 easy) . For instance, while fighting against the Japanese, ground is hard to gain just as we hear 
 it was in real life. Playing as the Russian changes things a bit. At first, things are hard as 
 the Germans are bearing down on you, but later you have them on the run and you can mow them down 
 with relative ease. The game also features a sniping mission which no other game (not even CoD 
 4) can match. Finally, the Nazi zombie arcade mode is funny and lots of fun. However, there are 
 some issues that hold this game back from being as good as its predecessor. For one, campaign gameplay 
 is still quite short (as is the case with most modern shooters in this xbox live world) . In fact, 
 I felt the Pacific theater fighting should have included Iwo Jima. The game also feels as though 
 it follows a formula. For instance, CoD 4 included a flying mission and a sniper mission. What 
 a surprise... so does world at war. The AI in this game is not consistent. Sometimes enemies will 
 see you coming a mile off, while other times you can shoot at their soldiers while you stand next 
 to them. Your teammates suffer from the same issues. They can be a great help in some situations, 
 but they are worthless in some of the hardest battles. On some levels you must move to a certain 
 position to advance gameplay as the enemies will infinitely respawn if you don't. The combination 
 of the AI and respawning enemies leaves you feeling that you are trying to win the war on your 
 own at times. Checkpoints are also inconsistent. Finally, the game does not take any risk and try 
 to introduce something that players can't find in any other shooter. 
  
  Graphics/Sound: Graphics look great, but nothing we haven't seen before from modern warfare. Sound 
 is also good. Guns sound authentic and the sounds of the battlefield seem to come to life.
  
  Storyline: Great storyline which follows both European and Pacific theaters and blends nicely 
 with the gameplay.
  
  Multiplayer/Online: Follows same great online play as CoD 4 had. World at war takes it a step further 
 and adds 4 player co-op online campaign play. The same great online fun can be had offline as well.
 
  
  Overall: A great shooter for fans of the series. Those who do not like the CoD series won't like 
 this game as it follows the same formula as the rest of the series. Great replay value for those 
 who love online play, but those who do not will likely trade this game in once they tire of playing 
 campaign mode. Good job Treyarch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadygeneral
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 5, 2009 4:29 am PT
Review:  Right, I'll make one thing clear before I write the rest of this review. I hate WWII games. I just 
 find them tedious, repetitive, unoriginal & dull. Simple as that. 
  
  However I can recognise a good game no matter when or where its set. & theres no doubt CoD W@W 
 is a good game. Although it is nowhere near as brilliant as CoD4, Bioshock & many other FPS games, 
 I did still get some enjoyment from it. & for a WWII game, that's nothing short of amazing. 
  
  One of the few things that made it more enjoyable than your typical WWII yawn fest is the settings. 
 The game is split into 2 similar campaigns in the same vein as CoD4's. Some of the game is set 
 in Japan, walking through beautiful jungle & green landscapes. Then theres the Russian Campaign 
 reverts back to your typical WWII brown & grey cities & trenches. The campaign set in Japan is 
 by far the better & more interesting. 
  
  Not only is the setting much better but the missions are too. Getting ambushed in the jungle, storming 
 old Japanese buildings & fighting with enemies up in trees is a lot more interesting than your 
 typical nazi hiding behind a grey slab. The Japanese also fight differently in the way they will 
 rush you with bayonets. This creates a real panic & adrenaline rush that Nazis taking pot shots 
 at you cant match. 
  
  Theres also the use of violence & gore in the game. Its usually toned down in games like this, 
 normally out of good taste I suppose. But this normally effects the immersion & you never get any 
 truly horrible scenes that would have been present in the real war. In this you can get a couple 
 of weapons that will literally tear the enemy apart. It does look pretty cool, but more than that 
 it looks horrific. & seeing your path of destruction with limbs & bodies scattered everywhere is 
 a site that will actually have you feeling pretty bad about what you've done. Very impressive.
 
  
  Some of the set-pieces look spectacular too. Looking out across a field you'll see explosions, 
 planes & little pockets of fighters doing their own thing everywhere with bullets piercing the 
 air in every direction you look. It does a great job of making you feel like you are in a war. 
 The immersion factor & atmosphere are truly great. 
  
  Then theres just the [i] feel [/i] of the game. Thanks to the CoD4 engine, the controls & movement 
 speed is just perfect. It just feels right. I cant explain it, but if you've played CoD4 you will 
 know what I mean. You could give a turd the CoD4 engine & it would play great. 
  
  But there are problems. First is the before mentioned Russian campaign. This to me felt a chore 
 to play through & was your typical, clichd WWII game. Fight Nazis, run through a destroyed building, 
 kill nazi's, run through another destroyed building that looks exactly the same as the last, repeat. 
 All with the one colour of grey. 
  
  Theres also the way it tries too hard to make you feel bad about the war. The way I mentioned before 
 about the limbs & bodies everywhere is really quite subtle & probably not meant to make you feel 
 the way it did by the devs as you've normally got people on your side cheering through that bloody 
 carnage. But then you get little sections where the it feels like the game is trying to force you 
 to feel bad. Its all just so emotionless & detached at these points. Whereas CoD4 handled it brilliantly 
 with the great sites & in particular the bomb scene, this takes a more ham-fisted approach & just 
 doesn't work. 
  
  It also tries to rip off [i] that [/i] classic sniper level. But its not even in the same league. 
 This one again, is a lot more clichd  take position, fire at nazi's, move & take position elsewhere, 
 fire at Nazis, move. Well you get the idea. Theres none of that real tension or originality that 
 was present in, you guessed it.. CoD 4.
  
  Next we have the weapons. Apart from the odd couple, all of them are pathetic & just not fun to 
 use. They don't even sound good when fired, you might as well be using a pellet gun. This considerably 
 effected my enjoyment of the game. 
  
  Then theres the story  Im not even going to go into this actually because its been done a million 
 times before, we all know it & its all become very 'meh' for me. 
  
  Lastly we have the respawning enemies. Now this is something that CoD series is known for. But 
 here im sure its worse than ever. Before it never really bothered me, I didn't even notice it happened 
 apart from at a couple of sections on Veteran difficulty. It always seemed to give you windows 
 at the right & obvious time where the enemies stopped coming & you could move forward. Not so in 
 this. Unless you do small suicide runs into the enemies you could be pinned down at the same place 
 for the entire game with an endless supply of nazi's or Japanese to kill. Sure it gives the feeling 
 of a real war as its not like they'd have just stopped back then either. But previous instalments 
 still managed to give you a feeling of being in a war under constant threat without respawning 
 being this obvious or frustrating. 
  
  All in all it feels like a real step backwards for the series, & because of this I cant really 
 recommend it apart from to die hard WWII fans. Its nowhere near as polished as CoD4, with far more 
 glitches & pop up present than in that instalment too. It manages to do a lot right, the majority 
 of this is thanks to the CoD4 engine & the campaign in Japan. But it does a lot wrong too. & the 
 majority of that is caused by the WWII setting. If you don't own either CoD4 or W@W, get CoD4. 
 If you have CoD4 & are thinking of getting this, don't bother. Stick with CoD4. If you are a WWII 
 fan though. This game is as good as it can get. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vengefulwill
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 5, 2009 3:34 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty: World at War is a lot like its predecessor, Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare. In most 
 respects, this is a good thing. The guns are tightly tuned, the tone is gritty and mature, and 
 the action is exciting and fast-paced. It boasts the same addictive multiplayer system as Modern 
 Warfare, and even expands the multiplayer possibilities by allowing four players to play through 
 the campaign cooperatively. Like every game in the series before Modern Warfare, this Call of Duty 
 takes place during World War II. World at War does an admirable job of spicing things up, but between 
 the well-worn source material and dj vu game mechanics, there is a pervasive familiarity to the 
 game. Still, though World at War lacks the freshness that made Modern Warfare such a hit, it nevertheless 
 provides a hearty, filling meal -- one that shooter fans are sure to savor. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Boba1
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 4, 2009 11:29 pm PT
Review:  This is a must for anyone who loves WW2 or very intense combat. First, the story lines from both 
 the American and Russian perspectives are both amazing in both storylines and gameplay. Each level 
 gets you more involved than the next with the stunning graphics and impressive combat scenarios. 
 Second, I want describe the very addicting multiplayer gameplay. As a new installment in the Call 
 of Duty series, Call of Duty: World at War, alows you and three other freinds to participate in 
 co-op gameplay on one Xbox 360 system. Call of Duty: World at War uses the same multiplayer configuration 
 as the previous Call of Duty: Modern Warfare. This includes the ability to use perks, earn ranks, 
 and be rewarded for kill streaks just like the last installment. In conclusion, Call of Duty: World 
 at War, offers another look at two campaigns that were fought brutaly and also honors the soldiers 
 and the sacrifices made during World War 2, while providing a fun and historical aspect to the 
 gaming community. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: osumane2012
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 4, 2009 6:04 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty: World at War is a very great game. Set in WWII, you play as Private Miller in the 
 Pacific campaign, and Private Petrenko in the European Campaign. This game is very graphic. It 
 fells like a real war. Lots of blood and arms come flying off when you shoot them. The missions 
 dont get boring and is fun to play with a freind on the new co-op feature. You can play splitscreen 
 or online with up to four people. Of course the highly addictive multiplayer is back. With new 
 weapons, perks, maps, and features. To me, the interface with CoD: WaW is much cleaner. I can check 
 my challenges easier and see my xp needed to lvl up. Oh, if your new to CoD let me explain the 
 multiplayer. Well you start off as lvl 1, and have pre-made classes. When you get kills you gain 
 exp. When you reach the exp needed to lvl up, you lvl up. When you lvl up you unlock challenges, 
 Create-A-Class, clan tag, guns, and more. When your using a gun it has its own unique set of challenges. 
 When you get a certain amount of kills with that gun you get attachments and what not. Its highly 
 addictive and fun. 
  
  
  :::Graphics:::
  
  Very nice. its a updated version of the CoD 4 engine. Beatiful fire effects and nice lighting. 
 
  5/5
  
  :::Sound:::
  
  Very detailed sound. You can hear the screams of enemies and hear gunshots across the maps. 5/5
 
  
  :::Gameplay:::
  
  Easy to get used to and very addictive online play.
  5/5
  
  :::Playabilty:::
  
  Multiplayer is there for a reason, to keep you on the game. Should have 
 long playability. Keeps you busy until the next one
  5/5
  
  :::Overall:::
  Great game and just cant be missed by fans of the genre and the series. I highly reccomend this 
 to anybody who loves shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XDGRifle
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 4, 2009 5:36 pm PT
Review:  First Of all. I do not own it sadly but I have been borrowing my friends and it is A very fun game. 
 The campaign is kind of iffy, But the online is extremely addicting and you can play it for hours. 
 The graphics depending on what kind of Television you are playing on can be good and great. It 
 is essentially COD4 but back in World War 2. In online mode you can do. Imperial army (jap) vs Marine 
 Raiders (USA) or Germans vs Red Army (Russia) The gameplay was put together very well and everything 
 in the game has gone together very smoothly. I am really focused on getting this game. This game 
 maybe besides GOW2 is the most addicting game online and you can p-lay it for a long time. It is 
 actually very easy to level up online in this game. But overall if you are looking for a game to 
 play for hours this is the game you want to pick up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: connoro0
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 4, 2009 12:20 pm PT
Review:  The Newest and just about the best Call of duty game out
  to be totally honest, Im not shocked they went back to WWII, although I know alot of people were 
 looking forward to a sequel to COD4 or even a future warfare.
  The campaign was nothing short of epic and the coop made things much more fun then COD4's campaign. 
 I had no idea about the Japanese parts of the campaign but I defiantly remember the russian bits.
 
  death cards are such a good idea (Although an obvious rip from halo 3 skulls)
  I espicially use them during co-op
  the bonus game mode "Nazi zombies"
  is just amazing. 
 
  I myself actually got to wave 28 (ray gun ftw.)
  the multiplayer was not as thrilling as the rest though
  i found that call of duty 4 multiplayer 
 was just so much more fun and addictive
  I don't have a reason it just is.
  
  overall
  9 out of 10
  it could have made 9.5 if it had made more effort in the multiplayer since it plays 
 a large part in cod games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kezza108
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 4, 2009 4:13 am PT
Review:  Many critics and gamers alike openly vented annoyance at yet another WWII game, and for good reason, 
 with many of these on the market. With the release of this title's predecessor, many found relief 
 from the wars of old in a new, modern time. But now its back to the good old times of the Nazis 
 and a new addition of the Japanese. And this is certainly not a bad thing if your a fan of FPS's 
 or of the addictive multiplayer which made Modern Warfare so brilliant. 
  
  Call of Duty: World at War is yet another step in the long series of Call of Duty games returning 
 yet again to WWII after taking a break with Modern Warfare. The game features fighting during the 
 Russian push from the massacre of Stalingrad to the destruction of Nazi Germany in Berlin and for 
 the first time in a WWII game features ground fighting on the Pacific Islands between the Americans 
 and the Japanese in one of the more dark and brutal conflicts of the war. And this is one of the 
 things World at War does very well, it makes you feel the story and the horrors of WWII. And this 
 dark and twisted story is fortunately not a short one, nor a boring one.
  
  One major problem with Call of Duty: Modern Warfare was its single player length. The small amount 
 was brilliant but it would soon become a been there done that case. In this area World at War improves, 
 with a more lengthy single player campaign with the same amount of immersion and feeling. Vehicle 
 missions also feature, providing an interesting spice to the usual duck and cover style game.
 
  
  Graphically you can expect this game to look very similar to Modern Warfare, however wounds have 
 been improved to be more visually realistic. I recommend you buy or at least hire to see the lovely 
 site of a grenaded limb.
  
  As for the multiplayer, it is almost identicle to MW but with WWII guns and more perks, including 
 the awesome flamethrower, a new addition in this game specifically for jungle warfare, but one 
 of the last perks you shall earn. Ranking is still done by experience which comes from killing 
 enemies and winning matches. Like i said, it is very similar to its predecessor, which is a good 
 thing.
  
  Overall this game is really up there with some of the top, graphically and for its gameplay. If 
 your sick of WWII try it out as it is the best looking most immersive one out to date and definately 
 worth atleast a small amonut of your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigman1275
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 3, 2009 6:44 pm PT
Review:  Well what's better than call of duty 3 and 4, a mix of both. you have the world war 2 action and 
 weapons with the same context of call of duty 4. Great multiplayer settings, they took call of 
 duty 4 and added vehicles and new perks, and the maps are huge, they are great for playing with 
 alot of people. Its a fresh idea for all of the call of duty fans out there. the story mode is 
 amazing but i wish there could be more battles in the game. some parts of the story mode just skips 
 some of the great battles of world war 2 but the story mode is still great. the voice over work 
 is great and the graphics are nothing you have'nt seen before but in the end, its a game worth 
 buying and a great addition to the call of duty franchise. Trust me i doubted this game at first 
 because i thought it was going to be to much like call of duty 4 and i only bought it because i 
 heard the multiplayer was really worth it and it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Secret-Skull
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 3, 2009 4:39 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 5 has bought all that I loved from the last game Call of Duty 4 but there are a few 
 things that I thought was missing. Don't get me wrong, CoD 5 is a great game but if I were given 
 the choice I would buy CoD 4 over CoD 5. 
  
  There are many things that I love about the game. There is a good story to the game, as you follow 
 from the American and Russian point of view. The shooting was very good. I still have endless pleasure 
 throwing a molotov at an unsuspecting German. Voice and sound effects were superbly done. It also 
 looks very good graphics wise that is. I am not saying that I liked the looks of my dead enemies, 
 I mean that they look realistic. You can now do the story in co-op but the screen looks a bit dodgy. (but 
 that's just nit picking) . Last but not least I liked th 'Nazi Zombies' which is only available 
 after you complete the game. This is a great add on. It injects a bit of humour into quite a serious 
 game. It makes CoD 5 still feel like a game and not a history lesson.
  
  The bad things are: The non loveable characters. I had to turn the subtitles on because nearly 
 all the time I could not tell who was talking. No offence but all the Russian characters all sounded 
 Russian and I have nothing against that it was just hard to tell a few of the voices apart. Same 
 thing with the Americans.
  The other thing that I don't like is the multiplayer. I like inviting my friends around my house 
 so we can play on my X-Box. Us four started to play CoD 5 multi-player and it was good but the 
 only thing we all noticed is that we all found it hard to see each other. It wasn't because our 
 screens were small it was because most of the maps were to full. CoD 4 did not have this problem. 
 It had places to hide but not so that it would be very hard for your opponent to find you. In CoD 
 5 I found myself trekking around large jungles just to find one player.
  
  All in all CoD 5 is a great game and I would recommend that you buy it. You will have a lot of 
 fun playing. Personally I prefer CoD 4 but that is just my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blastalot5
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 9, 2009 5:44 pm PT
Review:  Having gone through the solo campaign on 'hardened' difficulty I can attest that Call of Duty: 
 World at War is a worthy entry to the Call of Duty family of games. But i'm bored with World War 
 II games. COD: World at War is not as good as COD2 or COD4: Modern Warfare because the story offers 
 nothing new. The whole "Pacific Campaign" twist on this edition isn't that exciting. 
  So I won World War II again. You're welcome.
  
  My biggest problem with the game comes from 
 the newest feature added to Call of Duty: the ability to go through the story mode on co-op. My 
 problem is in order to earn achievements you have to play the story solo, rendering a runthrough 
 on story co-op not as rewarding. I feel this conflict in the design of the game totally kills what 
 could have been a good time. 
  
  My second biggest problem with the game are World War 2 weapons, which I'm sick of in general. 
 No more Thompsons, please.
  
  Multiplayer is where the game shines though, especially if you're using parties. Members of your 
 party come up as different colorerd icons in the radar so it's easier to coordinate team tactics.
 
  
  Instead of an overhead chopper as your reward for seven kills in a row this time you get attack 
 dogs, which are seriously aggravating to be on the receiving end of, so that's cool.
  
  I'm a fan of the different game types.
  
  In the end I only give this game a great rating because 
 the multiplayer engine is really great and should be the baseline for all other games like this. 
 Case in point how annoying it is to get connected playing Gears of War 2. COD multiplayer is a 
 breeze and totally fun.
  
  Rent it, then rent the next COD. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryan6236
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 3, 2009 10:40 am PT
Review:  Yeah, it's call of duty. Yeah, it's the same thing all over again.
  It's pretty, it tells a good story, but it's still just a bunch of cut scenes that you click on 
 bad guys during. Nothing new here. Japanese run out of the bushes, hold down the fire button and 
 point at guys with bushes on their back, then walk down the path to the next place where you can 
 find more guys dressed up like plants to mow down. 
  
  The game looks great, it sounds great and it plays like you'd expect from a call of duty game. 
 
  Unfortunately for me, every call of duty game I play makes me feel like I'm a giant rectangle just 
 gliding around clicking on enemies. No exception here.
  The sound is pretty solid too, and the weapons feel satisfying, but you've done this all before. 
 
  
  If I saw this for 20 bucks and knew a couple buddies who had it, I might pick it up, as it stands, 
 I spent 9 bucks to rent it and played it all of 3 hours and was done. I suggest you do the same 
 before you end up with another 60 dollar game that you never play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BarryBurtonman
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 2, 2009 10:23 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty World at War, or Call of Duty 5, is good. I don't care what anyone says or how much 
 they loved 4, COD5 is still good. As usual, the campaign ends when you don' really think it is 
 going to, but that is pretty much the way it is with COD. All I have to say is that the multiplayer 
 is epic, Nazi Zombies is awesome, and they finally came to their senses and allowed there to be 
 cooperative on campaign! I have wanted them to do that for the past three games! I like this game 
 because of the movements, the characters, the swearing, the gore, the Japanese, the guns, and the 
 zombies. I think that people are incredibly hard on this game and do not rate it according to how 
 good of a game it is, but how good of a game it is compared to COD4. The reviews are extremely 
 opinionated. People do not see the aspects of COD4 COD5 has in it. People just go right ahead and 
 say that it is bad because it is World War II again! Well it is World War II again, but it is World 
 War II Combat at its absolute best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wmhoffman2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 2, 2009 12:51 pm PT
Review:  this game is good and its pretty hard especially on veteran. i was watching my brother play the 
 sniper mission and he would know where the sniper was but the sniper would just pop out and shoot 
 him before he would have time to aim. there is no way the sniper could just pop out and aim that 
 fast. also he went downstairs and he watched the sniper pop out and shoot upstairs and he still 
 died. the sniper wasnt even aiming anywhere near him. so i took the controller and i shot him like 
 2 times but the guy said i just grazed him. but finally after the third or fourth time i shot him 
 he died. also i cannot stand to play the level where you drive the tank because you get shot from 
 like the middle of nowhere. i can see tanks far off in the distance but they find a way to shoot 
 me. i have also had glitches where i would bayonete a guy and he doesnt die. but the rest of the 
 campaign is great and i love torching the japanese. i also like whenever you get a sniper on the 
 balcony on the last mission and just blow the nazis away. i like waiting until a bunch of guys 
 are close the nazi with the flamethrower and shoot his tank and kill like 4 of em. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spartan6692
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 2, 2009 11:18 am PT
Review:  Campaign I got to say looks real nice. The cut scenes from mission to mission look really amazing. 
 The game play is smooth. Nothing has really changed from the last Call of Duty. It's still mostly 
 run and gun and pray and spray. The guys from Treyarch gave us pretty much what we wanted. It's 
 the same as Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare just put in a World War 2 theme. The campaign is very 
 fast paced. The game play looks amazing. The historical accuracy of this games makes it all the 
 more better. If you like WWII then this is the games for you. You fight on both fronts in the game 
 as the Russians fighting the German and the U. S. Marines against the Japanese. You play both sides 
 of the war and they change it up so your not playing as either for to long.
  
  Co-op campaign is a new feature added into the Call of Duty franchise were you play with up to 
 three other players. Co-op is about the same as the normal campaign your just playing with your 
 friends. There is a competitive Co-op mode were you and the other three play campaign to see who 
 can get the highest score. Out of the 2 modes I believe Competitive Co-op to be the best. That 
 way you can make fun of your friends for having a really low score on easy. Co-op campaign is nothing 
 really exciting. Its like any other Co-op. You play with friends and have a good time. That's just 
 about it.
  
  Multiplayer is pretty good. It's about the same as Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare. You got the 
 whole UAV thing, although they don't call it a UAV. They got Arty but instead of a helicopter you 
 get dogs. This new feature with the dogs is nice because the dogs are at least beatable, unlike 
 the helicopter from Modern Warfare, and you actually have a chance to live and fight back against 
 them. The dogs may not be as powerful as the helicopter but they do get you kills and that's all 
 that really matter right? The multiplayer does have its sour notes however. The game isn't as fast 
 as Call of Duty 4 was but I would like some time to at least run around for more then 5 seconds. 
 Now this instant kill doesn't happen all the time I know, but I would at least like a chance to 
 get a kill. Not have some one run up behind me when I spawn and shank me in the back. The multiplayer 
 really brings it down in my eyes.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dollmaker1
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 2, 2009 9:52 am PT
Review:  Same old game.. same old graphics... everything is same except fire gun.. this is a very boring 
 game.. Just like Call of Duty 3
  
  I am wondering why they are still making WW2 games? come on they are done to death and we are sick 
 of them by now..
  
  this is a overrated junk.. dont waste your hard earned money on this trash..
  
  Using COD 4 
 engine does not make any difference at all.. as a matter of fact.. after first 10 min you will 
 start feeling that you have played this befrore... and soon you wil get bored of this crap.
  
  This is a over rated game... no one should buy it..
  
  why... why would they make such 
 game? i am wondering.... people are not stupid.... give us something new.. like COD 4 or Dead Space....
 
  
  Dont repeat the same boring WW2 junk again and again....
  
  PLEASEEE PLEASEEE PLEASEEE PLEASEEE PLEASEEE PLEASEEE PLEASEEE PLEASEEE 
::::::

::::::
UserName: srowan03
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 1, 2009 8:28 pm PT
Review:  When it comes to a Call of Duty game, no matter who the developer is, you can always rely on a 
 solid single player experience. The various difficulty settings suit any player, while the veteran 
 difficulty, will challenge even the pros.
  
  The campaign offers a great array of situations, ambushes, raids, stealth, etc. With the ambushes, 
 you will never feel safe, looking at all body's laying on the ground in a different way.
  
  Another great thing in the single player portion of World at War, are the videos in between missions. 
 The video clips in between missions are tough, gruesome, and give you a feel for what it was like 
 to be a soldier in WWII.
  
  
  
  Now, for the multiplayer portion of the game. In my opinion, not it's strong point. If you were 
 a fan of Call of Duty 4, Modern Warfare, you will notice something about the layout right when 
 you log onto Live play. It's a twin! The layout for the game is the same as Modern Warfare, but 
 that's all good, we liked that layout.
  
  Online uses pretty much the same ranking system as Modern Warfare, you gain new guns the higher 
 levels you become, there are custom classes, and there are perks you can apply to your custom classes. 
 Most of the perks are the same as Modern Warfare, but "WWII-ised', with a handful of original perks. 
 There are also perks for when you jump into a vehicle, for instance, "Greased Berrings". With this 
 perk, whenever you are in a turret of a tank, you can rotate around faster than you would normally 
 be able to, a nice little addition.
  
  Now, for the actual gameplay, it's tricky, are you ready? Think of Modern Warfare's online play, 
 now, switch the guns to slower shooting WWII guns, the sounds and voices to those of a WWII setting, 
 and the maps, to look like they would in WWII. YAY!! We have World at War! I know what you're thinking, 
 "Well that's a good thing, right?" Wrong, yes, Modern Warfare's online play was past amazing, but 
 when you switch it to a WWII style, it slows down and just isn't the same.
  
  
  
  Overall, this game is a solid buy, if you do not have Xbox LIVE, it's still worth the purchase 
 to enjoy the single player campaign, if you want, invite a friend over and play through it with 
 him! It's fast-paced, edgy, and fun! Don't let the slower multiplayer play make you shy away from 
 the game, it's still very fun and addicting! Always saying to yourself, "Just one more game...." 
 will occur very often.
  
  If you were like me, and thought that going modern, like they did in Call of Duty 4, was a brilliant 
 idea and you loved it, then when you found the next installment was going back to WWII was a terrible 
 idea, don't worry, it wasn't. I thought that WWII was dried out, not going to be any good, but 
 I just had to get this game, I mean, I've owned every single Call of Duty game there has been, 
 and I couldn't break the tradition. So I purchased the game, still thinking that it was going to 
 be a distaster, being WWII and all. When I put it in my Xbox, and played for a couple hours, I 
 noticed I got a nice warm feeling inside. WWII is back! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nothin_Special
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 1, 2009 10:39 am PT
Review:  CoD WaW, the next installation to the Call of Duty series. To start off on a good note, I would 
 say the campaign was down right awesome. I've gone through it twice already, Once by myself and 
 once with friends. The missions vary from stealthy, to raids, to night time attacks, to all out 
 assaults. For those of you who are into achievements and playing the initial game (No online) , 
 this is a good game for that.
  
  On the other hand, when it comes to online play, I think Trayarch could have done better. First 
 off, The spawns in this game are awful. I've had games where I would go 1 kill and 15+ deaths because 
 of non-stop spawning into tank fire. You can't do much about it, and it can make you want to throw 
 your controller. My next problem is that the online gun selection is Heavily favored for high ranks. 
 I don't want to sound like a cry baby, but in CoD4 you had a chance no matter what level, there 
 were guns like the M16 that would be able to compete against guns spread throughout all the levels. 
 But in WaW, the situations are always, Type 99 or the SVT vs. the 1,000 bullets per second PPSH. 
 There is nothing fair about it, and it gets everyone on your team pissed. My final verdict would 
 be that it's an all around "ok" game, good campaign and so-so online. I think it deserves a 7-7.5 
 in my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killswitch8
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 1, 2009 9:19 am PT
Review:  Well Call of Duty: World at War brings the immersive gameplay of Modern Combat back into an unsuited 
 situation. Let me begin with how well the gameplay had been. For how familiar the gameplay is to 
 its previous boxbuster, I had appreciated how smooth and fluent the controls were. The visual effects 
 proved once again complementary. With some more unnecessary gore and language, it provided a much 
 more realistic combat experience. I was almost surprised at how it passed the radar! The historical 
 battles and events proved fairly accurate to a degree. The weapons also feel amazing in how fulfilling 
 and reliable they are in combat. With that sadly being all the good things I can muster, I can't 
 begin where everything went wrong! Lets start with the horribly throughout story! The cutscenes 
 were very narrow in explanation of the war, and most of all the absurd idea of showing mini-clips 
 with no real significance. For the first time in my Call of Duty history like many others skipped 
 the cutscenes. The story for the Americans proved to be spot on giving no argument! Saving the 
 game a point. The Soviet campaign was absolutely revolting! The Battle of Stalingrad had been short 
 and gave little glimpse of historical conflicts and events. Where was the bitter cold blizzard, 
 the last stand of the Soviet Union in Stalingrad, and the greatest counter-attack of the 20th century?!? 
 Ohh... wait... let's then skip like 3 years into the war near Germany! NO! Was I the only person 
 ripping their hair out after that moment of skipping most of the war?!? Now let us excuse that 
 to begin with the battle of Berlin. Throughout the levels I felt emotionally out of place with 
 how your fellow communist comrades wanted to smear German blood all over the wall. Personally I 
 hadnt really been thirsty for vengeance and later this would prove disastrous. Going through 
 ruble of apartments and war torn streets you fight the fascist rebels at first I felt fine. Later 
 I began to see executions, and vicious remarks towards the Germans. I began to feel for the first 
 time in my WWII playing experience shaken at how disrespectful the tone was in the Soviet campaign 
 toward a desperate enemy. Maybe I felt bad for the enemy after seeing Valkyrie, but it grew distasteful. 
 Dont get me wrong, the Nazi regime was a truly evil point in time of German history. Along 
 with the bitter taste in my mouth it all boiled down to the very last infuriating moment. Youre 
 on the roof of the war torn governmental structure, and you replace the flag with nothing better 
 than the flag of the Soviet Union! Then I said to myself did I just bring my countrys 
 future cold war enemy to victory that would be responsible for the Korean and Vietnam wars! 
 Why did half the story have to be fought only on the eastern front and by only the former communist 
 country? Whatever happened to the other important half of the war on the western front that the 
 player could relate to? Hello? What happened to the crucial battle of Britain and the involvement 
 of America in D-day?
  
  Now onto the other half of the game, multiplayer! This is the where my feelings get a little mixed. 
 The amazing modern combat multiplayer that I had loved was set back by 60 year! The game modes 
 are still well thought out along with the same challenging leveling system. What could be the problem 
 you might say? Well whos likely to win, a player with a bolt action rifle or someone with 
 an MP44? Yeah, the weapon categories arent well matched. The competition in the multiplayer 
 games proves to be a joke for modern combat veterans. The unlockables arent truly fantastic 
 for their time spent to get them. Overall Modern Combat beats World at War by a long shot in almost 
 every way. World at war is by far the poorest production in the complete series. Once again in 
 my mind, Call of Duty 2 is the best WWII game ever!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mp40_Furth
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 1, 2009 1:46 am PT
Review:  Wow were do I begin, I guess I'll start with the good:
  
  Pros: Some maps are good and the Nazi Zombies are great. Bring some friends and you'll be hooked 
 for a good portion of the day. You are now rewarded when you do prestige with an extra custom slot.
 
  
  Cons: Lets start with the Campaign
  
  Experience: I didn't feel it all all. I hated the repetitive near death experience, Call of Duty 
 4 made it realistic and heartpounding, with W@W I knew what was going to happen. The story was 
 also very cheesy. It was also difficult to tell from enemy to ally. The americans wore green and 
 the Japs wore brown I kept telling myself. For the first time I had to look carefully to see if 
 it was an ally or enemy. For those that think thats realistic its not. The sniper mission was poorly 
 done a good example is "Enemy sniper in the fourth floor right side" You would look there and wouldn't 
 find him. This took me a good 10 minutes to kill him. I'm not stupid either and I'm sure other 
 people had the same problem. There are other missions where I deal with the same problem. I ran 
 through the story in 3 hours on normal and I thought to myself wow I just wasted my life.
  
  Difficulty: Oh its broken and for those that beat it on Veteran say its easy are wrong. They 
 just say that to make you feel bad for not being able to beat it meanwhile they wasted 10-20 hours 
 trying to beat it. But you can't prove it and you can only accept their lie. Don't waste your life 
 on Veteran just for bragging rights cause its not worth it. If you like a challenge thats great 
 but this is a super broken roid challenge. I mean Call of Duty 4 was hard but not nearly impossible. 
 Same thing with Call of Duty 2. If you want to beat W@W on Veteran, by any means do but you'll 
 soon realize its not worth being a Veteran of a Horrible Campaign.
  
  Online: Its not Call of Duty 4 at all. I hate it when people say it is. Sure the engine is the 
 same with some of the same perks but its not Call of Duty 4. I didn't feel like I was playing Call 
 of duty 4 but a broken Call of Duty 4 with broken kill streak assists and more useless perks, SMG 
 superiority and Supermachine Tanks.
  
  The Kill streak assists (recon plane, artillery, dogs)
  The recon plane is fine as usual its just 
 the same as the UAV. The artillery strike is garbage compared to the air strike in COD4. You will 
 be lucky if you get a kill, to me its more of a distraction then an assist. Now the dogs are completely 
 unreal. I'm sure if you shot a dog with any rifle it goes down one hit. NOPE a bolt action takes 
 two hits and a semi auto takes 3 bullets. The dogs are also hard to shoot and they travel in packs 
 of three early on which ensure your going to die. If you survive your rewarded with "hardly any 
 ammo left in your weapon" CONGRATULATIONS. Its very hard to knife a dog when you mostly miss somehow. 
 In regular the dog needs to hit you twice to kill you. Lets not talk about hardcore. where as the 
 helicopter in COD4 felt like a decade of hell the Dogs in W@W feel like a century of hell.
  
  The new Useless perks:
  I hate it when people say its good cause it has more perks. But lets 
 be honest do you see anyone running around with Shades, fireproof, Toss back, reconissance (sp) 
 not really. Its the same perks that are still used from COD4 like stopping power, Juggernaut, Bouncing 
 bettys (Claymores) , Martydom, steady aim and last stand. If you think last stand was a pain In W@W 
 If you have Last stand on you can revive someone in last stand. Also the time duration of last 
 stand in W@W is about a good 30 seconds. I'm sorry in W@W its called second chance, really people 
 still call it last stand. Last stand is also a a must need in hardcore modes, if you don't have 
 it on in hardcore your screwed
  
  SMGs rule the battlefield.
  
  I loved to use SMGs in every COD besides W@W. In the other Call of dutys they were either underpowered 
 or just right. But in W@W they are invincible. Don't bother with a bolt action or a semi auto because 
 somehow SMGs can shoot at long range very well. If you can't shoot long range with an SMG don't 
 worry most of the maps are close quarters and the ones that are open are dominated by tanks. No 
 rifles allowed period on any map. What really bothers me is that SMGs have little to no recoil 
 and have such high power. They also get drum barrels to carry more ammo in a clip then an LMG. 
 The clip size for LMGs and heavy machine guns is limited to about half then the normal clip. Why 
 is that Treayarch?? I used to like the Mp40 but I hate it in W@W, in reality thats not the Mp40 
 I knew but a super ultra Mp40 in the future. If you want to see the real Mp40 play the other WW2 
 CODs and see for yourself. Its has limited power and alot of recoil, which the way it should be.
 
  
  Tanks the monster addition to the gameplay
  
  In the other CODs its a two hit kill with a rocket to down a tank. But in W@W it takes 5 hits to 
 a tank to take it out. Sonic boom does nothing. Its useless to have a rocket class with only two 
 rockets when you need five. People are so desprate for kills that they will wait for the tanks 
 to spawn. The reason is because you can possibly finish with 25 kills and zero deaths in a tank 
 if played correctly. Its unfair and and very annoying when your on foot. You always have to hide 
 and even when you do the tank veterans seem always know where you are. Pretty much as I said before 
 the tank maps are the worst for people that don't rely on tanks for kills.
  
  How can I forget the rank reset:
  
  I was a 1st prestige with a .86 K/D ratio. I never gliched 
 for those that think thats the reason my rank was reseted to level 1 no prestige, zero kills no 
 play time they are wrong. Its like I brought the game brand new. Don't believe me there are numerous 
 cases just google it. Heres the story I go online put in W@W and boom I see my rank reset to 1 
 with no kills on the leaderboard and no play time, no wins nothing. If I gliched I would've gotten 
 a message or a warning from xbox live but what I got was nothing. I asked my clanmates what happened 
 and one of my clanmates searched it up and told me it was a bug in the game that caused my rank 
 to reset. For those that say W@W is the best game ever then how explain this. Be denial for all 
 I care the truth is the truth. So I killed one day of my life thanks to W@W.
  
  In all its a bad game, the only time I play it is when my friends want to play nazi zombies which 
 is fun. Other then that its not worth getting unless you are a dieheart COD fan. W@W is not really 
 COD at all just a broken one. I strongly suggest to rent it or borrow it from a buddy cause it 
 is either a nightmare or no replay value. My answer is both a nightmare playing W@W with no replay 
 value in multiplayer. The online for W@W is so overrated Don't buy it.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: X_FOXtrot_X
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 31, 2008 8:59 pm PT
Review:  The story is short and there isn't that much quality. When you are fighting for the pacific and 
 you get to last mission I felt there should have been more or they should have changed it because 
 it felt to me that it just stopped. The European missions are better with a good ending, when you 
 are watching the end you wander what will happen. I can't believe believe the Europen missions 
 were better because there were far more missions during the Pacific campaign. The online is basically 
 the same as cod4 but worse maps. They better get working on bonus maps because that would probably 
 be the ony reason I am ever going to pick that game up again. I think the airstrikes on cod5 are 
 annoying and also wondering how are a bunch of dogs are better than an airstrike. If you are expecting 
 a far better game than cod4 then don't buy this game, rent it or borrow it from a friend before 
 you think about buying this game. JUST BUY SOMETHING ELSE. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jester384
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 31, 2008 5:21 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty: World at War is an amazing game. The campaign is great as usual, but the on-line 
 game play is a bit of a let-down. Now I know that Call of Duty is usual bound by "The Laws of Old." 
 I guess I don't really know what I was expecting. Just something different i guess. As we all know 
 Call of Duty 4 was and absolutely amazing game, with an exceptionally good on-line game play. For 
 most Call of Duty: WaW is a great game, and I agree. But I feel that it's the exact same as CoD 
 4, just with older guns. (and dogs which are awesome) Call of Duty: World at War is definitely 
 worth the money, but I would stick to Call of Duty 4 if you're wanting some "stellar" on-line game 
 play. But if you're looking for another great addition the Call of Duty franchise, CoD: WaW is 
 a great game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kylewpg
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 31, 2008 2:54 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay .
  The gameplay is great the single player story mode isnt all that great. Dont get me wrong its good 
 but short. The online is all the game is about. Great online modes and it runs well.
  
  Sound..
  Great sound is this game all the war sounds. Guys screaming .guns going off. Bombs and 
 stuff its awesome. Great sound.
  
  Graphics.
  The game looks the same if not better than COD 4. The detail is amazing. The lighting is good. Smoke 
 ... fire... and all that looks good when its done.
  
  Overall. The game is better than COD4 ... the online is awesome .single player is fun but short and 
 really all you get at the end is Nazi Zombie mode. Get this game and you will enjoy it. The game 
 isnt hard in the single player but online when you play guys who sit there all day and have no 
 life thats pretty bad.. it gets pretty hard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: legolas95
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 5, 2009 1:17 pm PT
Review:  CoD WaW is a great game, it also shows that WW2 can be original again. It adds new things to the 
 familiar WW2 setting that haven't really been before seen in WW2 games with a dark and gritty setting.
 
  
  One of the greatest things about this game is it's campaign, which has remarkable new things in 
 it such as tanks with flamethrowers, Japs springing out of the grass charging you with bayonets, 
 and that classic knife kill from CoD4 has been somewhat improved. One of the many fun things about 
 this is the flamethrower, spuing flames at Japs and Nazis is a fun and cool site to see, and doesn't 
 ware down fast. The Bayonets are extremely fun stabbing people with it is new to this setting and 
 is a definite improvement. When you beat the well done campaign you unlock the "Nazi Zombies" game 
 that you can play with friends, online or by yourself. In this you'll find yourself trying to survive 
 on a pistol at first, but as you gain "points" you can buy different rifles on the walls, and with 
 these you can rebuild you barriers to keep the zombies out.
  
  The Multiplayer is almost exactly like CoD4's with the unlockable guns for your costomizable soldiers, 
 except they added a few thing to the attributes and the upgrades. The guns are all pretty much 
 the same gun you'll find in WW2 but their somewhat more interesting in this. The maps are new, 
 interesting and fun and give you a veriety
  
  So overall Call of Duty: World at War is a great game with its campaign and multiplayer that rival 
 CoD4's. Its a outstanding game that should be in everyone's collection.
  Gameplay:10
  Graphics: 10
  Sound:10
  Overall: 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_Lykouleon
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 31, 2008 9:20 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty: World at War represents marketing hoopla at its best. 
  
  COD4 was massively successful, so obviously it meant that we needed yearly installments of it crammed 
 down our throats, and rest assured in one years time I'll be talking about CoD6 and so forth. 
 
  
  The campaign is short, choppy and uninspired. We've all played WWII games. We get it, the Germans 
 lose. Oh wait, a twist, the Japanese lose. Big deal. The levels that aren't a carbon copy of COD4s 
 are bland, point to point shooting galleries of endlessly spawning enemies. The AI is poor.
  
  Graphically the game is ugly, it doesn't render an acceptable depth of field, it feels dirty, 
 the textures are blown up too much, and engine adequately represents it's age. The one saving grace 
 is that I did not experience any slowdown, which would've been the final nail in the coffin.
  
  And of course, the multiplayer.
  
  Take the things you liked about COD4 Multiplayer, I. E. 
 the guns, the perks, the maps, and then throw them out the window. Instead you get the choice of 
 the following maps. Brown construction yard, brown city street, white japanese castle, revenge 
 of the japanese castle, and hills. They all look like the same damn map. They're cluttered and 
 unintuitive, and have too many generic decals that detract from the enjoyment. This is the one 
 game where I don't know if I'm going to clip through an object or not until I jump on top of it.
 
  
  The guns are WWII guns. Meaning that we've all used them before, we are all familiar with them, 
 and there are no surprises. I've been shooting the M1 Garand for damn near ten years now, digitally, 
 and I can't stand it. There is significant bullet lag, and a lot of the perks and upgrades make 
 no sense. Why does adding a scope to a springfield rifle make it less accurate when firing from 
 the hip? I wasn't aware that in order to mount a scope, I had to put my own eyeballs into it, thus 
 rendering me incapable of firing a single shot accurately whilst not using the scope. Since when 
 were there silencers for WWII submachine guns? I wasn't aware that russian machine guns had their 
 own reflex sight, my, this is quite a nice alternative history. 
  
  I won't even talk about the addition of "vehicles".
  
  All in all, Call of Duty: World at War 
 is a bad attempt to capitalize on the success of last year's release.
  
  Also, it teaches us that in WWII, if you shot seven germans, then a group of wild dogs would randomly 
 materialize and kill the rest of them for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mark_webster_87
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 31, 2008 10:44 am PT
Review:  After 3 previous World War Two games and Treyarch's COD 3 being the only game out of the series 
 I didn't like, my expectations were not high for the 5th installment of the franchise...
  
  COD 5 uses the COD 4 engine, which for single player is no bad thing, since the game looks just 
 as good as Call of Duty 4, if not better in a few places. The environments in the Pacific theatre 
 look quite stunning at times, and is a nice break away from the Europe/Africa settings from the 
 previous COD games. Characters models are done to a high standard, but its the gore scenes for 
 me that brings something that has always been needed to really capture the true look and feel of 
 war.
  
  The sound is equally up to the normal Call of Duty standards, from music to general sounds of the 
 battle but I will point out I do think a few music scores seem a little out of place. The characters 
 once again sound very real, with Kiefer Sutherland in particular doing a fine job and suits the 
 part of an American solider. Gun sounds are excellent as normal and most likely the best from any 
 COD game and the same for explosions though my favourite sound is the Banzai charge from the Japs.
 
  
  Gameplay is the typical run & shoot from all the previous COD games and I do wish they would make 
 it a little harder with some better ballistic physics but at the end of the day the game is still 
 fun to play. The guns feel a lot like COD 1 & 2 but there are a few teaks and some new weapons 
 like the flamethrower, which is great to burn people out of trees and trenches but is overpowered 
 for online play. Another great feature is the knife attack from COD 4, which is even better this 
 time and also has been extended to certain guns, making it a great way to take down your enemy. 
 The gameplay is not perfect though and struggles from an issue that COD 4 had and that is the "Invisible 
 line", meaning the enemy AI will keep spawning until you move forward a certain distance, so the 
 whole shoot and move up real life tactic is ruined at times and you just have to sprint, take damage 
 and hope you don't die instead.
  
  The AI is pretty much the same as COD 4 with your team giving more help than in COD 1 & 2 and will 
 even save your bacon a few times but there are still some issues. One annoying issue is you will 
 still have to do all the pushing up for the most part, which does take away some of the realism 
 and gets rather annoying because of the invisible line that I mentioned earlier. The enemy AI can 
 be challenging and some battles are memorable though my favourites are the Banzai charges from 
 the Japs. However I do feel a few of the shots the AI pull off are questionable and they still 
 focus on you a little bit more then your team.
  
  The game comes with the pretty standard online play though we have a new game mode in war, which 
 is pretty much like Battlefield's conquest with a few tweaks and is utterly stupid because COD 
 maps are far too small for such a gametype. However the perk system despite tweaks, still feels 
 out of place and only put in to please a much younger audience with some of the perk just plain 
 awful, especially the dogs because they can take more damage than humans. Despite enjoying COD 
 5 more than COD 4 online, there are major issues still because the COD 4 engine being used is easily 
 hacked for cheaters to abuse. While some maps are bigger they are poorly planned out and there 
 are still the odd tiny maps, which seems they have been made by a 10 year old. Hardcore mode, which 
 is my favourite gametype mode has been changed for the worse because servers can lower the amount 
 of damage done by a bullet. Deep Impact continues to be abused because of no proper physic engine 
 being implemented meaning bullets can go through surfaces they would never get through in real 
 life. The worst aspect of COD 5's online play is the spawn system, which often puts you in the 
 firing line or spwans ebemies right behind you. CO-OP mode adds more life to the game though on 
 the PC its only good to play with people you know if you want to play as a proper team and even 
 then the game never really forces you play as a team. The Nazi zombie mode will give some people 
 thrills and I have enjoyed playing it but again you need people you know to get the best out of 
 it and the gametype is ruined slightly by needing custom maps to support it.
  
  Overall the game offers a solid single player but it doesn't drag you in like COD 2 & 4 did and 
 despite being longer than the single player in COD 4, it's nowhere near as long as COD 2, which 
 has the best World War 2 campaign. The game adds some new ideas to the franchise but its pretty 
 much like the former COD games and fails to fix some issues from the past. While I did enjoy the 
 game, it can't keep getting the same high scores that I gave to COD 1, 2 & 4 because its nothing 
 really new but I would still say any COD player should give it a go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TVmania619
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 31, 2008 4:13 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 5 is arguably one of the best Call of Duty games that I have played and I have every 
 one from COD 3. Whether you are looking for a breath taking experience in a game, campaign is there 
 for you (as well as the others who do not have Xbox Live) . There are two armies/ nationalities 
 that you play for and you fight against different countries. At one minute, you may be crawling 
 on the floor of a house as German try to burn you out, the next you may be shooting down Japanese 
 Zeroes and Cargo Ships. These two anazing stories both have likeable characters. The campaign then 
 comes to an amazing ending which I shall not spoil. However, the same problem occurs in this campaign 
 as well as the other Call of Duty games, which is that it is too short, only totalling in at 15 
 missions with a certain bonus mission.
  However, multiplayer is where this game really excels. For the first time ever on a Call of Duty 
 game, you can play the campaign missions co-operatively via Split Screen, System Link and Xbox 
 Live. They have also brought back the online game modes that made COD 4 so good and kept the same 
 formula and added some as well. They have added new game modes such as Capture The Flag and War, 
 which is similar to Headquarters. The streaks are also back, 3 for Recon Plane, 5 for Artillery 
 and 7 for a pack of dogs. Create a class and Challenges make a return as well where you can add 
 grips or sights and sometimes bayonets by doing challenges. You can unlock more Custom Classes 
 by Prestiging as well except Level 65 is the level for prestiging now and you get a weapon for 
 reaching Level 65 that is slightly better than a Golden Desert Eagle... 
  
  Oh, and remember to give Nazi Zombies a try on Co-op. You will not regret it.
  
  I hope that 
 this review helped you! :)
  
  TVmania619 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raider8784
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 31, 2008 12:52 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 5: World at War is simply not as well done, or as immersive as Call of Duty 4: Modern 
 Warfare. I tried very much to enjoy this game as much as I did CoD4 but I just couldn't do it. 
 The campaign is pretty much been there done that, except for the Japanese missions which were pretty 
 cool. One thing I hated about the single player was the AI, it was absolutely terrible. Some of 
 the worst AI I've ever seen in a game to date. It felt like you were alone out there, which is 
 ironic given the title of the game. Your AI squad mates will just stand there pointing and not 
 doing anything, and the enemy AI was even worse; the enemy would either, run right past you, or 
 stand idle while aiming at a soldier a mile away while you stood inches from them just staring... 
 honestly one could probably kill 90% of the enemies in the game with the knife if half the enemies 
 weren't standing outside of the map or in trees. The single-player, however, is not what I bought 
 CoD5 for, it was the multiplayer of course. I played CoD4 multiplayer for months and it was always 
 fun and fresh. Multiplayer in World at War just isn't right. Some may say it's because of the guns 
 but I don't think so. many of the guns are actually cool however there seems to be a lot of lag 
 and more often than not you're going to be wondering how in hell those bullets you just fired didn't 
 hit that enemy, it's very frustrating IMO. Overall World at War just didn't keep me entertained 
 like CoD4 did and all in all, it's just not nearly as good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ultradude2345
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 31, 2008 7:22 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty World at War is the latest game in the famous COD franchise following the mega hit, 
 Call of Duty 4. A surprise for many, the game has had the clocks winded back 60 years. Is the whole 
 thing worth it?
  
  The answer is yes.
  
  Like many COD games before it, COD 5 has you fighting on 2 different fronts in World War II. The 
 calendar is set at the conclusion of the war with Japan holding out until no one is left standing 
 and the vengeful Red Army advancing into Nazi Germany. This timeline is different than many WWII 
 games and it's pulled off near perfectly.
  
  The American campaign has you fighting in the tropics against the Japanese Imperial Army. This 
 isn't your standard shooting gallery anymore nor is it a half-assed Medal of Honor. The Japanese 
 will hide in tall grass and ambush you, send suicidal Banzai attackers to gut you, and have marksmen 
 hide in trees and shoot you. They also boast their own small set of weapons. It adds challenge 
 to the game, especially on Veteran mode and keeps you on your toes. The environments in the American 
 missions range from a sea invasion D-Day style to an all out assault on a Japanese castle. 
  
  The Soviet campaign is unlike anything that's been done before. No more snowy destroyed Stalingrad. 
 Instead you're treated to grassy highlands and dark, dreary Berlin. The Germans however don't offer 
 any unique tactics like the Japanese besides the occasional flamethrower. They do offer more weapons 
 to kill with including the rare PTS-21 anti-tank rifle, COD 5's Barret 50 Cal. The Soviet missions 
 are incredibly diverse having you engage in a daring assassination to assaulting the Reichstag 
 itself. The Soviets also bring a new weapon to warfare, the Molotov Cocktail. This firebomb kills 
 on impact but is rare to find and usually used as a shock weapon.
  
  COD 5 has many of the classic WWII weapons including the MP-40 and M1 Garand. New weapons include 
 the FG42, a light compact LMG and the deadly flamethrower. The flamethrower is a powerhouse delivering 
 1-hit kills and infinite ammo at the price of range. New grenades have been added like the sticky 
 grenade used against tanks and the Tabun Gas grenade which disorients foes.
  
  Multiplayer returns COD 4 style with perks and Create-A-Class. COD 4 veterans will feel right at 
 home. New gametypes have been added such as Capture the Flag and War, which has 2 teams fight to 
 quickly control points on the map. Capture speed is increased with Momentum which rises as players 
 kill each other or capture territories. Classic gametypes like Headqaurters and Search and Destroy 
 are still in the action. Now you can level up to 65 with plenty of new perks to boot. Prestige 
 returns as well with prestige levels unlocking Achievements and Create-A-Class slots. 
  
  COD 5 is solid and fans of COD 4 should definitely not miss this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MartinSkywalker
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 30, 2008 6:04 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty world at war is a great shooter game but the story line is not this best, but not 
 the worst. This game would have bin better if their werent to many glichs. and if there would have 
 more fast firing weapons that can hold more amo. Its a ww2 game but its not like cod2 and 3 because 
 its has better graphics and gameplay and enemies, also in the game when u face the japenese armies 
 they have alot of ambushes. U r playing as the russains and the americas, facesing the nazis and 
 the japenese. I believe that cod seris are one of whose games which they have no story lines and 
 each cod as a different story. The first takes plays in ww1, then the second places in the ww2 
 same with cod3 but they have no relate to each other, they are two different games. In 2007 they 
 made cod4 modern warfare this game has a fantastic storyline and it takes place in our time warfare. 
 In 2008 they made the latest cod which is World at War. This cod takes place in the ending of ww2 
 aganst the germans and ths japenese. These games are all 1st person shooter. I think that cod5 and 
 cod4 are both the games which gamers play and have great online play with other people. I recomend 
 this game for all hardcore gamers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Halo_Gears_COD
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 29, 2008 9:57 pm PT
Review:  I just got Call of Duty: World at War a few nights ago. I just fell in love with it. I ended up 
 playing it in one sitting because it was so good. The story is a very good one, that switches back 
 and forth between a marine in the final battles of the Pacific campaign, or a member of the Red 
 Army, on their massive offensive push through Germany. The the gameplay was just amazing. It was 
 so intense and satisfying, maybe even more intense the COD 4. The graphics were also very good 
 in this one, so was the audio too. The sounds in this game were so realistic and they were amazing. 
 There are few bad things about this game, in fact, there are only two. The first is, just like 
 COD 4, is that the campaign is just a little too short and I wished it could have been nearly double 
 in length. The other is that it does seem a little too similar to Cod 4. Although the weapons are 
 different they somehow feel the same. But other that those two problems, it is an amazing game. 
 This game has all the components of a great game: great audio and graphics, a good story, and awesome 
 gameplay. In the end, this is just a great game and you should definitely play it. 10 out of 10. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: patrickhorta87
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 29, 2008 3:15 pm PT
Review:  I thought that this game was just awesome. I am a fan of all the ww2 games and this one is just 
 as good. I enjoyed the difficulty of the game. im still trying to finish it so this is only a partial 
 review. right off the bat the game starts off amazing. I love the fact that they have you playing 
 as different sides which gives you a taste of what everyone went through. ill will update more when 
 i am finished. But so far the graphics are quite nice considering i just bought i new tv so i get 
 to experience the hd at its finest. Now i know that alot of people werent happ withthe fact that 
 the game was gonig back to ww2 but come on its a game. i thought it was funny how everyone was saying 
 call of duty 4 was so real. no its not its a game. just like world at war. with this game i was 
 pleased with the fact that they have you in different missions throughout the game. now by that 
 i mean whether your in a tank or your in a plane. it spices things up a bit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomo90
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 29, 2008 2:27 pm PT
Review:  It's now been a year since the release of Call of Duty 4, Modern Warfare. The last instalment in 
 the franchise left little for its successor to improve on, and now a year into the future it has 
 arrived in the form of Call of Duty World at War. 
  Even before the release of Modern Warfare there were already rumblings of the franchises next release 
 and it would be spearheaded by Treyarch. With Call of Duty 3 and its poor reception to the gaming 
 populace, already there was tension about whether this next instalment could even attempt to compete 
 with Infinity Ward's Modern Warfare. Alas many gamers have not even attempted to even try CoD WaW 
 simply because of Treyarch's bad reputation with CoD3's poor performance. However even since the 
 beta for WaW was released anyone could tell it still had the same excellent performance and game 
 mechanics of its predecessor, only in a different environment and setting. 
  For those that dislike the World War 2 setting, this game is defiantly not for you. It follows 
 the same formula that all World War 2 games have to date, and this game proves it still works. 
 Utilising historic statistics during load screens and powerful videos of the conflict that really 
 places you in the action before you even start playing. As with all Call of Duty games it makes 
 you feel apart of a much larger campaign and one soldier out of thousands. However I do feel it 
 is necessary to add that the soundtrack bewilders me to some extent. With all these powerful messages, 
 I feel it's lost somewhat, the soundtrack and voice acting is sub-par. The music lacks the epic 
 feeling that it deserves, even sometimes bordering on rock and techno in some of the pacific battles? 
 I'm left feeling that the thought provoking element is lost and we are left with just a gun and 
 run. Despite having an Emmy winning actor (Kiefer Sutherland) providing one of the voices for one 
 of your squad mates you still end up feeling detached. There was an excellent opportunity to exploit 
 the potential of the epic feeling of the battles displayed but unlike many of the other CoD games; 
 I feel this opportunity is lost. 
  Despite its shortcomings when it comes to the story, its game play is excellent. Even though its 
 game mechanics are literally copied and pasted from Modern Warfare it still performs to a very 
 high standard. Graphics are amazing, despite the models feeling a little unpolished the environment 
 graphics (specifically the pacific theatre) make up for this. The flame and smoke effects and particle 
 effects are amazing, and they should be, especially with the introduction of the flame thrower. 
 There is nothing more satisfying as scorching the environment and burning out the Jap's from their 
 wooden bunker. Controls are simple and easy to pick up and play, and if you have played any previous 
 CoD games on a console it's literally the same. 
  When it comes to multiplayer it excels as expected from the beta. It is again a copy of the mechanics 
 from Modern Warfare, perks while slightly changed are of the same weighting and design. The special 
 abilities that are available after kill streaks have been modified to fit a WW2 setting, radar 
 has been replaced with a scout plane, but essentially provide the same function of identifying 
 the enemy positions. Airstrike is the same, but it is now an Artillery strike but still provides 
 the same level of destruction. The major change to these abilities is the removal of the helicopter 
 (for obvious reasons) and the introduction of the dogs which I personally prefer. While being less 
 powerful over the entire map they provide a more balanced ability and for the opposing team are 
 much easier to fight. Also there's something freakier about hearing the bark of the dog near you 
 than the chain gun strafing you from an apache copter. The XP system is the same, and the challenges 
 are similar with slight variations. 
  To sum up CoD5 in one word is easy, CoD4. It's an exact copy, with a slight variation for a different 
 theme. It almost feels like it would be a modification for the PC version of CoD4. While still 
 delivering the max, I can't help but feel that I should be offered more than just a copy of its 
 predecessor. Under different circumstances I would give it a solid 9.0, but I just can't bring 
 myself to do it, had the campaign been longer and had it introduced more new elements and not just 
 variations it would have probably made up for it. However alas, I feel constrained to give it a 
 solid 8.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarioCartDSv3
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 29, 2008 1:40 pm PT
Review:  This game is nothing compared to Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare. Its online engine is exactly like 
 CoD4, but there are a few differences that I don't particularly like. 
  The first is this: On CoD4 online, you could be running around trying to find someone to kill, 
 and someone would spawn behind you (spawnning will be later in the review) and they will start 
 shooting you. If you were good at the game, you at least had a chance to turn around and kill them. 
 This is not how it works in CoD5. Its whoever sees who first, and which gun they had. If you just 
 started playing and you only have the SVT, while the person who saw you first has the PPSh-41, 
 you will not win the fight even if the person is terrible. This is BS. If you were good at CoD4, 
 then you should have a really good feeling of how this game works. So, you should do pretty well. 
 Which makes it BS that the higher level will most likely kill you in a one on one battle.
  The next thing, is the spawnning. I don't know how they configured the spawnning, but it sucks. 
 They will spawn in front of you, behind you, beside you, everywhere you dont want them to be. I 
 thought CoD4's spawnning was bad, CoD5 is worse.
  The Co-Op was a good idea. And the online Co-Op makes it cool also. It sucks that you can't unlock 
 Nazi Zombies if you beat the game on Co-Op. 
  Which brings me to the only good thing about CoD5. Nazi Zombies. This is one of the good ideas 
 that was jacked from Gears of War 2's Horde. You stay inside of a house with an upstairs and many 
 windows. The point is to stay alive. You start with a pistol and the zombies come in slow. They 
 walk slow and there are very few. As you start to advance to higher and higher levels, they start 
 running and becoming stronger (meaning it takes more than a couple shots to the head to kill them) . 
 You get points by killing the zombies, and boarding up the windows, you buy weapons with the points. 
 The weapons are on the wall and in other various places. There is a random box that will give you 
 a random gun. The Ray Gun and Flamethrower are in the random box. The Ray Gun is most of the time 
 a 1-hit kill, but don't count on getting it to often unless you are one lucky person. The Flamethrower 
 I found to only be usefull if they are breaking down your window and you need to buy some time 
 for your teamates to come and help. It does kill them, and is very usefull when you get the Insta-Kill. 
 There are a few "Perks or Upgrades" you can get while playing. There is Insta-Kill, which kills 
 them with one bullet. Douple Points, which gives you double points. Max Ammo, which replenishes 
 your ammo in your guns. And finally Atomic Bomb, which kills all the zombies in the surrounding 
 area. Nazi Zombies is a fun challenge that you and 3 friends should take on. If it wasn't for Nazi 
 Zombies, this game would be absolutly nothing. I do not recommend this game, unless you like campaign 
 games.
  If you have any questions or wanna play with me sometimes, hook me up with a friend request. My 
 XBL is Mr Johnson16 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pezza02
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 29, 2008 12:53 pm PT
Review:  THIS IS SUCH A GOOD GAME. THE MAPS ON MULTIPLAYER ARE GREAT AND WITH MORE ATTATCHMENTS FOR GUNS 
 AT A HIRE KILL COUNT IT KEEPS YOU INTERESTED. NAZI ZOMBIES IS ALSO A GREAT THING YOU CAN PLAY ONLINE 
 AND OFFLINE AND IT IS VERY ADDICTIVE. THE STORY ALSO GREAT BUT I MANLY USE ONLINE. IF YOU DONT 
 HAVE ONLINE I WOULD MAYBE RENT AS THE GAME ITSELF IS QUITE SHORT. AT THE MOMENT I RATE THIS BETTER 
 THAN COD4 BUT I THOUROLLY ENJOYED COD4. ALSO I HAVE JUST STARTED PLAYING COD5 SO IT IS A BIT UNFAIR 
 TO COMMENT.
  BUT AT THE MOMENT ITS A MUST BUY!
  
  ANY QUESTIONS MESSAGE ME
   
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chainsaw888
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 29, 2008 11:41 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty: World at War is a great game, and lives up to the series of CoD. Beginning in the 
 harsh enviroments of Japan, with a blade at your throat, the storyline of the singleplayers is 
 a well planned and exciting adventure, fighting on both the eastern and western fronts of the world 
 as the allies.
  
  Fighting through many famous enviroments, such as the final battle at the Reichstag, and having 
 tanks, flamethrowers and planes at your disposal, the story doesn't disappoint. 
  
  The final acts of the storyline however, seem to be cut short and leave you gasping for more action 
 and many aspects of the game have been repeated AGAIN, with the same old boring Thomson etc....
 
  
  The fun doesn't stop there though!.... The game also includes 'Nazi Zombie' mode, as a special feature 
 after you have completed the campaign, which is amazingly addictive, allowing you to play with 
 friends both online and on splitscreen.
  
  Of course, as CoD goes, there is also online multiplayer, upgrading you through the ranks, same 
 as usual, but adapted with those beautiful flamethrowers to leave your enemies barbequed.
  
  As a big fan of the Call of Duty series, I would definitly recommend this game, but I think 
 the revertion back to the World War 2 era was a bad move from activision, and I think for next 
 in the series, I want to see more tactical assualt from Modern Warfare. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigshawn24
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 29, 2008 10:03 am PT
Review:  My first impressions was great another WWII COD that is going to cover the same objectives in a 
 diffrent order. Sort of , it covers the same missions in the fact that you battle against Hitler's 
 Nazi party and Hideke Tojo's "rising sun army" ( dont mean to get into a history lession here but 
 they were the leaders at the time) . The creaters stepped it up more then a few notches including 
 new weapons such as a deployable 1919 ( 50 cal) and hold it.... a flame thrower?!?!?! Thats right 
 a flame thrower, nothing says war like burning flesh and screaming. Personally I Iove it, i think 
 that all of the weapons are a fresh way to come back to WWII and though many people dont like the 
 time travel to the past it is a solid game that has its flaws but are easly over looked. I played 
 the campaign on hardened and found it perfect. any easer and I would just run through with out 
 care. The levels are packed with sinpers in trees, buildings and those crazy japanese "banzi" attacks 
 which remind you to be on your toes. The campaign is long enough to keep you playing a few hours 
 a day and the online is like all COD games amazing. I will buy this game when my xbox is fixed 
 ( I played over my cousens house for 2 or 3 days straight. ( Oh S@#! its monday!!) 
  
  Happy Gaming 
  "Big" shawn 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warrior427
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 28, 2008 7:23 pm PT
Review:  great shooter does the call of duty series justice at first I was a litte skeptical because they 
 were going back to world war 2 and just after modern warfare did so well but the game definitly 
 is good and anyone that is a fan of the series should try it actually anyone who likes first person 
 shooters in general the levels are very well done and it doesnt get boring or reppetitive the game 
 takes alot of things from call of duty 4 which is a good thing and if you like that game your going 
 to like this the game is set in the pecific campain and the russian campain both are very exciting 
 and filled with action I just wish the game would have more weapons because alot of the guns in 
 this game have been used in previous call of duty games nice additions to the game would have to 
 be the killer dogs and the nazi zombie mode and adding a offline split screen co-op mode 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CreatureRising
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 28, 2008 7:01 pm PT
Review:  I really should get to the Point of all of this and why I gave the this game a 8
  
  The Game is Pretty much Like COD4 and alot of ways but as I Mentioned up top in Multiplayer Differences 
 Begin to show so so Much. The Story Mode is Fun yet as Disturbing and Violent as Ever. There is 
 even a Message before you start saying WARNING THIS GAME CONTAINS GRAPHIC CONTENT. And lets say 
 thats right Body Parts flying all over the place Bodys Executions. It gets a little sad if you 
 think about it, But needless to say this is stil a great game and the Multiplayer Adds more to 
 this but doesnt do as well as COD4 did. There are well alot of Guns that are just USELESS I mean 
 you will Use a Gun Mainly a Machinefun or Submachine Gun and lets just say you will stick with 
 it. The rifles work in Singalplayer but not well Especially the Bolt Actions, COD4 all the guns 
 really were good for different Situation but now as said you just stick with what you prefer. Maps 
 are ok but we will need a Map pack sence the Good maps Barely come up. Also For the First Co-oP 
 is here and a New Mode called Nazi Zombies (Unlocked after beating the Singal Player) and they 
 are all fun but sence Veteran Achievements are not for Multiplayer ( Wich is stupid if you ask 
 me) kinda Makes Playing it a little umm Dumb
  
  Overall the game is GREAT Real score 8.2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vashkey
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 12, 2009 11:31 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty World at War can best be described as Call of Duty 4 in World War 2. It play almost 
 exactly like Call of Duty 4. The most notable differences being that addition of Beyonets, the 
 return of vehicle combat (or just tanks, should I say) and if course a different set of weapons. 
 There isnt an over welming amount of change or anything, but it's different enough. 
  
  World At War is on par if not a little better looking than Call of Duty 4. Not only that but now 
 soldier will take on visible damage, such as when grenades go off next to them limbs may tear off 
 or if they are shotin the head a hunk of their skull will fly off. It's deffinatly the most relentless 
 game in the series. That said though, it's an excelent looking game. 
  
  The music is a bit mixed. Theres some really good instrumental pieces here. Then theres some rock 
 music thrown in and not that it's bad or anything, but it just doesnt seem fitting. Over all the 
 sound track is still pretty good.
  
  The Campaign has it's ups and downs. It's an excelent campaign and has some of the most memorable 
 levels in the history of the series. The game isnt teribly long although I'd say it's a bit longer 
 than Call of Duty 4 lasting around six or seven hours. There are also special achievements with 
 in the campaign that urge you to come back and collectible "death cards". These death cards act 
 similar to Halo 3's skull. They can be used to change the campaign experience, making it easier, 
 harder, more interesting or funny. For example one card causes your enemy to explode if you manage 
 to head shot them. Another make it to where bullets appear to be paint balls. Not only that but 
 for the first time in the Call of Duty series World at War Provides 4-player co-op and with competitive 
 scoring options. With all this, this time around they campaign is just begging to be revisited 
 time and time a again. Unfortunatly one crappy thing still remians. Just like past Call of Duty 
 World at War is often set up to where enemies constantly respawn until you make it to a check point. 
 It's rather annoying, but considering this is my only major beef with the campaign, I guess it's 
 not such a big deal.
  
  I must say, despite the fact that World at War taking place in World War II, the game does a good 
 job of distenguishing it'self from other World War II related games. A good deal of the reason 
 being the fact that part of the game takes place in Japan, a part of World War II that most games 
 don't touch on often. And the Russian and American campaign play quite differently as the Japanese 
 and German opponent fight differently. Theres also a Zombie mini game that you unlock after beating 
 the campaign that plays alot like Gears of War 2's Horde mode.
  
  
  The way the multiplayer works in World at War is similar to Call of Duty 4. Perks are back as is 
 unlocking weapons with ranking up, challenges and kill streak bonuses. And Heck, you actually get 
 somthing out of Presige. And the same advantages and disandages to this still remain. This will 
 still keep some player addicted. And some new players will be pushed away, having to play against 
 vets with higher level weapons, perks and being constantly punished for losing during a match by 
 way of kill streak bonuses making it even more difficult to turn the tide of a losing battle. Even 
 worse how ever is that now even playlist must be unlocked through ranking.
  
  It's just a love, hate situation here. Some people are going to love it while other will hate it.
 
  
  All together though, Call of Duty World War is a pretty good game and theres really no reason anyone 
 who enjoyed 4 to dislike it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carsbri
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 28, 2008 3:08 pm PT
Review:  any body who likes fighting blood and gore will love call of duty world at war i prefer it to everyone 
 any body who likes fighting blood and gore will love call of duty world at war i prefer it to everyone 
 any body who likes fighting blood and gore will love call of duty world at war i prefer it to everyone 
 any body who likes fighting blood and gore will love call of duty world at war i prefer it to everyone 
 vany body who likes fighting blood and gore will love call of duty world at war i prefer it to 
 everyone any body who likes fighting blood and gore will love call of duty world at war i prefer 
 it to everyone any body who likes fighting blood and gore will love call of duty world at war i 
 prefer it to everyone 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrschmexyy
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 28, 2008 12:14 pm PT
Review:  great game in inself but when i have played some of the situations you are put in are absolutely 
 insane... on veteran its all luck.. there is absolutely no skill involved in this game compared 
 to the last.... one level when youre in the trenches is it almost impossible because u have people 
 shooting from all around you... this game is good but the campaign could definetely use some help 
 b/c it is ridiculous.. online isnt bad if just like cod4 so if u liked that chances are you will 
 like this one.. just only difference obviously is ww2 instead of modern warfare. 
  i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i 
 i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i 
 i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i 
 i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i 
 i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tokra213
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 28, 2008 9:43 am PT
Review:  I just began playing Call of Duty and I find this game to be very immersive and beyond that very 
 challenging. Most of you probably agree with me about the challenging part, I personally think 
 it is a good challenge and a game that anyone that enjoys war games would enjoy. The graphics in 
 this game are among the best of games this year and the voicing and everything along with that 
 is just amazing. One thing to watch with the multiplayer is just don't take your cover for granted. 
 I found that out because usually I play Halo where you can take some things for granted but with 
 COD you have to watch your back at all times and keep an eye out for anyone that could kill you. 
 When you are playing this game just be careful of where you are and what could be around the next 
 corner. All in all this is a great game for anyone to play so rent or buy this game when you get 
 a chance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheGameCritic
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 27, 2008 6:33 pm PT
Review:  When Activision/Blizzard announced the new Call of Duty project was going to take place in the 
 world war II setting, there was a lot of skeptisism that the title run by Treyarch was not going 
 to stack up to its big brother, CoD 4: Modern Warfare. Players had just gotten a breath of fresh 
 air from Infinity Ward's new war era, and were not ready to return to shooting the germans and 
 japanese again. But when I first got my hands on the game, I was more than surprised at how well 
 Treyarch turned the tiresome world war into a fun and fresh shooter. 
  
  Not to say it doesnt have its flaws: the split screen on co-op campaign was slightly awkward, since 
 they changed the whole half of the screen for 1 player into a small box surrounded with a dark 
 picture of the title page. On occasion an air strike right on an enemies position would leave him 
 unscathed, while the enemy AI would throw an infinite supply of grenades. You cannot have multiple 
 save files, unless you have seperate profiles. For new players to the series, you have to learn 
 the controls on your own. Even if you are on the lowest level of difficulty, there still is no 
 tutorial option for the rookies.
  
  The online feature is excellent, with quick matchmaking and fun levels. The 7 kill streak reward, 
 being the ability to call attack dogs on your enemies, is very enjoyable. Watching your kill streak 
 go up as you do nothing is entertaining. There is a huge collection of modes, which keep multiplayer 
 from not going stale. The graphics, being run on the CoD 4 engine, are a pretty sight to view, 
 full of vibrant colors and locations. The AI are a challenge, which avoids keeping the game monotonous. 
 This is a darker story than the others, which is apparent right in the first scene which grusomely 
 depicts an american soldier being interrogated. A bonus feature is Nazi zombies, which is unlocked 
 once you complete the story. In this mode, you and possibly a party of three other players have 
 to hold down a house from being overrun by zombies. This mode is extremely fun with friends, especially 
 near the higher stages of the game.
  
  Overall, Call of Duty: World at War is a must buy for FPS fans. Treyarch has transformed the tiresome 
 setting of WWII into an explosive and rollicking ride you don't want to miss. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DivinitySkate
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 27, 2008 3:13 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty: World at War is world war 2 on the pacific rim. Not much else to say here it's a 
 new experience you switch off constantly between a american and russian a really good twist to 
 keep the story interesting.
  
  Why CoD: WaW isn't bad compared to CoD:4. I here constant whining on WaW and how it's a step down 
 and how treyarch is garbage, some may be true but don't let this change your mind you will miss 
 out. WaW is basically CoD4 it plays the same looks the same and the world war 2 guns have been 
 made stronger and more nerfed to feel like modern guns you will not feel old and become disinterested 
 i promise you. 
  
  Gameplay: The same as CoD:4 which is outstanding, the game plays great even with WWII guns it plays 
 very smooth at times i forget i'm playing in a world war 2 game. Vehicle driving is smoother but 
 a bit frustrating sometimes your tank can't drive through a small shrub or fence which can REALLY 
 IRRITATE you at some points and i mean really irritate you.
  
  Graphics: Good but not over the top, textures can blur, lighting isn't that well but if you like 
 call of duty 4 graphics you'll be right at home with these.
  
  Story: A new experience, not your average WWII game. You change on the front line constantly and 
 it's just fantastic i used to hate WWII games till i played world at war now i will reconsider 
 renting some old WWII games.
  
  Multiplayer: Perks, prestige, what can i say the same as call of duty 4's it's awesome give it 
 a try you'll love it.
  
  Value: worth every cent it has co-op, nazi zombies it's well worth the $60 if your a fan of CoD4, 
 and love it's multiplayer i say pick this up if your looking for the campaign and nothing else 
 a rent for sure.
  
  Real score: 9.3
  
  Graphics: 8.8/10
  Gameplay: 9.2/10
  Multiplayer: 9.7/10
  Story: 9/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: spartanpride83
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 27, 2008 1:33 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing Call of Duty since the very first one and after playing Call of Duty: Modern 
 Warfare, I was thinking the series couldn't get any better. Now after playing Call of Duty World 
 at War, it seems like I was right, but this game was pretty close on changing my mind.
  Call of Duty World at War is, once again, made by Treyarch, the same developer that made Call of 
 Duty 1 and 3. It is also, yet again, set during WWII, this time you'll be facing the Japanese as 
 well as the Germans while you be controlling either the American Marines (who take on the Japs) 
 or the Russian Red Army (who combat the Germans) . What makes the Japanese different from the Germans 
 is their style of war, where they try to ambush you with surprise banzai attacks and booby traps 
 rather than just try to beat you with just their guns. I thought this was an great idea by Trey 
 to do this as it provides a little diversity from the previous CoD games.
  But the thing that makes CoD great is the multiplayer, which hasn't changed much from Modern Warfare. 
 Online still has the perk system and prestige, but just a few changes. Now when you prestige, instead 
 of just getting a new badge, you unlock a custom slot as well. The perks haven't changed much (except 
 the names, which are now made to fit the WWII era) . Only thing new about the perks is that there 
 are a couple new ones- the Vehicle perks (which are made specificly for the tanks in the game) 
 and the new Flamethrower, which is self explanitory.
  If you beat the campaign mode (offline) you unlock a new game mode called Nazi Zombies. The basis 
 of the game is to stay alive as long as possible while fighting off a hoard of zombies trying to 
 break into the building you're in. You start out on level 1 where the zombies don't come as often 
 and are easy to kill. As you level up, the zombies became more frequent and harder to kill. The 
 game is over when you die. This game is available online where you can team up with 3 other players 
 for more fun.
  The only problem online is the gltichters on certain maps, but they aren't extremely frequent.
 
  This game is very good and well put together, but it doesn't quite make it on the level of MW. 
 Still, its a good game and is worth to buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stupid4
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 27, 2008 12:32 pm PT
Review:  Pros - Good for gamers new to the FPS Genre, Lots of different game modes in multiplayer, return 
 to World War II is surprisingly nice, some cool new weapons
  
  Cons - Story mode is too easy, graphics are poor compared to other games on the 360, other gamers 
 are rude on multiplayer, not a lot of variety in the level design
  
  World at War is a very easy simple game. I am a mediocre gamer. Most of the time medium setting 
 can be difficult for me to complete in most games. However I was able to beat veteran in this game 
 in just one sitting. The trailers made this game look like it would have some of the best graphics 
 ever seen on the 360. I was sadly mistaken. The graphics are piss poor. Many gamers rave about 
 the multiplayer. I believe that Battlefield: Bad Company has a much better multiplayer setting. 
 In World at War the maps have generally the same layout and the other gamers you will play with 
 do not work as a team. Most are out for themselves and just gaining points for themselves. 
  
  However this game is somewhat fun. Multiplayer does have a lot of game modes to try out. The 
 return to World War II is surprisingly refreshing. Even though the story mode was simple, it was 
 very enjoying bayoneting Nazi's and lighting Japanese on fire. That leads to my final point. World 
 at War introduced two new weapons. The flamethrower, which is one of the coolest weapons the video 
 game world has seen (however it is overpowered) and the bayonet. 
  
  Bottom Line - A pretty fun game, but if you do not have it you are not missing anything. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kramer0024
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 26, 2008 11:46 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty: World at War-"Surprisingly Good!"
  
  This is my first review of any game. I really enjoyed this game and would not write a review if 
 I didn't. If you read my review please leave me a comment on what you think I should do differently 
 in my next review. I've tried to keep out as many spoilers as possible. Thanks guys and enjoy. 
 
  
  
  The intensity of Call of Duty World at War is absolutely superb. You get an amazingly intense first 
 few battles that set the tone for the dramatic endings of World War II. Several of these battles 
 used in the COD fashion in which scattered plot lines get thrown around as you fight your way through 
 the axis forces. This seems to be what COD prides itself on, and they do an excellent job of entertaining. 
 Among the dual plot lines, a newly integrated Nazi Zombie mode, realistically crafted weapons (including 
 a never-gets-old flamethrower) and an intense/amazing multiplayer in which skill is very important, 
 I have been up till 4 and 5 in the morning playing this gamelol!
  
  In a way, this game shows you that the soldiers that lived through this had to give it all they 
 had so they could survive. This is highlighted by the lack of ammunition, and fire rate of most 
 weapons. I cannot express enough how intense and desperate the feelings of survival are highlighted 
 in this game. You honestly get a true sense that every weapon used and situation is in desperation 
 to live, although if you read up on your history before this you know the outcome anyway. After 
 the game ended I read several articles which I don't do for any games unless I like them. This 
 should be an example of just how great the plot in this story influences you! After the final credits 
 you jump right into Nazi zombie mode! This game mode is "endless" fun, for you and your friends. 
 I would definitely recommend getting on Xbox Live and playing this with your friends. The only 
 bad thing about Nazi Zombie mode is that there is only one map, a boarded -up house. It's a good 
 24 hours of gameplay-fun, at least!
  
  Many people ask is this game anything like Call of Duty 4: MW Am I buying the same game? Well the 
 answer is barely. Although it is based on the infinity ward produced phenomena (it is the same 
 engine) , there are "MINOR" things that you will notice that can be compared to its predecessor, 
 and in my opinion it doesn't really take away from the best WW2 to hit the shelves EVER! Yes, some 
 of the multiplayer and hud details are the same, but to be honest we (the consumer) ASKED for it. 
 When I pulled the game out of the box, the cover of the CD looks like the twin of COD4; I chuckled, 
 and thought here we go again. But I was very surprised just how different this game was, and how 
 meaningful the plot actually took off. But for a Call of Duty game, I'm not surprised by the breathtaking 
 gameplay.
  
  Call of Duty World at War is a great WW2 shooter! Probably the best one ever released. It shows 
 many of hardships and intensities of the end of this war. I would recommend it to anyone. Even 
 the cursing and gore is crucial in the documentation of this game as it was expressed during the 
 late stages of the war (1945) , if not more so. The Campaign is great and although bounces around 
 a bit, what COD game doesn't? In its predecessor COD4 there are some minor similarities, but nothing 
 that will stop you from having fun! Nazi Zombie mode is a great edition, and with the new maps 
 and added perks along with awards for prestige's (although rather difficult to rank up) You have 
 to pick this game up. And Yes, there is Co-op Mode!
  
  
  Story-10/10
  I'm speechless; intensity, gore, brutality = A++
  
  Gamplay-10/10
  How could someone ever 
 be dissatisfied killing Nazi's?
  
  Sound-10/10
  I put on my headphones and drift into a different world-a world war at war. (good voices, great 
 music)
  
  Controls-10/10
  Treyarch got it right; don't fix something that's not broken
  
  Graphics- 9/10
  It looks like a real hand, but I can't burn grass with my flamethrower
 
  
  Replayability- 8.9/10
  We have been here before (multiplayer) , but nothing else compares
  
  Overall-a solid 9.5/10
 
  Great Game!
  
  Definitely a buy! Would be a 10, but there was one level I got stuck on a tree : (
  
  
  
 
  -Mainevent422
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: scarface46
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 19, 2009 7:02 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 8
  Graphics: 10
  Sound: 10
  Value: 8
  Tilt: 8
  
  World at War is the 5th installment in the Call of Duty franchise. In 2007, Call of Duty 4 was 
 released and for the first time in the series it was placed in modern time. Still today thousands 
 of people are playing its incredible online multiplayer. So how does World at War measure up to 
 Modern Warfare? In my opinion, World at War is an amazing game, however as many predicted, it would 
 not be as good as its predecessor. Moreover, the campaign was superb, with an outstanding and thrilling 
 story which can be played through four player co-op. The cooperative mode consists of two modes, 
 co-op and competitive co-op, which give you points for every kill, revive, etc. The online multiplayer, 
 is great as well, but not as addicting as Modern Warfare. The weapons are quite similar, except 
 for the flamethrower and bayonets. You still have nearly all the same perks, weapon add-ons, challenges, 
 and game types. Overall, Call of Duty has returned to WWII in Call of Duty: World at War but it 
 definitely is an amazing game; with many memorable firefights and some impressive new features, 
 such as tanks in the multiplayer and the nazi zombie mode, which starts out slow but then turns 
 insane. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: s7t77s777
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 26, 2008 9:01 pm PT
Review:  The game engine is almost identical to Cod4, if you played that you'll know all the controls and 
 will probably be pretty good. The differences from 4 are the lack of SMG's, lack of helicopters 
 (with silly dogs in their place, i dont like them) and more maps that look like overgrown. The 
 theme and many of the on-screen guages etc. are from Cod2 however, so its not exactly the same 
 as 4. If you were the kind of person who used the M14 or G3 a lot, or LMG's you're in luck, most 
 of the weapons are like one of those, if you used a p90 or MP5 all the time your out of luck. If 
 you liked Cod4 a lot you're sure to like this one, although probably not quiiiiittttteee as much, 
 but if you're looking for a change because you logged a bagillion hours on cod4 and beat tha campaign 
 like 80 times b/c its so short then you will be even more pleased. Better than solid, more like 
 inbetween solid and outstanding. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joalri
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 28, 2008 12:38 pm PT
Review:  Is the mix between the awesome and addictive multiplayer of call of duty 4 and a perfect developed 
 and exciting campaign . For me is the best WWII better shooter of the history of video-games. The 
 difficulty is perfect , is very challenging but not frustrating . The enemies are just made for 
 be hated so i am sure the campaign will bring you a lot of fun. But the best of the game is the 
 multiplayer , is almost the same that the multiplayer of CoD modern warfare but with more perks 
 and the fact that you will be able to drive tanks.
  mmm... i forgot only one thing ... THERE ARE NAZI ZOMBIES!!!!!!
  
  the following is just a 
 fill cuz the minimum allowed size of reviews is of 800 characters and this only have got 630....
 
  
  jefrgg fjgjfgj fgjfijg fsae pops dskdfkds djfdjs djfjsd
  =?=? =?=?=!1 2'1=?0 2?"0223? =?=? =?=?"23 03?= ?="?=03 ??=? 02=?=?3? =? =? 3?= ?="0 3?=?= 
 ?=?03?= ) " ("j"jj "j"jJ3ij"2 3ij"ij23i" jo"j" (3) (") 83) "8 3) 23= 2383 ?" 3 ( ?" 8 "'39' 
 "8 2'3908"=ue E2E2uE "uE 2uEU) ue9E uEU =92U2E2= 9Eu"e= 9292U2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maluigi
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 26, 2008 12:38 pm PT
Review:  
  The Good: Graphics are detailed and look nice; many unique and thrilling moments in campaign; a 
 good amount of guns and equipment; four player co-op and Nazi Zombies are extremely fun additions; 
 multiplayer is interesting and fun. 
  
  The Bad: World War II... again...; some guns feel too archaic; recycled ideas from Call of Duty 
 4: Modern Warfare feel way too overused; game mechanics feel all too familiar.
  
  I had high hopes for Call of Duty: World at War after the brilliance that was Call of Duty 4: Modern 
 Warfare. In some respects, Call of Duty: World at War lives up to each of its predecessors. However, 
 in other places, CoD: WaW feels all too familiar and very unoriginal.
  
  The story has been told many times. Each game that has been made in its honor has shown us the 
 ins and outs of World War II. CoD: WaW takes us back to this point in time... again. It focuses 
 on two different soldiers. One soldier, Pvt. Miller, fights for the U. S in an effort to clear the 
 Japanese from the Pacific Islands. The other soldier, Pvt. Petrenko, fights for the Russians as 
 they push into Germany. Each story is well told and, because of the consistent first-person view, 
 keeps you immersed in each and every event.
  
  Though the story of World War II has been explored many times, Call of Duty: World at War does 
 an excellent job of telling a moment in the war that many people probably haven't heard of. The 
 problem does not come from the story of World War II, however, but what World War II brings to 
 the gameplay.
  
  The gameplay has almost the exact same design as Call of Duty 4 (By the way, you're going to see 
 many different comparisons between Call of Duty: World at War and Call of Duty 4) . The buttons 
 are mapped the same way, so Call of Duty veterans can jump right in. 
  
  The campaign is designed similarly as well. You move through each area where there's a handful 
 of enemies waiting to ambush you or vice versa. You take said enemies out then move to the next 
 area where the cycle repeats. It's a setup that we've seen before... but it works. There's enough 
 variety in the missions to keep anyone involved in the campaign.
  
  Now... weapons. Call of Duty 4's weapons were modern and extremely satisfying to use. Call of Duty: 
 World at War's weapons... are a bit mixed. If you've played any World War II game, then you know 
 what to expect. There are a couple of new additions here, such as the flame-thrower, but other 
 than that, the weapons feel way too familiar and way too archaic. What I mean by this is that most 
 weapons have to be reloaded or cocked... (tries not to laugh... but regains maturity) after firing. 
 This results in very annoying moments where you think, "Okay, I've got one shot." This is true 
 to some extent. Also, some weapons, like the Browning (machine gun) take forever to reload. I know 
 it's a machine gun, and I know that it's in World War II, but this is another example of what World 
 War II brings to the gameplay. After seeing how fast and exciting that Call of Duty 4 was, it's 
 a bit disheartening to have SOME of the gameplay be bogged down by a few hiccups that result from 
 the time that Call of Duty: World at War tries to imitate.
  
  Multiplayer is next. Again, if you've played Call of Duty 4 then you know what to expect. There's 
 a handful of different modes to participate in including standard deathmatch, team deathmatch, 
 capture the flag, ect. Each of these has you picking your guns, perks and upgrades before engaging 
 in a massive battle against your opponents. By killing people online and completing various challenges 
 you begin to gain experience to reach higher levels. As you gain levels you gain new perks and 
 weapons, and as you use certain weapons profusely you gain upgrades for that weapon such as a scope 
 or a flash reducer. Call of Duty: World at War basically looks the player in the eye and says, 
 "Okay, let's take all of the ideas from Call of Duty 4, throw them into the past and add a couple 
 of new perks and then everything will seem new again." They're wrong. All of the problems that 
 came from the campaign have been moved over to the multiplayer resulting in a rehashed multiplayer 
 mode that seems all too familiar.
  
  Let's just point out a couple of minor flaws. First off, the leveling system is almost the exact 
 same as CoD4. There's a couple of extra levels, but nothing special. Think about this: Remember 
 in Call of Duty 4 where, when you went into prestige mode (You lose all of your weapons and perks 
 and start back at level one but you get a cool emblem each time) , you felt so compelled to do it 
 over and over again? That's not really the case here. Everything just seems so familiar from the 
 previous entry that you may only prestige once before you eventually put down the controller and 
 move on. It's just not as fun this time around.
  
  I know that I'm getting a bit picky, but here are a couple of other flaws that I found... just plain 
 weird or unfair. Most of the perks from Call of Duty 4 are here... however, the new perks are just 
 ridiculous. There's a perk called "Toss Back" which resets the fuse on a grenade once you pick 
 it up... however, you'll probably never get the chance to do this since almost everyone holds the 
 grenade and releases it right before it explodes. Another perk is called "Shades". This perk reduces 
 the light from signal flares that are thrown. The problem with this is that there's hardly anyone 
 who even uses signal flares. The light radius is small and if you happen to get caught in one of 
 them all you have to do is take 4-5 steps, or simply walk around them. However, there are some 
 perks that are pretty interesting such as "Gas Mask" which helps guard against a dizzying toxin 
 found in tabun gas grenades. Almost all of the other perks are from Call of Duty 4. They even renamed 
 some perks. "Sonic Boom" (higher explosive damage) is now called "Fireworks"... which is the exact 
 same thing.
  
  Another minor flaw comes in the form of a little explosive called the bouncing betty. These represent 
 claymores from CoD4. Once a bouncing betty is planted into the ground, all you can see is a tiny 
 wick coming out from the dirt. Even if you do spot one of these before you run into them, you have 
 to spend time lining up an accurate shot on an extremely tiny target. It takes a while to totally 
 destroy them, and I'm sure experienced players have gotten this technique down... It's just a minor 
 annoyance.
  
  Finally, let's talk about tanks. Tanks are the only multiplayer vehicle, and if you've got one... then 
 get ready for a kill streak. Tanks are just way too powerful. There are tank grenades, rocket launchers 
 and explosives but you're going to need a lot of them. Even if you take the tank down, you're going 
 to be out of grenades, rockets, ect. The game would just be better without them.
  
  Despite a handful of flaws, multiplayer is pretty fun. It's, at times, intense and pretty fast 
 paced. The thing about it is that... if you've played CoD4, you're not going to have a lot of incentive 
 to move forward. Believe it or not, (personal experience) my friends and I are starting to play 
 Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare more than we play Call of Duty: World at War. 
  
  If you beat the campaign there's a fun mode called Nazi Zombies. This revolves around four people 
 stuck in a bombed out shelter. Nazi zombies start attacking the shelter by removing wooden boards 
 from the windows. Your job is to take out a number of these zombies so that you can move on to 
 the next round. As each round progresses the zombies get faster and more deadly. You can try to 
 keep them out by fixing the boards they have torn off, but that only works for so long. There's 
 also a currency system in place. You gain money from killing zombies, getting headshots and putting 
 the boards back on the windows. You can then use this money to buy new guns, ammo or even open 
 up new areas with better guns. If someone is taken out by a zombie, you can heal them by pressing 
 and holding "X". However, if you fail to get to them in time, they can't respawn until the round 
 is over. It's no doubt an extremely fun mode. You and your friends will have a blast trying to 
 fight off the undead. Oh, by the way: if one person has beaten the campaign, then he/she can invite 
 others who haven't beaten the campaign to play Nazi Zombies... just thought that that was something 
 that most of people were wondering about.
  
  Let's talk about the graphics now. The game runs off of the Call of Duty 4 engine. This means that 
 the game looks pretty amazing... but reused. It's one of those moments where you think, "I swear 
 that I've seen this before". That said, the graphics look great. The textures are amazing and animation 
 is pretty smooth... but, again... this is all very familiar.
  
  The music is incredible. Everyone knows that Call of Duty has some of the finest orchestral scores 
 ever. In this respect, Call of Duty: World at War does not disappoint. The music is intense and 
 occasionally creepy when expecting an ambush. The voice acting is also top notch. Many celebrities 
 lend their voices to support an amazing cast in World at War. If you've got surround sound... then 
 expect the house to shake under the intense war-like music and sounds.
  
  Depending on if you completely love this game, you're going to spend a lot of time playing multiplayer, 
 Nazi Zombies and the campaign. You're getting a good amount of content for $60. It all depends 
 on how much you enjoy the game. If you've played Call of Duty 4, then I strongly recommend a rent. 
 I don't think Call of Duty: World at War will last as long as Call of Duty 4 did in terms of multiplayer 
 longevity. 
  
  Call of Duty: World at War is a hard game to review. When a game reuses so much content from its 
 predecessor then comparisons are bound to rear their ugly head. If you haven't played Call of Duty 
 4, this game will be a lot better. However, if you've played and beaten CoD4, and played its multiplayer 
 a good amount of hours, Call of Duty: World at War just feels stuck in the past. All of this being 
 said, it's a great game on its own. It manages to put you in World War II and keep you there until 
 you realize that World War II just isn't up-to-date. It's no doubt one of the better games based 
 on the conflict, but the result takes new ideas and throws them into the past... where they just 
 don't fair as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: radikal01
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 26, 2008 11:47 am PT
Review:  I made a new formula for Single/Multi Player FPS's for reviews, and I'll use that here.
  
  CALL OF DUTY: WORLD AT WAR (Call of Duty 5)
  
  
  GRAPHICS:
  -----------------
  
  Detail: 
 Amazing detail everywhere, in environments and object textures. Things look real, as they should. 
 The game still lacks the sharpness of Gears of War and Medal of Honor: Airborne. 11/12
  Frame Rate/Smoothness: The series has always had a knack for this. Not once have I had a graphical 
 lag issue in any of the Call of Duty series. Very impressive considering its graphics quality. 
 5/5
  Effects: The effects tend to immerse you even more into the game, particularly when wounded or 
 shell shocked. Gory effects (apparently new to the Call of Duty series) almost make you feel sort 
 of bad for the Nazis. Wow. 8/8
  
  SOUND:
  -----------
  
  Sound Effects: In my opinion they have finally recorded clear, and believable sound effects (thinking 
 of the AK47 sounding like a futuristic rifle in CoD4, many of the CoD2 sound effects) . 8/8
  Voice Acting: Voice acting in this game is not really meant for cinematics and moving the story, 
 but mostly in combat. The commands yelled and screams and requests for extra ammo, really complete 
 the sound experience in the game. Narration in between-mission movies is top-notch. 7/7
  
  GAMEPLAY
  -----------------
  
  Quality Story: Story didn't play a huge role in previous war 
 games, but in this installment, bonding and brotherhood play into the war theme, instilling sadness 
 or protectiveness at the times they should. Rarely do war games make you feel emotion. As Gamespot 
 reviewers have said WWII is familiar and slightly cliched territory, but the game saves itself 
 by having a mix of European conflicts and the less-heard about Pacific campaigns against the Japanese. 
 4/5
  Story Length: On Recruit (Easy) , you can beat the game in 5-8 hours, which is great if you want 
 to hurry and unlock Nazi Zombies ( =] ) , and that calue of time may possibly double with each difficulty 
 level, mostly Veteran. Pretty good length but not if you were expecting a lengthy campaign against 
 the Axis. 2/3
  Fun!: Of course! The combat is intense, and plays out in a realistic span of time. Banzai attacks, 
 consisting of country-crazed Japanese soldiers attempting to stab you to death, will be heart-pounding, 
 reflex-testing fun, but they will start to get annoying near the end of the game. 12/13
  Replayability: It's practically a sin not to go back and at least try to beat some of the game 
 on Veteran! 5/5
  Controls: Controls are responsive and easy to remember. They shouldn't be too hard to get the hang 
 of. 5/5
  Difficulty: Of course Veteran is for Veterans, but even Recruit may be hard on those new to the 
 Call of Duty series, especially halfway through the game and onwards. 4/5
  AI Quality: I think this is where Infinity Ward needs to put a little more investment into. The 
 AI is enjoyable to fight, but they are always in the same place, and are not very improvisational. 
 This nearly detracted a point from Replayability. I assume that after playing a level a few times 
 you'll be ready for all the ambushes as they are in the same places. Otherwise, they are smart 
 and have a realistic quality of marksmanship (not crackshots, like... *cough* MOH Airborne *cough*) . 
 2/4
  
  MULTIPLAYER
  ----------------------
  
  Expansion of game: The multiplayer is basically the same as Call of Duty 4: MW, but with WWII equipment 
 and firearms plugged in. That is a good thing. It still has red-dot sights (Aperture sights) ACOG 
 scopes (Telescopic scopes) and Silencers (Suppressors or Flash Hiders) and they have the good ol' 
 rank system. Perks and custom classes are a huge part of the game. I think most of the game's longevity 
 comes from the multiplayer. Nazi Zombies is a mode that adds even more, and is easily a competitor 
 to Gears of War 2's Horde mode. 16/15
  Connection Stability: The game, as well as Call of Duties 2 and 4, appear to be hosted by players, 
 meaning if the "host" quits and such, the game's over for everybody. This happens frequently and 
 is very irritating. The game would be more stable and therefore enjoyable if Infinity Ward were 
 to purchase buildings in which they could place official servers, increasing connection quality 
 and preventing sudden game endings.
  When the host is there to stay, the connection is stable and fast. 3/5
  
  Extra Credit
  ----------------
 
  New aspects pioneered or conquered?: Not really, Call of Duty: WaW builds upon Call of Duty 4's 
 engine. It does not take steps into new territory. 0/0
  
  Graphics: 24/25
  Sound: 15/15
  Gameplay: 34/40
  Multiplayer: 19/20
  Extra: 0/0
  
  Call of Duty: World 
 at War:
  
  
  92/100
  
  
  
  Thank you for reading the review. This formula is raw and I'd like to hear from anyone reading 
 this if I should, say, put more weight on an aspect of the game, add a new subsection somewhere, 
 etc. I'll gladly accept your messages. Again thanks for reading and go play Nazi Zombies, k? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mozza215
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 26, 2008 10:15 am PT
Review:  WHAT A GAME! You load the game and are greeted by a typical looking CoD screen, then you start 
 the game, and come across possibly the best video opening to a game ever! This is a constant theme 
 through-out, as the opening videos kept continuing to impress. 
  But back to the first mission, starting off as Pvt. Miller in a POW camp, a Japanese soldier sitting 
 in front of you, (obviously mad) he then gets up and attention turns to a poor chap getting tortured 
 by another Jap. Not wanting to spoil anything for people who haven't got the game, what you see 
 next is pretty gruesome, this continues through the game, with limbs being ripped off and blood 
 flying everywhere. The graphics are a thrill to behold, and you get to look out over a cliff in 
 an American mission later in the game and the realism is STUNNING! The only thing I'd moan about 
 with CoD WaW is it all feels the same as other games in the series, but that's a minor setback 
 in a game that should win countless awards! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FM_punk
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 26, 2008 7:35 am PT
Review:  I think there are too many WW2 games. Cod: World at War had a decent campaign but it was too short 
 for me. Sure it's emotional but short. The flamethrower I have to say is probbaly the gun you get 
 the most fun out of. The multiplayer is exactly the same as cod4 with crappy new maps. Multiplayer's 
 only improvment is dogs. But dogs make it so hard to get back on top. The only mode I play on it 
 now is Nazi Zombies. Nazi Zombies is a surival game which sort of reminds me of resident evil. 
 It's like a wierd WW2 game. i meaan theres a ray gun and zombies. Personally I never really liked 
 Cod's online multiplayer. This game was too hyped for. Still it very fun to play. But then you're 
 basicly spending money for a new short campaign and nazi zombies. I suggest you rent it before 
 buying it or wait until it gets cheap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: a_beautiful_lie
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 26, 2008 7:28 am PT
Review:  I'll start this off by saying I've been a CoD fanboy since the first game came out for the PC all 
 those years ago. The one exception was CoD3 which I had to force myself to finish because I thought 
 it was rather abysmal. People like myself are the target audience here, but others are more than 
 welcome to read if they like.
  
  The feel of the game is much darker than CoD4, and quite a bit like the dark atmosphere of three. 
 I think it fit with 5 much better than 3, but still wasn't quite as good as the other CoD games 
 which, despite the games content, weren't that dark or forboding. Treyarch seems to want to turn 
 the games grittier and darker, when that really hasn't been what Infinity Ward has done with the 
 series. 5 does a much better job with the dark, forboding feel than 3, which really forced it to 
 be dark in my opinion and really went off the deep end.
  
  The Immortal companion characters are far less enjoyable than previous CoD games, save 3. There 
 is no feeling of attachment to Roebuck, and Polonsky never does anything memorable in the American 
 campaign. Reznov from the Russian side is enjoyable, but very over the top. Chernov, the other 
 Russian Immortal is not likeable, and really pitiable as he gets pushed around by Reznov. There 
 are no great characters in the game such a Captain Price Foley.
  
  5 game is the easiest CoD I've seen. After playing through once on Hardened I'm buzzing through 
 the game on Veteran without an issue. It took me a couple weeks to finally finish 2 on Veteran, 
 and there are still 2 missions on 4 I haven't beaten on Veteran.
  
  Graphics are probably the only thing 5 has over 4. The addition of dismemberment alongside beautiful 
 flame effects really step up the graphics, and in my opinion allow the darker atmosphere to work. 
 Some character movements can look awkward, but I've never seen a CoD that didn't have some strange 
 NPC movements.
  
  Sound and voice acting are both very well done, as with 4. Some problems arise with incredibly 
 cheesy dialogue. Lines like "As long as you live, Dmitri, the heart of this army cannot be broken" 
 made me want to roll my eyes.
  
  The weapons are fun and satisfying. They sound great and the variety is the best I've seen in a 
 CoD WWII game.
  
  Multiplayer is excellent. More or less a carbon copy of 4's set in WWII with the addition of vehicles 
 which I don't like. I wish they hadn't included tanks, but luckily vehicles are not overly powerful. 
 One guy on foot with AT gear versus a tank can be a barely vehicle-favored fight if the person 
 on foot knows what they're doing. Get two guys with AT equipment and the tank can be in trouble.
 
  
  I think the biggest thing I'd say about this game is that it's not CoD3 take two, and that's a 
 good thing. Treyarch didn't suck it up like it did before. I'd highly recommend this, even if you 
 have massive apprehension due to CoD3.
  
  The game is great, not amazing. Unfortunately for CoD5 the bar for CoD games in the past has been 
 amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JB1994
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 22, 2009 1:56 pm PT
Review:  Positive
  +Very addictive online play
  +Great campaign
  +Nazi Zombies
  
  Negetive
  -Yet again another WW2 shooter
  -No real major upgrades from CoD 4 
  
  CoD: World at War is 
 the sequal to Call of Duty 4 the FPS set in modern day. However Activision and Infinaty Ward desided 
 to go back to WW2 with the Call of Duty series, lots of people were disapointed to here it because 
 of how overly crowded the WW2 FPS gerne is, i was disapointed to here it due to how successfull 
 Call of Duty 4 was when they brought it the modern day. Thankfully Activision and Infinaty War 
 didn't let us down with a solid sequal.
  
  CoD 5 uses the CoD 4 game engine, there have been some tweaks to it and made it more fun to play 
 but if you have played CoD 4, then you have played CoD 5. The controls are almost identical and 
 so is everything else apart from the setting. That being said this isn't adsactly a bad thing because 
 it brings yet another solid FPS. The campaign this time is longer, unlike CoD 4 that was incredably 
 short. There isn't really that much to say about CoD 5 it's basically CoD 4 but the gameplay feels 
 more fresh basically. Yes i know the thing that made CoD 4 such a hit was its great and just flat 
 out addictive online play. This time there is no difference, so the multiplayer is still very addictive.
 
  
  This game should be brought by CoD fans because its still as good as all the others in the series. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monteninja
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 25, 2008 7:14 am PT
Review:  weeeeell, its call of duty, does that mean you have to blindly love it? heck no! to me, mechanics 
 are a downgrade to COD4. im just glad it has pacific fighting. its about freaking time. thats the 
 only thing that really saves it. i have problems trying to see difference in my teamates and others, 
 i guess im still trying to get use to that. the sounds dont seem as great as the other ww2 games 
 thats for sure. the action is pretty good as usual. i do review games a lil harsh i guess, but 
 you must have high standards , or they will just make crap games just to take your money.
  
  like the nfs franchise.
  
  just duck and cover and be on your toes fighting japanese forces, 
 they come out of nowhere. the graphics are pretty good, like the same as COD4. my guy doesnt seem 
 to run fast sometimes, i dont understand that yet, maybe too much weight? im about to go play it 
 online now, wish me luck. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jsgl
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 24, 2008 8:08 pm PT
Review:  good game. i just sold my 360 to a friend so im going to buy this game for the wii.. hopefully its 
 just as good. Umm k this game had an awesome campaign. i loved it. It was just the right difficulty, 
 and the right length. Short, but not to short. The zombies were cool, but cooler to play with a 
 friend. It gets pretty intense. One thing i thought the game lacked was a sold co-op campaign. 
 Me and a friend tried playing it but the screens were small with a stupid little background that 
 didn't need to be there... Also you didn't have to follow the story.. you could just do whatever 
 mission you wanted to. Kind of gave it a cheep feel. Id rather have to complete each mission to 
 unlock the next. Anyway... ive heard some complaints about the guns, and the way they sound. They 
 might not be as... explosive as CoD 4, but for a WW2 game i thought they were pretty good. The bayonets 
 were the best part of the game, along with the flamethrower. Online was great, flawless, hardly 
 any lag ever. All in all, great game, 8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alza111
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 24, 2008 2:10 pm PT
Review:  Well well, where can i start? this is my first COD (as i only got a 360 in may and i borrowed COD4 
 off a friend) and at first reaction, i was disappointed that it was set during WW2 (some of you 
 may agree, some may not) but i was still excited about playing it when i bought it. After doing 
 the story on regular and playing some Nazi zombie (which is amazing, but yet a little repetative) 
 with my friends, i thought that this could actually be the best FPS i've ever played. But then 
 i played Online and ran into a few issues which frustrated me to the point of throwing my controller 
 against the wall. These issues include stupid respawn points where when you respawn sometimes, 
 you do so right next to the enemy and die AS you spawn, tanks which isolate you into buildings 
 otherwise you'll get blown up over and over and OVER again and then when you do blow them up, your 
 foe just jumps into another one and then there's dogs. Now the idea of it is fantastic in my opinion 
 but it is terribly executed. I mean this in the way that about 5 dogs jump onto the map as the 
 enemy calls them in, you kill these dogs, but yet even more come - what the hell???
  
  Even though i ran into these problems that made me tell myself that i'm never going on COD again, 
 i'd always come back for more - why you ask, well even though the online has some issues imo, it 
 has the incredibly addictive online play which COD4 had that made it so cool.
  
  So to sum my review up, if you can tune out these issues and still have fun all the time, get this 
 game as it is fantastic. But if you lose your temper very easily, watch out.
  
  Story - 6/10 :- short but veteran mode makes it more time consuming with it's insanely hard difficulty.
 
  Graphics - 9/10 :- very good, but arn't most 360 games nowadays?
  Fun - DEPENDS :- depends on what kind of person you are really :-)
  Online - 8/10 :- would have 
 been perfect hadn't it been for those irritating problems that occured not just to me but a lot 
 of people.
  
  Overall - 7.5/10 :- good game but not as good as COD4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xXGIxxJesusXx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 24, 2008 7:45 am PT
Review:  COD: WAW is, like you have probably already heard, exactly like COD 4. But, ask yourself, is this 
 a bad thing? The multiplayer offers a wide variety of game-modes, maps, people to play with, weapons 
 and replayabilty. The story mode is revolutionary in that you feel like you are actually fighting 
 the war! Overall, COD 5 is a great game and rightly deserves it's place in my top 5 favorite games.
 
  
  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Funkadima
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 23, 2008 8:21 pm PT
Review:  Now here me out, CoD4 was quite possibly the greatest game I've ever played, thus it's inevitable 
 for me to frequently compare World At War with it.
  
  First of all, single player. In as few words as possible: gory, explicit, and cool. Flying limbs 
 and swears galore make this edition much more mature, but it feels almost as if they were trying 
 too hard to make themselves distinct from #4, which is a good thing. But it doesn't really do much 
 to add on to the gaming experience itself. The single greatest thing that separates the single 
 player is the flamethrower. It really warms you up on the inside while you're burning everything 
 in your path. However, the epic-ness that I discovered in CoD4 (disarming nukes and the like) wasn't 
 as frequent in its just-as-short campaign. There are some amazing levels, the multi-parted plane 
 mission being my favorite, that are just downright cool. But as far as cutscenes go, they don't 
 quite compare to CoD4's (the exploding nuke was one of my favorite gaming moments of all) . Finally, 
 I found that enemy spawns in veteran mode are slightly less instantaneous than they were in #4, 
 and thus MIGHT be a little easier, but nerve wracking nonetheless. All in all, fun yet short campaign 
 that has some guaranteed good times.
  
  Then there's the multiplayer, the only reason people should really buy these games. The campaign 
 alone isn't nearly worth 60 dollars, so if you don't have LIVE, just rent it or get it used. The 
 single greatest thing that makes WaW better is..... the lack of the M16 (Yes, I am one of those 
 guys who believes the M16 was the worst thing to happen to video games.) However, War mode is also 
 fun and exciting in a cool territories-styled match. Finally, they increased the max level from 
 55 to 65, which seems to be a bad idea. Due to this, they stretched out the unlockable weapons 
 too far and by the 50's, you could be waiting at least five levels until you get a new one. Other 
 than these few key things, it really is just a WWII version of CoD4's multiplayer, which is a good 
 thing. 
  
  And of course, there's Nazi Zombies. Finally, something completely new for the Call Of Duty series. 
 It's not quite as fun while playing by yourself, but luckily there is local 2-player co-op for 
 the mode. I haven't played it with more than one other player, but it is highly addictive and fun. 
 There really isn't any greater pleasure in the world than opening up on a huge group of Nazis with 
 your Deployable MG and popping off dozens of headshots, or throwing a grenade into a group of zombies 
 who are swarming your buddy and watching them all explode. Overall, IT'S FUN!
  
  Finally, the technical stuff. I'll try to keep it short. The graphics lack the polish that was 
 found in CoD4, but they are still wonderful to look at from a distance. And that's as far as I'm 
 going to go. Hope this helped
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Guardcaptainsid
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 23, 2008 11:26 am PT
Review:  I got this game for my birthday, it was worth it. Not only is it the best game that brings in the 
 japanese, it also includes Nazi Zombies, what were they thinking! Any ways, Nazi Zombie mode is 
 cool. The games beginning is very interesting to watch, it shows you and a few others getting tortured. 
 When your team mate gets his throat slit, you are about to have the same fate. Fortanutely you 
 are rescued, and the game begins. Through out the game, marines will get caught in traps, japanese 
 soldiers will run at you stabbing you and your team yelling "bonzai"! Also as an american, you 
 will get to ride in a black cat jet and blow up merchant ships and rescue survivors. As a russian, 
 you will sneak through stalingrad and snipe germans, You also will assassinate a Nazi general. 
 You will march through berlin, Ride a tank (I hated this) , and kill surrending germans. Basically, 
 you will destroy the german army. Nazi Zombie mode, one of my favorite things in the game. Basically, 
 you try to survive as many rounds in a house full of supplies, (You have to pay for supplies and 
 to open new areas with points) . You get points by... KILLING ZOMBIES! The windows are boarded up, 
 but the zombies break them down. You can rebuild them for points. If you open a door, you get a 
 random weapons box. If you spend 950 points, you get a random weapon, the toughest is the ray gun, 
 not available in the campaign. So, if you have enough
  money, and nothing to do, go buy this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Star_Killer_66
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 22, 2008 10:33 pm PT
Review:  Im a bit of a history buff, so this review is probably biased. One thing i can say unbiased for 
 certain though is that this game does not deserve the crap reviews it is getting (7/10 on some 
 sites) . It retains the COD feel from the previous title, and even though it hardly progresses the 
 series forward, it holds its own and triumphs over COD4. The multiplayer is pretty much the same 
 as COD4, besides some new perks and a chance to exp in a similar game. The campaign is freaking 
 phenomenal, it almost doubles as a movie. When i saw the review for the game and saw they used 
 real ww2 footage and drawn out pictures as the only cinematics, i thought it would be gay. But 
 no, it actually works out quite well. While the length of the campaign is somewhat disappointing, 
 it makes up for it in quality, and is helped by its difficulty and on the fly strategy, and is 
 still a lot more than "an overpriced expansion pack". The campaign is fun, and does offer replay 
 value, especially in co-op, and the fun missions. Nazi zombies is a tonne of fun, similar to horde 
 in GOW2, and also adds more appeal to the game. But as always, what will keep this game alive for 
 months and months and months to come will be the superb MP, to which i have switched too from COD4. 
 In closing, the campaign makes this game worth it, and is like nothing else i have ever played. 
 Overall, this is a very underrated game, if you like WW2 or COD, this is definitely for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: altiair
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 22, 2008 8:17 pm PT
Review:  I believe that call of duty waw is a haradcore game. It definetely has a great online expierience.
 
  The online gameplay is so complicated, at every corner you die. Not for me though but lots of people 
 complain about dieng around every corner. The zombie killing mode is really fun you unlock this 
 after beating the game. There is no way to not die on this mode you play until you die. Also the 
 Solo gameplay is fun, the story is gory and interesting. The muiltiplayer is more realistic because 
 you have more people to communocate with.
  The othewr call of duty games are fun, but there not as great as this game.
  Some people dont 
 like this game very much but I think its good.
  the game came out not to long ago.
  Well any way the point is that the game is really great and I recommend it
  thankyou for reading. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sircrazy56
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 22, 2008 10:17 am PT
Review:  As I played WaW, the first thing I noticed that was missing was the war quotes after you die. This 
 made me very upset since they've been there since the first game.
  
  Next, sometimes it feels like the enemy AI ignores you or just stops working, so much so that I 
 can stand next to them and shoot their feet. 
  
  Another thing is that I can't really get attached to the US cahracters, idk why.
  
  The last 
 low point for me is it feels like treyarch took the engine and just used everything memorable from 
 the last game and shoved it into each mission. Nahmeen?
  
  It's a fun game though, there's some refreshing stuff comparing it to the WWII universe, like the 
 big fire thing, bayonets, snipers in trees, a lot of water intertaction etc. I personally like 
 the Russian part of the game the most.
  
  Haven't played online yet, but I'm sure it'll be fun.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lahdeedah
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 21, 2008 6:18 pm PT
Review:  The game was fun, don't get me wrong, but the campaign can get ridiculously boring at times. It's 
 the same over, and over. Japanese pop out of the ground, come charging at you, tackle you, stab 
 them before they stab you. OR, "TAKE OUT THE TANK, TAKE OUT THE TANK!!!" The mission I absolutely 
 loved was, "Vendetta."
  
  The story isn't amazing, but it's great for a WWII game. How do you make a story out of a WWII 
 game? Who knows, but Treyarch did it. I'm impressed with it. The ending was pretty sad though. 
 I'm not spoiling it for you. 
  
  There are a lot of new guns, and I like how they modeled the guns too. It's not your old, boring, 
 average sniper. They made it look very cool I must admit. They have also added quite a few guns. 
 A lot of japanese guns, flamethrower, and that's all I can think of right now.
  
  The Multiplayer is great as usual. All Call of Duty games have great multiplayer. What else is 
 there to say?
  
  Overall, Call of Duty 5 is definitely worth a buy unless you like the campaign only. Then it's 
 worth a rent because you can beat the campaign in about a day or two.
  
  My final score: 8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DoMiNiC147
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 21, 2008 4:05 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: They don't seem to improve from CoD:4 in fact I think their worst. I can understand that 
 the two were made by different people but It didn't seem close to me.
  
  Controls: Same as every other CoD game. Which isn't a bad thing. In fact I like it the only problem 
 that I had was mounting my gun. Sometimes it worked sometimes it didn't.
  
  A. I. : Okay now this really ticked me off let me tell you some things that happened to me. Friendly 
 A. I. would just stand there and I had to push them to the next objective. Enemy A. I. on two occasions 
 stopped shooting me completely and I could walk up to all of them and knife all of them without 
 getting shoot.
  
  Sound: I liked the sound. I really liked the sound of my knife swooshing and my guns firing. I 
 swear I could even hear the sound of fire burning (when there was fire) .
  
  Multi-player: Now for what usually I get CoD games. The multi-player is a lot like CoD:4 in the 
 essence of the leveling system. It also add some new playlist like Veteran. I sadly couldn't get 
 into the multiplay though. I'm not sure why. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roger7660
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 21, 2008 2:49 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty World at War is a great game and an intense game. Its a very realistic game and is 
 fun to play. Its however not as good as call of duty 2. I enjoyed call of duty 2 much more. In 
 this game the game play is fantastic and is fast paced. This game is a lot harder than call of 
 duty 2. In this game you die a lot more than in call of duty 2. Its more frustrating, but still 
 fun. Its a great challenge. This game is just as good as gears of war 2.
  The graphics in this game are much better than call of duty 2. The graphics are superb. Everything 
 looks very real. 
  The sound is awesome as well. The sound effects are great, the music suits a war game, and the 
 voice acting is top notch. The replay value in this game is good, but not as good as call of duty 
 2. Call of Duty 2 is much longer than world at war. 
  The controlls in this game are sharp and quite easy to use. They're great. The combat is awesome 
 and spectacular. The story is great for a war game. 
  I give 7.5 out of 10 for the game play. Very good game play. 9.5 out of 10 for the graphics. Superb 
 graphics. 9.5 out of 10 for the sound. 7 out of 10 for the replay value. Good replay value. 9.5 
 out of 10 for the tilt. Controlls are almost perfect. 8.5 out of 10 for the combat. Very great 
 combat. 8 out fo 10 for the story. Great story. Overall I give 8 out of 10 for this great game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: savestheday1000
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 21, 2008 1:42 pm PT
Review:  This game is good This game is good This game is good This game is good This game is good This 
 game is good This game is good This game is good This game is good This game is good This game 
 is good This game is good This game is good This game is good This game is good This game is good 
 This game is good This game is good This game is good This game is good This game is good This 
 game is good This game is good This game is good This game is good This game is good This game 
 is good This game is good This game is good This game is good This game is good This game is good 
 This game is good This game is good This game is good This game is good This game is good This 
 game is good This game is good This game is good This game is good This game is good This game 
 is good This game is good This game is good This game is good This game is good This game is good 
 This game is good This game is good This game is good This game is good 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamist_402
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 20, 2008 7:31 pm PT
Review:  well.. i'm not gonna describe how awesome this game looks.. i got it along with gears 2 and i think 
 its looks waaaaay better.. along with the great graphics theres the best audio any game ever had.. 
 you've got officers yelling at you and fellow soldiers crying out for help and the most authentic 
 weapon sounds.. and i nearly got an orgasm looking at one particularly huge explosion... and if 
 you have'nt been playing first person shooters like crazy since like the day you were born... you 
 should'nt even consider playing it above normal difficulty.. but thats not a negative thing it 
 actually makes the game feel realistic... im not a regular reviewer so this review kinda sucks 
 but just take my word for it and get this game.. the multiplayer rocks too..
  
  after submitting the review turns out im a few characters short so this is'nt me being a fanboy 
 or anything.. this is just to reach the minimum review length ..... THIS GAME  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silensmemorias
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 20, 2008 7:23 pm PT
Review:  I never really thought I would buy CoD: World at War because it just looked like a full priced 
 expansion pack to me. While yes, it is just as every bit the same as CoD 4, that's still a good 
 thing. And yes, it's back in WWII, but it holds up amazingly.
  
  Graphics (9.0/10) :
  World at War's graphics are very crisp and amazing, just as good as CoD 4. Facial animations are 
 out of this world, too. Animations in the game are so perfect, it's not even funny. I really can't 
 find anything wrong with the game except explosions could have been just a little beefier.
  
  Sound (8.5/10) :
  The sound effects are great. Very solid and realistic sounding guns, explosions, 
 etc. Voice is acting is pretty good, too. Again, I coulnd't really find anything wrong exept some 
 guns sound very underwhelming and some effects are looped for effect, which annoys me.
  
  Gameplay/Story (9.0/10) :
  I gave CoD 4 a perfect rating for a gameplay, and since CoD: WaW uses 
 the same system, you're probably wondering why I gave it a lower score this time around. At least 
 it's not too low. Everything feels very well made and gunplay is tight, responsive, and very addicting. 
 There is a constant stream of intense action that really makes it feel like you're going to die 
 any second. It just gave me shivers when I was plunged into the second level and everyone around 
 you is either wounded, dead, or dying. There are explosions going off EVERYWHERE, people shouting, 
 guns cracking, and your own heartbeat in the background. I just... can't explain how epic most of 
 the situations you are placed in feel. Now.... an EXTREME dissapointment to this epic and gritty 
 feel of WWII... is... grenades? Yes. That's right. Grenades are going to ruin your campaign experience 
 ENTIRELY. At one point in the game, I had FIVE grenades lying side by side right in front of me. 
 So yes, the AI practically holds a paperweight on the "throw grenade" button. Even your own grenades 
 are a death sentence. You can lob all four of them and then have THREE of them returned to you, 
 practically killing you instantly. Yes. Not fun AT ALL. Also, the little mini-game with banzais 
 is very annoying. You'll die 85% of the time banzais attack you. Also, enemies seems to spawn out 
 of nowhere at some points. Very frustrating indeed. As for the story, it's good I guess. Well, 
 as good as a WWII story can get, I guess. It's good don't get me wrong, but you don't become as 
 connected to the characters as you do in CoD 4, except for the Russion sergeant. He's pretty much 
 the Captain Price of World at War. Other than that, the story is good. It is on the short side, 
 however.
  
  Lastability (8/10) : Other than a few achievements that require you to go back into the campaign, 
 you might revisit campaign only to redo favorite missions (i. e., missions where you blow tons of 
 people up, missions wehre you get the flamethrower at the beginning, stuff like that.) Nazi zombies 
 helps with the lastability, as well, although it looses its fun once you hit level 15. It's just 
 not fun anymore and becomes more frustrating than anything. Multiplayer is possibly the only things 
 that saves the lastability. Like CoD 4, you'll be playing it for a very long time.
  
  Final Comment:
  CoD WaW could use a little more polish and a more heart hitting story... and maybe 
 a little longer campaign, but overall, like CoD 4, you'll overlook those by staring at the great 
 graphics and being by being totally addicted to the amazing and tight gameplay. Zombie Nazis is 
 fun, but not as amazingly fun as it was hyped. CoD WaW recieves a 9.0 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mark127
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 20, 2008 12:26 am PT
Review:  World at War is a complex review. It is an amazing game when you look at it by itself (not considering 
 others in the series) , however, I think all Call of Duty fans agree that the WW2 theater has been 
 largely overdone. Call of Duty World at War tries to bring a fresh outlook on the war, and for 
 the most part succeeds. I liked the American missions as they were a change (for me) , but the Russian 
 missions kind of felt like the same old stuff I'd been playing for years. The online multiplayer 
 is the same concept as Call of Duty 4, but different in a way. The guns, tactics, and other things 
 of those nature remain the same, but the maps seem to affect the gameplay quite a bit. The maps 
 seem a lot smaller than in 4 and the firefights happen much more often and in less space. This 
 obviously makes for many spawning faux-paux, but all in all it almost feels like a quicker pace 
 than 4. I recommend this game to any fans of the Call of Duty franchise who are looking for something 
 new to spend their time on, yes, it's the same as 4 pretty much, but if you are a fan of WW2 like 
 me, the game is a welcome and strong addition to the Call of Duty family. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gjagiello
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 19, 2008 3:17 pm PT
Review:  I guess I have played one too many WWII shooters... I could just not get into COD: WaW. I played 
 about 75% of the campaign, then lost interest (both coop and solo) . I also played multiplayer, 
 mostly team deathmatch, up to level 25. I found most of the multiplayer maps a little annoying 
 -- too small and circular, 'roller-rink' style, or with no useful cover. It felt a bit 'floaty' 
 and felt too fast, more similar to COD3 multi than COD4.
  
  I'm a big fan of COD4, both the campaign and multiplayer, but this didn't have the same feel for 
 me. Maybe it's related to Treyarch vs. Infinity Ward as the developer, or maybe just the WWII theme... but 
 I sent my rental copy back. 
  
  So if you, like me, are a big COD4 fan, consider a rental of this one first. I'm back to playing 
 COD4, actually, and still love it after all these months. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: assassin973
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 19, 2008 2:57 pm PT
Review:  It has great campaign or should i say awsome. Very challenging with all of the guys running around. I 
 like when you beat the game you unlock the nazi zombie mode. That is addicting! Could play it all 
 night. The campaign has great missions. I love the flame thrower except it is kind of weird you have 
 unlimited ammo in the flamethrower. The weapons are GREAT! They seem just like the ones in world 
 war 2. The multiplayer isn't as good as call of duty 4. The levels i think are ok. One thing i hate 
 is that when you get a kill streak and get dogs after you, it is almost impossible to survive. And 
 they come out of nowhere. I was playing my friends when they got that, i was like this sucks. I mean 
 he got probably 5 kills on me from that. One other thing about the campaign is that sometimes they 
 are stupid. Running away from you. I like the sniper mission thought. That was probably the best! 
 It was AWSOME. Another must HAVE! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VictimGame
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 19, 2008 9:30 am PT
Review:  Overall, I was excited from the start to hear that a nice WWII game was coming out for the X360. 
 I am just crackers about those Bolt-Action rifles, and those M2 flame-throwers that were getting 
 so much media. I got the game for my Birthday, December 5th, and two seconds after the death of 
 your American comrade to that Japanese soldier, I loved the game. I loved it so much I beat the 
 whole thing in one afternoon, then freaked myself out on the 'Nazi Zombie' mode. Overall, there 
 are five great things to take in here:
  1. - The game has smooth gameplay, exactly like that of CoD4, as it is built upon the engine, and 
 therefore has the exact same controls. 
  2. - The weapons may seem to be regular old dull WWII, like in most games, but the sound effects 
 and rendering for weapons like the Arisika Rifle, the Mosin Nagant, the Shotgun, and even the pistols, 
 just blows that thought out of mind. 
  3. - The AI in this game are amazing, smart and realistic...
  4. - Gore! YAY! I love the realism 
 involved when you blow a guy's arms off with an FG42. It may seem sick, but it's amazing! GREAT! 
 
  5. - VEHICLES! You get to fly 'round in planes and blow up tanks as a T-334 Russian Heavy Armor 
 Unit. Bang Bang Bang, lots of that stuff for your buck. 
  
  OVERALL: 10/10, get more than what you pay for, each mission could be its own game and worth $100.00! 
 BUY NOW!!! 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vaskaville
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 17, 2008 5:59 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Fantastic weapons, fantastic story, excellent plot, excellent characters, crisp graphics, 
 air strikes, bayonets and flamethrowers, fantastic detail, great setting, phenomenal music and 
 sound effects, excellent mission design.
  
  They should of done a story mission with the Nazi zombies to spice things up instead of a shoot 
 it arcade round by round deal. I really love this game mostly because it's unique, I haven't played 
 a world war 2 shooter this good before. Usually when you hear world war 2 shooter game you think 
 "EEEEEEEkkkkk" but Call of Duty: World at War I highly recommend it. The last Call of Duty game 
 I have ever played was the first one ever launched and compared to this it is a massive improvement 
 and I mean MASSIVE. The first Call of Duty game to launch hardly had any story to it, but this 
 game has an in depth story which makes it the best Call of Duty game I have ever played. The music 
 WOW, phenomenal job on the music. I love how the missions are designed because one objective is 
 different than the last. You want a good weapon go for the bayonets and flamethrowers they really 
 pack a wallop as well as the air strikes, I love the air strikes call for them and a whole battalion 
 of missiles come crashing down into a gloom cloud of destruction. Best world war 2 shooter I have 
 ever played, perfect 10, keep up the good work. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pete420630
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 17, 2008 11:23 am PT
Review:  first off zombie mode is awsome 2nd the multiplayer is addicting the pace of the game is is perfect 
 gs only rated it an 8.5 cause its similar to cod4 but i think it has better graphics the reviewer 
 must not be a fan of ww2 but its a buyer for the zombie mode itself the only down fall is the single 
 player ai haven as many frags as commando the maps to me are better then cod4 hopfully theere is 
 a map pack on its way i rate it a 9 man are u serius 100 words for a text review there has to be 
 another way cause im done dfdf dfdf dfsdf df dsf sfd f dfdsf sdt dffdsf f fsf df f df fsdf f sf 
 fffdfdsf dfdfd fsdf df df dfsf df df f df sdfs steryd tfsd sfsfs sf sfs s sf fs fsfsfsfsdf s d 
 f f f i fidfu isdf sf f uisfif s fidif s fs dfuf ussd fusi s f sf s fu ssu dfus ui suus fsf si 
 fsi si f s sfs fus fi sfs s fs fs fis f sdfo fos f ss sffs fs fs s f fdsd fsi sdi fs if sd s f 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Infamous_XI
Rating: 2
Date: Dec 16, 2008 11:38 pm PT
Review:  I dont know what else to say... the gameplay just wasnt doing it for me, the story was vaguly famillier, 
 and the only thing that makes me give it a 2.0 and not any lower, were the Nazi Zombies...
  
  i dont know what the thought process was behind bringing it back to a WW2 shooter when Modern 
 Warfare was doing perfectly.. the multiplayer and the way it was set up is the exact same as COD4 
 anyways, so if you like playing on XBL, stick with COD4, unless you like the idea of starting over 
 completely on your ranks...
  
  all i can say is, unless youre only looking for the gamerscore points, or you have a creepy obsession 
 with Nazi Zombies, then i wouldnt get it... stick with Modern Warfare and you'll be set...
  
  heck, if you think you may wanna take the next step up in the COD franchise, then up the difficulty 
 on modern warfare, cause other than a storyline that goes back in time.... again.... youve already 
 played it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mvillacorta
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 16, 2008 9:20 am PT
Review:  Campaign: 9/10 
  I personally loved the campaign. The cut scenes a pretty neat and you do get a feel of the war. 
 There is a certain lack of variants in the story line and you basically repeat the same through 
 out the game. Run and gun through the enemy forces of endless lines of enemies. Don't get me wrong, 
 this is not bad, it is true to the call of duty series, so if you liked previous installments, 
 you will like this one. 
  
  MP: 9/10
  Let me keep this short. If you liked COD4 and you like WW2 Guns this is for you. My only complaint 
 are dogs, I believe this is stupid and I truly hate the person who came up with this. Other than 
 that it is great and full filling. 
  
  
  OVERALL: 9/10
  Don't go with the fanboys against Treyarch, these guys actually pulled it off today and scored 
 a home run with one of the, or if not The best WW2 game I have ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Piratier21
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 15, 2008 6:41 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty World at War, or commonly called Call of Duty 5 (COD5) is a first person shooter developed 
 by Treyarch that is based on WW2. During the Campaign you play as Russians battling Germans, of 
 as USA battling against Japanese "bon-zai" soldiers. 
  
  I personally believe that the plot is not a very well thought out plot. In my opinion the common 
 switch between fighting as a Russian and fighting as an American, (two different characters) . Because 
 it switches every mission or so you get distracted between each characters. Also in the American 
 campaign, i may have not been paying attention, but it seemed all of a sudden the Lieutenant Commander 
 died and i think you are meant to feel "sad" by his death, but whether or not he died didn't affect 
 anything because previously all he had contributed was mission briefing and de-briefings... Also 
 the Russian aspect of the campaign tries to focus on making you, Dmitri, a good friend with another 
 Russian commander. However this relation is extremely far-fetched especially as you become friends 
 when the two of you are able to escape a German command building by themselves. Also your reputation 
 as Dmitri is hyped up to much and it seems that the commander likes you so much for no reason and 
 he lets you stick up the Russian flag etc... However I don't think this relationship is realistic 
 or strongly built up. And therefore although the gameplay is amazing, with great gun representations 
 from WW2 as well as similar controls to previous COD4. 
  
  Finally I think i need to touch bases on the online play of Call of Duty World at War. Personally 
 i believe that this is the best part of Call of Duty, similar to all the other Call of Duty games, 
 Call of Duty 5 allows you to use weapons that are from WW2. Also there are similar things like 
 Recon Plane, Artillery, and Dogs, which are the equivalent to a helicopter when you get 7 kills 
 without dying. The online play is a great way to fight against your friends, and i think the only 
 flaw in this game online is the couple of glitches that some of the levels have.
  
  Out of this however I would definitely recommend this game to most of you, and I definitely believe 
 that this game is a really good first person shooter.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gorandzalto_2
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 15, 2008 5:28 am PT
Review:  How can they? For me this game does nothing, after playing Call of Duty 4. It is so been there 
 done that. Boring, pale, and silly with the high graphics. That fooled me when I was in the store 
 and saw a kid playing the game. I thought, damn it looks great!.. but no.. The graphics only served 
 as fooling device. I don't want to complain about the whole game but right now I am talking about 
 the first three hours of game play. I did not feel, not once, the wow experience. I got very bored 
 very fast. So I called a friend so we can play cooperative, maby more fun. But no. What happened 
 with a screen?! I got my half up to the left and player 2 got his down right... the game did not 
 use the whole tv, maybe 80%... 50 inch and I felt like playing on 32inch split screen tv. OMG. 
 We played for another two hours and then we both got bored. I payed 100 bucks for this game and 
 today I am getting my money back! ... I hope. This game was just made for making money on the success 
 of Call of Duty 1,2,3 and 4. You don't have to buy it, borrow it instead from someone like me =) . 
 The good things... Well let's leave that for now... maybe I'll come up with some good things later 
 on... right now I am mad. My grade 5,5. I wish they done better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eaglesfan534
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 14, 2008 6:06 am PT
Review:  The campaign adds a few more twists on the japanese front with them setting up ambush points and 
 "road-side" bombs. I have to admit, its much more intimidating fighting the axis powers this time 
 around. Im currently on the last few levels playing on veteran and good lord its tough. Not only 
 do you have to worry about covering anytime youre not shooting, you have to worry about your AI 
 comrades pushing out of cover. Many times i was crouched behind a barrel or box and one of my "team 
 mates" pushed me out cuz he was already headed for it. I've died countless times from grenades 
 cuz they stood in my way as i tried to run. I should be able to sprint to cover and push the crap 
 out of them. Oh wells. COD4 still stands supreme. WaW tried to emulate having various warfronts 
 and storylines but it just doesnt hold its own. Play with a friend, otherwise the offline action 
 wont keep you entertained. The online action is okay to play on. One thing I mostly love to do 
 is play Nazi Zombies, its always fun with a friend or to play online. But overall nice game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ulleb
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 14, 2008 5:49 am PT
Review:  Coming into this game I was a total skeptic, boy was I wrong. I figured like most of the hardcore 
 Infinity Ward fans that this Treyarch remake wasn't going to be anywhere near on the level that 
 Call of Duty 2, or 4 are. After playing awhile in the single-player, the brutal and realistic fighting 
 along with the WWII setting started to grow more and more on me. After finishing the Single-player, 
 I tried a little bit of Co-op, a nice addition, but pretty generic, and the all new Nazi Zombie 
 mode, an extremely addictive experience, which has you buying weapons with points earned from kills. 
 Lastly, I have played a bit of the online, and it delivers almost as well as Call of Duty 4, prestiges 
 return along with perks and with most of the old challenges we all know and love, but a few new 
 ones present themselves. All in all, I feel that Call of Duty: World at War is an experience that 
 fans of the series, hardcore and casual, should at least rent to see how good this new installment 
 is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ProphetofNerd
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 14, 2008 4:55 am PT
Review:  The interesting thing about this game is, it's essentially COD4 but massively improved, and there's 
 still some reason why it feels compltely different. Is it the exponential increase of gore? Not 
 quite. Is it the expanded ranking and XP system in multiplayer? Getting warmer. Is it the fact 
 that it's World War Two again now? You betcha, as Sarah Palin would say. You see, in COD4 you can 
 do a lot of cool stuff, like owning inexplicably with random weapons you find laying on the ground. 
 You can shoot people repeatedly with semi-automatic sniper rifles too. One thing you can't do: 
 get a 21-kill-streak with a tank in your first multiplayer match of the day, which, in a holdback 
 to COD4's addicting multiplayer, will definitely not be your last. The campaign is expanded as 
 well: you feel like you are actually being ambushed in Okinawan forests or sniping in Stalingrad. 
 COD5 is the best yet, and a worthy buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: david61391
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 13, 2008 8:59 pm PT
Review:  The greatest WWII series is finally back fighting Nazis and the Axis Powers. Though COD4 was greatly 
 successful, the fifth game is doing what the series has always been known for: not modern warfare.
 
  The game follows two men through the war; an American across the Pasific Campaign island-hopping 
 to Japan, and a Soviet pushing back the Reich from Russia to the heart of Germany. While the setting 
 is not new at all, Treyarch has done a fine job at recreating the war in a few new and unexpected 
 ways. Japanese soldiers have far different tactics from the usual German crew; instead of throwing 
 a grenade, they might charge you with their bayonet, or set an ambush for you and your comrades. 
 The war-torn scenery of the European levels may seem familiar, but the lush tropical forests of 
 the Pasific Islands are a great contrast.
  The multiplayer brings back the addicting qualities that Modern Warfare had, like upgradable weapons 
 and perks, while adding some new stuff like vehicles, 4 player campaign, and a co-op mode called 
 Nazi-Zombies (up to 4 players surviving waves of, well, zombies) .
  The game is not perfect. There are a few notable glitches in multiplayer, and to the less-than-hardcore 
 gamer, the difficulty in the single player seems a bit steep. These flaws are easy to overlook 
 though.
  In short, the game is a great addition to the series despite its familiar backdrop. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rooster703
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 13, 2008 8:34 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty: World at war was made by treyarch, the same guys who created COD 3, instead of Infinity 
 ward, created COD 4 and COD 2. COD 5, basically, is just like the 3 game, actually its the same 
 engine. So alot of the combat is similar to the 4 game. The Campaign is actually very good, its 
 extremly intense and you just cant say no to a flamethrower. Throughout the campaign you switch 
 between differnt soldiers, similar to all Call of Duty games. You swap back and forth between a 
 young U. S. marine in the pacific theater and a grizzled russian shock trooper in the later days 
 of the war during the russian push into Berlin. Both scenerios have been for me alot of fun, from 
 fighting in the jungles with a flamethrower to clearing building to building with a sawed off shotgun. 
 It has to be one of the best campaigns in the Call of Duty series. Now for the Multiplayer, just 
 take COD 4 and put it with WWII weaponry. Its the exact feel, graphics, controls, etc., it's basically 
 a COD 4 mod. But its still fun. The game overall is pretty good, with an immersive story and a 
 brutal multiplayer. It is a very good buy for this holiday season so dont pass it up. But if your 
 unsure, at least rent it, it is definitly worth it.
  
  
  P. S. if you like writing reviews for your favorite games than check out the Game Reviewers Union 
 we're always lookin for new people. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: richy36
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 13, 2008 12:06 pm PT
Review:  I'm no expert but hold my own on FPS for those filling there xmas stockings with WAW on the wish 
 list. Cod5 plays like a playstation title and offers little difficulty at its standard setting. 
 The story pans from one side of the globe to another and although both fronts make for an enjoyable 
 experience the continuity of cod4 is missed. As stated this game must be played on it's hardest 
 setting to gain the most value for your pocket and if things get tough you can always drop a difficulty. 
 World at War is a great game and an essential purchase for the hardcore fans. Sceptics who wait 
 for infintyward's update before xmas 2010 are missing out as the online mode throws together the 
 gaming community for another fire fighting frenzy. The weapons online are the only thing that cod4 
 users may not enjoy and in comparison to modern warfare they may have a case. The story's both 
 frontlines in WW2 are now told and many fans of this genre believe this now should be put to bed. 
 Lets move forward and invent theoretical scripts for developers to engross the gamer in a modern 
 genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -CANUCK-
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 13, 2008 11:58 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty : World At War : A World War 2 first person shooter developed by Treyarch, and using 
 the gameplay engine from Infinity Ward's Call of Duty 4 : Modern Warfare. 
  
  Story : The missions generally fall under two separate, largely unrelated storylines, involving 
 the Americans attacking the Japanese and the Russian invasion of Berlin. Between missions, there 
 are these over-stylized cutscenes that attempt to explain the context of each mission, splicing 
 old war footage with fancy flourishes and throwing random big words at you like "60,000 DEAD!" 
 and "FLAME THROWER" in what feels less like a gritty war montage than an MTV commercial. What little 
 story is told during the missions, however, presents an interesting, slow building plot of their 
 own; the Americans show gradually increasing resentment for their involvement while the Russians 
 are led by a borderline-psychotic sergeant who comes off as more genocidal than his Nazi adversaries. 
 
  
  The greatest thing to happen to the Call of Duty series since it began to depict World War 2 was 
 for the series to leave World War 2. Infinity Ward's Modern Warfare took full advantage of the 
 change in time period to produce an incredibly memorable and varied campaign that threw one great 
 moment after another at the player. So from the onset, returning to World War 2 feels like a baffling 
 decision, made less as a tribute to the fighting men of the day and more as easy money for Activision. 
 
  
  The core gameplay in World At War is like past Call of Duty games in that most of the time, it's 
 you and your fellow countrymen against a troop of enemy soldiers. Going in guns blazing will result 
 in a tragic death (sadly no longer greeted by assorted famous anti-war quotes like in past games, 
 as if to say they've acknowledged this game isn't being made to spread a message) , so you'll have 
 to find cover and pick your shots. And like in past games, the game gives you the sense that you're 
 a small man in a big army, using old guns from the time, pushing the enemy further back in a giant, 
 chaotic war zone and not playing the proverbial one man army on a rampage.
  
  And like in past games, you'll have a tank driving sequence, a tank destroying sequence, gun turret 
 sequences, bigger gun turret sequences, gun turret-destroying sequences, sniper rifle sequences, 
 and for forth. The key word here is "like past games" because this game is a whole lot like those 
 past games. Except for a few key events (in a horrifically intriguing moment, your first mission 
 as a Russian troop has you waking up surrounded by the bodies of your comrades after a slaughter) , 
 you've played all of this before and very little has changed. The ambiance of being in the middle 
 of an epic battle in World War 2 that was once compelling has lost its shock value. 
  
  Okay, there are a few new things. The fire technology in video games has advanced enough for historians 
 to conveniently remember that there were flamethrowers and Molotov cocktails in World War 2. They 
 make for a great visual effect, but I can't help but feel that these features were less inspired 
 by World War 2 than Grand Theft Auto 3. There are also bayonets nowwhich brings me to a suggestion 
 I'd like to pass on to Treyarch; try to make frequent-occurring animations look as unscripted as 
 possible. The first time a Japanese Banzai tripped me and tried to pierce me with his bayonet, 
 only for my troop to pull away his rifle and stab him in the throat with a knife knocked my socks 
 off. The subsequent twenty times that this happened knocked my patience off.
  
  All things considered, it's a relatively solid campaign that'll at least provide a beefy challenge, 
 and it brings us to the game's third-biggest selling point (behind NAZI ZOMBIES and riding on the 
 coattails of Call of Duty 4) , the co-operative options. Up to four players online can band together 
 and play throughwhatever mission the game randomly decides you guys to play. Either you can get 
 four buddies together and play at a leisurely pace, or compete for points based on such scoring 
 factors as "kills" and "more kills". On top of this, you can obtain special "death cards" that 
 either help the team (1 or 2 of them) or hinder you (the other 15) but likewise will help earn 
 additional points towards your rank.
  
  You remember the rank, right? From Call of Duty 4? It's back in World of War. All of the competitive 
 multiplayer options are once again perk-oriented. You create a character class, complete with your 
 choice of weapons, as well as bonus traits and abilities. Increasing your rank, by way of playing 
 through the game's assorted multiplayer modes will improve your rank and thus unlock more weapons, 
 perks and modes. I'm a bit ticked that not all of the multiplayer modes are available from the 
 start, and there's the argument that the hardcore gamers who pull all-nighters to improve their 
 rank are going to have a distinct edge over whoever is just playing the game to kill a few minutes, 
 but alas. The big difference between this and Call of Duty 4 is the change in setting, so which 
 one you prefer will depend on personal taste, but I guess there are people out there that enjoy 
 grinding levels in a shooter and well, here's another chance to do it all over again. 
  
  Finally, there's NAZI ZOMBIES, the bonus mode that you'll unlock for beating the campaign. If the 
 game had any intention of treating the war like the more violent conflict in human history, it 
 just went out the window here. (Though I guess the mere presence of online deathmatches set in 
 World War 2 already spat in the fact of dignity.) In a nutshell, you and up to three others are 
 in this one house being attacked by gradually increasing numbers of NAZI ZOMBIES. Killing these 
 NAZI ZOMBIES will earn points that can be used on weapons, ammo, opening up two more sections of 
 the house or repairing whatever boards the NAZI ZOMBIES tore down to get in. It's a novel distraction 
 at best, but it's hampered by the fact that there's only one house. The multiplayer match type 
 of "a group of players against waves of enemies" is starting to become popular. That said, this 
 mode doesn't quite measure up to, say, Gears of War 2's "Horde Mode" or Left 4 Dead'swell the 
 entire game Left 4 Dead is pretty much this mode. 
  
  All things considered, Call of Duty: World At War is a solid game. It's just walking a beaten path, 
 and it's only attempts to innovate the formula are through following the latest trends from other 
 shooters. If you're a massive co-operative multiplayer enthusiast then you'll have some fun with 
 this, and likewise, for people who have nary played a World War 2 shooter before, then you'll be 
 in for quite the experience. But there's an overwhelming sense of deja-vu waiting for veterans 
 of this franchise, and most of us will be left thinking this series should stop looking to the 
 past and stick to a more Modern approach. 
  
  Pros : No forced tutorial! It's like the game knew that the majority of players have played Call 
 of Duty 4. The one turret level where you switch between different guns on a single airplane gloriously 
 throws you into the 1940s. 
  
  Cons : The last couple of missions sometimes feel like the game is just tossing wave after wave 
 of enemies at you. Sometimes an enemy soldier will just stand there in the open and not do anything. 
 Maybe this is meant to simulate a rookie soldier's nerves freezing up.
  
  3  stars.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: herbie12282
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 12, 2008 11:25 pm PT
Review:  Let me first start off by saying i've been a fan of the Call of Duty series since the first one 
 on PC. Over the years it's had some changes made to it but has ultimately remained the same game. 
 I have to say of all the Call of Duty's i've player CoD3 was probably my least favorite with this 
 one in a close second. 
  
  There's something lacking in this game that takes me out of the experience. Maybe i'm just tired 
 of WW2 shooters but i don't think it's that. Single Player is passable and is decent target practice 
 for when you jump into the real meat of the game which is the multiplayer. It's really hard to 
 care about the single player campaign. I care as much about the story in this game as i did the 
 first time i played Wolfenstein 3d. It just doesn't engage you, nor does it try. Call of Duty 4 
 really nailed its single player where you felt like you were playing through a tom clancy book 
 on steroids. This one is just moving from one checkpoint to the next with little explanation as 
 to why.
  
  Multiplayer also feels a bit off. Call of Duty 4's multiplayer was fast paced but it still felt 
 like the characters and weapons had some weight to them. In this one it feels like a bunch of blow-up 
 dolls on ice skates. The weapons are way off in the way they feel. The great thing about CoD and 
 CoD2 was that it wasn't a pray and spray shooter. Your Halo multiplayer skills were of no use to 
 you. This one is the polar opposite. SMG's rule the battlefield simply because of the fact that 
 it's easier to sprint up to you and spray that to gun someone down with a well placed shot. Players 
 can run up on you and open up without even pulling the left trigger and clear out the room. When 
 you got a headshot in CoD4, you knew you got him in the head and were even rewarded with a very 
 audible ping noise when that happened. Now, it's barely noticable.
  
  In closing i'll just say that i don't see myself going into prestige mode even once for this game. 
 Once i'm finished with it, it's going back on my shelf. Activision, please stop insisting on putting 
 out a new Call of Duty game every year. I can wait a couple years between them to ensure we're 
 getting the most quality and post release support for them as possible rather than jumping straight 
 to the next one 12 months later. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rotten__eggs
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 12, 2008 8:24 pm PT
Review:  don't get me wrong this is a pretty good game but overall its just.... lacking. I dunno first of 
 all when ur playing co-op offline the 1/4 screen is taken up by nothing just like a frame around 
 parts of the screen which made me mad. Second on campaign its mostly long distance rifle fighting, 
 which is cool and you actually have many soldiers fighting alongside u which really is nice instead 
 of by yourself like many older games. But when long range fighting if you don't have a scope its 
 very hard to determine friend from foe, and I spent many bullets killing my own men. Plus the campaign 
 is either very hard or very easy depending on the difficulty level u pick. Online i honestly thought 
 was a joke. Its way to unrealistic in saying how a knife or bayonet can cut someones arm off is 
 completely unrealistic, not to mention a bug that needs to be fixed is most people will drop a 
 grenade right b4 they die killing you, isn't that nice and realistic..... yeah overall this game 
 could have been more, but it ends up being just another washed up WWII game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sportzfan8993
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 11, 2008 5:07 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 was the best online multiplayer game I ever played. Call of Duty Modern Warfare 
 is the second best. Better than Gears of War, Halo, etc. The amount of things you can do online 
 is amazing. The selection of perks, weapons, grenades are virtually unlimited. The reason why this 
 year's multiplayer falls short of last year's version is because of a couple of reasons. One, the 
 perk, Juggernaut (which makes your health "a little stronger") , actually makes you health a lot 
 stronger. This bothers me a lot because too many people use this perk and it makes you as strong 
 as Master Chief. Two is because of the spawning points. Too many times have I been spawned killed 
 and spawn kill other people. Sometimes I spawn right on top of a grenade or in front of a crazy 
 dog. Other than these two annoying parts of the game, the online is really fun. The maps are very 
 World War II like and there is great variety.
  The campaign is just about average compared to the multiplayer. There is nothing special, and there 
 never has been, about the campaign. It kind of helps you get familiar with the online maps a little.
 
  The graphics are great. Exploding grenades look real. But the best part is the gore. If a person 
 runs on top of a Bouncing Betty (mine) , you see their legs blow completely off and blood splatters 
 everywhere.
  This year's Call of Duty is a great game and if you have to choose this between Gears of War 2 
 , BUY THIS!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Knightangel121
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 11, 2008 4:51 pm PT
Review:  i well, liked call of duty 4, it was a very good game and to say i dident care for it much is a 
 dam lie, but it wasent great, yes good but not great. al together i find myself playing once awile 
 just for the hell of it so to matter i bought COD: world at war, now first off it is NOT COD 5, 
 and not just because it doesent say it on the case, its because its not ade by infinedy ward its 
 made by treyarch, now to this i say, if you dont care about who makes a game then you my friend 
 can suck balls, or at leat can not call yourself a gamer, mabye a casual gamer but nothing more, 
 now to this i say being a gamer, first you must not think games are GAMES they are much more than 
 just games, next you must at least try to understand games and game storys, now one who know good 
 games, bad games, and understands games, as well as, is good at games is a true gamer, and for 
 this i say even people who are better than me at game still may not be true gamers. now on to the 
 review, well first the game lokks great but there are some glitchs and the facaly modling sucks 
 but overal it average, the sound is ok to say the least but it doesent impress, and the story is 
 very pidifull, meaning i feel sorry that it sucks a monkeys balls, ok noew i think the story in 
 COD: 4 was pretty good not the best but it keep me intresed enough not to leave the room evey time 
 a cutseen came ( unlike COD: world at war) . and last the gameplay, ok it is good but has a few 
 problems, it feel to much like COD: 4 , its like treyarch took a **** on infiedy wards face, and 
 it isent as balenced as COD: 4 is, now to that the game is a rip-off but is has its own feel thats 
 more like the been there, done that thing, but its biggest problem is that is doesent draw you 
 in like COD; 4, and oh yeah, the game has alot of dick moves too, oveal a pretty averge game it 
 doesent desrve any awards, oh yeah the multi player is pretty good, to say the least.................. I 
 gusse. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikey331
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 11, 2008 2:02 pm PT
Review:  Since I played the past 2 Call of Duty games, I was very excited for ths one. Modern Warface was 
 a revolutionary entry, and created the base basically for this game. The campaign is long, and 
 one that you won't be able to complete right away. It will keep you coming back for more. The campaign 
 in my opinion is harder, and the best part is once you beat it, you unlock zombie mode which is 
 another highlight of this title. As for the multiplayer, it's pretty much the same as COD4's but 
 tith vehicles. And might I say, one of my only complaints is the vehicles! Other than that, great 
 guns, perks, and all around great multiplayer. Another complaint is that in the campaign, the japanease 
 throw way too many grenades and they always ambush you. They are everywhere! Over all, amazing 
 game, with a few drawbacks. I recoment it to everyone! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ebraz83
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 10, 2008 10:29 pm PT
Review:  The campaign is awesome. I think it's the best single player experience of any COD game to date. 
 It's exciting, challenging, and fun. I've heard people complain that it's a little short but so 
 was COD4 story mode, and this one's a bit longer.
  
  The multi-player is excellent. Pretty much the same as the last one, but if it aint broke, don't 
 fix it. At the same time it seems a little too similar. I've put a lot of time into cod4 (more 
 time than I'd like to admit) and this seems like the same game I've been playing for the last year 
 but with new maps and weapons. That's not as much of a downer as I made it sound though, and it 
 will still eat up a ton of my time (more time than I'd like to admit) . I understand their desire 
 to not to stray too far from the formula that worked so well but I'd like it to feel a little more 
 fresh. It's like how halo3 multi felt compared to halo2, but it's cool to get your hands on the 
 WW2 weapons again if you've played any of the other WW2 cod games. Also it's nice to see more game 
 modes like the return of "capture the flag" and "war" from previous COD games
  
  If you were a fan of the last one then this is definitely one to buy. 
  
  Unfortunately juggernaut 
 is still as annoying as ever! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benboz
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 10, 2008 9:49 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty comes back to WW2 with the Call of Duty 4 engine. The game sets around the end of 
 WW2 with the Americans and the Japanese and a campaign with the Russians and the Germans. This 
 is the most violent call of duty ever. You get to take people's arms and legs off with grenades 
 and snipers and blood sprays everywhere. The new thing in multiplayer is that you get to drive 
 tanks and blow people up which is alright but they are so slow. The muitlplayer is like Call of 
 Duty 4 but this time you get 4 perks and there are no camos for your guns. The maps are alright, 
 some are just to big or are stupid. 
  The campaign is probably the best WW2 storyline I have ever played with the Americans and Japanese 
 story and the Russians and Germans story. Great campaign to play in this game. 
  All of the weapons are great and some that you probably haven't even heard of like a Japanese gun 
 called the Type 100. What a name!!! 
  Call of Duty World At War is a excellent game from the creators of Call of Duty 3 but I don't reckon 
 it's as good as Call of Duty 4 which is the best (that's my opinion) . But get this game if your 
 a Call of Duty fan or someone who plays anything because its another excellent war game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster33
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 10, 2008 8:32 pm PT
Review:  If you strip out its World War II setting, Call of Duty: World at War is very much like its predecessor, 
 Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare. For the most part, this is a good thing. The action is intense, 
 the tone is gritty, and the guns feel just as good as they ever have. It offers the same addictive 
 multiplayer system as Call of Duty 4, and even offers a four-player co-op campaign mode. Like all 
 the other Call of Duty games before Modern Warfare, the game takes place during World War II. Even 
 though World at War does a great job of spicing things up, the worn-out source material and dj 
 vu game design, there's definitely a sense of familiarity. While it lacks the freshness that made 
 its predecessor incredible, World at War provides a superb game experience that any shooter fan 
 should take a look at.
  
  Despite the fact that it takes place during World at War, you'll stumble across a new setting as 
 you play through the game's campaign. You'll be familiar with the German setting, but the Americans 
 are fighting in the Pacific islands near Japan. Though you'll be switching between the two armies 
 every couple of levels, the campaign does feel like one steady progression.
  
  Each soldier's journey commences with a scene of despair. Weaponless and surrounding by your enemies, 
 you really feel the gritty emotions of the plot. Though the mood of the campaign will eventually 
 turn towards triumph, you'll still remember those moments from the beginning of the game. While 
 the first few levels seem like you're barely getting a foothold on your enemy, the later ones have 
 you and your comrades pushing toward the enemy capitols. You're usually accompanied by an elite 
 officer who stands out more than the other soldiers. However, the game lacks the character-bonding 
 element that made Modern Warfare's campaign of such a high quality. Not to mention the fact that 
 the campaign will probably take you less than four hours to complete on the recruit difficulty 
 level.
  
  There are some new weapons that haven't been seen in any other Call of Duty game, like the bayonets 
 and flamethrowers. You'll be able to wield both in the American missions to scorch several enemies 
 at a time and to fend off the banzai raiders. It's particularly satisfying to see an enemy being 
 burned to a crisp in a tree, and then to see his dead body hang by the foot from a thin rope. The 
 Russian campaign is slightly more predictable than the Americans', but they both remain intense 
 throughout and end in an awesome fashion.
  
  The game does make a leap forward for the series by offering a two-player split-screen and a four-player 
 co-op campaign over Xbox Live. It's exactly the same experience as the Solo campaign, but the number 
 of enemies increase for every player that joins. You'll be able to turn on competitive scoring, 
 and this does add a bit of flavor and fun to the campaign. There are hidden items called Death 
 Cards on each level-similar to skulls in Halo 3-that turn on cheats to alter some gameplay options, 
 like enemies only being able to die by headshots. There are challenges in these modes that contribute 
 to your multiplayer status, linking them together in an entirely different way.
  
  In case you missed it last year, the multiplayer in Call of Duty 4 is phenomenal, and World at 
 War is basically a World War II version of it. You're constantly building up a character and unlocking 
 new ranks by gaining experience points through several ways. When you rank up, you'll gain new 
 weapons, accessories and perks. Perks are special abilities that alter the traditional gameplay 
 style, and you can have four of these for each of your five classes (one being vehicle-specific) . 
 This leads to an addictive element of customization: will you choose to increase your bullet damage 
 and health, or have a faster firing speed and being able to sprint faster? The perks are all well 
 balanced, and offer so much to the multiplayer. This multiplayer system is just as superb as last 
 year's, though slightly less fascinating.
  
  There are, of course, new maps, but there are also some altered bonuses. For example, when you 
 get a seven-kill streak, you'll have the ability to call in not a helicopter but dogs. There are 
 some maps that support tanks, but the driving is a bit clunky and the aiming a bit annoying. Most 
 of the modes are still the same, though there are some new modes like Capture the Flag and War. 
 But the most appealing new mode is a cooperative game called Nazi Zombies, playable when you beat 
 the campaign, or play with someone who has. This mode puts four players in a house that is being 
 attacked by the undead. Killing the fiends and repairing the barricades earns you points to spend 
 on ammunition, guns, or to unlock new areas of the house. Each round brings tougher, faster, and 
 more numerous waves of zombies, and the game will ultimately end up with all four players dying. 
 Though the random weapon box, special abilities and bonuses of your teammates and some variation, 
 each new round plays similar to the last. Still, it adds a whole lot of fun and excitement to the 
 series.
  
  The audiovisual presentation is great for the most part. The visuals are of high quality, and the 
 sound effects are incredible. The soundtrack adds to the emotion in the campaign. It also has a 
 pretty smooth frame rate throughout, even though the graphics look very similar to its predecessor.
 
  
  By staying true to the Call of Duty 4 formula, Call of Duty: World at War is indeed a superb shooter, 
 particularly in the multiplayer and co-op options. On the other hand, the lack of a fresh approach 
 and familiar weapons and gameplay mechanics take some of the shine off it. This is only a bad thing 
 if you expected this to triumph over its predecessor. But if you want an exciting campaign, fun 
 co-op modes and an engaging multiplayer action, then you'll find a lot to appreciate in World at 
 War. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockerz80
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 10, 2008 7:55 pm PT
Review:  Hey guys okay so i got this game i'm sure you know it if you don't then you must be living under 
 a rock or something the game is Call of Duty World at War. Okay well first i just want to point 
 out that the single player is awesome please if you buy it play the single player not just multiplayer 
 okay. Now as for multiplayer this is the best online game play i have seen in along time if you 
 get this game and don't play online you should have your @$$ kicked.
  I love this game and i think this game will be around for along time so go pick it up. And after 
 you get it get your friends online and make a night of either playing against other players or 
 killing armys of the undead in zombie mode.
  with so many ranks and challenges your days will be filled with none stop fun. Now before i go 
 i want to help you get some gamerscore so i will be telling you how to get The Professional Achievement. 
 Okay this achivevement is worth 15GS now here is what you do. You do this at the begining of the 
 mission Vendetta. Okay when you get the sniper look out at the streets you should see six guards 
 now when the planes stop flying low is when you strike. First take down the two on the left side 
 one bullet for each of them. Next the two in the middle aim for the head of the one crouching if 
 shot right both will die. Next the two on the right shot the head of the lower one if shot right 
 both will die. And last when those six are dead one guard and one dog will come out here is what 
 you do. step back a little way so the guard can't hit you form there but you can still see wait 
 for the dog to come after you when it dose let it jump at you when it dose that knife it then shoot 
 the last guard. And boom your done and got 15GS well guys hope to play with you on XBL bye.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1_9_9_4
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 10, 2008 6:22 pm PT
Review:  Single player has some pretty awesome stuff in it aside from a few parts in COD 4 like the nuke 
 and last part where you pistol Zakaev (or however you spell it you know the guy im talkin ab out... the 
 russian dude..... not the good one the arms dealer one) aside from those parts COD WAW has a better 
 dingle player with many more "OH SNAP" moments especially in the american campaign with those crazy 
 japanese, but the russians have their fare share. Multiplayer is solid but doesnt take many risks. 
 The pacing of multiplayer games is a bit different than COD 4 due to more semiautomatic weapons 
 and bolt action rifles also the addition is vehicles makes it a little anoyying because anti tank 
 rockets are extremely underpowered in my experience it takes about 6 rockets and you only start 
 with 2 if you have to bazooka perk. its also very addictive jsut like its predecesor. They do a 
 good job of finding weapon add ons in a time where weapons were pretty cut and dry. they really 
 only used sniper scopes a lot back then and only on sniper rifles. Whether or not they made up 
 the aperature thing i have no idea. Overall its solid, hope this helped 
::::::

::::::
UserName: griffin4077
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 10, 2008 3:49 pm PT
Review:  The game has a lot of great things but one thing it feels like is a CoD 4 mod. you get the same 
 multiplayer stuff but one thing i liked about Treyarch's Call of Duty 3 game was the ability to 
 choose the game you wished to join or could choose you multiplayer maps. there are some glitchs 
 that need to be fixed. they are doing a good job keeping up patchs and fixs to the problems like 
 the glitch's. there was a glitch on downfall but it seems they have cleared it up. Somthing that 
 you may not notice very much or are just used to CoD 4 but the Last pistol .357 Magnum is a one 
 hit kill... reminds me alot of the desert eagle. I am glad they dont have an m16, that was to strong, 
 but some of the weapons are over powered but the game is a fun experience and its somthing to look 
 forward to and i doubt that many people will put it down any time soon. so its a fun game with 
 lots to do and i think alot of people are loving it. but it still feels lke a Call of Duty mod. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MajorBrian
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 10, 2008 7:19 am PT
Review:  This game was a major disapointment for me. I guess after playing Call of Duty 4 Modern Warfare 
 so much it must have spoiled me. I rented this game and thought it would be an instant classic 
 much like COD4. It started out great, gory great action and Jack Bauer's voice?!! You bet! Then 
 I got to some sniping level and all went to hell. It was really hard (had it on hardened) . It was 
 so stupid. I had to shoot some sniper who must have had super human sniping abilities because everywhere 
 I hid he got me. It was very frustrating and I spent about 40 mins just trying to kill this one 
 guy. I finally killed him by randomly shooting at the windows and got lucky. I thought the flame 
 thrower was an awesome addition. Im just sick of WWII shooters. Why go back when Modern Warfare 
 kicked so much ass. One level that I thought was really cool was when you are in the plane and 
 shooting all of those Japanese boats. That level blew me away, but was sadly the only one. Online 
 muliplayer was of course awesome again, but I missed my modern day weapons. So if anything I'll 
 definetly play COD4 online instead of WAW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boj0001
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 10, 2008 2:08 am PT
Review:  This franchise turns me off. Money grabbing and convinced they will make a legion of fans online. 
 This game is probably the most rushed effort I've ever played. If they took their time (hello, 
 Brothers In Arms- Hells Highway) , by creating an entirely new game and not just a slight change 
 to COD 4, then I might actually be impressed. I don't like eating Cod, and I don't like the fifth 
 installment of COD. So Id be more entitled to play other s. h. i. t. e games, such as Sonic Unleashed 
 and Destroy All Humans- Path of the Furon. Im not looking forward to the next title, as they seem 
 to come out every year. And most games that come out year after year are pretty average. Bring 
 on Duke Nukem already. 
  
  If you don't like Call of Duty- World at War, then buy Brothers in Arms- Hells Highway. Ubisoft 
 rule, and the next couple of years are going to be big. Some of their AAA titles include: Assassins 
 Creed 2, Beyond Good and Evil 2 and Splinter Cell- Conviction. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rocketdanman
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 9, 2008 7:20 pm PT
Review:  For a long time I never understood the hatred for treyarch but, after COD WAW I understand why 
 gamers get angry. To start right off the bat the AI is bad. I found several occasions where enemy 
 AI where standing still right next to me... and then I killed them. This really takes away from 
 the immersive experience. Also it really feels lame due to the fact that the enemy's constantly 
 respawn so it gets old fast. The campaign is decent length but, I found the japanese sections very 
 boring. Thankfully one thing that hasnt really been changed is the multiplayer (thank heavens) . 
 It still has that addictive must play feel to it like COD 4. The multiplayer saves the game but, 
 if you dont have Xbox live or PS3 online then you may want to consider just renting the game. Overall 
 it is not bad but, nowhere near as good as COD 4.
  
  PS the zombie killing fest is sick and much better than Horde from Gears of War 2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark5tar1
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 9, 2008 6:35 am PT
Review:  It's been a year since the popular CoD4 was made. Then when Treyarch made World at War, i have 
 asked "Does it suck?". Then a big NO popped up.
  This WW2 game is made using the same engine as Call of Duty 4. The multiplayer is good and single 
 player is also. Plus it is bloody and gory. And also new weapons such as the flamethrower and you 
 can gun down ships. And Treyarch added Co-Op and online Co-Op such as..... Nazi Zombies where you 
 and 3 friends are trapped in a house for survival. The mode is sort of frustrating but still good 
 overall plus the graphics are good and good interaction in the game. And the difficulty is easy 
 for CoD veterans and hard for CoD newbies so difficulty is Just Right plus the animations are good. 
 This game is the best CoD game that Treyarch has made so far in my book but there are some issues 
 in the game possibly no ranked multiplayer but that can add to the fun or break it. I would rate 
 this 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Westy_Danello
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 8, 2008 11:31 pm PT
Review:  First things first... If you're a die-hard fan of the CoD games, you'll probably love this game. 
 If you find yourself getting tired of the run and gun, unrealistic, over-scripted, idiotic friendly 
 AI first person shooter types, however, steer clear of this game! The campaign is fun to play ONCE 
 on normal, but if you attempt to play it on veteran, prepare yourself to get frustrated in a real 
 hurry. Friendly AI often get in your way, and won't move out of your way when you try to advance 
 past them. Sometimes they even rush to join you behind cover, but in doing so, force you out in 
 the open where you get shot instantly by the enemy. Checkpoints are often frustrating as well. 
 You might be just inches away from reaching the checkpoint when BANG! You're dead! Have fun battling 
 through half a level again only to get killed just before you reach the checkpoint... AGAIN. Repeat 
 that 10 to 20 times and you might just find your xbox controller embedded in your tv. Another seriously 
 irritating part of the game (although not surprising for this franchise) is the over-scripted gameplay. 
 Your movement is highly restricted to a narrow column of advance, instead of a wide-open battlefield. 
 This severely limits your strategic choices when trying to tackle an objective. In fact, there's 
 not much strategy in this game at all. In every battle scenario, friendly and enemy AI are constantly 
 respawning, so even if you think you cleared an area out -- think again -- they'll just respawn and 
 kill you... usually you'll be "banzai'd" in the back or something. Then you get to repeat half the 
 level again for the 15th time. In all fairness, when the campaign is played on normal, it is fast-paced 
 and fun. The story-telling is more or less the same as all the other CoD games, and therefore, 
 is entertaining. Acting and dialogue is very well done, and that said, the game could almost be 
 an interactive movie of sorts. For the all the frustration that goes along with trying to keep 
 the story progressing, however, I think I'd actually rather go watch a good action movie. Multiplayer 
 is another can of worms altogether. Multiplayer is very quick, and very fun. The maps are interesting, 
 with lots of places to hide and explore, and the multiplayer gameplay mechanics are pretty decent. 
 What I do have a problem with, however, is that you have to unlock weapons with accumulated experience 
 points. What if you want to start a round with your favorite weapons? Well I hope your favorite 
 weapons are the default ones, because you'll have to get your ass handed to you online by the "I 
 still live in my parent's basement, and yes, I am 25 year old unemployed virgin..." online gamer 
 type a million times before you can unlock all the weapons. Aside from that, multiplayer is pretty 
 solid, but there are games out there that do everything so much better. I wouldn't recommend buying 
 this game. Rent it, or borrow it from a buddy. Save yourself the 70ish dollars for a better game... or 
 a tank of gas... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pycho22solid
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 8, 2008 7:33 pm PT
Review:  WW2 games. There are a lot of them. Last year Infinity Ward somewhat ended the craze with CallOfDuty4 
 Modern Warfare; The most played, most hyped, and possibly best game of 2007.
  
  ... so when everyone heard that CallOfDuty5 would be back in WW2 reactions were mixed- including 
 mine.
  
  But don't fear, CallOfDuty: World at War is one of the best shooters since COD4, and possibly the 
 best WW2 game ever made.
  
  WaW stays true to the CallOfDuty series in the same vein as the previous titles: Single Player 
 features multiple campaigns against different enemies.
  This time around you play as an American GI fighting in the Pacific, or a Russian seeking revenge 
 on the Nazis in Europe. The first thing you'll notice about the this game compared to other CallOfDutys 
 is that it's VIOLENT. Sure, CoD4 had an M rating but there wasn't gore, there weren't scenes of 
 torture, there wasn't any stock footage of WW2 battles in all their brutality. This may be saying 
 too much but WaW is a far more INTENSE game than Modern Warfare was. The battles are big, bloody, 
 and cinematic. 
  
  Graphics are excellent. Environments look beautiful, even when everything is on fire or blown into 
 pieces. Levels are very detailed with the sounds and sights of mayhem (especially notable in the 
 final level, where you storm the Reichstag in Berlin) . Sounds of gunfire are also spot on and voice 
 acting is excellent.
  
  But it wouldn't be a Call Of Duty without Multiplayer, especially after COD4's revolutionary system. 
 Well it's safe to say that multiplayer is as good as ever! The maps are all great, with the exception 
 of a few spawn issues in some. The leveling/rank system is still top notch as well, and the max 
 level is now up to 65! 
  
  Overall WaW is an exceptional game. The question remains if it's better than CoD4 and I have the 
 answer. No, it has it's flaws such as glitches in multiplayer levels and you'll notcie a few technical 
 flaws during the single player (especially on the harder difficulties, ironically) . But with all 
 honesty, it isn't very fair to compare the two. They are two different games, in completely different 
 settings, with different weapons and themes. So for anyone who hates it without giving it chance, 
 I feel bad for you: Your missing one hell of an experience.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Madcows
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 1, 2009 4:18 am PT
Review:  Call of duty, World at war is a great face lift on the first 2. Nothing super great but a fun game 
 none the less. Story mode has you fighting as a Russia or a US marine basically the pacific theater 
 or the Russian front so its not kill whitey the whole game, spread the love. The controls are not 
 much different then any other FPS. But in this one you can get a rifle with a bayonet, one would 
 think "So what!" but bayoneting someone is a lot of fun. The multiplayer is well the multiplayer 
 not much to say there but they do have a slightly different version. You and your team must hold 
 up is a house while you are attacked by Zombie Nazis. It is very addicting and the only people 
 left that are still politically correct to kill. A must buy for the Call of duty fan or rent it 
 and see what you think. But I would definitely play this game. After no seeing day for a very long 
 time this game is good but short lived. They maps even with the add ons are small. It seems to 
 be the same thing over and over. As you get rank you get guns some are good but most are not so 
 good. Put it simply this game gets old. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: humpfrey25
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 8, 2008 2:29 pm PT
Review:  This game is basically cod 4 modern warfare but set in the pacific and european theatres. If you 
 enjoyed cod 4's campaign gameplay and story then you will enjoy this game no doubt. If you enjoyed 
 cod 4's multiplayer (online) gameplay then you will definetely get addicted to this after the first 
 round of online you play. I have both games and cod 4 ran very smoothly with almost no bugs but 
 this game improved on those problems and is one of the smoothest and addictive online experiences 
 i have ever had. This is a review of the PS3 version not that i see a difference in ibetween xbox 
 360 and PS3 versions of the game. The only minor difference i could point out would be graphics 
 in favor of the PS3. I hope this review helps even if it is brief but i cant stress enough the 
 fact that you must buy this game if you are an FPS fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: safy_soldier
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 8, 2008 9:08 am PT
Review:  call of duty 5 makes world war 2 look exciting and cool like any world war 2 game but it is basically 
 a clone of call of duty 3 but in a different setting but slightly better. you play as 2 characters, 
 one fighting in asia against japenese forces and he other fighting in germany to take over berlin. 
 call of duty has the call of 4 engine to make it more better and it has a better storyline. the 
 guns are all the same but the enemies react differently by running to you with bayonets and tripping 
 you on the floor to stab you but if you click the right stick then you counter and stab in the 
 ear......... cooooool.
  also call of duty is known for it's online play and this game has really lived up to its online 
 reputation.
  
  call of duty 5 is a amazing game with spectacular visiuls but if call of duty 6 was a world war 
 2 game i would not bother gettin it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tyzwain
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 8, 2008 6:56 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty: World at War returns to the traditional roots of its series under Trenyarch, with 
 its predecessor Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare changed its direction under the original development 
 team of Infinity Ward. Treyarch want to prove that World War II games are still fun, and that there 
 is still an open-market for this historical scope.
  
  Now whever your playing World War II games, you know the immediate ending of the game. The Germans 
 and Japanese are bad, Americans are good. The emphasis on the Germans being bad is brings out sympathy 
 for the Russians who had to suffer during the war, and the Cold War era after 1945 meant that people 
 ONLY sympathised with the Russians. 
  
  The approach that Treyarch are trying to establish is typical of modern day war films, trying to 
 see the suffering of humanity in ithe futility of war. The game starts off with American POWs in 
 Japanese hands, which is a very brutal start to a game. This adds to the realism that Call of Duty 
 is famous for, you are nothing and what you do in this game is to survive.
  
  The two main storylines follow Pvt. Miller in the US Marines and Pvt. Petrenko of the Soviet Army, 
 who both aim to bring down the aggressors and to exact revenge on the devastation they have caused. 
 There is also a third storyline, that of Petty Officer Locke of a Black Cat during a raid on a 
 Japanese fleet, however this is only for one mission.
  
  The storyline interlocks with both of these characters, and there are a few notable changes between 
 CoD4 and WaW, most notably the weaponry. No more red dot sights or calling in a helicopter, you 
 are instead left with iron sights and the ability to call in the dogs. Rifles are the most frustrating, 
 with most of them being single-shot, however the M1 Garand having a cartridge makes the game a 
 little bit easier.
  
  The biggest change in the weapons department is the introduction of fire. The flamethrower and 
 the molotov cocktail are introduced in World at War, and are used to good effect. The flamethrower 
 has infinite ammo, and the molotov can be used as a secondary grenade. Both of these are essential 
 in both theatres of war.
  
  The online mode remains the same as in CoD4, with a few historical changes. The Claymores are replaced 
 with Bouncing Betties, and as explained before they replace helicopters with dogs. The air strikes 
 are now artillery, and you have recon planes instead of radar. 
  
  The most notable difference online is the use of vehicles, of which the tank is used to great avail 
 and annoyance. A single tank can prove to be hazardous, as many people equip for purely anti-infantry 
 roles. However with the usual perks of the game, they also have a vehicle perk, in which people 
 can select in their custom class whether to have faster turrets, quicker cooling of machine-gun 
 or faster reloading of the main turret.
  
  Online there is also a large choice of modes. In campaign mode you can play either split-screen 
 or with up to 4 people online. This can be in either competition or co-operation, with points for 
 the first and the pure thrill for the latter.
  
  The biggest 'shock' and the best multiplayer apsect of the game is the unlockable "Nazi Zombies". 
 This game mode pays respect to the Resident Evil and the Evil Dead series, of which you are trapped 
 in a 1940s house with... you guessed it... Nazi Zombies attacking you. You can board up the windows, 
 and gain points through this as well as with zombie kills. With your points your allowed to purchase 
 guns, and more parts and levels of the house, who on their own bring more windows, and inevitably 
 more zombies.
  
  With the guns you can risk a 'random gun' in the ? chest, of which you could end up a MG42, flamethrower 
 or the historically and scientifically incorrect Ray Gun. These weapons spawn at random, and you 
 have to play a fair few times before you get the gun of your choice.
  
  With Nazi Zombies you can play two player spiltscreen, or with up to 4 people online. The best 
 part of this is that the rounds of the game do not end, and that you can create different strategies 
 with friends online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ben_Sim
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 8, 2008 4:05 am PT
Review:  COD: World At World may look familiar to all Call Of Duty series... due to the feel of the weapon 
 and mechanics using the new graphics engine from Mordern Warefare. 
  
  COD: WAW, the gameplay is still as good as ever, the sound is fabulous, and the storyline and acting 
 is marvellous. Even though we thought that World World 2 is played out, Call of Duty still brings 
 the new fresh feeling to any First Person Shooter Fans/WW2 Fans. 
  
  Partly, I feel that Call of Duty gameplay brings about a intense feeling of warefare to any player. 
 You got to find cover desperately when you are hur pretty badly. And the adrenaline rush when there 
 is a grenade indicator showing the grenade that is about to go off near you, when you have only 
 split seconds to decide whether to run or throw the grenade back.
  
  The new add-on to the stabbing of the enemy is brutal. When you are about to be stabbed by a "Ban-zai" 
 soldier, you can counter back by stabbing the enemy in the NECK, which is BRUTAL. But shows user 
 the brutality of war. Stabbing razor sharp knife into enemy == lots of PAIN!!!
  
  Multiplayer is great as ever. With the addition of NAZI zombies, maybe the Call of Duty engine 
 may be used in future to make Zombie games by Infinity Ward/ Treyarch, it is anybody's guess.: P
 
  
  This game is a "must get" for all Call Of Duty Fans. If you are not a Call Of Duty Fan, you might 
 just turn one if you play WAW.
  
  Thanks for reading 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danielbill12
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 7, 2008 6:02 pm PT
Review:  This game brings it back to the good old days. I'm a die hard cod4 fan, but I have to say, this title 
 makes par or better with cod4. You can't miss World at War, it's a must have. The funnest thing I'd 
 have to say, is Zombie Nazis on Xbox Live. Its a constant laugh to watch zombies pouring at you, only 
 to make that pile at the base of the stairs all the bigger. And strangely, despite being WW2, you 
 get a feeling of Modern Tech, just like in cod4. And the Flame Thrower is the funnest thing for me. I 
 havent seen it myself yet, but my friend tells me that if the tank is hit enough, well... Have you 
 ever seen Saving Private Ryan? If you have, he says just imagine the clip from the D Day scene were 
 the flame thrower guy explodes. I hope i get to see this myself. All in all, if you can only get one 
 video game this Holiday, get World at War! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: band_k
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 7, 2008 1:00 pm PT
Review:  The Call of Duty series has always been one of the greatest shooters of all time, and definitely 
 the best WWII shooter series. Even though Modern Warfare's out there, it's still mainly all about 
 WWII.
  
  World at War... such a dark, dark game, but one of the best FPS, with up close, intense action 
 in the Pacific campaign, and good ol' Nazi-fighting in the Russian campaign. It's like it blended 
 Modern Warfare and Call of Duty 3 to make a great game. However, some parts of it are repetitive, 
 not throughout the game, but the series. We've seen the tank level before, we've seen going through 
 a burning city and killing Nazis before, it goes on for a long time.
  
  But what they add, oh yeah, it makes up for it.
  
  The Pacific campaign, to start, adds a whole 
 new feel to the game, holding off against banzai charges and getting ambushed over and over again, 
 it's truly non-stop action. The new weapons for this campaign, the flamethrower and the bayonet, 
 are the most fun weapons in the game, by far. Burning up Japanese and then stabbin' 'em while they 
 burn is great fun, however horrible it is. It's hilarious jumping in fright (or surprise, as some 
 people insist) when 10 Japs jump out of the grass and trees.
  
  Now, there's SOOO much more to say, but I'm afraid I haven't showered, haven't eaten, and I'm still 
 sleepy, so must say goodbye. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boldfacefire123
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 7, 2008 12:21 pm PT
Review:  The game had a lot of potential from the start. The first thing I noticed was the amount of blood 
 had certainly been increased. When you stab someone with your knife, there's a trail of blood that 
 comes from their wound. I also enjoyed the sounds of everything from the start. When someone calls 
 in an artillery strike it sounds very real, as well as the Thompson gun's sound when you fire it. 
 Another feature I enjoyed was the Zombie mode, where you and some friends get in a building and 
 hold off Nazi Zombies as they continue to come at you in waves.
  
  The things about this game I didn't like were the fact that it was yet another World War 2 game. 
 We have enough already. The weapons were just not my type and I've experienced them before so it 
 was nothing new to me. I disliked the fact that it's not too much different from COD4, especially 
 the create a class feature and the HUD. The multiplayer mode was basically Call Of Duty 4, with 
 World War 2 weapons.
  
  If you liked Dall Of Duty 2 and Call Of Duty 4, I would recommend it to you for sure, but if you 
 dislike World War 2 weapons or just don't feel the need to buy yet another WWII game, I suggest 
 sticking with Call Of Duty 4 until "Call Of Duty 4: Modern Warfare 2" comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aj2109
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 6, 2008 12:08 pm PT
Review:  this game deserves very little credit, they copy cod 4s engine shove a bayonet on it and serve 
 you up a pie.
  if it was their work i would give them 10/10 but none of it is xD so im afraid today is the day 
 that i give a cod game, 8/10. oh yeah and cod 3.
  treyarc arent very inventive : ( to give them some credit, the storyline is well thought out though, 
 and the multiplayer (copied) works well. but then again COD6 Modern Warfare 2. omg OMG screw you 
 guys im going to go play me some modernwarfare 2. omg 
::::::

::::::
UserName: o_dub9
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 5, 2008 4:09 pm PT
Review:  First of all, i am a HUGE mw fan. And after hearing that waw was returning to WWII theme i was 
 very disappointed to say the least. 
  
  But being a huge cod fan, i gave in and bought waw anyways and... wow. This game is surprisingly 
 better than you'd expect. Is it better than mw? No, because it lacks the innovation that cod4 brought 
 to the table. Is it just as good as mw? You bet ur a** it is. If you enjoyed mw you'll surely enjoy 
 waw because well... its essentially the same game with different weps/maps. And personally i enjoy 
 a little break waw offers with its semi-auto weapons that slow down the game a little bit.
  
  My recommendations: 
  
  -If you have some money to spare and love cod as much as i do and 
 just looking for an excuse to get it, get it. You will not have buyer's remorse i promise. The 
 game is well worth your money.
  
  -If your on money crunch and just absolutely despise WWII themed fps then don't waste your money 
 and stick with mw (or other games) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxbebigokuxx
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 5, 2008 3:18 pm PT
Review:  I had every hope for this game. COD4 brought a new and immerse multiplayer that was far different 
 from the other shooters out at the time (i. e Halo 3) . It was fast paced, had great hit detection, 
 and was overall a blast to play. All of those good things I said about COD4, disregard when it 
 comes to COD: WOW. The spawn system is quite possibly the worst I've ever seen in an online FPS. 
 The hit detection is awful, and when you do hit them it feels as though you've only pricked them. 
 The bullets just seem to not do any real damage- and usually it takes a full clip to kill someone (even 
 with stopping power) . The majority of your time on at least two of the online maps will be spent 
 to trying to keep enemy players out of glitches that let them under the map to freely kill you. 
 And it seems as though TreyArch just doesn't care because they've taken no efforts to stop it all. 
 Don't rent, don't buy, don't sell your copy of COD4. Just keep it until they can fix all the problems 
 with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SKAATHE
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 5, 2008 11:59 am PT
Review:  My friend and I both bought CODWAW and we both thought the campaign had a certain new feel to it. 
 Seeing that it did have co-op which 4 lacked, although there was no feel of emotion and need to 
 kill evil in 4. But I'm sure that all players can agree that 4 surpasses WAW by some small standards. I, 
 like other people agree that we would rather have different sights rather than just the iron sights. 
 A lot of people also disagree with the fact that dogs come in instead of some sort of familiar 
 helicopter. The artillery strike was at least similar to an air strike but the dogs had nothing 
 in common with a helicopter and it is so annoying to kill them and with 2 bites or so they would 
 kill you. They wouldn't stop coming too. They were unlimited for a certain amount of time. Helicopter 
 came for a certain amount of time but a couple of LMG shots and it would be down for good. Another 
 gripe is that call of duty 4 has a certain type of camo system which played a role for using weapons 
 more that is surprisingly absent in CODWAW. The snipers are different this time around and you 
 start with a bolt action rifle and you have to get the sniper scope for different semi-automatic 
 rifles. The machine guns get a Bi-pod and that is as fa as it goes. When I unlocked the Molotov 
 cocktail I thought that it would be a very effective grenade but after I used it the Molotov cocktail 
 was the worst. Of course noob tubes are still present. Which does suck. I'm surprised by all he 
 complaining juggernaut and the new "new noob tube" . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1NS1D3-TH3-F1R3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 4, 2008 11:43 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 5 World At War
  
  This game is one of the best WW2 First Person Shooter i have ever played so far.. Using the Call 
 of Duty 4 Engine, Trey Arch makes its own game with (COD5: WAW)
  
  SP: Single player mode is a very enjoyable WW2 game experience..
  
  (except 4 some of the veteran 
 levels)
  
  The story mode is very interesting and emotional at the same time. Once you get into the story 
 more and more it really grabs you.. (especially the soviet side) Why the soviet side? Sgt. Rezonov, 
 great music, great authentic structures.. From running down Stalingrad to running down Berlin.. Although 
 both sides look absolutely beautiful in graphical ways...
  
  What i hate about SP-Single Player in seems like your enemies have endless amounts of grenades 
 but that's what you get when you do Hardened or Veteran... Also for people with anger issues if 
 you do Hardened or Veteran you might get angry and frustrated over dying alot and the opposing 
 enemies have excellent aiming...
  
  Overall SP-Single Player is very exciting and very frustrating in some parts...
  
  Overall 
 MP-Multiplayer Mode is very exciting aswell...
  
  Multiplayer? Its a Call of duty 5 game.. how could you be disappointed? this games MP is very great 
 the dogs and bayonets on the end of the gun that you can see are a good add-on but the bayonet 
 is already on Cod4 though.. Extremely fun and entertaining for people who like first person shooters...
 
  
  I highly recommend this game to anyone even if you haven't played a 1st person shooter before i 
 still recommend it for you...
  
  Thank You Reading my review.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lbooth330
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 4, 2008 8:45 am PT
Review:  Yes Call of Duty 4 was an amazing game after all. And World at War takes many of the mechanics 
 from it and puts it in here. but in no way is it the same game. It WWII which i know many people 
 were dissappointed in it but oh well if your like me and have played every singal call of duty 
 out there then this should not be a problem. This game is more like COD2 and COD3 with the game 
 mechanics of COD4. they have added many new game modes in this game which is a nice addition to 
 it. more levels to go through maps are pretty awesome some more larger scale and some at small 
 scale. now i probably dont beilive that in WWII that they had aperature sights on their guns but 
 it is a pretty neat idea for them to put in the game. though i do whish they would of put more 
 classic WWII weapons like the MP44 which is in COD4 but not World At War????? Or the Lee Enfield 
 sniper rifle which was an amazing gun. The single player gameplay is pretty neat taking you on 
 many different battle fronts. the gore is definetly hyped up a lot. sawed off shotgun to the legs 
 = no legs. it has a decent story in it and well it a little longer than COD4 but not by much. the 
 co-op campaign and competive campaign are some nice touches to the game. but as always where this 
 game is at is in the multiplayer. which is by far the best of the year!!!! so addictive you always 
 want to get to that next level. though some issues that i do think need to get fixed in it are 
 the spawn points which can get frustrating after time and they name people who think they are so 
 good by glitching out of the map. now Treyarch is very good at finding and fixing these things 
 so i hope they do them soon. other than that this game is definetly worth a look and worth the 
 money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mariosonicfan7
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 4, 2008 4:37 am PT
Review:  COD5 is a great game with new story mode, new guns, get dogs on your side to kill you enemy, and 
 tanks whats not to love? But my favorite part is Xbox Live. In COD5 you are a U. S Marine against 
 the Japanese. You will do anything to win the war like Tanks, Flamethowers, and of course guns. 
 Also a new mission has been added to the Call Of Duty series the Nazie Zombies.
  You are locked In a house with Zombies comeing though the windows while you have to kill them. 
 Heres a little guide to survie.
  1. Wait till round 5
  2. Open Upstairs
  3. When your upstairs open the couch which leads downstaris
  4. Go to the random box and keep 
 looking for either a Ray gun or a Flamethower
  5. About 2 minutes later all the zombies will run downtairs
  6. keep atacking them 
  If you 
 follow these rules you should make it to about round 25,26
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CheeSinLouz
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 3, 2008 9:37 pm PT
Review:  Utter disappointment is what hit me in the first 5 minutes of the game, a done-to-death opening 
 with a done-to-death gameplay follow by done-to-death highly cliched storyline (not to mention 
 cliched voice acting, OH! and the character's facing the wrong direction when they are talking 
 to you too) . It is essentially COD2 with COD4 engine and some minor variation in about just everything.
 
  
  Don't get me wrong, I'm a big fan of this genre, no doubt it is done-to-death but COD: WaW didn't 
 manage to breath in anything new into an already saturated market, hell, even MoH: Airborne tried 
 to do something new; just that they fail to spot the hole in their parachute.
  
  One of COD: WaW gameplay element which sticks out like a sore thumb is its failing re-spawning mechanism: 
 enemy will keep respawning until you push forward. At lower difficulty is fine, but you can kiss 
 your bolt action & semi automatic rifles goodbye as the need to flush out enemy grows.
  
  The next disturbing aspect of COD: WaW is its music, modern instruments with modern notes will often 
 make you wonder: "Hey, isn't this game set in WW2?" Go figure.
  
  However, there is no doubt the beginning clip of each starting mission has a great art direction 
 over COD4 (borderline comical at times) , but it is not enough to save the game. Treyarch will need 
 a better 'director' to narrate the story, on a better level design (too stagnant) & a richer gameplay.
 
  
  To sum it up, COD: WaW limp over like a old dog, raising its tired head with its teary eyes locked 
 on to his master with a whimpering sound. Without much of a thought, Treyarch says: "To hell with 
 it, lets have another go" and go to hell it did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TOMBOM889
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 3, 2008 8:38 pm PT
Review:  Ok, not much to say sbout this game. It is everything COD 4 was in a WWII body. Multiplayer is 
 the same with added co-op and split-screen nazi zombies which is very fun by the way. I don't think 
 that this game was hit quite as hard as COD 4 was just because of their extreme similarities. As 
 soon as you put this in you'll have sudden deja vu and say to yourself: "I sware I have played 
 this before." The story is a little more brutal than COD 4, but it was WW2 right? The graphics 
 are as sharp as ever with great water explosions I noticed and little things like that. The combat 
 is as smooth as ever with a better knifing technique and really sweet bayonet melee. The fat chunk 
 of the time you spend playing COD 5 will be in the multiplayer which is in fact, an exact duplicate 
 of COD 4 which is refreshing to some. But others might have wanted a little more than a COD 4.5. 
 Overall great game. Sorry this is so short, but there isn't much to tell about a COD 4 wannabe. 
 The one reason why I gave this game a 9 is the fact that its WW2, and I love WW2 over that modern 
 crap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dynamix22
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 3, 2008 8:29 am PT
Review:  Yes, its true ladies and gentlemen - Call of Duty: World at War is a lot like Modern Warfare. Too 
 much like modern warfare. And lets get that outta the way first, because otherwise - World at War 
 is a great game. The campaign, which has no training level, is divided into 2 main acts. On one 
 side you are an American fighting the Japanease, on the other - a Russian fighting the Nazis. The 
 campaign is short, but it's very good while it lasts. Although, not as good as last year's. The 
 multiplayer is great (as always) , the co-op works quite well, but my favourite game mode - Nazi 
 Zombies is totally awesome, and a great bonus to freshen up the expierience. Overall, World at 
 War is a very good game, even though it is CoD4 set in WWII.
  
  Pros:
  
  Great graphical expierience
  Awesome multiplayer
  Nazi Zombies
  Sounds very realistic.
 
  
  Cons:
  Too much like Modern Warfare.
  Short campaign
  AI is, well, quite dumb. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roblowe2345
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 3, 2008 5:10 am PT
Review:  I really enjoyed Call of Duty 4 : Modern Warfare. It was great being the SAS, I felt a connection 
 with the game when crawling around picking people off, it had a soul! When I fired up Call of Duty: 
 World at War the connection was lost... at first. I was back in WWII was some rubbish one shot 
 guns once more shooting from trenches and I thought this is not great. However, given time as the 
 missions progressed I got more attached to it, found better guns, found little features fantastic 
 and some levels are truely engaging. While I never quite got that 'tension feeling' that COD4 gave 
 me I did thouroughly enjoy this game.
  
  Online I would say it outstrips COD4. The maps are larger, you get tanks and can still call in 
 the air strikes which I love! 
  
  I would say this is well worth a purchase or adding to the Christmas list. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theTOBSTERRR
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 2, 2008 1:06 pm PT
Review:  Now to start this off: This is not going to be a review directed all too much at the single player 
 campaign. For the single player campaign let me say this. If you're going to play veteran prepare 
 to play the same part of a mission over and over and over and over and over and over.... it's really 
 exhausting and frustrating and costs a load of nerves. Now let us get to the real part of the review 
 strictly directed at the ''wonderful'' multiplayer game mode. So let us make the list:
  
  1. The concept is so terribly the same as CoD 4. Completely uninspired. I know it worked for CoD 
 4 and was ingenius but aperture sights on WW2 weapons, which probably never even existed at that 
 time, that's just desperate.
  
  2. BUGS BUGS BUGS: Whether it is being able to shoot from spawn to spawn on Seelow or Crawling 
 under the map on Castle. It is soooooo freaking annoying.
  
  3. Total lack of pace. If you loved the fast paced action you experienced in CoD 4 and are looking 
 forward to the same in CoD 5 you are going to get disappointed. I will even say that in direct 
 comparison the multiplayer matches in CoD 5 fall nothing short of being a total drag.
  
  4. A reason for this is definitely the big maps. You walk, walk, walk. You get killed and then 
 walk, walk, walk again. Once more very annoying. Of course this does not apply for every map.
 
  
  5. Terrible spawn points. Prepare to often find yourself spawning in the middle of the enemy spawn 
 area. You are surrounded and your enemy is gonna find it very fun to shred you to pieces.
  
  6. Deep Impa-WHAT? The extra Deep Impact seems so utterly futile in too many situations. Either 
 you could have shot through the wall without it anyway or you won't even be able to shoot through 
 simple wood. AWESOME!
  
  7. Molotov Cocktails. It's a nice idea to spice up your choices for ''primary grenades'' but honestly, 
 I don't think I have ever seen such a useless weapon. It kills alright, with a direct hit. Flames 
 that spread around its explosion will leave your opponent striding by unharmed with a bright smile 
 on his face.
  
  8. No points for reviving teammates. It's not that big of a deal but being a medic should pay off.... it 
 does not. 
  
  9. Directly related to point 8. No points for blowing up a tank. Now it is hard enough to bust 
 a tank open. You will die trying very often. But when you finally finished it off and it goes ablaze 
 in front of you.... dont expect to be rewared for it... it's a regular kill. Total letdown.
  
  Now the final point is not really a problem with the game itself but with the players playing 
 it.
  
  10. IT'S A CAMPER'S PARADISE. Actually moving around in the game and not sitting in a corner on 
 free for all and team death match is going to feel a lot like a turkey shoot. Problem is: YOU ARE 
 THE TURKEY. 
  
  I will of course keep playing the game, after all I payed 70 bucks to get it. This list is just 
 me blowing off some steam after 40 hours of generally frustrating and partially very frustrating 
 online play. 
  
  Well peace out.
  
  .... enk4i..... 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZedExtol
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 2, 2008 1:03 pm PT
Review:  Well, I gave Treyarch a shot, and they did not deliver. The campaign is plodding and boring. The 
 voice acting is mediocre. The weapons still can't seem to shoot through am thin, metal oil drum 
 while they can obliterate enemies behind a brick wall. The level design is OK, except that the 
 borders of maps are so poorly defined that you'll find yourself wasting time trying to get over 
 a bit of brush, only to find out that it is a level boundary. The multiplayer could be good, that 
 is if there was more than two decent maps. You might think that the co-op campaign would save it; 
 you'd be wrong. Explain to me why I get the "death" when I am trying to revive a fallen comrade 
 and then get killed. How is it that I lose points and my team-mate doesn't? I'll tell you how: 
 BROKEN MULTIPLAYER.
  
  This game is not a total waste, and if you've missed every other installment in the COD series, 
 then by all means, give it a try, you may love it. If however, you felt that COD4 set a great new 
 standard, then avoid COD: WAW at all costs. You WILL be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PsboyX360
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 2, 2008 8:34 am PT
Review:  I was surprised when i played call of duty 5! its really bloody, better action, fun to kill, everything 
 u could ever imagine! and the guns are less n00by, not like cod4. I love playing as Private Miller, 
 and Private Petrenko. One of my favorite missions in Call of Duty 5 is Downfall, Burn em out, etc. 
 It is more fun to play call off duty 5 in live because the maps are very big, huge actually. And 
 the guns are amazing! My favourite weapons are the Type 100, BAR, Trench Gun, Flame Thrower, and 
 the STG 44. Call of Duty 5 is great to play with two players, especially zombie mode, it's very 
 addicting to play. Each round it gets harder. me and my friend always stay in the stair case I 
 shoot up, he shoots down, trench gun is very useful against the nazi zombies. I just love playing 
 cod5. Its dead amazing, 100 times better than co4! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blarg_blarg
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 1, 2008 7:21 pm PT
Review:  This is a good game. I will tell you that. If you liked COD4 (Call of Duty 4) then you are most 
 certainly going to enjoy this game. The online multiplayer is very similar to that of COD4. You 
 unlock new guns by ranking. You increase in rank by killing people in a host of different game 
 types including team deathmatch, CTF, deathmatch, and many more. It doesn't end there though. Once 
 you have gone through all of the levels (max 65) , you can do it all over again (if you so choose) 
 by going into prestige mode, which you can do a total of 10 times (for those with no life...) . 
 The graphics are beautiful for the most part. New and improved gore effects will leave you speechless. 
 Feel free to gib (break into many small pieces) peoples body with heavy weapons, or the more deadly 
 sniper rifles. If you really want to see a gore explosion, get in a tank. Yes, I said tank. A few 
 of the online maps sport shiny, new tanks. The controls are pretty much the same as COD4. As in 
 COD4, you can create classes with a large selection of weapons and perks. The perks range from 
 faster reloading, to the almighty M12 Flamethrower (unlocked at level 65) . What this game really 
 lacks, is a story. It is short and can be very frustrating. On the harder levels of difficulty 
 you will be pulling out your hair when you get sniped from a tree. The levels are short, usually 
 containing 1 or 2 objectives. As in COD4, you will be jumping around from different allied factions. 
 You play as the Russians and the American Marines, fighting on two entirely different battle fronts. 
 When you are the Americans you fight in Japan and surrounding Pacific Islands. Also Kieffer Sutherland 
 of the hit show on fox 24, plays the voice of one of the characters. When you are the Russians, 
 you fight in Russia, trying to push the Nazi army out of "The Motherland." If you haven't had enough 
 after the story is over, take on Nazi zombies in a fun and addictive mini-game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killsbabies
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 1, 2008 6:56 pm PT
Review:  call of duty: world at war is a very fun game it took about 5 hours to complete on regular and 
 was a lot of fun, but it is the same game weve been playing for years. everyone has played a game 
 like this a great shooter, cool graphics, nice story but really nothing exceptional. it does though 
 incorporate some of my favorite things from call of duty: modern warfare, shooting at stuff from 
 an airplane, this is always fun and they have seem to have got it down pat. they have als incorporated 
 it into the multiplayer which make for a either devestating win or twisted fiery death, but the 
 multiplayer was for some reason not the same as cod 4. i couldn't tell you why it was practically 
 the same thing but just didn't have that feel some games have it and some don't those that do live 
 forever and those that dont are forgotten only to be remembered by a few ravenous fanboys, bloggers 
 and the archives of the internet. i will have to say that the most exciting thing about this game 
 was nazi zombies. i dont know why but for some reason killing zombies is the greates thing ever. 
 theres just something about being trapped in a room with four of your friends, for more excitement 
 try it with strangers [so funny] , and blasting zombies back to hell [or germany same thing right] . 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CPTMOONBEAM
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 1, 2008 5:18 pm PT
Review:  This game is da bomb its simple because if you loved Call of Duty: Modern warfare, You will love 
 this 1! its just pure genious! I love it!
  
  It feels just like cod 4 but WW2 style thats what I was hoping for this game. It is worth the 60$ 
 its really worth it. TRUST me on that. CAMPAING: on veteran its hard. You can play 1 level for 
 over 2 hours on the heart of reich. its very chalenging
  
  MULTI: same as COD4 very addictive WORTH IT thats this games high point
  
  CON's: multi fails 
 alot because of glitch. MORE CHALLENGE MORE PERKS
  MORE FUN
  MORE WEAPON
  MORE EVERYTHING
  
  WORTH IT WORTH IT WORTH IT WORTH IT WORTH IT WORTH IT WORTH IT WORTH IT 
 WORTH IT WORTH IT WORTH IT WORTH IT WORTH IT WORTH IT WORTH IT
  WORTH IT WORTH IT WORTH IT WORTH IT WORTH IT WORTH IT WORTH IT WORTH IT WORTH IT WORTH IT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamelover117
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 1, 2008 2:59 pm PT
Review:  Even though Call of Duty: World at War is arguably the least appealing COD game to hit the Xbox 
 360, it is still well-executed and a lot of fun. The environments look great and although they 
 are not as engaging as COD4, or COD2 for that matter, they still very fun to play through.
  
  The graphics look average, but good, for 360 standards, and the animations are practically 
 flawless. The story is reminiscent of COD2's story; playing through various missions during the 
 time of WWII. This makes the game have somewhat of a been-there-done-that feel to it, but it is 
 not necessarily a bad feeling.
  
  Getting your hands back onto classic 40's weapons will feel great. The weapons are all highly effective 
 and are very fun to use. Some of the machine guns even have the ability to tear through opponents 
 limbs, which is a great new feature.
  
  Fans of the Call of Duty series and other WWII shooters will most likely enjoy this game, but they 
 may be let down by the game's lack of originality and new ideas. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geministarx
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 1, 2008 10:21 am PT
Review:  m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m mm m m m 
 m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k i donttttttttttttttttttt 
 knowww k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k kkk k k k k k k k k k k k 
 k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k 
 k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k kkkk k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k 
 k k k j j j j j j j j j jjjjjjjjjjjjjjjj j j j j j j j j j j j j j kkkkk k k k k k k k k k k k 
 k k k k kkkkkkkkk k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k 
 k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k 
 k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k 
 k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k 
 k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MyopicCanadian
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 1, 2008 7:59 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty: World at War takes the Call of Duty franchise back to World War II, but instead focuses 
 on the Pacific theatre as well as the Russian front. The multiplayer experience borrows heavily 
 from Call of Duty 4, which can be good or bad, and it has both co-op gameplay for campaign and 
 a co-op zombie mode. If there's one thing you can't say about this game, is that it's lacking on 
 features. Definitely a lot of stuff to do in this title.
  
  The game starts off in a brutal depiction of the Pacific theatre, but unfortunately the Marines 
 campaign does not retain that intensity after the first couple of missions. Don't get me wrong, 
 because there are some great parts of the Pacific campaign, but overall it pales in comparison 
 to.. the Russian campaign. 
  
  Perhaps the best campaign I've played of any Call of Duty ever (played 1-4 and now this, did not 
 play The Big Red One or any other spin-off) . The Russian campaign is very intense, and I feel that 
 Treyarch borrowed from Half-Life 2's style of narration, in which you interact with the world around 
 you and other NPC's in the first person, not saying a word, but truly getting a feel for the character 
 and those around you. It's amazing. The intensity is always there, it's action-packed, and a very 
 emotional experience.
  
  And the multiplayer. It is very fun, I enjoy the leveling system, and the weapons are fantastic, 
 but it feels way too much like Call of Duty 4. And yes, that's a bad thing. The multiplayer mechanics 
 of Call of Duty 3 were much better. Health bars, medic class, large open maps. You fit 16-18 players 
 in World at War maps and the game just feels way too cramped.
  
  Another problem is the tank mechanics. Totally backwards compared to the Polish campaign of CoD 
 3. In 3, the tank mechanics felt heavy, brutal, and totally awesome. The mechanics in this game 
 are way too arcadey. And at what point did they decide that throwing a grenade down the hatch of 
 the tank was a poor game mechanic? They probably had to take out it out since the World at War 
 maps are too small.
  
  Lastly, the game does not have a diverse enough campaign. CoD 3 was interesting with numerous nationalities 
 all showing their viewpoints of the war, and I think they kind of messed this up by only having 
 two different viewpoints in the campaign.
  
  Overall, World at War is an excellent game, but Treyarch tried too much to retain similar mechanics 
 to those that were in CoD 4. I can't blame them, because everyone seems to love 4 and Infinity 
 Ward and groaned when they heard that Treyarch was making this game. CoD 4 fanboys are partly to 
 blame for this. Treyarch was probably too worried about pissing off the rabid fanbase that developed 
 as a result of Modern Warfare, that they didn't want to experiment too much with their game mechanics.
 
  
  Treyarch took some great steps forward with the campaign, creating perhaps the best experience 
 I've ever had in a Call of Duty game, but ultimately stepped backwards with their multiplayer component 
 by making it too much like Call of Duty 4. Too much spraying and instant death, maps are too small, 
 and the tank mechanics suck.
  
  By the way, nazi zombie mode is AWESOME. You could play this game alone and never want for anything 
 else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MikeHawke
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 30, 2008 11:49 am PT
Review:  Although its really nothing new in a sense that there are endless amounts of world war games on 
 the market it still is worth a play or at least a rent.
  
  The key feature, just as it was in Call of Duty 4, is the multiplayer experience that you are able 
 to have. With all the upgrades and prestige options it will have you sucked in, in no time trying 
 to get to that next level or unlock that next achievements to get you new perks or new weapons. 
 
  
  The single player when playing in regular is challenging and has a solid story that drives it but 
 the true challenge is when you up the difficulty and try to take on the massive amounts of enemies 
 while only being able to take a shot or two before you are killed. The end results of you beating 
 this single player campaign is the enablement of the zombie mode which also adds to the value of 
 this game. The zombie mode is also challenging and when you take it online with co operative play 
 it really hits home.
  
  This game may not be revolutionary in any sense due to it being a mirror image of its predicesor 
 call of duty 4, but they still give you something to do while you wait for infinity wards version 
 that comes up the year after. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: socky1101
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 30, 2008 9:35 am PT
Review:  
  Ok, first off to all of you idiots that think COD 4 is better shut up. The only reason why you 
 say that is because its modern warfare. I must admit I played and I liked it, but after you play 
 it for a month or two it really gets old. It was an amazing game but I'm so tired of people saying 
 COD 5 is just COD 4 in WWII. Its not, maybe the physics and the concept of the multiplayer, but 
 if it is the same isnt that good, wouldn't you enjoy it? 
  
  I think COD 5 is the best in the series but I must admit I do like the modern setting, but I think 
 there needs to be a Vietnam COD. Some good features with WAW is the Zombie mode, the Co-op but 
 lets stop here for a moment. Co-op a great idea, but we all know Halo 3 had the best system to 
 do Co-op and why isnt anyone using that system!?!?!?!?! I love the weapons in WAW I'm so glad the 
 PPsh is back, that thing is a beast. The gore is awesome I didn't know that blowing Germans arms 
 off could be so fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ryu_San
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 30, 2008 8:44 am PT
Review:  If there's anything that sticks out in the "Call of Duty" series, is its focus on delivering a 
 thrilling, cinematic in-your-face depiction of war. It's not by chance that the first major inspiration 
 for the series was Steven Spielberg's opus of the Normandy landing in "Saving Private Ryan": the 
 shaking of the camera, blurring the gritty colors of war-machines and destroyed landscapes, with 
 red sprouts of blood emerging in the bloody onslaught of human life, bullet by bullet, explosion 
 by explosion limb by limb, man by man. Capturing that chaotic experience of horror and sacrifice 
 is the kind of thing you'd expect games would be known and respected for. But it isn't, and we 
 all know that. In that sense, "Call of Duty" was definitely a small step forward. Firstly, with 
 its audiovisual fidelity, which successfully established the same atmosphere that Spielberg's film 
 became known for. Secondly, because the game adapted the classic FPS formula to the war context. 
 Most FPS games forced you to go for point A to point B, while obliging you to, single-handily, 
 kill every possible enemy in sight. "Call of Duty" (like its predecessor "Medal of Honor: Allied 
 Assault") opted to encompass the player in an army, making him choose ways in which to avoid direct 
 confrontation with enemies, through flanking and the use of indirect fire. Also, player's comrades 
 take some of the burden into their hands, killing a considerable amount of enemies. Stripped to 
 its barest, "Call of Duty" forces the player to accomplish a certain objective (break a defense 
 line, clear a location of enemies, plant a bomb, protect a convoy) , but framing in it in a convincing 
 way that doesn't make it (too) ridiculous. You still play a hero like in most shooters, but it 
 isn't a lonely or utterly invincible hero. "Call of Duty 4 tuned the series' formula to 
 near perfection, by harmoniously weaving Level, Art and Sound Design to produce a rising tension 
 in each set piece, and in the overarching experience,. It was still the same game, but the audacity 
 and scale of its confrontations, coupled with great cutscene directing, made its campaign a glorious 
 ode to war in a videogame-y kind of way. "World at War" is the same. No more, no less. It stumbles 
 in the same faults as its predecessor, and can be lacking in some of the more creative assets which 
 made it a success, but "World at War" really is "Call of Duty 4 in a World War II scenario.
 
  
  Using the same narrative vehicles as its predecessors, "World at War" presents each set piece by 
 utilizing snazzy power-point-ish presentations, as your ranking officer briefs you in on the details 
 concerning the upcoming battle. You get to experience two campaigns: one in which you fight on 
 the pacific front to crush the Japanese armada, following the steps of a traditional American style 
 hero, the compassionate, yet tough Seargant Roebuck, played by Kiefer 'Bauer' Sutherland in his 
 already cliched monotonic voice; the other storyline, more interesting and provocative, places 
 you as the right-wing man of Seargant Reznov, a vindictive, cruel hearted Soviet, who seeks revenge 
 against the Germans for the destruction of Stalingrad. It's immediately clear that the first campaign 
 is more of the same epic set pieces in which great American heroes go about freeing the world from 
 the dreaded enemy, in this case, the Japanese, herein portrayed as vicious monsters bent on winning 
 a war at all costs, whether it involves sneaking techniques, kamikaze attacks or plain old backstabbing. 
 You'd think that in a war, killing would be a despicable act whichever the surrounding conditions, 
 but apparently the Japanese kill in an "evil" way. The Soviet campaign is more original, as it 
 does try to portray a different side of the war. The Soviets are depicted as more realistic characters, 
 in the sense that their personalities reflect the unquestionable fact that they are fighting a 
 bloody war. They are ruthless and moved by selfish goals, unbent by hypocritical notions of moral 
 or military conduct, which ends up making their campaign more truthful and moving and of course, 
 Gary Oldman's amazing voice-work can really make you wanna go kill some Nazi scourge. However, 
 it needs to be pointed out that in both plot-lines, the subjectivity of American perspective is 
 prevalent, so expect a great deal of prejudice, xenophobia, social, and historical inaccuracies. 
 Like Churchill said, History is written by the victors.
  
  As you're thrust into the battlefield proper, you get to presence everything in first person, your 
 presence diluted with that of the mute and otherwise irrelevant main character. The action unfolds 
 on screen just as it did in "Call of Duty 4, in which the barrier between cutscene and gameplay 
 was blurred to a degree which made you wonder if you could change the course of certain events. 
 Some you can and some you don't, which doesn't really matter since it never really changes how 
 the story ultimately unfolds. It's a bit less linear for that, and it adds to the notion of immersion 
 and false choice that helps create a sense of a credible world. Because the transition between 
 story and action is seamless, the breathtaking action pieces are made all the more emotional for 
 it, especially in the Soviet Campaign. From Stalingrad to Berlin, you'll be in constant awe with 
 the scale of each war set, fleshed out by a beautifully crafted mise en scne, courtesy of the 
 Infinity Engine, which once again provides the same ambient lighting and particle effects that 
 made "Call of Duty 4 so visually captivating. The final showdown in Berlin gives a whole 
 new meaning to the concept of destroyed beauty, as you endure the ravishing of the opulent Reichstag, 
 covered in smoke, dust and flames, a stark palette of death and war covering the landscape. Trust 
 me when I say that images don't do it justice. But the multitude of moody color palettes can only 
 serve as background for the cacophony of raining bullets, explosions and frenetic shouts of pain 
 and camaraderie. Once again, the soundtrack steals the show, thanks to its pitch perfect fidelity, 
 and the smart use of musical crescendos to enhance the epic grandeur of war. The score (by Sean 
 Murray) is still a competently mixed miscellany of electronic, industrial, metal and classical 
 sonorities that successfully punctuate the emotional impact of the game. And yet again, the Soviet 
 portions of the soundtrack are the best: you simply cannot beat the visceral impact of a beautifully 
 orchestrated chorus.
  
  Despite the arresting power of the "Call of Duty" games, they still have a long road ahead in terms 
 of creating meaningful and realistic war experiences. Their more important fault still lies in 
 their dramatic core. Though the Soviet Campaign does take it a step forward, by trying to introduce 
 nuanced characters, the series is still lacking when it comes to true drama, because it has no 
 real characters, subtext or emotion. And "Call of Duty" does need drama to make the experience 
 feel genuine, because the essence of war is death and loss, and the emotional responses associated 
 with those events are missing. Only when the player hesitates before mindlessly shooting an enemy, 
 or resents his inability to save a comrade, will the War FPS genre achieve plenitude. Unfortunately, 
 the series never went in that direction, and continues to lethargically tread in its own FPS convention 
 laden path. But, even forgetting any aspirations the series' authors dismiss, the fact is that 
 this episode doesn't improve the series one bit, allowing easy to fix flaws to maintain one more 
 year. The most glaring of which is the stubborn use of a noisy, aesthetically displeasing HUD 
 a baffling notion for a 2008 top tier game that puts so much weight on immersion. And though it 
 can be useful in terms of helping the player move along, there are a number of available alternatives 
 that don't break up immersion (see "Peter Jackson's King Kong" game) . Just imagine "Saving Private 
 Ryan" with golden stars, numbers and icons flying about the screen like in a football match transmission; 
 if that doesn't remind you that "Call of Duty" is a game, as opposed to a 1st person war-experience, 
 than nothing does. And sure, there are still AI problems, level design model eccentricities that 
 need fixing, and the overall sense that this is just one more World War II FPS. But, truth be told, 
 forgetting the game's lack of originality can be simple while playing the game. It's just entertaining, 
 and sadly, in this medium that's really all it needs to be. Personally, I'm still wishing they 
 can someday come up with a dramatic first-person experience that is akin to "Saving Private Ryan"... 
 in more than just the aesthetic qualities of the film. But I know, it's a hopeless dream. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: technopirate
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 29, 2008 4:02 pm PT
Review:  I was highly anticipating WaW to be a super great FPS to be on par or rival that of COD4, I was 
 disappointed. After receiving a private multiplayer beta invite and experiencing the 11 available 
 levels of rank, I was on the fence whether or not to buy this game. I had maxed out my COD4 multiplayer 
 gaming and was hoping that WaW would be good enough until Infinity Ward releases COD5. First off, 
 let me summarize the campaign.
  The campaign is fun, but it's basically the same thing we've seen with ever COD game before, with 
 the exception of COD4. It's WWII, you're a soldier, only this time they include fighting in the 
 "Pacific Theater." It's still essentially the same. Great voice acting, fast action, good visuals 
 and characters.
  There, now lets get to the multiplayer. In a word, multiplayer is... broken.
  WaW takes a lesson 
 from COD4 as far as multiplayer and tries to add it's own little flair to the mix, but it fails. 
 The guns selection appears wide, but most guns "feel" fake. There seems to be no substance behind 
 them, also, several of the guns feel ridiculously similar. There is also the addition of "vehicles" 
 to WaW multiplayer, which was missing in COD4 but present in the previous COD games. I feel the 
 exclusion of vehicles, which are really only tanks, is a good thing. The tanks in WaW multiplayer 
 are so frustrating to play with. In TDM if your team doesn't have the tanks, you lose. In HQ if 
 you have a team of stupid players who want to kill people but not get to the hq, you lose. "Get 
 rid of the tanks!"
  The matchmaking system in WaW seems broken too. I constantly find myself being thrown into a losing 
 match with seconds left in the game, or with the opposite team scored so much higher that nothing 
 could be done to win the game. This needs to be fixed. While I know this existed in COD4, it seems 
 to happen much more often in WaW. There needs to be some sort of filter that will not allow players 
 to join these matches. Also, once the match is over, the team that dominated the last game always 
 remains on the same team. While I understand that this can be used for socializing, and that some 
 teams are, in fact, parties, it always irks me to see. "Mix the good with the bad!"
  To be honest, I will continue to play WaW, because COD4 seems too easy now, and because I'm a masochist 
 when it comes to games. I only hope that some of these issues will be resolved when the next "real" 
 COD game comes out next year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: axthepoisonxa
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 28, 2008 9:10 pm PT
Review:  Alright, overall this is a really good game. The multi-player holds up to CoD4 standards, different 
 in its on way, obviously with it being set in WWII. Couple of major glitches online that should 
 be fixed. for instance I was playing on Downfall and was killed double digits by a guy UNDER the 
 map... very frustrating. AND the thing that PISSES ME OFF THE MOST!!!! The American Garand..... 
 in real life you canNOT reload this weapon till it is out of ammo, because the clip pops out when 
 its empty, it was the only weapon like this in WWII, and it had its pros and cons. Something as 
 little as that shouldve been put in the game. Anyway, the campaign just felt like a carbon copy 
 of CoD4 with a WWII mod on it or something. Some missions were almost identical to the the last 
 game. ex. Two person sniping mission. I personally just can't wait till CoD6 with it being the 
 sequel to CoD4. Overall i give the game an 8.5, I will continue playing online for a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TX360
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 28, 2008 11:13 am PT
Review:  Intro
  
  Back in 2007 Ifinity ward released Call of duty 4 modern warfare not only did it manage to take 
 halo 3 from the number one spot but with the change to modern war it was a big step for the series 
 however in 2008 treyarch were enlisted with the next call of duty and as you probaly have guessed 
 they got a big negative reaction this was mostly due to call of duty 3 which was a good game but 
 it played too much like cod2 and was pretty dull if im being honest now they are back with Call 
 of duty world at war or to some Call of duty 5 and they have actually managed to make a fantastic 
 game so read on.
  
  Single player/campaign
  
  Call of duty world at war has a short single player however in WAW you can play with friends in 
 co-op this is a first for the series and was a smart move by treyarch because this is basically 
 the standard now and it works just perfect like any other co-op games. The single player unlike 
 any other call of duty actually gives you an idea how violent war really was especially in the 
 opening mission you will not expect it if you have played the other call of duty games and to be 
 honest it works and then theres the blood and gore bodys now are blown to pieces in solo or multiplayer 
 its a fantastic change that feels fresh and different. The single player has a varied choice from 
 open land to forests or the beachs etc all are close to the quality of cod4 although not as enjoyable 
 it must be said.
  
  Multiplayer
  
  Call of duty world at war uses the same engine as COD4 so your getting a very similar experience 
 except in World war 2 and treyarch have upped the ranks from 55 up to 65 and it feels longer in 
 this game also weapons are fantastic and its extremely satisfying getting a 7 kill streak for the 
 dogs which will please you if your low on kills. The weapons in WAW are very varied you can even 
 use a flamethrower this is so effective when you hear someone coming and its great when a lot of 
 people are running right at you but overall this MP is very close to the quality of cod4s .
  
  ZOMBIE MODE
  
  Yes you read right treyarch have actually included a survival horror mode 
 that you can play with friends except your killing nazi zombies that are very hard in the high 
 waves and you have ray guns flame throwers machine guns to kill them with its so varied that this 
 mode manages to be even more addictive than the MP itself.
  
  Pros
  Excellent single player 
  Mp does not dissapoint
  Variety is fantastic
  loads of extras
 
  
  cons
  Animations of character in MP are a bit off
  Graphics are still behind cod4
  
  Verdict
  Call of duty world at war is a game you could play for months and is now the best 
 world war 2 game period 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Guncrave
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 27, 2008 5:18 pm PT
Review:  To say its a blast from the past doesn't quite display what Activision Blizzard tried to throw 
 out at you this past year. I, myself being a WW2 fanatic love the whole concept of returning to 
 the time period that changed our world forever. 
  In this next adventure that you take (which is quite short) pretty much sums up the more gruesome 
 parts of the war. If the fact not being they got to add in a little punch with the new Nazi Zombie 
 minigame which gives you a little extra; most likely to make up for such a short campaign. Now 
 i'm not saying the campaign wasn't fun, and it was. Yes they pulled the whole 180 on you and went 
 back about 60 years, but give them a break, be glad they gave you something to occupy your time 
 with. Anyways the campaign takes you back to the similar gameplay from COD 4, which at times can 
 get a little repeptitive and quite annoying. Besides the fact that most of the weapons are a little 
 dated and dont give you that edge to sniping someone all the way across a map with a .45. Although 
 we would all enjoy that advantage, they did give us new additions to our arsenal of weapons. Such 
 as the flamethrower; which you unlock once you reach a level of 65. The good thing about this is 
 that you have unlimited ammo, the bad... you overheat in like 4 seconds. Unless your conservative; 
 you should be fine.
  One thing I was very proud that Bizzard gave us gamers was the Nazi Zombie game mode. This level 
 or mode of play is unlocked when one completes the campaign on any difficulty by themselves. This 
 little minigame offers you something to do once you've beat the campaign fifteen times and gotton 
 to lvl 65. In this game mode you are given a starting weapon (.45, I wouldn't doubt it) and are 
 expected to survive the first few seconds with it until you obtain the extra amount of credits 
 to purchase a rifle. The objective of this game is to stay alive for as many rounds as possible 
 by continuously and painly refixing and boarding up walls and windows. Now there are other weapons. 
 The weapons include a well amount of all the ones you will see during campaign. Although you aren't 
 required to have a certain lvl to aquire of any of the weapons such as the flamethrower. Of course 
 this is really no help to you unless you have a butt load of zombies at your despense trying to 
 maul you down. Then yes its somewhat of a help. Other than that, thats pretty much the basics. 
 I havn't really taken a deaper look into the game. Although like COD 4 its online (don't you hate 
 that?) which is very fun online, with the exceptions of the very slow reloading time for most of 
 the weapons, and no, you can't kill someone all the way across a map with a regular rifle. The 
 maps on COD 5 are bigger; which most of the time prevents a match from ending within under a minute 
 (only a few times, I've experienced that) . Other than that I would say Activision Blizzard did 
 a great job with producing yet another game to add to it's series.
  All in all I give this game an 8.5 out of 10. If you enjoy anything WW2; this is your game. I would 
 rent it or buy it used first. But i'll let you decide that.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: suicide2005
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 26, 2008 7:47 pm PT
Review:  Treyarch (360, PS3, PC) , Rebellion (PS2) , N-Space (DS) and Activision brings us to the follow-up 
 to Call Of Duty 4: Modern Warfare, and this game definitely lives up to expectations.
  
  The entry takes the series back to World War 2, which didn't sound good when the game was first 
 mentioned in the end becomes one of the many highlights of the game. There are two separate stories 
 in the campaign, one is the U. S. Marines facing the Japanese Army, and the other is the Soviet 
 Union facing Berlin.
  
  While the storyline is good, the campaign seems rather short to be fitting two story lines into 
 it. The campaign is surprisingly a little shorter then Call of Duty 4, which was very short itself. 
 The campaign will probably take long time fans no more then 4-4 1/2 hours to finish. For newcomers, 
 it will probably take 6-8 hours. While the campaign is short, it is definitely hard to get through. 
 This game just keeps throwing more and more enemies at you.
  
  Graphically, the game is just plain extraordinary. The graphics and environments are much more 
 detailed. There are a lot more visual effects thrown in, like the screen going blurry when a grenade 
 explodes next to you, which is a cool feature.
  
  The weapons selection might be a little bit of letdown, especially to those who have gotten so 
 use to Call Of Duty 4's modern weapons. The weapons in this game are the same weapons that are 
 in the first 3 Call of Duty games, just updated and are much more realistic but there are a few 
 new ones thrown in to keep things interesting.
  
  I think one of the biggest positives is that they stuck to the same formula that made Call of Duty 
 4 such a great game. Besides better graphics, and a different story and maps, the game looks and 
 feels the same as Call of Duty 4 and I think that a good thing because if that formula works, why 
 change it? I think one of the coolest bonuses to be added to the game is the new Zombie match, 
 where 4 players online go up against endless Zombies. When I first heard about it I thought it 
 was stupid because it's not exactly something you would expect to be in a war game but it is probably 
 the most addicting extra to play.
  
  The online for this game runs very similarly to Call Of Duty 4. Most of the matches are the same, 
 but they bring back Capture the Flag for this game which i was very happy with.
  
  There are six different versions of this game. There isn't much separating the 360, PS3, and PC 
 versions. The 360 and PS3 are graphically no different from each other but the PS3 has some occasional 
 frame-rate issues, while the 360 runs a little more smoothly. The PC is slightly better visually 
 but you really need a great PC to get it to run at its full potential, which is why i always select 
 the consoles first. The Wii version is not exactly my favorite from the new systems. The graphics 
 are not as detailed and it looks a little cartoonish but the controls a definitely different and 
 makes it a pretty fun version.
  
  The PS2 version, which is done by Rebellion is a really different from the 360, PS3 and PC. The 
 storyline is different, it actually adds a third story with the British advance on the Rhine River. 
 Graphically the game doesn't look nearly as defined or detailed as the new systems but it is still 
 a fun game on its own.
  
  The Nintendo DS version, which is developed by N-Space, is surprisingly fun. Much like Call of 
 Duty 4, they take this game and do what they can with it to make it fit into the hand-held and 
 it ends up being a really fun version of the game.
  
  Overall, a great addition to the series that lives up to expectations. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geo-gnome
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 26, 2008 1:30 pm PT
Review:  I bought this the day it came out as i love call of duty 4 and presumed i would like this one as 
 much but its a bit of a let down as its very similar to cod4 just diffrent weapons and levels. 
 
  
  I think ill start with single player and then talk about multiplayer. The single player campaign 
 is short but fun (depending on the difficulty) i completed it in under 6 hours on medium difficulty 
 and most good games take longer than 6 hours but length isnt everything i enjoyed most of campaign 
 even though it did seem very repetitive especially the missions in japan it always feels like your 
 in the same place or doing similar objectives but thats about the only bad part onto the good parts 
 i enjoyed the ai in veteran as they are unpredictable but to tend to stand in places where they 
 are easy to shoot although some do take cover. Most of the characters are rather convincing and 
 quite amusing like sgt reznov who teaches you how to snipe like a pro and leads the russians to 
 victory. during campaign there are various moral decisions to make which lets you be more involved 
 in the storyline and at one point in then game you are given the decision to choose between two 
 of your allies lives and other things like that but overall its a fun single player with lots of 
 killing and explosions and maybe some fire and it can be played co-op but best with your friends 
 as when you play with randoms they can normally be very bad at the game and bog you down (i cant 
 speak i tend to be that guy but oh well its about fun after all its just a game.)
  
  On to the multiplayer.
  The multiplayer in COD5 is much the same as cod 4 it has similar challenges 
 and pretty much the same ranking system and sometimes you spawn ridiculously close to the enemy 
 perrsonally i prefer cod4 online but thats because its modern and i like the guns its more a matter 
 of personal opinion
  
  overall COD5 is a good game and well worth the money it will provide you with many hours of play 
 (mostly online) i hope this review helped you decide wether or not to buy it and even if you dont 
 thanks for reading.
  
  p. s sorry about some of the spellings im not to good 
::::::

::::::
UserName: basskill2000
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 26, 2008 6:13 am PT
Review:  Well As a fan of the Call of Duty Series, this game definately fits in. It picks up in World War 
 2 where Call Of Duty 3 left off (including some time and place changes) and expanded on the ranking 
 and perks that Call of Duty 4 had introduced. Regardless two companies are working on the title 
 (switching back and forth) they seem to keep outdoing themselves. The Flamethrower and Flamethrower 
 Tanks were an outstanding touch. I love running up to a sniper nest in a tree and lighing it on 
 fire. the Molatav Cocktails are a sweet thing as well. The addition of Vehicle perks adds to the 
 excitement of online play. The AI in the game is very good as well, even playing the campaign on 
 Normal, you are under a constant state of movement and awareness. You never know when there is 
 a bonzai attack coming at you, and from what ever direction. The sniper pods are very nicely located, 
 and is the Panzerfaust pods. The Death cards were a good way to replace the laptop intelligence 
 to go back to World War 2 era. And Nazi Zombies, that is prolly the most fun part of the game. 
 I love watching the bodies crawl on the floor after you blow off their legs with the shotgun, very 
 nice addition. Good job Treyarch. lets see if Activision can do you up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Titan14
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 25, 2008 8:19 pm PT
Review:  
  I don't get why people hate this game just because its made by Treyarch. I reckon they did a good 
 job on this. Yeah, when you play through the tough single player campaign you definitely get that 
 'Made by Treyarch' feeling but the sheer immersion and atmosphere of storming a pacific island, 
 defending against banzai attacks and assaulting the Reichstag in the final hours of Berlin will 
 keep you entertained.
  
  Now, about the campaign, i love the pacific theater and the final Soviet advance into Berlin. But 
 the campaign, as tough as it is on the harder levels is just too short. I finished it in about 
 10 hours worth of gameplay.
  
  Where World at War really shines is the Multiplayer. In my opinion this makes up about 80% of the 
 game. Just like COD4 it is the most fun, funniest and enjoyable online shooter out there. Everytime 
 i play i LOL at something. The Nazi Zombie bonus level is also a blast to play through online.
 
  
  The graphics are better than COD4, using an updated COD4 engine. The voice and sound is excellent, 
 although the gun sounds could have used a bit more... umph! They sound weak compared to other shooters. 
 Other than that its all good. The multiplayer is the best part of the game though...
  
  Definitely worth buying... the single player will keep you immersed for about 10 hours but the multiplayer 
 will probably keep you occupied for about 10 months... until the next Call of Duty :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: taj7575
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 25, 2008 7:46 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the best WW2 shooters I've played so far. Using the COD4 engine, treyarch makes 
 it's own great game with COD: WAW ( COD5 ) . 
  
  SP: The single payer is a very enjoyable experience ( not veteran though ) . The story is very interesting, 
 and very emotional at the same time. Once you get into the story more and more, it really grabs 
 you ( especially the soviet side of the story ) . Why the soviet side? Sgt. Rezonov, great music, 
 and authentic structures. From run-down Stalingrad to run down Berlin, both look absolutely beautiful 
 graphically. 
  
  What I hate about SP? It seems like your enemies have endless grenades. Also, COD: WAW's veteran 
 mode will make you very, very angry. the opposing army has pretty much infinite grenades, and amazing 
 aim. 
  
  But overall, SP is very good.
  
  
  
  Multiplayer? It's a COD game. How can you be disappointed? This game's MP is great. The dogs are 
 a great addon to this game also. The maps (except for a couple) are extremely fun. What more is 
 there to say? It's what you expect from a COD game; fun multiplayer.
  
  Overall, treyarch did a great job with this game. I would definitely recommend it to anyone. 
 
  
  Thanks for reading my review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cortolio
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 26, 2008 9:33 am PT
Review:  Let's just get this out of the way. Treyarch has proven itself worthy with this thankfully final 
 and memorable addition to the WW2 era Call of Duty franchise. All previous games aside, though, 
 this game is incredibly good, and at the same time incredibly familiar. 
  
  The fairly short campaign set in two separate World War 2 theatres is well paced.
  However, the 
 game does not expect you to be unfamiliar with the controls, for very early on it throws you into 
 a heated battle. There is no tutorial or training to get you off and running. What Treyarch did 
 very well was make it seem like you really were fighting in two different stages. In the Pacific 
 campaign, Japanese soldiers employ sneaky tactics and use elements of the terrain to their advantage. 
 Though, some attacks are scripted it still gives you a feeling like you're fighting a very new 
 and ruthless foe rather than the generic Nazis that we're so familiar with. However, this does 
 not mean the European campaign is what you'd come to expect from a Nazi killing game. Playing as 
 a Russian soldier pushing out of Stalingrad and into the heart of Berlin you get a feeling like 
 you're kicking your enemy's butt. That does not mean the fights are a total breeze, though. After 
 many tough battles the Nazis flee in a hopeless attempt to fight another day. Sometimes you are 
 also tasked with finishing off any injured soldiers. This really gives you a good idea of how vengeful 
 the Russians were as they broke their way through seemingly impenetrable German lines. As well 
 the real footage that plays while the game loads adds even more to the game's already great atmosphere. 
 Voice acting should also be noted as Gary Oldman and Kiefer Sutherland do their characters with 
 skill. Sutherland at times, though sounds a little too comfortable dropping the F' bomb, maybe 
 that's the way he is in person.
  
  Visually, this game is fantastic. Jungle environments are lush with crisp and natural lighting. 
 The shadows of enemy soldiers sneaking about as you approach a blind corner in a tunnel are appropriately 
 eerie. Some of the Japanese levels are really beautifully designed. City environments are gritty 
 and sport good detail. Weapon textures are very nicely modeled and don't look too shiny, nor too 
 dull. Character models look natural, however the running animations in multiplayer look a little 
 forced and goofy. Gore has been introduced, and has been tastefully done. Blood splatters are sick 
 and limbs flying off are gruesome. 
  
  This simply would not be a Call of Duty game without powerful sound effects. I would heavily suggest 
 playing this game on surround, as you should with any recent action type game. Gun sounds are loud 
 and punchy sounding, though there are some that sound a little weak. Currently I am still deciding 
 on my favourite sounding one. Explosions are raw especially when they result in the crunch of limbs 
 being blown off.
  
  With the introduction of CO-OP for the campaign and a revamp of the game modes, multi-player is 
 definitely this game's selling factor. Playing with friends online is a total hoot and playing 
 with strangers is always addicting. Ranking up this time around is fast, but there are a lot of 
 ranks and many levels of Prestige. If you're reading this review you should know what Prestige 
 Mode is. As of right now there are not a lot of people with the higher end guns and perks unlocked, 
 but people are definitely getting them. The weapons are also fairly well balanced. So far there 
 aren't too many people using the M16 with Juggernaut because the M16 thankfully did not exist in 
 the mid 1940's. Team Deathmatch is still the most popular mode and for good reason, it's the best 
 one. Nazi Zombies are sweet and they're even more fun to kill with friends.
  
  For some reason this is the third time I am putting in my conclusion, as the editing function does 
 not seem to be working. For the most part World at War is a good game on its own. However, it does 
 feel very familiar to Infinity Ward's Modern Warfare. If you are a Call of Duty fan or simply love 
 shooters, this game is definitely a must. 9.0 material all the way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pyro_Impulse
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 25, 2008 1:25 pm PT
Review:  Firstly, if you've played COD4, then just imagine that, only in WWII. A great game, I must say, 
 but after playing COD4, it takes a little getting used to the weapons. The first four or five levels 
 of the campaign, I was incredibly bored, but after that, I was really enjoying it, and finally 
 felt like it was worth the money. Also, I felt much more interested in the "story" than in COD4 
 because it was WWII.
  
  The bayonnet is also very fun to used instead of the knife because the animations are very realistic. 
 Some other ugrades from COD4 to 5 include weapons like flamethrowers, and some more interactive 
 play, like some enemies may be hiding in trees, or sometimes an enemy will fall to the ground and 
 remain wounded, in which case you can finish them off if you like. Some of the animations when 
 you kill enemies are also different, in a better way, like the way they fall or the way they fly 
 when you hit them with a grenade. Also, after getting used to the guns, you will notice that they 
 really give an "old times" feel, and really gives off the WWII feeling while you play; especially 
 when you're ambushed by enemies hiding in the grass who run up to you trying to stab you with the 
 bayonnet!
  
  Also, the campaign mode can now be played in coop mode with up to 4 players via Xbox Live, system 
 link, and/or splitscreen, unlike COD4, which had no coop mode.
  
  Another plus to this game is, once you beat the campaign mode, you unlock "Zombie Mode", which 
 is awesome! Zombie mode, I think, is the best zombie experience I've ever had on a video game! 
 You HAVE TO experience it for yourself. It "pulls you in". If you're super anxious to play zombie, 
 you can play via xbox live with your friends who have completed the campaign. You can add me if 
 you like. Xbox Live gamertag is Pyro Impulse. Bottom line is, if you liked COD4 or any good shooter, 
 then this game is worth the money.
  
  The only cons of this game that I have to say are: 1) Takes a little time to get used to the weapons, 
 which once you do, it's no longer a problem. 2) Some parts during the campaign can be very very 
 frustrating.
  
  I also liked playing as the Russians because I like their hats! Hopefully my woman is getting me 
 one for Christmas!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Luke-FFTl
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 25, 2008 12:06 pm PT
Review:  The campaign is good. The overall concept of multiplayer could potentially be very good, however 
 it is plagued by flaws and extremely unfair weapons, perks and more. 
  
  Weapons, mainly sub machine guns, are extremely overpowered. They completely rule out the need 
 for heavy machine guns and rifles on most maps because they can easily kill opponents from long 
 distances.
  
  Dogs, good concept, just need to be reworked. They are pretty tricky to kill, and there 'bite range' 
 is very big, making them hard to dodge
  
  Spawn points. Absolutely terrible, that is all.
  
  Players not taking damage is sometimes a 
 problem. Whether this is due to hacks/mods or bad connection, it needs to be solved FAST because 
 it is annoying players.
  
  And glitches, if you played call of duty 3, you'd probably know about the 'underground glitch' 
 where a player is able to shoot you through the ground, without you even being able to shoot him. 
 Well, tis back, and is nasty. 
  
  
  Overall, the potential for the game is great, however the flaws just bring the game right down, 
 making the multiplayer experience very poor and stressful. However, the campaign is good, and the 
 zombie Mode is alot of fun too. I'll wait until Treyarch patch the multiplayer up before you consider 
 buying this game.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: UUUMMM184
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 25, 2008 11:59 am PT
Review:  World at War dosen't live up to last year's superb Modern Warfare but it's still an enjoyable first 
 person shooter. There's no shortage of action as you shift between two campaigns and take down 
 hundreds of enemies with real world weapons. Each environment looks amazing as you explore bombed 
 out cities and lush, green jungles. In additiion to that the audio is very good and the voice acting 
 and explosions make you feel that you're part of the experience. I just wish that there was more 
 character development and more jaw dropping moments.
  
  Gameplay: Call of Duty is known for its intensity and this game will immerse you in the action 
 quickly. There's a wealth of gameplay options, as well.
  
  Graphics: The Modern Warfare engine is still really good but a bit of defiecency here and there 
 means it's not as good.
  
  Sound: Very immersive and makes you feel like you're in the game if you have sorround sound!
 
  
  Value: Multiplayer looks almost identical to COD 4 just in a different outfit. But I love the addition 
 of co-op to the short campaign. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soccerboy8
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 24, 2008 10:13 pm PT
Review:  Allright let's see what you can do in this game. Campaign with 15 missions 1 player or for the 
 first time ever co-op! local, system link, or online. There's of course online play and 4 player 
 split screen, those that owned cod4 will get about the same feelings towards that. Sorry people 
 no online guesting or real system link, in other words there's only 1 person per xbox. The best 
 part of this game is the very addicting zombie mode!
  Zombie mode is by far the best feature in this game. Even my brother who normally doesn't like 
 the cod series enjoys zombie mode. You've got to give treyarch props on that for having zombie 
 mode. I can't really explain zombie mode because watching it without playing it isn't the same 
 feeling. Indeed many of my friends (and my brother) thought this mode was dumb, but even though 
 it is dumb and suppose to be ww2, it's still crazy fun. If only you could have 4 people per xbox 
 I'd give cod5 a 9.5 just for having 4 people per xbox on zombie mode. The equation goes like this. 
 1 person fun, 2 person more fun, 3 much much funner, 4 people, funnest. Sure you can go online 
 and do 4 players but it just isn't the same.
  Conclusion? buy it cod5, it's still a solid shooter even without zombie mode, despite glitches 
 in campaign. Many more features are included, buy the game if just for the zombie mode, it's worth 
 it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swordsman117
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 24, 2008 1:26 pm PT
Review:  I respect the men and women who fought the war so that we could enjoy the freedom that they sacrificed 
 and died for. I am forever in debt on the actions that they did. Eventually, their experiences 
 have been translated to various movies and other types of media. This recently included the video 
 game industry. The "real" depiction of the war started with the Medal of Honor series. Then it 
 was quickly capitalize and began a whole lot of games related to World War 2. This lead to an excessive 
 amount of games, which gamers eventually got sick off. But another World War 2 game? You're kidding 
 right? So is Call of Duty World At War a game worth going back for or is the era already burned 
 out?
  
  LOVED
  
  Call of Du... Wha? 
  
  While COD4 moved to a modern era, WAW went back to its roots. It's not a bad thing, but it's not 
 good either. There are so many WW2 games out there, but this time it's set on the pacific, a region 
 that has not been fully explored in video games.
  
  It's more brutal than the other games of the series. With film clippings being shown off before 
 a mission starts to the in game cut scenes, it screams," War is Hell" and a different perspective 
 on how the war was fought in the Pacific. This also gives the opportunity the player to see the 
 war on a different perspective. It wasn't just the war in Europe that was being fought, but also 
 out there in the beaches of the Pacific. 
  
  Braiiins...
  
  Whoever came up with the Nazi Zombie mini game is a genius. It's a four player co-op that pits 
 you against wave after wave of the Nazi Undead. Sure it starts slow, but it gets harder as the 
 level moves up. You'll be hurrying on barricading windows and fending off the Undead in no time.
 
  
  At first you are handicapped to a couple of weapons that you can buy. The currency system works 
 well without being too stiff. The "money" starts to flow quick as you kill the Undead. With cash 
 on hand, you start to get more interesting and powerful weapons to purchase. 
  
  The Black Cat and Vendetta Levels
  
  About half way through the game, you are tasked to fly 
 with the Black Cat crew for an escort mission. This serves as a breaking point for the Pacific 
 War. It shows what the Navy was going through. And more importantly, it gives the player the chance 
 to do some on rail shooting. It's great, in a sense that it's beyond the perspective of the foot 
 soldiers.
  
  You could also say that this level was mirrored with COD4's C-130 level. They are almost similar 
 in a sense that it's just in a different setting. Nonetheless it was fun.
  
  Another great level is the very first mission for the Soviets. As usual you will be treated to 
 a cut scene, and then quickly evolves to a stealth mission. It paces well, with a few scripted 
 events. This level stands out because it reminded me of a movie called "Enemy at the Gates". This 
 includes the dialog being almost identical to the movie. Well it's not bad; it could have used 
 some originality. Nonetheless, it's a great level with a steady and at the same time, a tense pacing. 
 
  
  These are the levels that truly stand out in WAW. It not only changes the pacing but also manages 
 to be captivating. It's something that the developers really paid attention too. Although its linear 
 in nature, it definitely takes you for a ride that is quite memorable.
  
  Multiplayer
  
  Jumping on the multiplayer band wagon has never been so easy. WAW mirrors COD4's so expect 
 to see the perk system in effect and the fast pace action that it delivers. In addition to this, 
 there is a 4 player co-op of the campaign. It doesn't include every level but it's a good addition 
 nonetheless.
  
  HATED
  
  Scripted Events and Path Finding
  
  Well, COD is linear, with a few branching paths to take. The level design is... well linear. It 
 doesn't really divert from the original path. Sure it may have a diverting path but from a strategical 
 point of view it has no importance. This might have been meant for the 4 player co-op but it doesn't 
 have any difference when you're playing by yourself. 
  
  What really bugs me is the amount of scripted events that WAW has. From every mission that you 
 take, there is at least one scripted event. It really doesn't help the overall experience and would 
 have been nice if it was kept to a minimum. However there are critical moments in the game where 
 scripting is truly appreciated. 
  
  Banzai AI
  
  The AI is, to put it simply, moronic. The Enemy AI would be standing near you and he will virtually 
 do nothing. Same goes for the Friendly AI, he'll be a few feet from the enemy and he will also 
 do nothing. This doesn't happen occasionally, but it can easily be noticed and this takes you away 
 from the experience. 
  
  It's also amazing how they can toss the grenade at you and it magically lands on your feet. It's 
 not cheap, but it keeps the game from becoming too easy.
  
  Cut, Copy and Paste
  
  It's inevitable; WAW will be compared to COD4. After all it uses the same tech as Modern Warfare. 
 Sadly this game would be labeled as a rehash of that said game. There's nothing new that we haven't 
 seen. The visuals and the character animations are all the same with a different coat of paint. 
 This makes it really familiar and it can be bad.
  
  Character Progression
  
  You don't really get attach to your AI buddies. It's not like Brothers In Arms. There is little 
 to do in terms of character development. Sure, you'll remember their names but it doesn't really 
 flesh out the relationship that you have. It's just like the past COD games; everyone is just the 
 "guy" in a sea of uniforms.
  
  Closing Comments 
  
  I'll say it once and I'll say it again, World War 2 ended sixty years ago and it should also end 
 in the video game industry... or at least kept to a minimal. With every new FPS game coming out 
 as either with space marines or related to terrorists, WW2 games won't do any good in this genre 
 anymore. 
  
  However, there are games that excel no matter what setting it depicts. It doesn't matter if its 
 fiction or tries to emulate reality. If the gameplay is good enough then these games will usually 
 succeed. WAW has proven this, it's not just graphically similar to COD4, but it proves that true 
 gameplay is more than just skin deep. It may be a WW2 game, but it's definitely more intense and 
 refreshing than any WW2 game that I've played since Brothers In Arms.
  
  With this, I can only recommend it for players that are willing to spend time on the multiplayer 
 section. But if you're looking for a good single player experience that would take you more than 
 seven hours and a game that elicits emotion then this game is just a rental. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fricking
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 24, 2008 6:23 am PT
Review:  'Quality, not quantity' seems to be the Call of Duty team's new slogan in terms of game layout. 
 With Call of Duty 4 being comfortably beatable within a 2 day slot, World at War has closely followed 
 suit - although not just with the time planning but... everything.
  
  There's no doubt that Call of Duty 4 set the bar high for Treyarch but within the initial two missions 
 it was clear that they had managed to stay relatively close to their popular brother, Infinity 
 Ward. The action is extremely immense and engrossing which is helped further represented by the 
 already successful 'CoD4 engine.'
  
  But it doesn't stop there. The missions are creatively designed to give the player a variety of 
 objectives; whether it be run and gun, assassination, stealth or guns blazing. Accompany this with 
 a beautiful musical score and you have Call of Duty World at War.
  
  However, although it tells of the usually overlooked story of the Pacific and Eastern Front very 
 well and originally you can't help but hear the echoes of Call of Duty throughout the game. It 
 seems most entities from the previous title have been simply renamed and re skinned - there's nothing 
 new. To be honest I would see World at War as an expansion pack, especially with the short life 
 of the campaign. However, once again the multiplayer is strong enough to carry the game forward 
 and give it a boost of life, as well as the satirical 'Nazi Zombie' mode which is bound to give 
 you a few cheap thrills.
  
  All in all, Call of Duty World at War offers a fantastic and original representation of the Pacific 
 and Eastern front in nearly all aspects, but just like the introduction of tanks in MP, it is questionable 
 as to whether it will stand as a great thing, or an average thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jayzon69
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 24, 2008 5:05 am PT
Review:  The single player of CoD: WaW gives you a frantic and fun game play experience. Even though it 
 is fun and hectic it is something we have already seen before in several of its predecessors.
 
  
  Going back to WW2 does not bring anything new to the table and comparing WaW with CoD4 Modern Warfare 
 is natural. CoD 4 was in my eyes the game of the year 2007 and as far as I can see, WaW fails to 
 bring something new to the series. It is back to well known WW2 surroundings and weapons, and it 
 is only still about advancing to gain ground. 
  
  I have not tested the multiplayer that much but I must say that the modern setting of Modern Warfare 
 is more attractive. However it deserves a bit more attention than I have had time for. There are 
 some new perks and of course the old WW2 weaponry but I do not know. 
  
  In an autumn with several other great games like Gears of War 2, Fallout 3 Left 4 Dead and so on, 
 WaW will probably be overlooked by many even though it is a quite good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sage_spartan
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 24, 2008 1:24 am PT
Review:  Like most fans of Call of Duty and the WW2 genre in general, I hoped that this game would appeal 
 to me. I can say it did. But did it live up to my expectations?
  
  Yes and No.
  
  I've been playing WW2 games most of my life and the themes have always been the same, The original 
 Call of Duty knocked it out of the park. I was playing scenes from Band of Brothers, The Longest 
 Day, A Bridge Too Far and many other classics. Why did that make the experience so much better?
 
  Because it immersed you into what it was like. The sounds; the reality of war; the suspense.
 
  
  I got all this from the original and COD 2, also among others like the Brothers in Arms series 
 and a personal favourite Hidden & Dangerous 2. Playing as different countries in their struggle 
 was hugely gratifying, making us enjoy beating back the German war machine and saving Europe. We 
 weren't a one man army as such but felt like we were involved in something worthwhile.
  This is where my issues with the genre now are failing miserably, the immersion is gone, the sounds 
 and visual impact are getting dull and the story and characters are non-existent. By now you're 
 most likely thinking "When will he get to the damn review!", but I believe it's important to examine 
 the genre as a whole.
  
  Now then to the review - COD World at War
  This will only focus on the single player experience.
  
  For some reason I had no excitement 
 about this game's release as Treyarch have disappointed me in the past. World at War is definitely 
 a much better attempt this time round, but the question is has Treyarch gone too many rounds already, 
 should they leave it to Infinity Ward, the true artists in the genre.
  
  First off, it's quite obvious that World at War is just COD4 with a makeover, Treyarch used Infinity 
 Ward's engine and this was probably the only reason I kept playing it. Visually the Game looks 
 great, sticking true to the now expected detail and colour palette of previous outings. But that's 
 about where the similarities end. The Campaign seems even shorter than that of COD4.
  
  The Sound - 
  In COD4 it was amazing. You felt there were explosions going off next to your head, 
 the guns felt real; that the power could be heard in the sheer volume after every round of ammunition 
 was fired off. I cannot say the same for World at War. Some weapons were accurate like the 30. 
 Machine Gun and the Springfield. But all the rest sucked. The grenades sounded like somebody farting 
 across the room, the noise from shooting your bolt action rifle in most cases can barely be heard. 
 The SMG's were varied; the Thompson sounded like it was raining outside my window. The 12 gauge 
 shotgun was insanely muffled and the Colt pistol was like throwing a tennis ball against a brick 
 wall. I won't go through all the weapons these are just some examples but I can't speak highly 
 for the rest. Over all the sound was lame, the only time my heart started racing from the suspense 
 was when there was a Banzai charge so I could use my knife. 
  
  Accuracy-
  I'm going to go out on a limb here and guess that most people don't give a rat's ass about historical 
 accuracy and research but for me as a WAR buff it's always bothered me. Feel free to scroll down 
 to the next section because I'm going to rant a bit here. For starters, Treyarch, Kudos on bring 
 new and "exciting weapons into the fold". Too bad the existing ones weren't done right to begin 
 with. The original COD got everything spot on; you would think that this would be a piece of cake 
 for the WAW team. Unfortunately this is not the case. All the sounds were lame; they got the weapon 
 designs wrong on many of the guns incorrect; and left out some great ones. I will praise them on 
 one thing though the M1 Garand. FINALLY somebody got the reloading mechanism right, and the animation 
 for it looks great.
  
  Performance issues -
  The A. I. is strange, One minute they'll be helping you by throwing away a grenade that's just landed 
 next to your face, then next they're letting enemy soldier walk right past them to charge at you 
 or just standing there while you're in a hole with 5 guys shooting at you. There were numerous 
 instances where both friend and foe alike would just stand there not firing, to be easily cut down 
 from knife range. In most cases the enemy AI is too smart, they'll predict your actions; I found 
 that depending on what weapon I'm brandishing at the time on the harder difficulties say the more 
 powerful MG42, either their attention would all turn to me (not that it isn't most of the time 
 anyway) or they would appear out of nowhere to kill me from behind. Then there's the anywhere between 
 3 to 6 grenades falling on you all at once from impossible distances and from locations they have 
 made contact with you personally yet and can't even see you from. When you have grenades land on 
 your and you find yourself stuck because your idiot of a teammates has taken cover in your position 
 therefore cause you to become bogged down and unable to move, leaving you precious seconds to swear 
 incoherently at the TV screen while you wait for the checkpoint to reload. Speaking of checkpoint 
 they are few and far between. 
  
  This brings me to the difficulty rollercoaster ride. On Regular it's well... "Regular" for the 
 most part until you arrive at objectives in some missions where the ground cover is non-existent, 
 this creates a problem for those achievement buffs wanting to pass the game on veteran. I will 
 say I'm good at these games, and I do enjoy a challenge, but when a game has me screaming in anger 
 at the TV screen and taking all my will power not to throw the controller through it is when I've 
 got an issue with it. Some levels are near impossible, and when you finally do one objective after 
 trying over and over and over... to find out the checkpoint doesn't come up it's enough to bring 
 you to tears of frustration. When this game is too easy it's "too easy", when it's challenging 
 or hard its "impossible". For any of you guys out there that pass this mess of a game on Veteran 
 I salute you, because you have the patience of a saint, whereas I do not. One last thing on performance, 
 or design, this game was insanely linear, I mean they've always had directed paths, but in the 
 Marine campaign it felt like I was going along a board walk in the jungle section of the Zoo hoping 
 a bird wouldn't take a crap on me.
  
  Story  
  Ok most people don't care about story when it comes to shooters but I do so here is the basic lowdown. 
 You're Pvt. Miller in the US campaign, a generic faceless grunt like most ww2 shooters, except 
 in most shooters you feel a part of the team, in this it's like you're an observer looking through 
 some idiot's helmet camera. When the game first started and you see you're a POW being interrogated 
 by the Japanese, your mate is next to you, having the crap beaten out of him and having a cigar 
 burned into his face, I'm thinking "SWEET". "Finally the grim realities of war are within my reach". 
 Then when you're about to have your throat cut like your recently deceased friend, your captors 
 miraculously get taken out and you're rescued. Well so far so good and I haven't even done anything 
 yet. I grab a rifle and we are off, shooting my way through Japanese soldiers with some guys I 
 just met, so far everything not bad at all.
  
  Then it slowed down dramatically after that, I neither cared for my comrades well being nor saw 
 them as actually helping me with anything. More or less acting as portable ammo dumps when they 
 come in range of your knife (For some reason there's no penalty for killing your mates this way) .
 
  The American campaign tries hard to make your care about those around you, but most of time I 
 couldn't recognise them or they were hiding somewhere, also being ordered by Keifer Sutherland 
 to do EVERYTHING, got a little annoying. It made you feel as if your character was the bait for 
 every trap. This was apparent when I realised you teammates wouldn't even move ahead from one section 
 to the next without you leading the suicidal charge. This is especially annoying on the harder 
 difficulties. It seemed like the same old recycled stories over again, while the pacific campaign 
 was a welcome change, but the Russian one has been done to DEATH. All this isnt helped with a really 
 short campaign.
  
  It's more or less exactly the same as the Russian campaigns in the 1st COD and in the 2nd. "Boring 
 as hell" to put it bluntly. And when it got to the stage where you're more or less hunting down 
 fleeing German soldiers for a few levels, I felt bad doing so. There's no honour in shooting somebody 
 in the back and that what was happening for the second half of the campaign. To be honest it pissed 
 me off. We have been conditioned to see German soldiers in these games as evil and requiring neutralization. 
 I have been aware for a very long time in reality that this wasn't the case and that most weren't 
 NAZI's at all just regular soldiers. But in the gaming world it's been "Kill or be killed" so the 
 thought never occurred to me nor bothered me while playing until now. The idea or glorifying Russia's 
 2.5 million troops hunting down Germany's 50,000 Soldiers and Civilian Soldier's isn't a war game 
 I want to play. I felt sorry for them for the first time. Until I reached the Reichstag at least 
 when the enemy were wearing NAZI armbands then I had no problem with it, but when you're being 
 told to wipe-out the remaining disorganised and scared to death forces defending what's left of 
 their country even though Hitler's dead and there's nobody left except civilians basically defending 
 their homes, again it felt wrong.
  
  I think if COD wants to take another crack at WW2, I would personally like to play as my fellow 
 Australians, we served all over the place yet haven't been represented in a game to date, the British 
 have far more interesting places to go than most, hell I would even enjoy playing as Germany FOR 
 THE FIRST TIME EVER (that may peak interest) . Anything is better than the recycling of boring Russian 
 campaigns or see the US glorifying themselves once again reminding us all how "powerful and great" 
 they are. Personally I'm not bored of WW2, I just wish they would do something different and do 
 it right. If Infinity Ward wants to stick with the Modern era I'm more than happy for them to do 
 it, just don't let Treyarch massacre a great franchise they established. But I won't say I hated 
 the game I did enjoy it, it was fun just not great. And I found myself annoyed and frustrated way 
 too often.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AdaManTiuM_X
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 24, 2008 12:52 am PT
Review:  When I first heard about this game, I had been playing COD4 for so many months; and like many of 
 you, my first reaction was, "WAAAAAAAT!!! Why on earth would they take the series back to WW2!?" 
 Seeing Treyarch as the developer also got me worried, and I thought at the time that NO ONE would 
 buy this game because COD4 is just too BAD ASS. Then a couple of weeks ago I downloaded the beta......... and 
 it ROCKED! The game nailed COD4's multiplayer and managed to even improve upon it with added new 
 perks and vehicles. As a person who's never really played WW2 games ( I was obsessed with Goldeneye, 
 then went straight to Halo) , this game felt pretty refreshing. The COD4 formula translated quite 
 well to this time period, and even the game's single player is pretty enjoyable, although it just 
 takes a back seat to the multiplayer. I guess I'm just glad that this game didn't completely kill 
 the momentum Infinity Ward got from COD4. This game is a very acceptable substitute in the COD 
 series until Infinity Ward blows us away with a proper sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: creeping-deth87
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 23, 2008 8:53 pm PT
Review:  Treyarch's last contribution to Infinity Ward's series was met with mixed reactions, though the 
 criticism it received can be attributed to its rather short development cycle. Understandably, 
 many fans became skeptical about another Treyarch iteration. It is undoubtedly these same nay-sayers 
 that will be most impressed with what the game has to offer.
  
  World at War has arguably the best campaign for a World War II shooter since Medal of Honor: Allied 
 Assault. You will fight in the European and Pacific theatres of war throughout the story mode, 
 playing as an American marine or a Russian sniper. For a first person shooter, there are some surprisingly 
 engaging characters. Sergeant Resnov is quite the bad-ass, particularly in the last moments of 
 the campaign where he shows a rather grisly thirst for blood. The death of one of the characters 
 in the American campaign is also very dramatic and involving. The set-piece battles are intense, 
 due in no small part to the absolutely ferocious Japanese fighters that will come running at you 
 with bayonets drawn. The addition of tanks, a first in the series, also helps to mix things up 
 a little. There are also several 'death cards' thrown into the campaign to add to replayability. 
 These cards are essentially cheats which add interesting gameplay circumstances that change the 
 way you play the game. For example, one of the cards will make enemies invincible to anything that 
 is not a head shot. There are several different cards to collect, so there's a lot to get out of 
 the main campaign.
  
  Treyarch has also added a vital component missing from Modern Warfare: cooperative play. Online 
 co-op with up to 4 players is possible through X-Box Live for the entire campaign. Like in solo 
 play, the death cards may be applied for cooperative matches. To further supplement hits feature, 
 once you beat the campaign you unlock a bizarre but very exciting new mode: Nazi Zombies. You and 
 up to 3 others defend an old, decrepit house from hordes of undead fascists. Each wave throws increasingly 
 ferocious zombies in increasingly overwhelming numbers. Points are awarded for killing zombies 
 and rebuilding the barricades on the windows. Points can then be spent to buy new weapons, buy 
 ammunition, and unlock different parts of the house (which, in turn, give you access to additional 
 weapons) . Despite how out of place this mode comes off, it is one of the most fun and utterly hectic 
 modes to play in the game. Team work is key, and it is only when everyone is working together that 
 this mode really clicks and gives you everything it has to offer.
  
  The multiplayer is the main attraction of the game though, and in this Treyarch certainly fits 
 the bill. Make no mistake, this is no carbon copy of Call of Duty 4. 5 is slower in pace, but the 
 guns are far more precise and as such require a greater degree of finesse to rack up kill counts. 
 The maps are also noticeably larger, but not so large that you'll be walking around bored to death 
 looking for something to shoot. The tanks are surprisingly very well balanced. They can obviously 
 kill other players very easy, but they're also not too hard to take down. Satchel charges and bazookas 
 are at the disposal of every player so any class can have some degree of anti-tank effectiveness 
 with the use of a single perk. They add some very exciting moments. Being caught between two tanks 
 fighting toe to toe while with legions of other players between them duking it out is nothing short 
 of a great experience. The new perks also add some interesting new benefits to the gameplay, as 
 well as an entirely new class of perks that are devoted solely to vehicles and range from faster 
 turret spinning speed to faster reloading for your tank shells.
  
  Unfortunately, many of the issues players had with Call of Duty 4 return in Call of Duty 5. Spawning 
 in front of enemy crosshairs still occurs with a frustrating frequency. The host problems that 
 plagued Modern Warfare and put an end to lobbies entirely have returned in Call of Duty 5. Fortunately, 
 the grenade spamming has been put to an end thanks to Treyarch toning them down (the fact that 
 the maps are bigger also go some way in mitigating the grenades) . These problems hardly break the 
 experience, but it's unfortunate that Treyarch didn't do additional work to address the problems 
 that existed in Call of Duty 4 with all the extra development time.
  
  Despite severe skepticism from the gaming community, World at War takes Infinity Ward's formula 
 and improves on it in almost every way. The addition of co-operative play, vehicles, a new class 
 of perks, a zombie mode, and a different flavour to the multiplayer keep World at War from feeling 
 like a tired rehash of last year's most popular shooter. Treyarch have created what could very 
 well be considered one of the best World War II shooters ever conceived. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AnalogOdyssey
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 23, 2008 7:20 pm PT
Review:  This game has alot going for it... although it is WW 2 again (which is a step back from COD 4) 
 because COD 4 was going for a more futuristic game and this game is going for the same WW2 game 
 it is ok. games like Brothers in Arms, Medal of Honor, COD 1-3, wolfenstein, and countless others 
 have done WW 2 and I am somewhat sick of it... The "Pacific aspect" to this game is good, but was 
 already done in medal of honor pacific assault and rising sun.... The game does add some new stuff 
 like the "Bonzai warriors" that rush at you, a flamethrower and bayonnets.... The game seems to 
 have copied gears of war 2 by adding a flamethrower and "Nazi Zombies mode" (Horde Mode Gears of 
 War 2) The games campaign is short and I rented this game and beat the campaign in like 5 hours.... 
 honestly if you are better than me and play it straight through you can beat it in like 3... The 
 co-op mode is cool and all and so is the same multiplayer like the last ones, but for me the single 
 player in this one didn't feel that great... The ending was same to COD 1 where u rush a building 
 go to the top and hoist a flag.... and the Russia missions were simliar to The movie "Enemy at 
 the Gates"... The missions on the Japanese islands of Okanawi and others were kinda cool and the 
 flamethrower is cool for burning stuff... The graphics are cool and body parts come off and there 
 is gore and all of that... The sound is amazing and actors Kiefer Sutherland and Gary Oldman lend 
 their voices to the game.... The games single player is short, but if you are into multiplayer 
 (WW2 that is ) and want to play on pacific maps and use WW2 based guns then you might as well pick 
 this up.... I just thought it was too short and personally if you want a game to play that is better 
 Gears of War 2 and COD 4 are better than this game..... its up to you though and if you still like 
 WW2 how ever many of u are out there then maybe pick this up or wait till it drops from the 60 
 dollar price tag.... cya.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uhateit
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 23, 2008 6:41 pm PT
Review:  This is a very good game and should be rated very high, it's just tough that everyone compares 
 everything to COD4, which in itself was an amazing and perfect game. If there were no comparisons 
 being made to COD4, this game would definately be up there as a great game.
  
  The action sequences are very good, just not as emersive as the COD4 game was where I seemed to 
 get more into the action and more into the storyline of the game. Still a great story nonetheless. 
 The whole WWII thing was definately different as I have never played COD, COD2, or COD3 which I 
 heard are all WWII as well. One thing that makes this game hard is that you are changing what nationality 
 you are fighting with in each level so you have a hard time telling who the enemies are as you 
 change outfits each time with each nation you fight with on your side.
  
  The tank level was pretty cool shooting the other tanks, much like in COD4 in the airplane level 
 dropping bombs on the villages below. I liked the usage of the flamethrower as well, very brutal 
 but very fun as well.
  
  I would recommend this game to anyone who likes the COD franchise but this is much fdifferent than 
 COD4, and probably more like the earlier versions of the game. I beat the game in about 7-8 hours 
 of playtime, so I would say this game is definately NOT worth the $60 and can be rented for $8 
 at Blockbuster and you can beat it in one day and return it and move on to the next game. I burned 
 a copy so it cost me the $2 for a disc, so no biggy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shiny5
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 23, 2008 9:53 am PT
Review:  This game is like the second child when it comes to the Call of Duty series, with Call of Duty 
 4 Modern Warfare being the bigger brother/sister. As you play through this game, it seems like 
 a more linear version of Modern Warfare; as larger events happened in Modern Warfare (which were 
 very well spread out and time, not flooding the player with insignificant events) , this game seems 
 to have much smaller but many more significant events.
  
  A fun epilogue, that does not have to do anything with the single player campaign, is a Nazi Zombie 
 mode. The objective of this mini-game is to survive as long as possible in a deserted building. 
 Killing or making contact with any bullet or knife, can grab you points to purchase ammo and new 
 weapons, as well as barricades to hold the zombies out of the house. Grenades work pretty well 
 against them too, but they blow in half and still trail after you while cut in half. This mode 
 can be unlocked when you complete the game, and can be done with other friends of yours. 
  
  The multiplayer seems to be much more balanced than the beta did. The similarities between 
 CoD 4 and CoD5 multiplayer are almost identical, with a three kill streak unlocking radar, five 
 kill streak unlocking artillery, which is identical to air strike form CoD4, and a seven kill streak 
 nabbing you attack dogs. The point system and everyhting else seem to be similar. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: NEEBUCKLER
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 23, 2008 9:26 am PT
Review:  TreyArch or whoever, once again, demolished Affinity Wards masterpiece. Don't get me wrong, the 
 game is ok as far as having new maps, perks, and the 4-play co'op; but it's definitley not what, 
 I think, most would consider an upgrade. The sound effects, for one, were a huge dissapointment; 
 the foot steps don't flow with the movement in multiplayer; they actually sound like a kid playing 
 with drumsticks on a wall, the gun fire sounds ok but not at all as clear and resonant as CALL 
 OF DUTY'S MODERN WARFARE. And the graphics were a definite dissapointment overall, minus a few 
 lost limbs here and there.
  
  To all you snipers, you'll have a field day! Distance is a blur if your not scoping though I'm 
 more of a barrell inch away from the head kinda player with a few knifes in the back. TreyArch 
 and Cod don't mix too well. Affinity Ward, I'm waiting on you budy. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Najohn
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 23, 2008 7:16 am PT
Review:  First thing first is that Inifinity Ward could have made a Patch version of this game just like 
 Halo 3 is doing with Recon, but never the less we can't change that now. Everything with Call of 
 Duty World at War spells Call of Duty 4, from the box and instruction manual to the disc itself, 
 and the main lobby, live lobby, and every other pause, loading screen. The game mode is very much 
 well detailed from the blood dripping out of your soliders face, to the Japanese general blowing 
 smoke into your face. The downside of so many details is the lack of colour and realistic feel 
 that COD 4 had, making it feel more cartoonish then realistic, which is a plus and minus.
  When I first started up the game, I spotted a new option in regards to watering down game detail, 
 making it less violent, I mean I know this is a great feature in all, but if you're of age to play 
 this, the option doesn't matter. But yes this game gets gory at times like the opening scene where 
 you watch your comrade get his throat slit before your other comrades come in and kill your enemy. 
 Kind odd on why they choose to start this mission off with that but whatever. 
  Online is like any other COD game, amazing, From more gun customization with multiple attachments 
 not just the same ones for one class, and improved perks, Stopping power doesn't kill you like 
 you are playing hardcore, as well, martyrdom has a smaller range to hit or kill people. The only 
 thing I find annoying is the amount of places you can camp on maps and blind in. One minute you 
 will be chasing an enemy down an ally way, next thing he is gone and pops out behind you. With 
 Cage matches out there will be no more no more noobs cage matching for guns they can only use by 
 spraying. BUT K/Ds are pretty much easy to increase, if you play free for all, as long as you maintain 
 a +3 or more K/D during the game, you should get around a 30  10 or less score at the end of the 
 game, if you play well. On the other hand though, with team matches like Domination, Headquarters, 
 and TeamDeath Match, you will usually get a 24-14 score or less, because of all the kill stealers, 
 which does give you the possibility to get a higher amount of kills, but a more higher chance of 
 playing bad and dropping your K/D by a lot. The chances of dying, getting angry, and your K/D decreasing 
 would be increased the more you play Team matches against hordes of enemy teams that only play 
 COD 5.
  Overall the guns are gun to use, no CAMO or Gold guns are kind of crappy as well, team matches 
 like domination and sabotage have become more boring, while TeamDeath match has became very fun 
 to play from COD 4's version of it. Story mode is fun, just boring at points, more of an online 
 game, but worth maybe 40-50 dollars not 60-70+.
  P. S. next year will have 2 Call of Dutys which is going to be annoying. Future and WW2, I just 
 hope Infinity stays with modern or comes out with a modern patch.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: albertrosss
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 23, 2008 2:52 am PT
Review:  8.5 is just right. When I got the beta about to cancel my pre-order but I gave it a chance. Everything 
 looks weird, not normal, small and just doesn't 'feel' right. It felt like playing battlefield 
 1942 call of duty style. The only thing that hasn't changed much is the sniper, that was my first 
 reaction.
  
  Each weapon has like been redesigned for its initial purpose and if you want to do well, you need 
 to master that weapons abilities and use them to your advantage. Call of duty 3 plays a good deal 
 as well as call of duty 4 in the set-up of the weapons.
  
  Single player:::
  I haven't played too much of it in normal, but all the co-op lives up to its performance. Call 
 of Duty: WAW is for anyone, whether you're a veteran at shooters or your first time, by selecting 
 easy through to hardened you get a good smooth incline in difficulty. Though for myself normal 
 is like playing very easy. My opinion would've been if you try and make a big push or stay up for 
 a while the enemy should 'talk' and overwhelm you but it's great for authentic call of duty 2 campaign 
 gameplay. Now Veteran difficulty is quiet the experience and the personal development in mastering 
 call of duty 5 weapons. Fire can come from anywhere with extreme power, sprint, cover, quickly 
 look, flank, suppress (sometimes) , pinpoint accuracy is crucial.
  The single player weapons are different from multiplayer and have been edited perfectly. Overall 
 the sing player/co-op is great whatever difficulty you choose. When in normal having those frequent 
 fire fights is just what you need to have great gameplay especially if you hate having to cover 
 and flank very often. 8.8 score for gameplay, it could have been better but for the type of game 
 produced it's the best possible.
  A thing I also did not like is the instant kill of the flamethrower; it should slowly kill them 
 unless they are swimming in fire.
  
  Joke: Type 99s will eat you before you can blink, watch anything that moves.
  SMGs will rip up 
 good (Veteran)
  
  Multiplayer::::
  9.278/10 for multiplayer. "My weapon is my friend" I find myself saying that in-game. Every bullet 
 counts! Attaching attachments can alter your guns performance dramatically. The gametypes are great 
 the maps are great. Use the environment and your special grenades and you can avoid dying a lot. 
 I'll say what I said before; each weapon has that ability, use it. Tanks don't destroy the game 
 at all; in fact they are some-what weak. Bayonets are better then normal knifing and bouncing Bettys 
 become more visible after a while if placed right in front of you. If they are placed around a 
 corner bad luck but they can be survived. If your not sure just go slow it ill blow but you'll 
 live.
  
  
  Conclusion::::
  For everyone who has loved and experienced the call of duty series, it's time to relearn everything 
 unless you have aim assist on then it's easier. You have to relearn all the spots you are visible 
 from in the map. The maps are made in a way that you can nearly see the whole map from one area 
 especially if you're up high. The game is great and personally I think its time for a futuristic 
 cod6.
  Hope to see you on the battlefield.
  
  
  (My very first review, sorry but compared to all the other reviews I think I did pretty poor.) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Uber_n00b_v2
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 30, 2008 2:46 pm PT
Review:  Well, I've recently finished playing CoD5 and to be completely honest with you it was if anything 
 over-hyped. That not to say it was a bad game, because in all it was pretty good game. I based 
 my review on 5 things: Gameplay, Single player mode, online play, visual presentation, and (in 
 the case of a WW2 game) historical accuracy.
  
  Gameplay wise it used the same game engine and controls as CoD4 which leads me to say: "Thank god" 
 because I absolutely loved CoD4's gameplay. Personally, I'd have to say the gameplay was perfect 
 I saw nothing wrong with it. This causes the game to flow rather nicely. I would certainly hope 
 that they do the same for CoD6 whenever it comes out.
  
  As for the single player campaign I have to say I have mixed emotions towards it. The American 
 campaign is based on various Japanese islands and aside for the occasional attack on a castle you're 
 in the jungle the whole time. To be blunt I did not like the American campaign, so much that at 
 times it made we want to kill myself (not really but in all seriousness it was preety bad) . The 
 first two levels are mildly interesting but after that you realize: It's the same old stuff. Starts 
 of with a realatively large battle against the Imperial army, then you get ambushed 2 or 3 times 
 then you overuse your flamethrower. Also I found it to be a bit too difficult. When you're playing 
 on a high difficulty and are engaged in a firefight I found myself in prone for the vast majority 
 of it. However the Soviet campaign a liked a lot more. It starts with you wounded and you're about 
 to be killed in Stalingrad square but the Germans forget to kill you. You meet up with Sgt. Reznov 
 who also go lucky enough to survive. He then instructs you through one the funnest missions I've 
 played in a Call of Duty game. This just sets the pace for the rest of the soviet campaign. The 
 only thing that I found tedious about the Soviet campaign was that horrible tank mission. I hoped 
 Treyarch learned from CoD4 that people don't like the driving missions. However, all in all the 
 Soviet campaign's greatness made up for the American campaign's repeatativeness.
  
  The multiplayer in CoD5 lives up to CoD4's in the sence that it's still frustrating as hell when 
 you fell you've been your last death was unmerited. That doesn't means it's bad though, I just 
 can't accept that anyone is better then me. To get back on subject CoD5's multiplayer is nearly 
 equal to that of it's predecessor, the only problem being the maps. I don't like the maps nearly 
 as much as I did CoD4's. There are only 2 or 3 maps on CoD5 that I find even tollerable. Then came 
 the zombie mode, where you defend your your building from hoards of undead nazi zombies. If anything 
 I'd have to say that the zombie mode was... FUN BEYOND BELIEF AND I LOVED IT. It reminds me of 
 when I would play timesplitters for hours on end. Overall I did like the multiplayer, I"m sure 
 in time time i'll learn to like the maps. 
  
  As for the the visual presentation I divided it into two parts. One being the Environement and 
 the other being the characters. Stunning is the one word I'd
  use to describe the environement it was really nice. Everything was well detailed. I wish I could 
 say that about the characters. Personally I did not like the design of the characters. To start 
 in the campaign the lip sync was nothing short of awful, it's a shame when you have Kiefer Sutherland 
 as a voice actor but can't tell his voice belongs to. Another thing I noticed about the character 
 design was the Japanese bonsai dudes looked really bad. The good and the bad cancel out in this 
 case... which was very disapointing because I expected more from the Call of Duty series.
  
  The historical accuracy is a very important factor to me when judging a WW2 game. For the campaign 
 everything was spot-on. Treyarch really did their homework on this because they got all their dates 
 and number's right, so my hat is off to them on this. However them multiplayer was unrealistic. 
 Some of the gun attachments. Take the suppressor although they were invented at the time they were 
 not nearly as efficiant as they're depicted on multiplayer.
  
  In conclusion to what you may or may not have just read I found this to be good game. It was good, 
 nothing more nothing less which was a disapointment. It seemed to me that it was just little flaws 
 that caused me to give as low a rating as I did. Personally I hope Infinity Ward makes the next 
 installment to this series because Treyarch just didn't cut it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chaosisover
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 4, 2009 4:37 pm PT
Review:  I was never a big fan of the Call of Duty franchise, I didn't even like CoD 4 that much. Then I 
 played CoD: World at War, I must say this game is simply amazing! OK, WaW is a re skinned CoD 4, 
 but it's a really good thing. This isn't made by Infinity Ward, but if you didn't know that, you 
 would think it was since they helped develop just about the whole game. This is also one of the 
 only good WWII games out there. 
  
  The multiplayer is the best part about this game. Besides a couple of broken maps [due to tanks 
  _ ] the multiplayer is flawless. The campaign is alot better due to co-op, and when you beat campaign 
 you unlock Nazi Zombie mode which is you [and friends] trapped in a house fighting off zombies.
 
  
  World at War is a great game, and is a must buy for all fans of the shooter genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ferruginous
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 22, 2008 4:40 pm PT
Review:  Treyarch certainly learned from its previous experience with Call of Duty 3 that this franchise 
 needs to be developed with special gloves. Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare rose the bar to an unbelieveable 
 level and Call of Duty: World at War is a solid game in its own right. The game has the spectacular 
 multiplayer experience that we all love and now has a co-op campaign.
  The game shares the same graphics that we all were in awe of from Modern Warfare and it runs smoothly 
 in both single player and mulitplayer. The only thing different graphically is the gore. World 
 at War features brutal amounts of blood and torn limbs. The very first scene of this game may make 
 you turn your face from the screen.
  Like the previous games, you play different characters set in authentic battle theaters of World 
 War II. About half the missions take place in the Pacific and the other half in Eastern Europe. 
 You also will be able to take control of a battle tank, and play as a gunner on a PBY. 
  The American campaign in the Pacific is what is being marketed to gamers, and these missions need 
 to be played if you ever want to understand "what it was like." The Japanese soldiers are unforgiving 
 and will hide in grass, in trees, in tunnels, and they will charge you with their bayonets. You 
 have never fought an enemy like this before! My only gripe is that Treyarch should've designed 
 more levels and missions, because the American campaign is why I bought the game, and it falls 
 flat. There were thousands of islands that Marines invaded. Where is Iwo Jima, Wake Island, Guadalcanal?
 
  The Russian campaign taking place in Eastern Europe and the city of Berlin. The Germans that you 
 will face are no different than the Nazis that have killed in previous Call of Dutys, Brothers 
 in Arms', and Medal of Honors; that is they are predictable. The very first mission feels like 
 Modern Warfare's "sniper mission" and was fun. Once you beat that one, you will wish there were 
 more like it.
  The game introduces gamers to two new weapons: bayonets and flamethrowers. Although bayonets work 
 better than your regular melee attack, I still preferred carrying a rifle with a scope and either, 
 a shogun or submachine gun. If you have soldiers trying to "banzai" you, introduce them to Mr. 
 Shotgun instead. The flamethrower is pretty cool and it never runs out of ammo; although it may 
 overheat if you use it for too long. Don't buy this game if you just want to try out the flamethrower!
 
  Co-op is pretty much like other games that have it so I will only say that if one character dies 
 in it, then your whole team will fail the mission. So try to look after one another even more so 
 than in Gears of War. You won't be able to revive your comrades.
  The mulitplayer is why I would recommend this game. It goes with the "if it ain't broke, don't 
 fix it" mindset and doesn't touch with what worked so well in Modern Warfare. The only difference, 
 of course, is the time period. Instead of claymore mines as a 'perk', you set traps with bouncing 
 betties. Instead of an attack chopper, you can unleash attack dogs to torment your foes after killing 
 seven opponents. Instead of.... well you get the idea. The weapons are balanced and the levels appear 
 to be much larger. Good in that it allows for more maps for bigger teams, but bad in that some 
 games will be sniperfests. One map called "Dome" is really small, and you will shoot at enemies 
 as soon as you select your gear. Watch out for the tropical settings because there are many places 
 for people to go camping. Lastly, some maps will allow players to take control of a tank. The tank 
 is VERY slow compared to the one you control in the single player and I don't recommend using it 
 much. If you try to use the machine gun turret on top of the tank, that person can get killed. 
 Make sure that you have infantry escort if you do elect to command a tank.
  So Call of Duty: World at War is a game that you will enjoy, but you will be disappointed when 
 you complete the single player. Once you do complete the single player, you will unlock a pretty 
 cool mini-game. World at War will compete with Halo 3, Gears of War 2, and Modern Warfare over 
 which title is most popular online. Buy the game, you'll like it. If you're short on cash and you 
 are interested in the game, at least rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ev0lutii0n
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 22, 2008 2:52 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game today in my local Gamespot for 59.99... I was playing Call of Duty 4 for a couple 
 of hours this morning to give me some comparison between the two...
  
  So far I've played my way through five missions of the Campaign mode... in Single Player on my own... I 
 didn't want the pressure lol...
  
  And I've also played online for about half an hour or so.... My first impressions on the Campaign 
 were that it does what previous WW2 COD games have done.... given the gamer an experience of real 
 war and shows the sheer gruesomeness (spelling sorry) involved in war....
  
  But it lacks what done Modern Warfare wonders... It lacks the... Im stuck for a word so I'll use 
 swagger that Modern Warfare has...
  
  In my opinion the moderness of Modern Warfare was one of its attractions....
  
  Don't get me 
 wrong.... great game and all... but it does some things better than COD 4..... and a lot more worse....
 
  
  So far theres been no thrill.... I've blown up some place fighting my way to the bombs, captured 
 some castle place and I've exterminated some Mortar guys...
  
  Some say it lacks the Captain Price kind of figure (who they should have had in the game) but in 
 the Russian Battle Private Revnik (is that his name?) does more for me...... Coming in and saving 
 my ass every time I get in sh*t
  
  Also from the very start of COD 4 you could realise the danger.... I haven't had the thrill of tearing 
 through Wetwork hearing "Check your Corners!" every five seconds.... That shows the swagger COD 
 4 has and always will have....
  
  And also in COD 4 you could sense the danger..... it was clearly pointed out that if you don't do 
 what you're meant to do... A couple of nuclear bombs will go off and the worlds not gonna be here 
 any longer... Thats the story line of COD 4.... and I know COD: WAW has a storyline but its one that 
 we all know...
  
  But then again its not COD 4 and it isn't meant to be..... Different time era... different people 
 involved... no nuclear warfare around....
  
  And mainly.... Different Developers... I think Treyarch brought the series back to the old boring 
 ways of Call of Duty 3.... which was a great game at the time but after COD 4 it was muck....
  
  I really don't know why Activision let Treyarch take Infinty Wards place in devolping the series....
 
  
  But I'm still playing it..... The online is the same as COD 4... except different guns and maps obviously....
 
  
  I would give it a 8.6 at the moment..... Because of the crap quality of the Campaign mode... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SgtBadass23
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 22, 2008 7:01 am PT
Review:  To start off I purchased COD 4 on day one and was in love with it and still am, but I am a WWII 
 junkie. So when it was announced that the next COD would be set in my favorite time-era I was ecstatic. 
 Then I heard that Treyarch would be making it my lets just say I was greatly disappointed Infinityward 
 was not retuning to make the next COD. OH how I was wrong to expect another COD 3. COD WaW blows 
 every WWII shooter right out of the water. Everything that was good about COD 4 has been returned 
 and this game and been made even better. Whether its the new and improved perks, 4 player co-op, 
 or the all new zombie mode. The single-player is amazing and the only complaint I have is that 
 I never felt attached to the NPCs like in COD 4 with Captain Price. The all new 4 player co-op 
 adds tons of replay to the already stunning campaign mode. Also as an added bonus once you beat 
 single-player you unlock a special zombie mode where you and three friends have to fight off wave 
 after wave of Nazi zombies. If you liked COD 4 multiplayer then you will feel right at home in 
 COD WaW's online multiplayer. There are the traditional game modes such as Team Deathmatch and 
 Deathmatch, as well as a few new game modes such as War and Capture the flag, and there are also 
 returning favorites from COD 4 such as Search and Destroy. The ranging system is almost identical 
 to COD 4 with the exception that the rank goes up to 65 not 55. There is still prestige and this 
 time you will unlock custom classes bonus slots which means you can have up to ten custom class 
 slots. If you are looking for something similar to COD 4 but with a new feel and look or just a 
 good ol fashioned WWII shooter then COD WaW is for you.
  
  PROS:
   Fun game-play mechanics
   Gorgeous graphics
   Intense campaign mode
   Flamethrower is 
 extra-fun
   AI is smart and adaptive
   Some very clever level design
  
  CONS:
   You don't care about the characters in campaign mode
   Split screen is kind of a weird setup
 
   Flamethrower is overused
  
  Challenge: 8 of 10
  Controls: 9 of 10
  Graphics/Animation: 10 of 10
  Interface: 9 of 10
  Responsiveness: 10 of 10
  Sound: 10 of 
 10
  Storyline: 8 of 10
  OVERALL: 9.9 of 10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kvon403
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 21, 2008 7:37 pm PT
Review:  I think call of duty world at war was just about the same as call of duty 4 but for some reason 
 cod wolrd at war is more addictive it's really hard to describe so i will tell you as much as I 
 can. The campaign in this game is awsome and it's a little more goryer than the last one and at 
 the start it says there maybe disturbing scene's but there 's not so I don't get it they're not 
 that disturbing to me but it might be different to other people but overall the campaign is fun. 
 The online is strangly more fun than cod 4 but that's a plus so it dos'ent bother me first I'll 
 talk about the maps they really changed the maps of the game but the minus is for me two maps are 
 not that much fun but the other one's are really good for team deathmatch or search and destroy 
 either one. The wepons in this game may not be as effective as the one's in cod 4 but still fun 
 to use but I understand that it is placed in ww2 so you get the picture (hopefuly) they have some 
 great wepons that you unlock at high level's and the level system goes higher now and one really 
 cool perk they added which you unlock at level 65 is the flame thrower which to me is the greatest 
 wepon of all. The people who you play as in this game are not as stupid looking as the opfor in 
 cod4 which was a relief (no more nightmares) also they have some cool other feateurs (I don't know 
 how to spell that) in the game as well. I would give this game a all round good mark and would 
 defenitly suggest that you buy it ASAP. That is my review for Call of duty world at war . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bIacklisted
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 21, 2008 6:03 pm PT
Review:  Overall a good game with some problems in multi-player The multiplayer is good but with too many 
 spawning issues and too many missed shots meaning lag and also the camping in this game needs to 
 be fixed because it brings down the fun for the other players. I can understand in objective types 
 but free for all? come on fix this if someone is sitting in one spot for too long they should either 
 be automatically killed or booted. The single player is fun with others but doesn't hold its own 
 way to short but can be fun with others as I said. The perks are down nicely besides the dog perk 
 which is completely overpowered it should never have been put in there. Good job overall though 
 a lot better then CoD3 which sucked hard. But very little is done here to make it more innovative 
 then CoD4 so more of the same but the same isn't bad but why not try and make it better?
  
  *Stay BlackListed* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fidosim
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 21, 2008 4:06 pm PT
Review:  When the Call of Duty series first debuted, it sucked gamers in with its atmosphere and intensity 
 and brought some new vitality into the WW2 shooter genre. Now, several installments later, Call 
 of Duty: World at War brings back some of the magic and immersion of the first game. 
  
  The developers have kept the same formula that has been so successful with past games, and they 
 have managed to freshen the series up by finally doing the Pacific theatre a little bit of justice, 
 as well as creating a darker, grittier experience. Rather than the "red mist" that momentarily 
 appeared in past games, there is convincing blood and dismemberment. 
  
  Things I liked:
  
  - The Great Patriotic War is again brought to life in a gritty and glorious fashion
  - Darker 
 Atmosphere
  - The series finally begins to explore the Pacific theatre. I'd like to see future games flesh 
 out this theatre more as there are a TON of noteworthy engagements that happened there.
  - Sgt. Raznov
  - Nazi Zombies
  - Flamethrowers
  
  Things I didn't like:
  
  -Only two 
 different perspectives. 
  - Pretty short
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gemgembobbie
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 21, 2008 6:23 am PT
Review:  I spent only four days with playing the single player campaigns on the easiest difficulty mode. 
 On each day of first three days, I played the game for 2 to 3 hours and I only spend about 1 hour 
 on the 4th day.
  
  This can be described with two things: "Russian vs. German" & "American vs. Japanese" In common, 
 both fights are looking for "invasion to axis." This game starts with you as a captivated soldier 
 stuck in Japan with your fellow soldier who will actually be killed in front of you. Don't worry. 
 You will be rescued by your American friends. Although you and your team will evacuate from Japanese 
 soldiers, you will go deeper into Japanese territories and beat them up until you get to Shuri 
 Castle. If you become a Russian soldier Dimitri, you may feel you are starting the game with despair 
 because your comrades are all dead down on the ground, and German soldiers are confirming every 
 death with their MP40. Be thankful for what you will still be alive to play the game with Reznov. 
 Reznov will guide you deeper into the invasion to Berlin and save you at the last scene of this 
 game. For the first time, there is an "above the ground" mission in CoD: WaW, which lets you shoot 
 all Japanese ships and aircrafts in a sea. Absolutely, a tank mission cannot be missed in this 
 game. The main different thing from the predecessor in the tank mission is that we have to use 
 flamethrower, instead of machine gun.
  
  Glitches and bugs are always unavoidable, especially when you play to fight Japanese soldiers. 
 at least once, you will see your squad mate and a Japanese soldier stare at each other and don't 
 do anything.
  
  If you like trying new things, you don't have to worry. However, if you still like your Thompson, 
 you will have to wait until your squad mates die. In this game, you cannot start with Thompson. 
 So, please get your gun by yourself.
  
  It depends on you. You will like both American and Russian campaigns or the only one of those. 
 I like Russian missions more. There are more weapons and no sudden Banzai (goodbye) attackers.
 
  
  I agree with the Gamespot reviewer and most of you guys. It's a great title, but not as great as 
 its predecessor made by Infinity Ward. As players are saying that CoD: WaW is just a CoD4: MW Mod, 
 I feel the same. Some scenes in the game seems very similar with missions in CoD4: MW. The only 
 things different from its predecessor are historical settings, weapons and zombies. Nazi Zombies 
 mode is a bonus mode that you can play alone or with friends after finishing World at War on any 
 difficulty settings.
  
  I don't understand myself why I love CoD3 more than CoD: WaW. CoD: WaW is still a great game, but 
 it can be a disappointment to you if you hoped too much. We can experience more intense actions 
 with Multiplayer mode, so forget about your time in single player missions. You know that the real 
 purpose of playing this game is not killing Nazis, but killing other players online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seanator
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 21, 2008 3:38 am PT
Review:  Take everything that made CoD 4 great and take back to the roots of the series with WW II. The 
 addition of the Pacific Theater really made this different. The Banzai attackers well a real twist, 
 which made me keep my head up and really helped me to start using melee attacks more. This leads 
 to many more kills in multiplayer mode I found.
  While multiplayer is great the single player campaign was very short, similar to the last installment. 
 I am still somewhat of a single player guy, and I get disgusted by the short single player campaigns. 
 The other thing that always gets me in a single player campaign is the fact that it seems you cannot 
 fight from a distance. As you play through the game you find some cover and decide to take some 
 enemies from a distance, but they just keep coming until you advance forward on the map. At some 
 point you would think the enemy would quit defending a position as you kill them off, but in this 
 game they just keep coming out and taking the cover positions of their dead comrades. Oh Well, 
 I had and am still having a great time with this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FelisLeo1980
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 21, 2008 2:34 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty: World at War in my opinion has only one major problem in it: its setting is getting 
 old fast. After a successful year of using modern guns and gadgets in Call of Duty 4 it's hard 
 to get excited about these old killing tools again.
  
  Story let's you play as two different soldiers in two different places: you play as Private Miller 
 fighting against Japanese in the Pacific and take the role of Private Dimitri Petrenko fighting 
 against Nazis in Stalingrad and later on in Berlin. It's all been done before, but at least for 
 once the campaign has a proper ending. Story is told through animated maps, competent voice acting 
 and some real wartime video footage. It all works, but at the same time it feels used and old.
 
  
  Graphics are great and the frame rate stays solid all the time. Explosions, environments, weather 
 effects and character models are all nicely done. Only facial expressions are a little stiff, but 
 nothing you can't get over with. Color palette is mostly brown and grey, but that's just what people 
 have come to expect from a WWII shooter. Music and sound design in general is also done well. It's 
 filled with small sound effects and when it all comes together it makes you feel like you're in 
 the middle of a big battle. Music fits in nicely and it strengthens the overall epic feel of gameplay.
 
  
  Gameplay is an epic first person shooter with great controls and extremely intense action. Structure 
 is linear and scripted sequences are many, but it also ensures that there's always something happening 
 as you play. Just like in past games in the series there are infinite numbers of enemies that stop 
 respawning only when you've made progress past an unknown point in the game. This creates an intense 
 movement while bullets are flying everywhere, but in some ways it's also annoying and maybe not 
 so realistic. Campaign is also very short and you can easily beat it in less than 6 hours, but 
 luckily there are reasons to come back to it later on.
  
  Save system uses checkpoints and usually there are plenty of them and this helps to avoid frustration. 
 Bad thing is that most of the time you die because of grenades: you just notice an icon on your 
 screen and then you die. It's not very often when you die in bullets and this multitude of flying 
 grenades was also a problem in Call of Duty 4.
  
  Enemy AI is absolutely terrible: many times enemies just fail to realize that you're shooting after 
 being able to flank them. Your AI controlled teammates don't do much better either: they just stand 
 there, take bullets and shoot. This constantly drags down that epic feel of living battlefield 
 that is performed so well in other aspects.
  
  Nowadays the Call of Duty franchise is known for its multiplayer component. CoD: WaW features co-op 
 campaign for up to four players either locally or through Xbox Live. It's much more fun to play 
 with friends and this is the first time you can do that in a Call of Duty game. I still urge you 
 to first play the campaign alone, because there are some parts in the game that can only be played 
 alone. Finishing a single player game also unlocks an interesting arcade style four player co-op 
 mode called Nazi Zombies. In it you try to stop a neverending horde of Nazi zombies from killing 
 you. It's a funny and interesting feature.
  
  The usual competitive multiplayer is again up to 18 players and new game modes include War from 
 Call of Duty 3 and now the good old Capture the Flag has also returned. Multiplayer is essentially 
 exactly the same as in Call of Duty 4, with some new tweaks and tunings done here and there. This 
 means that you're constantly making progress and gaining experience. There are 65 levels to conquer 
 and after that 10 Prestige levels so it will take hundreds of hours for you to play through them 
 all.
  
  Multiplayer works just fine and even better than it did in Modern Warfare, but you always feel 
 like you've already done this many times over. The single most annoying feature in multiplayer 
 is that you can't choose certain game modes until you've reached a certain level of rank by playing 
 normal Team Deathmatch. After spending 450 hours of playing Domination and Hardcore Team Deathmatch 
 it felt humiliating not to be able to play those modes until the level 14 and 18.
  
  In short it can be said that Call of Duty: World at War is the best WWII first person shooter ever 
 made. Problem is that the game itself is not as good as its big brother Call of Duty 4: Modern 
 Warfare. Still it needs to be said that CoD: WaW is a solid game that has very few flaws in it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamespotjak
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 20, 2008 9:08 pm PT
Review:  When this game was announced that Infinity Ward was not making it and Treyarch was, I thought this 
 game was a failure. When i heard it would have the same game engine as CoD4 i was relieved and 
 got excited. This game was worth the wait here are some pros and cons:
  Here are some things they have improved from CoD4
  
  Pros:
  -Great Multi-player
  -Co-op 
 Campaign
  -Breathtaking Guns
  -Improved Perks
  -Vehicles (tanks)
  
  Here are some things they should have improved:
  
  Cons:
  -No option to create classes for 
 split-screen mode
  -Last Stand is now called Second Chance (which makes no sense)
  -Game sometimes fails to load (2-5 minute wait)
  -Sniper Rifles are not as popular to use as 
 they were in CoD4, they are weaker and harder to aim.
  
  Overall, this game is worth buying and is a must have for a first-person shooters, Multiplayer 
 is great, Campaign is co-op now, and Last Stands are called Second Chance now (why couldn't they 
 just left it at last stand and made a whole other perk called second chance, this confused a lot 
 of people. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CODjon84
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2008 6:59 pm PT
Review:  At first the thought of COD going back to WW2 really put me off, Especially after being spoiled 
 by COD4 and how polished and good the gameplay was.. Well after buying COD World at war and playint 
 the campaign, I was hooked instantly. This game is perfect! from the Opening credits to the very 
 very polished multiplayer, this game has it all.. Nazi Zombie mode is very fun. The online multiplayer 
 looks great, plays great and is very polished and even feels more balanced than COD4 and most other 
 online shooters. 
  
  It controls perfect, the graphics are beautiful and the frame rate couldnt be better. One of the 
 things I really like about this game is even though its set in WW2 it still manages to have a very 
 modern feel to it, it feels very dark and gritty and the single player has many memorable moments. 
 Overall this game is a MUST BUY, sure it might be COD4 with a new coat of paint, but as the saying 
 goes.. if its not broke, don't fix it.. If you love online multiplayer shooters then you will love 
 this game, if not.. the single player campaign is just as good!! MUST BUY 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Syrai
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 19, 2008 5:29 pm PT
Review:  So after playing this game with my friends on both MP and SP for quite some time now, I have become 
 less impressed with this game the more i play it.
  
  
  While playing through the Campaign i realized after a short few minutes that the AI was just annoying 
 and not a very strong suite in this game, it was pretty much horrible. Because of your squad, an 
 elite group and experiance group of marines were basically in the game just for eye candy or just 
 scenary. Upon taking a closer look at the way they work, i noticed that they couldnt hit a single 
 enemy in their midst. When your enemy pelts a grenade right at your position, and you try to run 
 away. Your squad was always right there in your way to duck from fire, or run from a grenade. This 
 turned out to be a very annoying and innefiecient way of having an AI on your squad. Honestly they 
 could of spent more time on these marines, cause to be honest, they werent all the brilliant AI, 
 which is a let-down because AI is a crucial part of FPS.
  
  Now to the guns. The guns are as we know familiar, but i love using WWII guns like the bolt action 
 Le Grande, and such. But in this latest game; it felt as if these weapons of war were underpowered 
 with the firepower they had. 
  The guns also have the same perks as the COD4 guns. Which i thought was a brilliant point. After 
 having done some no-scoping rounds and sniper rounds with my buddies, it was easy to pick out that 
 many of the Sniper kill in one shots were when you used the Scope attached. But when you didnt 
 shoot with the scope it was nearly impossible to KIOS expecting as the fire power of a sniper.
 
  
  Following on to the Graphics. It seemed that Treyarch used the same system for COD3 as they did 
 with WAW. Im very tough on graphics lol. But while watching the game, it seemed that the game had 
 a fuzzy and low pixle rate. It looked like many of the textures, meshes and several factors in 
 graphics were rushed. The gun system of graphics also, looked a little "set in place" and not very 
 fluent. All and All the graphics are alright but they should of spent a little more time on the 
 overall graphics. Cause just compare these graphics to todays modern games, i see a major jump 
 accuring.
  
  
  All and All its fun to play, but im just voicing my opinions on it. hope it helped anyone, ^_^
 
  
  ~Syrai 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Not_The_Sun
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 19, 2008 5:03 pm PT
Review:  This game is so much grittier than COD4, limbs occasionally fly off, gore splatters, it really 
 simulates what the WWII guys had to go through. Now that has been said, lets go to single player, 
 the campaign is relatively short on regular difficulty but is very fun and intense with some huge 
 and epic battles. Fun objectives help tie the entire thing together. The variety of weapons is 
 very cool too, and then there's the nazi zombies mode, where the objective is really just to survive 
 for as many rounds as possible against demented, undead nazis. The multiplayer is great and almost 
 as good as COD4's. The weapon upgrades and the special weapons like the bazooka or flamethrower 
 add a fun twist to an already great multiplayer game. The maps are mostly well designed but there 
 are a few duds. This is a good game from beginning to end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CJKJR
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2008 4:50 pm PT
Review:  Veteran difficulty is still just as hard if not more difficult than modern warfare and so it still 
 provides a challenge. The american campaign is fun and interesting because of the flamethrower, 
 while the russian campaign gets you pumped up because they are out for revenge and they show no 
 mercy. The nazi zombie mode is a lot of fun and can keep you and your friends busy for hours. For 
 those who have played gears of war 2 it is simular to Horde except that you are stuck in a house 
 with three rooms and too many windows. Treyarch has shown that they still have what it takes even 
 though many people hate the setback to ww2. This game is definently worth buying. . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: privatespanky
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 19, 2008 3:05 pm PT
Review:  Single player story line is great, being stuck in a linear battlefield while being used to open 
 area games like FarCry2 or Crysis isn't great. The linear travel through the CoD4 worked great 
 for the urban sprawls, but there was just something wrong about it in WaW. Not to mention, there 
 were multiple times a scripted sequence would leave me stuck in a wall, pillar, or in a corner 
 because some stupid NPC would not or could not move out of my way. This was beyond frustrating 
 and I had to restart the a couple levels from scratch because of these glitches. The game is definately 
 not nearly as polished as CoD:4. The online play is great as usual, and the weaponry feels legitimate 
 for the era in which it represents. The Co-Op play was highly welcomed, although I still find glitches 
 in the storyline. The Co-Op Nazi Zombie mode is amazing, and tons of fun, but best played with 
 4 people. It is definitely a challenge on Hardened, but I still think the CoD:4 storyline is more 
 refined and repeatable than the CoD: WaW story. There was just a lot more fun single player situations 
 in CoD:4, like the sniping and gunship. Only real reason to go through single player again on World 
 at War is to get Death Cards to make the multiplayer even more fun. Still, a must have for WWII 
 fans, and if you like CoD multiplayer, you cannot go wrong at all. I'm satisfied with the game, 
 but I still think it was rushed through and could have been polished a bit more... but hey, gotta 
 get it out so the kids get their Christmas presents I guess.
  
  on that note... seriously..... quit giving these games to children under 18... and those selling 
 them, quit selling to under 18.... they don't need to see the violence, and us adults don't need 
 to hear their whiny annoying voices on Live while we actually try to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Haloroks
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 19, 2008 5:58 am PT
Review:  The story is almost perfect, but what really impressed me was the multiplayer. The challenges are 
 in this one then call of duty 4. I really like getting the flame thrower and burn everything in 
 my path. Unlimited flames. Once you beat the campain you unlock Nazi zombies which you are held 
 up in a house and you try to the zombies that try to break in the house. you can pick up weapons 
 off the wall or get a random weapon from the help door looks like the word hell. Sometimes you 
 can get a flamethrower or ray gun out of the random weapons box. TIP: dont move couch to go upstairs.
 
  I think it is an all around exciting, fun, and bloody game. so you might want to buy it. It will 
 not waist your money. very fun and addictive. the opening scene is very weird a Japanese guy is 
 torturing us and he stick a cigarette in the guy's beside you eye. but before he tortures you a 
 friend shoots him. One of my favorites 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigd575
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 27, 2009 3:26 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty is back for another around and this time is Call of Duty: World at War. I'm a big 
 fan of war games especially World War II games so I couldn't wait to get this when I heard about 
 it. There some things you can say about the game that is good and there's some things you can say 
 that are bad. Overall I really like the game and thank its worth it but if your one of those people 
 who are tired of WWII games and are craving more of the modern stuff then maybe you should just 
 rent this game are skip it, unless your just looking for something new.
  
  The game looks great and is very detailed the single player is great and fun although I've seen 
 some people that didn't like it at all so maybe you will or maybe you want, you will just have 
 to play it and see for your self. Now the thing that stands out the most and is something that 
 we'll all really like 4 player co-op is really awesome and something that would of made Call of 
 Duty 4 a lot better don't you thank? But anyway if you like war games you'll want to check this 
 one out especially if you like World War II games. But like I said if your one of the ones that 
 are craving more of the modern war stuff then maybe you should rent it or even pass it up.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xgamer367
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 18, 2008 5:41 pm PT
Review:  Cod 4 was an amazing step in the Cod series, and I was looking forward to World At War. WoW is 
 a fun game. The large array of new weapons, including a flamethrower, is a welcome addition, along 
 with the use of vehicles. You can create a class as you were able to is Cod 4, but this time you 
 can use a perk for your vehicles. The Campaign is decent, but the multiplayer i where this game 
 shines. The only major problem with this game is that it plays exactly like Cod 4. There are few 
 new perks, but most of them were already on Cod 4. The game has good maps, but a lot of them aren't 
 fun to play on at all. I already feel like I've played this before. Not saying that Cod 4 is bad, 
 it's just that this is like a WWII version of Cod 5. Fans of the series will be pleased, but this 
 isn't the best game in the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Neon7771
Rating: 3.5
Date: Nov 18, 2008 4:10 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing both WWII and FPS games for as long as I can remember, from the very first Call 
 of Duty games to the brand new ones, to the entire Medal of Honor series, and many other names. 
 I was expecting Call of Duty: World at War to be the best one yet, but I was sadly mistaken. I 
 was hoping for the best WWII gaming experience to date, but it felt just like every other game 
 on the market. 
  The Single Player was short, shorter than Call of Duty 4, and that's pretty damn short. From inconsistent 
 graphics, to the lack of control, to the boring repetitiveness of it, it's a terrible experience 
 overall.
  The Multiplayer is completely generic and broken. With uncreative maps, plain guns, and the same 
 exact gameplay as Call of Duty 4, it's not worth the time. It's broken is so many areas. The constant 
 spawn killing and long respawn times make it frustrating. The tanks in multiplayer are way too 
 powerful and very difficult to destroy, artillery strikes slow everyone down to a crawl, and the 
 dogs are just a pain. These problems take the skill out of the game because they are all dictated 
 by the game itself and can't be control by the players. Also, the Multiplayer is horribly laggy. 
 It lags to the point of complete random disconnecting in the middle of a match. If this wasn't 
 frequent, it could be tolerated, but sadly, it happens very often.
  When I pick up a game like this, i'm expecting a solid, fun, immersive, and fair experience that 
 will last at least a year, because that's how long i've played all the other games like this. But 
 in the end, this game proved to be a laggy, broken, and completely unfair gaming experience that 
 I would not recommend to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: product_of_ill
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 18, 2008 1:43 pm PT
Review:  i absolutely loved cod mod warfare, on pc the user created content wos fantastic and very imaginative, 
 from the jumper mod down to the cage matches with a unique twist, and the multiplayer wos a perfect 
 mix of style and substance, but this new wow, or not so WOW, is shocking to think that it came 
 from the same design team that did 3, which had its flaws but not as monumentally flawed as this 
 effort!
  i wish i had something good to say about the single player, with its useless ai squad mates who 
 will get u killed more often than save your life and the appalling level design, but i don't!
 
  the only thing stopping me trading this in is the multiplayer which although having blatantly 
 raped its predecessor of all original ideas and spawned this b*****d love child, is very good, 
 map wise and vehicles, which encourage skill less 14 year old trash talking Americans (no offense 
 to all those 14 year old Americans who have saved my ass on many an occasion and who do not camp 
 in the Winnebago's as Ive come to call them) to ride around the map blowing everything up as we 
 all know they like to!!! no offense!! these games are good in variety and range, from close quarters 
 to snipefests we all love!
  so in closing i am disappointed but i guess a second generation world class multiplayer experience 
 can somewhat redeem this let down!!!!! word to your mothers! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Assassin_651
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 18, 2008 12:53 pm PT
Review:  call of duty world at war is basically the same game as cod4 but with a few additions except it 
 is in ww2.
  
  The Campaign is very exciting and has a great deal of variation when it comes to settings and situations 
 but some of the enemies are annoying (banzais) .
  A new addition is that during the campaign you can drive a tank which is very amusing especially 
 since it has a flame thrower attached.
  Some of the parts of the campaign are a bit strange and you sometimes get the feeling as if you 
 are going round in circles
  
  The Multiplayer is set out the same as cod4 so if you played that game it is easy to get into a 
 game very quickly.
  some of the maps are quite boring and oversized so that you can never find the opposing team.
 
  
  overall this game is everything call of duty 4 was and then some but to be a truly good game treyarch 
 needed to make the maps online a bit better and then it would be a contender for game of the year 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dwoslyng
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 18, 2008 11:12 am PT
Review:  In my opinion Call of Duty: World at War's Single Player is much better then the Call of Duty 4's 
 Single Player. The Russian half was amazing. I could care less for the amercan side since usually 
 it was the same thing over and over. Set fire to those guys then bayonet those guys. But the Russian 
 campaign was much better. I really liked the ending.
  
  Now onto Multiplayer. CoD: WaW's multiplayer takes a lot of getting used to if you played a lot 
 of CoD 4. The weapons are much different. I personally run with the springfield with bayonet most 
 of the time, until I get the Kar98. Really the only problems I face with the game is that all of 
 the perks that people complained about in CoD4 are now pretty much improved in this game. Juggernaut 
 takes more bullets to kill and usually the guy can just turn around and kill you after you spray 
 him in the back. Martyrdom now you have like a second to get away or your gonna die. 
  
  In my opinion, The grenade indicator needs to get changed because whenever I see it at the last 
 second its because im looking at something that has a lght color and the indicator sorta blend 
 in with the wall and then i get my legs blown off.
  
  Coop. I really haven't had a chance to play 4 player Coop campaign but I hae played a lot of Zombie 
 Mode. Your Job is to survive wave after wave of Zombies who become stronger and more numerous after 
 each round. the first few rounds are by no means difficult but later on your groups failure is 
 inevitably forthcoming. 
  
  Alright well that is prety much all I have to say. This is all my opinion. If you don't like, don't 
 bother crying at me because I don't care.
  
  Also because the weapons are so dfferent and some people aren't getting the hang of it quick enough, 
 just sit in a corner the entire game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 50shot
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 18, 2008 6:28 am PT
Review:  I was hesitant picking this one up having bought gears 2 a week ago, but I did it anyway. I tried 
 SP, it has good cut-scenes, but other than that, the game is such trash it's not even worth going 
 through. There is a 4 player xbox-live CO-OP mode, but the SP is not as exciting as COD4 SP was. 
 It's just straight up run and shoot, run and shoot. Plus, if you are ahead of the bots and you 
 happen to be in one of their "to-be" places, you'll be stuck until that bot moves outta the way, 
 which is retarded if you ask me.
  
  OK, now onto the MP. If you're a huge COD 4 MP fan, you'll love this ****. Mostly because of the 
 new weapons, perks, vehicles, maps, etc... Even though it FEELS like a COD4 mod, it still holds 
 up well when it comes down to combats. 
  
  New weapons are old (of course) , so if you don't mind using these old-ass weapons, you'll like 
 it. If not, don't even bother. I know my friend hates this game just because of the old-ass ancient 
 pre-historic weapons this game has. (This game should've stayed in the modern age.) The weapons 
 are not overpowered like how it was in COD4. And if you were to use the overpowered weapon, it 
 takes a lot of skills than COD4, trust me. They tried their best to balance this **** and studied 
 COD4 closely up and ****ing personal, so COD4 MP fans won't be disappointed. 
  
  New maps are great and are some what the same size of the COD4 maps if not a "little" bigger. 
 
  
  New call-in feature they added is good, but not great. THe game has...
  1) Recon (same thing as UAV)
  2) Mortal Strike (same thing as air strike)
  3) Dogs 
  Dogs 
 changes up the gameplay a little bit, because it helps you to seek out the opponents and they're 
 deadly as ****. So make sure to aim low for these mother*******. I hate them personally in the 
 game.
  
  Vehicles have been added to the game and it's just one: Tank. Two players can get in (1: turret, 
 2: driver) . 
  
  New perks have been added like "vehicle perks" and ****
  
  One new feature that I really like, which they stole it from Gears of War is the "REVIVING" FEATURE. 
 When your teammate is down using the reviving perk, you can revive him/her by holding X for a few 
 secs. So, it changes up the combat a little bit in a good way. You'll see what I mean when you 
 play this ****.
  
  Overall, if SP is your main thing, DON'T GET IT. If MP is your main thing, PLEASE DO YOURSELF A 
 FAVOR AND GET THIS ****. Im out.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: privatewilliams
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 18, 2008 5:48 am PT
Review:  where to start with this game, like most of you i was over the moon when i heard they was release 
 a new call of duty. then the beta came out and i just could not stop playing that, but the only 
 mistake i made was buying the game. the single player story was very boring and dull. i found it 
 very repetitive and on the hardest setting just dam right imposable. this game has really let me 
 down. with having call of duty 4 modern warfare under their belt i would have thought would have 
 really tired to push out the boat but as they took this game back it looks like they also took 
 it back a stage my only hope is that call of duty 6 is going to be a additive as call of duty 4. 
 the only good point i can really say about this call of duty is that the online play is still high 
 additive apart from the weapons so overall i have to give this one a 7.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LunaticSumo
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2008 8:42 pm PT
Review:  This game is very good for people who love FPS's its a great game because of the Co-op online and 
 split-screen multiplayer. but the competitive Multiplayer is over the top. it is much better than 
 CoD4: Modern Warfare first of all because there is 65 ranks and 10 create-a-class's (5 unlocked 
 after full prestige mode unlocked) . the Guns are great, and they made an amazing substitute for 
 the Red Dot Scope, and the other scope. The Aperture Sight is a great add on. Some people might 
 think that the Fact that arms, legs, heads, and other body parts can be blown off is bad. but i 
 think it is an amazing add-on, it is so realistic. The Dogs are a great Substitute for a Helicopter, 
 and they serve another reason, they lead people to the enemy. over all this game is one that i 
 love, and one that i look forward to beating the online multiplayer mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Analog_Death
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 17, 2008 7:24 pm PT
Review:  The COD 4 style multiplayer set in WWII was enough to entice me into buying COD WAW, and I decided 
 to buy it and bring it down to Seattle to play with a friend over his birthday weekend. The addictive 
 multiplayer is everything I thought it would be, but what I wasn't expecting was the best single 
 player campaign in C. O. D. since COD 2. I see far too many people offhandedly dismissing this game 
 as 'good but not as good as COD 4.' I have to disagree. The W. A. W. campaign was simply outstanding 
 and the delivery of the story was much more mature and less tongue and cheek than previous games, 
 which I think is fitting considering the primal and visceral nature of the subject matter. The 
 russian half of the campaign is by far my favorite and I really loved the dynamic between yourself, 
 and the old russian soldier who leads you from a pile of forgotten corpses, to complete victory 
 on the roof of the Riechstag. As I was playing through the sniper, gunboat, and riechstag missions, 
 I was overcome with the feeling that I was participating in something historic and epic in scope, 
 which is something the fictional story of COD 4 just never did for me despite being a great game 
 in its own right. I have to say my expectations were fairly low with Treyarch after the dissapointing 
 COD 3, but I have to hand it to them... they made an incredible WWII shooter that dethroned COD 
 2 as my all time favorite, and for that they have earned my respect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JWKurusa
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2008 5:29 pm PT
Review:  This game is about pure art the art of war and the crusades behind it I love this game. Lets start 
 why topic number one Multiplayer this game had great multiplayer and I think the setup and weapons 
 are 10 times better than in call of duty 4 modern warfare.
  Number two Campaign was great real precise too I know my history and they did a good job of making 
 this game as realistic as possible from there gesture too the important events in the story line. 
 Well i'm at it lets talk about what comes after Campaign ZOMBIE MODE what a great add in I love 
 it the setup and difficulties of increasing zombie waves are Golden with many doors and stairways 
 whats better.
  Lastly weapons and Co-op first weapons there great and accurate on the realistic factor as well 
 my favorite is the M1A1 and the Flamethrower. Next is the Co-op they did an okay job it however 
 has some flaus and I relize them but that brings this game down from a 10 to a 10.5 
  Hope other gamers enjoyed this as much as I did!!!
  
  P. S. people who dis this game just haven't 
 played it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wayward_Cow
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 17, 2008 3:43 pm PT
Review:  Back to the WWII days once again, this time with many additions. CoDs 1, 2, and 3 have all been 
 WWII, but never like this. With amazing graphics (not that CoD 3 lacked god graphics) and great 
 new battle fields in Germany and on the Japanese shores, it's worth every penny. It has the same 
 fast paced action, excitement, and superior gameplay that have amazed CoD 4 fans since its release. 
 WWII had Tanks and Aircrafts, so they actually put them in, giving this game a little bit more 
 realism and uniqueness. CoD 5 does resemble CoD 3 somewhat, but is still easily ranks in the top 
 10 shooters of the year.
  With online gameplay much like CoD 4 (same game types, same challenges, etc...) it seems familiar 
 even when you first play it. Amazing overall it's a great addition to a great series. And finally 
 the folks over at TreyArch did a good deed by throwing in a fun, gore filled, horror film style 
 "NAZI ZOMBIES".
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Craaazy1
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 17, 2008 2:01 pm PT
Review:  I'm not going to lie, COD5 In comparison to COD4 sucks.
  
  Single-Player
  I beat the story mode in about 6 hours. At the end I sat and thought, That's it?
  The game has 
 its good moments such as when a solider charges at you and tries to stab you with his bayonet which 
 is exciting and all but the missions are the same thing, clear the building, clear the mortar pits, 
 clear this building and so on. Also there is no big ending you just raise the soviet flag. Whoo 
 Hoo!
  
  The weapons in single player seem a bit, dull for the most part and a bit unrealistic. For example, 
 the only thing you can find on a weapon is a bayonet and possibly a grenade launcher, but other 
 than that nothing. Also in some missions you start out with a flame thrower with unlimited fuel. 
 ???
  In addition to that there isn't a large variety of weapons.
  
  On the graphics side i found them amazing in some parts, such as when it pours the rain and doesn't 
 lag, and in others it felt like i was playing Medal of Honor: Frontlines!
  
  Ending this single player review i should say the good things about it.
  The AI is rather good 
 and enemies don't just stay in cover, they run and charge at you guns blazing just like the actual 
 Kamikazes in WW2.
  In between levels you see actual video from the brutal war.
  Fast paced action makes you want more and more (unfortunatlly the story is short, like really short)
 
  
  
  Multi-Player
  
  The maps offer a varity of things from the close quarters of a broken down German Stronghold called 
 The Dome to the fast paced Hanger. There are a lot of different modes to play but you must be a 
 certain rank to un-lock about 85% of them. Weapons are customizable like in COD4 but lacks that 
 wow when you unlock them. 
  
  A nice addition to the Multi-Player is the ability to drive and ride in vehicles. Although there 
 isn't a varity of them, they get the job done. 
  
  
  If you are looking for something new or just board, you should look into renting Call of Duty 5: 
 World at War.
  
  
  Final Score: 6.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Legendary-Mode
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 17, 2008 12:23 pm PT
Review:  Background:
  Call of Duty: World at War thrusts players into the ruthless and gritty chaos of WWII combat like 
 never been before, and challenges them to band together to survive the most harrowing and climactic 
 battles of WWII that led to the demise of the Axis powers on the European and South Pacific fronts.
 
  
  Gameplay:
  From the remains of Russia and the ruins of Berlin, to the beach and jungles of the deadly Pacific 
 Theater, the volatile action takes on added depth as players employ new features that previously 
 were only available in multiplayer, including perks, rankings and online stats in up to four-player 
 cooperative gameplay, and take advantage of the new infantry and vehicle-based weapons, like the 
 potent flamethrower, that will set the battlefield ablaze.
  
  oordinated Assault and Support  For the first time in the franchise, Call of Duty: World at War 
 introduces co-op, bringing fresh meaning to the "No One Fights Alone" mantra. Call of Duty: World 
 at War co-op features up to four-players online, or two-player local split-screen, allowing gamers 
 to experience harrowing single-player missions together for greater camaraderie and tactical execution. 
 The title also incorporates traditional multiplayer components such as challenges, rankings and 
 online stats into the co-op campaign for deeper re-playability and advanced gameplay 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rong42
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 17, 2008 11:23 am PT
Review:  Using the same engine from COD4 can be seen in this game. Has pretty much the same exact controls, 
 and gameplay is very very similar to COD4. Weapons, although different in name, are very similar 
 to those of its predecessor. Cool new gun though is the M2 Flamethrower which you unlock once you 
 reach level 65 Rank. This gun is virtually unstoppable from close range, you will be toast!
  
  Enjoyed the maps on COD4 a lot more, although the new maps are a lot larger, dont find them 
 as fun as previous versions. Campaign is very good, has the voice of Keifer Sutherland as the narrator. 
 And you have a chance to play both sides, Russian as well as US.
  
  All in all though, great game that is very addicting! Online mode is superb as was COD4. You now 
 have the option for Online Co-Op Campaign mode. Rarely get any lag issues when playing, and when 
 you do it can be attributed to a person hosting the game, vs. the game servers themselves. 
  
  Presitge mode is now a little different as well, now there are 65 levels, and you unlock a 
 "Create Custom Weapon" slot as you move through Prestige's.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: guitarist131
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 17, 2008 10:21 am PT
Review:  When i first see the trailer of Call of Duty world at war . I was like wtf this gonna be awesome 
 and it is but have some errors like in the campaign when you shoot the enemy in the head sometimes 
 he resist the shoot and that is not possible and then the campaign is a little bit frustrating 
 beacuse the mayority of the times you will die beacuse of a grenade but the game is awesome in 
 the mayority of the aspects . Like the graphics it have a big improvement and it look more realistic 
 and the multiplayer is the same you love from Call Of Duty 4 obvious with new arms and a little 
 bit more of multiplayer modes and perks and my favorite part is that you can use the flamethrower 
 and the game itself is more violent the enviroment is a little bit more destructible than previous 
 games of Call of Duty now in this game you can use vehicles but only tanks and in a level you can 
 use a helicopter turret so if you are a fanatic of First Person Shooters buy this game or if you 
 like video games buy it if you don't like Fps or video games i don't care only buy this game is 
 so freaking awesome trust me you would not be dissapointed of this game never. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ghostman96
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 17, 2008 9:09 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty: World at War is a hypothetical scenario suggesting the United States won in the Pacific 
 Theatre and Russia on the Eastern Front thanks to the presence of immortal time-traveling soldiers. 
 It is a fast-paced, frantic shooter that holds on to at least one dated shooter tradition: Quick 
 Load. The single player feels more like penance or an obligation at times, but it has to be finished 
 at least once to complete the excellent multiplayer. Which means suffering through unlimited streams 
 of enemy soldiers, screaming and reconnaissance through dying.
  
  It is my first thought to write Call of Duty is difficult, but it has so many checkpoints that 
 you really only repeat a couple minutes of a level after you die. Ambushes and massive defensive 
 positions mean that you are ensured to die, though, as the only way to be ready for them is to 
 know how they are going to happen. Cautiously approaching unknown territory means you are a slow 
 target the computer can shoot through bushes, trees, and easily penetrated cover easily. Charging 
 just means getting mulched by three fields of machinegun fire, a couple bayonets and a grenade 
 for good measure. However, thanks to the checkpoints you just get up and do it again and maybe 
 even again until you reach the next checkpoint. I am a shade below adequate at first-person shooters, 
 but finishing Call of Duty: World at War was simply a matter of remaining patient for about 8 hours.
 
  
  Playing with a friend changes the experience considerably, thanks to having at least one teammate 
 that does something when a firefight starts. The quick-loading changes to fighting across the battlefield 
 to stick a fallen comrade with morphine. The enemy is forced to split its attention, which makes 
 room for actual flanking maneuvers and tactics. A little surprising is the inclusion of split-screen 
 so-operative play. A pity the attempt to split two full-screens sing a pair of offset boxes squishes 
 the view even more than normal horizontal split screen. Identifying friend of foe on a 42" 1080p 
 screen was difficult, and hurt the experience for the new players I introduced it to. As a gift 
 for slogging through the single-player game, you are allowed to host Zombie matches. You and comrades 
 defend a shack from waves of zombies, having to watch the barricades, try to get sufficient weapons 
 and ammo, and aim for the head. It is great fun, although like the regular co-operative play offers 
 nothing for playing it other than the fun.
  
  The adversarial multiplayer is a re-skinned version of Call of Duty 4's. Not too bad a thing if 
 you can keep up. Which even though I can not, I still enjoyed even though I was getting turned 
 inside-out. A lot. Victories, or simple patience, in the multiplayer gives you experience points 
 and rewards to make you own classes of soldier to customize and use. Completing the challenges 
 in co-op only gives experience points that apply to the versus modes, as this is only where the 
 feature can be used. So while the co-operative mode is good fun, it lacks in lasting power.
  
  When you have a moment to breathe and take it in, Call of Duty is absolutely gorgeous. The 
 smoke, explosions, scenery and people all look and act believable, with no distracting glitches 
 or quirks. In particular, charging the Reichstag with dozens of fellow Russians to a stirring operatic 
 score was almost enough to forgive all the torturous dying and loading up until that point. It 
 looks no worse online, either. Playing on a nice loud sound system to accompany it means you might 
 well find yourself ducking just like your avatar when things get intense. Bullets whizzing past, 
 explosions, and a hundred things being screamed at the same time combine into a Spielburgian production 
 value.
  
  A few old-fashioned design decisions leave Call of Duty: World at War feeling a bit juvenile. But 
 most fun is in being immature, right? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: walker1846
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 17, 2008 9:26 pm PT
Review:  After the mind blowing success of COD 4: modern warfare it seemed an odd choice for Treyarch for 
 the 5th installment in the flagship shooter series to take the COD franchise back to the world 
 war 2 theatre. hmmm....
  
  Although it is WW2 again world at war impresses's with exceptional graphics from the improved COD 
 4 engine for example there is more blood and gore in every scenario and the sound once again is 
 top notch. The gameplay remains true to its roots with the snap to targeting system which works 
 extremely well. there is different scenarios to this WW2 shooter such as the battle of the pacific 
 and where the red army destroy's or to be honest butchers berlin. The story is familiar and you 
 kinda know what will happen next but COD 4 had the advantage of a fictional scenario, this is world 
 war 2..... but not as we know it.
  
  Like COD 4's single player campaign WAW's campaign is brilliant and short any decent player should 
 have the campaign over and done with on hardened difficulty in about 6-8 hours, although the campaign 
 is short like COD 4 thier is a high amount of replaybility here and if your really looking for 
 a challenge try it on veteran, yep veteran is bloody hard but ultimately rewarding.
  
  The multiplayer has taken a bit out of COD 4's book with the same brilliant and rewarding levelling 
 system along with the insane perks and a variety of classes and weapons. With the move back to 
 world war 2 Treyarch had to change the kill streak rewards. three in a row you get a recon plane 
 similiar to COD 4's UAV, get 5 in a row you get an artillery strike which will decimate your foes 
 again similar to COD 4's airstrike, 7 in a row the helicopters ditched with a pack of vicious dogs, 
 although the dogs dont seem like a good tactical choice at first the dogs lure out campers and 
 will really PWN NUBS so the dogs do make a good strategical choice.
  
  Something that has never happened in COD games before is the co-op mode which is just totally awesome, 
 up to 4 players can tackle the campaign mode online with a splitscreen option, beware of the splitscreen 
 although it is fun Treyarch were rather stupid into making the two screens so small there was still 
 so much screen not filled.
  Another fun mode is the unlockable nazi zombie mode where up to 5 players tackle a horde of shambling 
 zombies protecting some ruins beware! this mode may eat up your spare time as it extremely addictive.
 
  
  World at war is challenging and as fun as it's predeccessor and is truly one of the best WW2 game's 
 of all time.
  
  Formula for success
  - Intense and challenging solo campaign
  - The addition of a co-op mode
  - Multiplayer is superb
  - Nazi zombies is addictive
  - Graphics 
 and sound are top notch once again.
  
  Could have been better
  - Grenade indicator is not always acurate
  - Grenade spamming by enemies on higher diffuculties
 
  - Checkpoint system is erratic
  
  Graphics-9.6/10
  Sound-9.7/10
  gameplay-9.5/10
  longetivity-9.7/10
  Overall-9.5/10
  
  Bring on COD 6 if infinity ward top thier efforts over 
 COD 4 then the excitement is going to kill me.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: godigoshin
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 16, 2008 11:01 pm PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying that Treyarch, the game's developer, should not get the flak that they 
 get. CoD3 was not bad at all, in fact it was very good. The single player may have been slightly 
 lacking, but the online multiplayer was great. Now for the WAW review...
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  The game looks great. Player models are accurate, guns look good, and explosions 
 and fire look awesome. I can't recall any frame-rate slow downs, even during the most hectic parts 
 of the game. 
  
  Sound: 9/10
  Voice acting is great, guns sound great.
  
  Game-play: 10/10 
  CoD WAW plays much like previous CoD games, which means it plays great. The 
 controls are very smooth, and doing things just feel good. The controller layout is exactly the 
 same as CoD4, so it is easy to get used to if you have played that game. 
  
  Multiplayer: 10/10
  The only slight flaw here is the way the screen is aligned in split-screen. 
 The online portion is amazing. First of all, the same online game modes as CoD4 are all there, 
 and leveling up actually has purpose and adds a lot of time to the game. Online co-op modes are 
 very fun, but most maps take very little time with 4 people compared to doing it by yourself. Right 
 now, my favorite mode is called Nazi Zombies. After completing the single-player campaign, you 
 unlock this mode, which puts you are 3 others against an infinite amount of Nazi Zombies. Each 
 wave gets faster and harder to kill, so purchasing the weapons while in-game and formulating a 
 strategy is very important. Its a blast to play, and I feel like I will be doing it for a lot longer. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: paidoot
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 16, 2008 10:50 pm PT
Review:  Now if your thinking oh just another ww2 game, well think again. This is not just another ww2 game, 
 its the best ww2 game up to date and the most addictive game i have ever played. From the breathtaking 
 graphics to the crazy great guns, its amazing. The characters are amazing. And whoever sais its 
 the same as cod 4 but in ww2, their wrong. Everything is different, the characters, the graphics, 
 the storyline, the guns. Even if u dont like war games u will enjoy it. And the flamethrower, oooooh 
 the flamethrower, its the sickest weapon ever, wich game was it in first, call of duty world at 
 war. And i love how u be the americans and the russians, it makes it more addictive.
  
  
  Overall, its an amazing must buy ww2 game. Oh and it sais on the back, war like you've never experienced, 
 its true. BUY IT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hunter_44
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 16, 2008 6:15 pm PT
Review:  Of the World War II games released thus far, this is probably the one I've enjoyed the most. It's 
 polished, has the best and probably most realistic WWII action of any of the CoD games. Sure, a 
 lot of people are tired of WWII games, and rightly so. However, that doesn't mean this isn't a 
 REALLY good game. The positives:
  
  I guess the thing that sticks out to me are the things that don't. By that I mean the subtle touches 
 that people who've really studied up on their WWII history would really be excited about. How the 
 Japanese troops have TONS of open space in front of them before they attack or spring defensive 
 ambushes. How defensive German tanks form crescents with their armor defensively while the infantry 
 tries to push you into that cross fire. Just stuff that you really appreciate if you're really 
 on the up and up with WWII history and battle tactics. The campaign, while relatively short, is 
 a lot of fun and easily the most mature of their series thus far. As opposed to playing against 
 more or less the same bad guys, this time, it really feels like you're in two totally different 
 wars altogether. The sounds are INCREDIBLE in this game, between the echoing German commands in 
 the background to scuffling Japanese infantry in bunkers. Even the story line, itself, just does 
 a FAR better job that CoD games have in the past, of REALLY capturing the attitudes and 'spirit' 
 of the two conflicts. Couple it in with some great, albeit short, historical reels in between missions, 
 and you've got yourself a really cool World War II shooter that's really gone the extra mile to 
 give you a GENUINE feel to the proceedings.
  
  The online multiplayer is about what you'd expect it to be and is pretty much a carbon copy of 
 the CoD 4 game. Nothing wrong with that. The maps really make you think for a change, which is 
 a nice break from the previous installment in the series, where people are sitting in the same 
 nooks and cranny's. Overall, while it's nothing ground breaking, it's a lot of fun. The Negatives:
 
  
  Well, for one, this IS another World War II game. I think after this installment, it's safe to 
 say we don't need another WWII game for quite some time. While I DO think it's important to not 
 get overly caught up in it all, it DOES weigh on you a bit as some of it, no matter how well it 
 was executed, does have that dreaded 'been there, done that' feel to it. My other big beef is that 
 the campaign FLIES by. Literally. I finished the game in one sitting, taking me a whopping three 
 hours. I don't think it'd hurt to put in another three to four missions to really make this a longer 
 deal. This game is sitting on a $60 price tag and hasn't been marketed as a mere mod, so it'd be 
 nice to see something a LITTLE more substantive in the single player campaign. Overall, again, 
 this is a good game that shouldn't be passed up because it's a retread of the past. It's a good 
 game with very few negatives and should keep you plenty busy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: --VoiD15 --
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 16, 2008 4:39 pm PT
Review:  I personally hate call of duty, my favorite was call of duty 2... call of duty 4 was in my opinion 
 a very bad game... but i can give it one thing, it wasn't in WW2. Then there is CoD 5... hey guys 
 guess what? back to WW2... im so sick of it! besides that cod 4 was a over played, over exaggerated 
 game... now there's cod five which is the same game in a different setting. It wont be long before 
 its over played and exaggerated as much as CoD 4. I know people will forever hate me i just didn't 
 like the game.
  
  There is one thing i will give it and thats the fact its story line has improved since the fourth 
 one which was what...8 hours long? That is probably the only thing keeping this game afloat. Online 
 play is just as annoying as the fourth as well.
  
  Sorry CoD 5 fans, go play some gears 2. something thats actually good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: serentus
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 16, 2008 1:56 pm PT
Review:  Yes people Call of Duty : World at War. At first (before the release of the game) I thought , no 
 I'm not going to buy this game it's just another WW II shooter but hell I was wrong
  
  The first thing in CoD: WaW that really comes out is the 4 player co-op campaign. There's no real 
 diffuculty in AI but as the number of players increases , so does the number of enemies increase. 
 And at Veteran level those enemies are not yer average enemies. No they are violent killers who 
 will do anything to kill you , no seriously EVERYTHING (those kamikazes are a real pain in a delicate 
 place of yer body)
  
  But is CoD: WaW a singleplayer game. HELL NO! You get that game for the best multiplayer expierience 
 ever! CoD: WaW goes on with the CoD 4 engine.
  The people who've played CoD 4 (hope you haven't played like me *cough* over 160 hours) will recognise 
 many things. The game types basically are the same and so are the physics. The guns even feel the 
 same. Everything has been taken back to the past from CoD 4. 
  
  Multiplayer has everything from CoD 4 and more. The challenges have been expanded , and weapons 
 still have the red dot sights (sorta , aperture sight) and snipers are still a tad overpowered. 
 A new add-on to the multplayer is that there are Vehicles. Those vehicles are not overpowered and 
 have a own perk in your create-a-class thing. The create a class feature is still the same (just 
 a vehicle perk row has been added) you can pick your own : 
  Weapon  | Rifle | SMG | LMG | Shotgun | Bolt Action
  
  Rifles : Mostly single shot , fair power 
 ,long range
  SMG : Automatic, high fire rate , good move speed
  LMG : Automatic , high power and reasonable fire rate , huge clips
  Shotgun : Pump Action , Deadly 
 at close range
  Bolt Action : Bolt Action , low fire rate , mostly 1 shot 1 kill
  
  Side Arm : Yer pistol duhh
  
  Primary grenade : Frag , Sticky or Molotov
  Secondary Grenade 
 : Flare , Gas or Smoke
  
  Perks
  
  Tier 1 : Explosives
  Tier 2 : Weapon Upgrading (higher power , higher bullet output)
  Tier 3 : Various
  Tier 4 : 
 Vehicles
  
  
  Well hope to have informed you enough about CoD: WaW
  
  Add me on Xbox Live : DarkSamith Hope to see you on XBL :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JuniorMints
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 16, 2008 12:24 pm PT
Review:  World at War is pretty much what you would expect from the guys that brought you CoD3, but with 
 a few extras. As you all know, CoDWaW is back in WWII but this time it is using the same engine 
 from CoD4 so visually you know that it will look amazing. Beside the visuals it also plays exactly 
 like CoD4 so if you are a vet from the privois game you are going to jump right into this fairly 
 quickly with no problems. 
  
  Lets start with the Campaign, it is what you would expect from a WWII game, full of historic facts 
 that you would wish your History teacher would've used CoDWaW to teach a "lesson" plan. You play 
 in two different theaters of war, the Russion drive to Germany on the Eastern Front and the US 
 retaliation of the Japanese forces in the Pacific. What I liked best was the fact that it made 
 war feel extremely realistic. WWII was the greatest loss of human life in the existence of man, 
 and this game you could feel lost of your comrades in a majority of campaign missions. Also it 
 showed the horrors of war, soldiers losing legs, arms, and even heads. Making this CoD game the 
 most gory yet. 
  
  The campaign itself isnt long so do not expect some 15 hour play from this, i would say you would 
 play a good 4-6 hours on Hardened alone. If youre playing it on Vet [good luck with that] tack 
 on another 2-4 hours of frustration. 
  
  Despite a short campaign the story is epic, the music and sounds are just amazing. You feel as 
 if you are watching a great war movie and at that very same time you feel that youre actually a 
 part of the story. A part of history in a way. 
  
  Where the game shines is the Co Op and Multiplayer. It is no different from CoD4 with the exception 
 of a few new perks and the addition of tanks. Tanks can change the momentum of the game. So taking 
 them out or geting them early can be essential to winning a Team Deathmatch. The levels themselves 
 are just HUGE. Think of a place like Overgrown on CoD4 and then add Bog on top of it and there 
 you have it, a place like Outskirts or Downfall. My only grip is that there are far too many maps 
 suited for huge team matches like 8 vs 8 or even 10 vs 10. Most matches Ive been in are just 4 
 vs 4 or most 6 vs 6, and they are still too small for these huge maps. Another gripe that must 
 be fixed are the spawn points. These maps are huge, so why am I spawning right in front of gunfire 
 from my teammate or enemy? 
  
  Overall this game is a must have for any FPS fan. You have everything you need, Co Op for the campain 
 and also the secret Nazi Zombie Mode [2 player offline and 4 players online] . Addictive multiplayer. 
 Personally I will continue to play them both! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jeff917
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 16, 2008 11:37 am PT
Review:  Warning: The opinions expressed in the following review are NOT endorsed by anyone at Gamespot 
 or any professional reviewer. I'm not paid for my reviews and I do them for fun. They may contain: 
 Foul Language, Violence, references to farts, A lot of references to the word "Poo" totally bodily 
 function loss, or possibly the total collapse of civilization as we know. Oh also reading these 
 reviews you may feel the need to toss a Midget or start a Cripple fight. There is a longer list 
 of things that could happen but I don't feel like posting them here. You have been Warned.
  
  Learning Curve: 15 Minutes
  
  Score: 5 out of 10
  
  Released a year and 5 days after 
 the hugely successful Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare came Call of Duty: World at War, in Call of 
 Duty: World at War we return back to the stomping grounds of WW2 and to this I why? I mean come 
 on we have so many WW2 themed games that the market is saturated with it, they finally had the 
 courage to move out of WW2 and move into the Modern age but it's like we take two steps forward 
 and one step back. You'll play both as a US armed service member named "Miller" and you'll also 
 play as a Russian service member named "Dimirti" when your playing as "Miller" you'll be facing 
 the Japanese and when you play as "Dimitri" you'll be facing the Germans. 
  
  I'll let everyone know before they continue to read on, whenever I play a game the first time through 
 I play on easy that way I get a layout of the land so to say. In COD 4 even on Easy the enemies 
 gave me a good run for my money but in this game it seems that they decided to take more care with 
 one campaign and I'm referring to the Russian fight, when I played as a American it seemed that 
 the Japanese were very stupid in the AI department. These were one of the times that I wish I had 
 a capture card so I could post a video of stuff I came across. One example is I was ordered to 
 clean out a bunker and afew of the US army members came with me well I got to a point where I litterly 
 would see a American fighting a Japanese the American would shoot the japan solider in the head 
 in 3 round burst it looks like and the solider wouldn't die he would just stand there. I timed 
 myself using a stop watch and this went on for over 3 minutes! So after watching the comedy show 
 I put that solider out of his misery.
  
  Now on the other hand when I played as "Dimirtri" it seemed that the AI even though was on easy 
 it seemed the AI was on the hardest difficulty I kept dying, so it seemed that either they took 
 a day off programing the US and Japanese AI but they were on top of their game when programing 
 the German and Russian AI. It was too erratic. 
  
  Another issue I had with the game was the sudden spawns (More noticeably in the last stages) I 
 would kill someone and make sure the area was clear, I would be hiding behind a area to reload 
 and boom a German would kill me. It seemed that they would spawn in places that they shouldn't 
 have. Now if there is one thing that I have to give the game creators credit for is the actual 
 war footage that you see in the game. It takes balls to show wartime footage like this, and the 
 creators had balls of steel.
  
  Now onto the Controls, to me the controls seemed sluggish, the visuals and sounds really were uninspiring 
 which was a same since we were on the heels of COD 4. Overall the graphics were just unimpressive, 
 to me this game should have been on a original XBox not a next Gen console like the 360, PS3 and 
 so fourth. 
  
  The Plus: Wartime Footage was very graphic and showed what the US had to endure to protect us from 
 hatred.
  
  The Negative: Everything Else
  
  This game would have gotten a 1 out of 10 but the videos saved this game. So if your a collector 
 go ahead and get this game but if you want a fun single player story stick with COD 4. In the end 
 this game gets a 5 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: connoradam
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 16, 2008 7:49 am PT
Review:  overall i thought this game was great and maybe the best in the seris live is a ton of fun expeciallywith 
 the add on of tanks. another fun game mode is zombies on it and this one is really addictive its 
 sort of like the horde mode on gears of war two were you and three other friends have to see how 
 long they can hold out against an increaseingly hard onslaught of zombies. in the mode you and 
 your friends start in a room with pistols but you can begin to open more spots as you get more 
 money from either killing the zombies or repairing windows. as you unlock different parts of the 
 house different weapons will become availible. i thought the campaign was also very fun. you get 
 to fight on the russian front and in the pacific. i personaly enjoyed fighting the japanese better 
 because the way they fought charging you and hiding in trees and playing dead made the game more 
 interesting then the past games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Haziqonfire
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 15, 2008 10:18 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  
  World of War is your basic FPS affair --- much like Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare. Tons of great 
 guns to use, especially the flame thrower. One of the good new weapons in the game. I'd say the 
 game play is pretty solid. 
  
  My one and only complaint is with the grenades. Enemy AI will end up grenading you a zillion times, 
 killing you many, many, many times .. and it gets rather annoying. Yes, you can throw them back, 
 however, they sometimes blow up before you get the chance to do so. 
  
  The online gameplay is also back and it is much like COD4. The difference is Vehicles. They add 
 a lot, but personally, I'm indifferent to them. I dont hate them and I won't really use them. The 
 good thing is, for those who wanted vehicles, they are here!
  
  Graphics:
  
  The game looks good. Although visually it might look worse than Call of Duty 4, this is only because 
 of the art direction. Where COD4 had a lot of bright areas and had good use of lighting, World 
 at War is a more gritty, dark oriented game -- basically, its darker and does not show off the 
 engine as well as COD4 did.
  
  This however does not mean its an ugly game by any means. It still a great looking game, thought 
 it might not impress everyone. 
  
  Sound:
  
  Excellent sound. Good music that keeps you pumped, sounds of explosions and the guns are done really 
 well.
  
  Voice acting is terrific. Really good stuff, gets you in the mood.
  
  Presentation:
  
  Menu screen is looking good. Cut scenes are nice and slick. What many will 
 notice though is this is probably one of the most violent COD games. Just take a look at the opening 
 cut scene and you will see for yourself how brutal it is
  
  The game runs silky smooth, just like COD4, with no dip in frame rate. Online runs smoothly (So 
 far based on what I've played) and the cut scenes between missions are well done.
  
  Lasting Appeal:
  
  Campaign is short, however, you can play it multiple times on different 
 difficulties. You can also play the Nazi Zombie mode, which is unlocked after beating the game's 
 campaign -- on top of that you've got a very solid and addictive mutli-player mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nofriekinlemons
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 15, 2008 5:18 pm PT
Review:  now cod5 is using the same graphics doesn't mean its just as good, in ways it is better but mostly 
 worse.
  
  pros-
  -flamethrower extremely fun and very well rounded
  -environments are really good
  -kamikazes are really cool i let them come up to stab me just 
 so i can stab them in the neck (much like how i did in cod4 with the dogs)
  
  Cons-
  -weapons suck the are extremely boring and well the have 3 different weapons that act the same 
 way really annoying ( you may find yourself running around to find a weapon that you dont have to 
 reload on every shot)
  -activision said we would not have played a WW2 game like this, WE HAVE in fact we played 3, 3 
 that they themselves made i cannot see a key factor that separates this game from all the others
 
  -no characters that actually grows on you\
  -not as good multiplayer as cod4
  
  on a more personnel level -- i enjoyed playing COD4 a lot more than just because it was revolutionary, 
 but because it was really patriotic for me i could almost see what American troops go through day 
 by day, and well it was patriotic it really was, but now in this game you play as a commie!! "what" 
 i dont want to play as a Russian and the worst part was at the end when it becomes so dramatic 
 when you place the Russian flag on top of a building, that scene made me upset im not proud to 
 place a commie flag any where, why are they making it so dramatic when you do, i dont understand
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: not_guilty_84
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2008 5:06 pm PT
Review:  This game is by far the best call of duty game out so far! Trey Arch did an amazing job of improving 
 on the Modern Warfare engine. First off the multi-player is by far the best for many reasons. 1. Ranking 
 system is way amazing
  2. Perks and challenges make the game way more fun
  3. Very realistic shooting and grenades
  
  The campaign doesn't let anybody down either, though 
 it may be hard at times and a little long it stills keeps you entertained and just enough game 
 play to make you wanna keep going! There is a lot of cut scenes that make the story a lot more 
 interesting and fun!
  
  My opinion of this game is there is only pros and very minimum cons! if you haven't played Call 
 of Duty before this is a great game to get started!
  
  i would rate this game a perfect 10! not only for the MP (multi-player) but also for the campaign 
 and greatness of the co-op (for campaign) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryman1000
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 15, 2008 3:54 pm PT
Review:  The overcrowding of objects on maps makes it difficult to achieve any particular kill streaks as 
 people hide beneath the foilage and come out and shoot you from behind.
  
  When COD 4 came out it was original, and like nothing else but Call of Duty 5 is nothing new and 
 doesn't have the same effect as call of duty 4 did.
  
  Weapons are dissapointing. Some guns have to be reloaded every shot taken ! Due to the older scene 
 weapons, become very limited and don't have the amazing weapons modern warfare did.
  
  On the plus side Dogs are an interesting new introduction to the series although provide too many 
 kills when used. Artillery the equivalent to air strikes cover a large area and last alot longer, 
 and are almost impossible to avoid, even you find it hard to not be killed on the smaller maps 
 (most maps)
  
  Overall an average, fun game and your enjoyment of it will depend what scene you prefer - Modern 
 Warfare or Classic older times. Enjoyable but not fantastic 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swiney50
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 15, 2008 2:44 pm PT
Review:  This is what you would expect for another in a long lineage of COD offerings. The single player 
 campaign is very good particularly in the Pacific Theater. It has something that none of the other 
 WWII COD's ever had..... COD 4 graphics. The battle field sets are beautifully rendered. I really 
 enjoyed COD 4 because of the photorealistic graphics and great battle sequences. Imagine WWII settings 
 with COD 4 graphic quality. If you love COD this is a must have game. I hear that the Cooperative 
 mode is very good with something called "death cards" that you can capture during the single player 
 campaign. These death cards can be used in coop mode as really cool cheats. 
  
  The great part of this game is the multiplayer. I have only played the Death Match mode to date... but 
 it looks like all the game modes you would expect are available as you progress throughout the 
 game. Huge Battlefields beautifully rendered with lots of action and very interesting settings. 
 Tough, pitched battles are common in and around villages, cities, ruins, beaches, bluffs and awe 
 inspring strongholds. One of the maps sports a Nazi stronghold (Reichstag?) that is huge and tough 
 to fight your way through. The sets have a million places to hide and snipe which can be very trying 
 if you are the snipee and not the sniper. This may be the best multiplayer game that I have ever 
 played. Lots of action... very fun stuff... Lock n load men. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ch3mic4lX
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 15, 2008 12:22 pm PT
Review:  Campaign: a bit frustrating because you will find yourself dying at the hand of a grenade. I would 
 say about 70% of my deaths in the campaign on NORMAL were due to grenades. It is fun, The japanese 
 kamikazee soldiers get kinda annoying after a while but you will get used to stabbing them im the 
 neck again and again. Veteran difficulty is very challenging and may frustrate you but it is very 
 satisfying when you complete the level. 8.5/10
  
  Multiplayer: The guns are new, innovative, and just plain fun. all the multiplayer modes from CoD: 
 4 are there anlong with a few new ones, but this time you have to unlock the different multiplayer 
 game modes by getting to higher levels. There are some great maps and a few stupid ones. 9.5/10
 
  
  Graphics: Much improved Graphics from CoD: 4 10/10
  
  Sound: Amazing sound with voice actors such as Kiefer Sutherland and the explosion and gun noises 
 sound great 10/10
  
  Overall: a great game to play... IMO CoD: 4 players will like the game. It is good fun and the 
 different difficulties encourage multiple replays. I recommend picking this one up if you are a 
 FPS fan or new to console games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Karimcheese
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 22, 2008 12:05 pm PT
Review:  Well now, it's been over a year and we already have another installment in the best FPS series 
 in recent years, Call of Duty. Call of Duty 4 may have been the best in the series, but what about 
 CoD: World at War? After much anticipation, it turns out WaW isn't all that bad, in fact it's actually 
 good. It runs on the same engine as 4 so you can pick it up and play like right away and multiplayer 
 is just the same as the predecessor. But unfortunately it goes back to the series roots, WWII, 
 which isn't totally bad since we do get to see the Pacific side of this war. But I got to say after 
 playing with M4s and P90s, using the M1 Grand and all the other "older" gun models doesn't get 
 it done anymore. I mean I was so pleasantly surprised by Modern Warfare that this game just didn't 
 do it for me. On top of that the story is just as short as any in the series but feels more bland 
 than the others. When it comes down to it, if you still like WWII shooters, pick up this game and 
 play multiplayer to your heart's desire. But if you just want a CoD fix before Infinity Ward's 
 next masterpiece, then rent WaW, beat it, try the multiplayer which isn't that much different but 
 still entertaining, return it and I guarantee you that's all the time you need to spend with this 
 game. BTW, Nazi Zombies is a great mode, I have to tip my hat to Treyarch on this one! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarathonTurtle
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 15, 2008 11:43 am PT
Review:  This games campaign could be frustrating for the casual gamer, but the multiplayer is great. I 
 found that the campaign difficulty was very frustrating for me when just playing on normal difficulty 
 which shouldn't be very hard. Also there is cheap deaths one time I finished clearing out a area 
 just to walk up the stairs and be one shot killed by a guy with a flamethrower and have to start 
 from my last checkpoint, and campaign is kind of short, it didn't take me very long to finish maybe 
 about 7 to 8 hours to finish. But you can play most of the campaign with four player online or 
 split screen which is nice, also the graphics look pretty good, it has very good lighting effects 
 on some levels. I also really liked the ending to this game and I felt very accomplished when I 
 beat the game. Once after you have finished the campaign you unlock a awesome multiplayer mode 
 called nazi zombies which is very fun and addictive. The objective of it is hold of zombies in 
 a house and you get points for killing zombies which allows you to buy weapons in the mode. Also 
 the regular mulitiplayer is also fun to play. There is a lot of different weapons, and you can 
 put different attachments on them like silencer or a scope like call of duty 4, (not saying that's 
 a bad thing) . All in all this game is very fun in multiplayer and has a not so fun to play single 
 player campaign.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yeley718
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 15, 2008 9:12 am PT
Review:  Ok, when the game was first announced i had the feeling that i wasn't going to like it because 
 it was going to be a clone of COD 4, but i have been proven wrong. it is indeed a clone of COD4 
 but the new multiplayer modes and engaging story make it a great game.
  
  This Call Of Duty is more brutal then COD4, you get this feeling early on when the game opens up 
 in a torture seen, the soldier in front of you refuses to awnser a question and for his troubles 
 gets a cigarette extinguished in his eye and when he refuses again his throat is cut, lovely.
 
  
  You play as two different soldiers in the game, Pvt. Miller and a Russian soldier named Demitri. 
 each of these men start out the same way, helpless. And this makes the story very emotional, almost 
 like a Saving Private Ryan type story (i say that just cause the game is very gory and bloody) 
 limbs fly off, and melee attacks are very brutal, that is one thing the game does very well in 
 making you feel sad for your dead comrades, and makes you really hate the Japanese and Germans. 
 
  
  Multiplayer has been improved, you can play the campaign with up to four people (except 2 missions) 
 and there is split screen for up to two people on campaign, although beating missions on split 
 screen doesn't save and won't count for beating the campaign. And there is a new game-mode called 
 nazi zombies, yes its as weird and quirky as it sounds and it just happens to be a lot of fun. 
 of course there is now 65 levels of prestige to keep you online junkies busy for a while.
  
  The graphics are great, from the blood and guts, to the beautiful looking buildings. the sound 
 design is very good to from the grenades, to the gunfire, to the screams of the dying and living 
 you get the feeling you're in a real war. oh and the voice acting is superb.
  
  The only reason this game does not have a ten from me is because it feels so much like COD4, while 
 this is not a bad thing i get the feeling that they could have improved it more.
  
  Graphics- 9.5
  Sound-9.5
  Lasting Appeal-10
  Story-10
  Multiplayer-9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrTWiggy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 14, 2008 11:23 pm PT
Review:  Where to start... So! I have not completed the Single Player campaign mode but if you're familiar 
 with CoD4's campaign then you'll be right at home here with CoD5.
  
  At first glance you think "Oh no, not another WWII game! *long and loud moaning sequence goes here* 
 Why do they ever keep making these terrible hideous look alikes!" Well, CoD5 stands out from the 
 rest by using Infinity Ward's CoD4 engine. To a lot of you, it's a bad thing when you take into 
 account that Treyarch pretty much ripped Infinity Ward for everything that IW got praised for, 
 but seeing that the game is running on the same engine and that a many few things that made CoD4 
 great are still in CoD5, that makes CoD5 great as well.
  
  As much of the Single Player campaign I've played so far, I think it's great and it's much better 
 than other standard SP games out there, but it doesn't really do anything new, and if you've played 
 a million other FPS's before then you're going to think the Single Player mode is a walk through 
 the park with hotdogs in your hands while your feet shoot the bullets from your guns! (Okay terrible 
 way to explain it I know)
  
  Where the game is REALLY at is the Online Multiplayer mode which is what CoD4 was greatly known 
 for as well. Treyarch has done an excellent job of making games lagless for the most part and expands 
 upon what CoD4 was. The 13 online maps that are included in the game are fun to play on and are 
 very hectic. There are 22 primary guns plus 5 pistols, about 5 different types of grenades, a few 
 new perks, and a new category for vehicle perks. Most of the guns are unique in their own way and 
 some will probably work better for more people than others. Another great part about the game is 
 that you can tear body limbs from your opponents now! Arms and legs both go flying mercilessly 
 if a well aimed powerful bullet or explosion lands there. The grenades have been toned down in 
 a sense that their blast radius isn't so freakin' large and that you can't toss them as far as 
 you could in CoD4. Personally I think that takes the over-powered feel of the grenade out of them 
 and makes them useful for when necessary. The voice acting is purely fantastic in this game! I 
 find myself laughing at a lot of the commentary made by the cheesy stereotypical foreign figures, 
 but that's also why it's so great. A lot of people will say the attack dogs in this game are extremely 
 cheap, I beg to differ. I think that it takes too many shots to kill them but a well timed kniving 
 will bring down any ferocious attack dog in seconds! I thought that the Artillery strikes were 
 the most annoying thing in the beginning of playing MP, but as I played on I found them a most 
 useful asset for when you're playing in an intense multiplayer game.
  
  Now for the bad (and need of improvement) . Though the graphics are greatly similar in this game 
 to that of CoD4, some of the textures are completely unfinished. If you walk into a few of the 
 houses the textures sometimes look faded out compared to other textures in the same room. Personally 
 I think it's about the gameplay experience vs. a graphical standpoint, but for those of you who 
 love your graphics and you need them perfect, that perfection isn't here. There are also a few 
 glitches from time to time where you can get stuck in the terrain in the middle of a match (hope 
 you have a suicidal grenade on you!) and that at the menu screen where it'll sometimes freeze up 
 from 2-10 seconds, which is weird, but it also doesn't hinder your gameplay experience. I think 
 Treyarch could have put in a little more effort in offering us a few more maps, 13 seems like the 
 bare minimum with atleast 2 of them completely sucking donkey chunks. Recoil: Oh right, there is 
 none! For most of the semi-automatic rifles in this game, you can shoot them off as fast as possible 
 with little to none recoil at all. It's a little ridiculous considering how these are high powered 
 rifles and all. Some of the guns are imbalanced or broken to the point where they are completely 
 unusable. Tanks seem like they don't belong in this game, they can either make or break a few of 
 the maps they show up on. They're big and clunky, though they do offer a sense of armor and power. 
 Some people will like the tanks, other people will completely hate them. The sound effects in this 
 game are a make or break situation as well. Personally I think they're unrealistic as far as the 
 guns go, but I do think they sound freaking hilarious. It's like shooting off little toy guns! 
 The SVT-40 Rifle with a silencer sounds like you're shooting off a Paint Ball gun! If you were 
 looking for sound realism, you may be disappointed.
  
  Bottom Line: All in all, if you want a great WWII shooter and you're looking to have some fun, 
 CoD5 has it all! If you're extremely unsure about the game still then you may want to rent it first 
 before deciding whether or not to buy it. I wouldn't pass the game up just because of the large 
 multiplayer community, but that's me personally. Despite the flaws this game has, I think it has 
 more than enough other content to make it shine through that it's still worth playing, or atleast 
 trying.
  
  Gameplay: 9.5 (it's CoD4 with a WWII mask on, what did you expect?)
  
  Graphics: 8.0 (Nothing that will make you drop bricks in your pants)
  
  Sound Effects: 7.0 
 (Come on Treyarch did you even try doing the sound effects?!)
  
  Replay Value: 9.0 (65 ranks of Multiplayer anyone?) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monkeyboy070
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 14, 2008 9:05 pm PT
Review:  I shall start with graphics, yes they look great, in fact that look just as amazing and cod 4 did... surprise 
 it is the same engine. No real spectacular feats. here. Sound follows the same line. Sounds just 
 as good as cod 4 did too. If you have a good surround sounds system/headphones, you won't miss 
 anything around you.
  
  The part that fell short with me in this game was both the single player and the competitive multiplayer. 
 The single player brought very little new to the game, and it is mainly because they are beating 
 genre to death! The flame thrower was neat and entertained me for a few minutes, but after that 
 it was a very much so on rails shooter. The tank scenario was nothing new and if anything stupidly 
 easy, the rescue boat was different, but when it came down to actual game play it was push button... literally. 
 At least in cod uo, you actually have to run across the b17 yourself, the game didn't do it for 
 you! That and the weapons sounds are sometimes just ridiculous. Anyone who has fired any of these 
 weapons in real life can tell you that with some (mp40, FG42, BAR, M1's) they blew it.
  
  When you finally get to the ending of this ho hum single player, you are greeted with almost identical 
 multiplayer. However, there are many shortfalls to that. First and foremost being the unlock system! 
 Seriously, I have to be a level 14 before I can play anything but deathmatches? WTF?! Why can a 
 guy just jump in and play? Let's not forget that the COD series stands for accuracy in most things. 
 So why do they have "apperature" sights. An apperature sight is way different then what they have, 
 this is basically a red dot in the game. Flasher suppressor is a silencer? Come on, they had none 
 of this bs back then. Don't get me started on the russian .50 rifle, that was an anti tank rifle 
 not a sniper rifle. To some it up, an already been done single player with a different coat of 
 paint, and an already been done multiplayer with an inaccurate coat of paint. Infinity should be 
 pissed, cod3 was glitchy but at least it stayed more true to WWII!
  
  There were some redeeming factors to the game. The coop play is something we've all wanted to see 
 for cod, and it works well. They did correct 1 inaccuracy after make tons of others. the M1 garand 
 could be reloaded, you just expended all shots in that clip to do so, which they didn't quite get 
 that part right, but almost every game doesn't. The zombie mode was very interesting too. Far different 
 from horde on Gears of War 2, which they had to be if they wanted to compete at all. The idea that 
 you can use your points to improve you weapons or barricades was a great idea. 
  
  All in all they screwed up on single player and competitive multi, but they got both coops right, 
 so they only really made half a good game, so they only get half the points. 5 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaDude253
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 14, 2008 3:17 pm PT
Review:  If you read my previous reveiw about COD4 you would know all about Fan-F**king tastic online gameplay? 
 yeah im sure you did. And on COD:5  BETTER!! Reasons? 
 Well, For the first time on a Xbox 360 game i can choose a setting that allows me to play on local 
 games only witch means no more lag or anoying americans (Not all of you Americans are bad but some 
 i just unbarable) Witch is great cuase 8\10 times i get into a Aus or NZ server and thats good 
 cuase being an Australian gammer i know that finding aussie servers in COD4 was hard enough only 
 being able to most the time at 11PM-3AM in the morning :P. And the actual game play now, Basicly 
 every thing about COD4's online is here but bigger and better (and with WWII guns :P) but they 
 have changed a few things. Now if you use "Last Stand" now called "Second Chance" if some one else 
 is using it you can be rivied buck from lying on the ground with your pisol back to the heavy gunner. 
 Now onto single player, I promise not give away any spoilers so ill just say this. Its pretty fun 
 and full of suprises and uses some technechs thats used in the online mode. The cheakpoint and 
 save sisytme is identicle to COD4's. Oh and by the way if you wanna do veteran i recormend doing 
 it with a friend ALMOST FORGOT SOMETHING!!! you can have up to 4 players online co-op!!. SO back 
 to what i was saying b4. I recorment doing vetaran with a friend beacuse like the "Second Chance" 
 Perk you can revived your friend if hes been shot a few times but if killed by an exslosion theres 
 simply no hope :P. To sum it up COD: World at war is basicly last years COD4 but better in almost 
 every way with new modes and new things to and unlockables. I recorment getting this game is you 
 loved COD4 or just like shooters.
  
  PS. I know i spelt somethings wrong but as long as ya get the measage it counts cya around 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dunkace
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 16, 2008 3:50 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty World at War is the best thig i have played in ages!! the fighting is fast and the 
 enamy are smart! the enamy like to kill you as quick as possible in this game so keeping your finger 
 ready is inportant!! the first inpression i got when i herd that COD5 was coming out i thought 
 it was going to be anothyer rubbish WW2 game. but then that mulitplayer beta came out and i couldn't 
 get off it. after the beta ran out i was left raking up money!!
  the game is a big one!! well not massive nore is it short. the game is a resnable to short and 
 the missions are short. 
  the one mission i was grabbed by was a level were you are in plane shooting other planes and boats. 
 this grabbed me because the way they made it was amazing!! to get to other guns you had to take 
 a realistic scrable through the plane. 
  right heres the good points:
  flamethrower!!
  grapics ( better than COD4)
  AI
  multiplayer (better than COD4)
  weapons!!! ( well there 
 WW2 weapons)
  
  Bad Points:
  Campain is to short
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: buckeyefanzz
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 14, 2008 1:35 pm PT
Review:  First of all, I am only reviewing my experience on the multiplayer. I have not yet played the campaign.
 
  
  Let me start by giving the good... 
  I think the graphics & sound are pretty good. Gameplay itself seems pretty smooth. I like that 
 they added some new perks & extended it to 65 levels. Co-op with up to 4 players is a nice touch 
 as well.
  
  Now the bad...
  Lots of spawn killing! This happens WAY too often. I've seen enemies spawn 3 feet in front of me 
 & of course I put a few bullets into their chest. But boy is it a bummer when you're on the other 
 side of that. And it seems to happen multiple times per match. Again, WAY too often. I understand 
 the need to replace the helicopter since they weren't around in WWII, but the dogs are ridiculous! 
 In hardcore mode, one touch from a dog & you're dead! C'mon!!! At least when the chopper was out 
 you could hide if needed. Not from the dogs! They are way too powerful. 
  
  I'm not much of a sniper. I like to run & gun with a machine gun & most of the maps conceal snipers 
 real well. I really don't enjoy sitting there waiting for the action to come to me. But on the 
 most of the maps in this game, if you stick your head out it will either get blown off by a sniper, 
 a tank, or eaten by the most powerful dogs on the planet.
  
  Had I not played COD4, I probably would have given this a higher rating. But COD4 got me involved 
 in the multiplayer aspect & no other game has been able to come close to keeping my attention. 
 All in all, I am disappointed & wish I had rented this instead of dropping $60!!! Cause now I'm 
 on my way back to Gamestop to trade it in while it still has value.
  
  If you like getting dressed up in your ghillie suits & sitting still for some unsuspecting enemy 
 to troll by, then by all means this game is for you. If you liked the excitement of multiplayer 
 on COD4, you may want to rent this 1st. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Digital_Dave
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 14, 2008 1:00 pm PT
Review:  * Objective: Secure the Village 
  
  In this section you'll be playing as Private Miller. Part of a captured reconnaissance team, you'll 
 see him liberated by his fellow Marines. The rescuers will hand you a Japanese Nambu pistol. On 
 a crate to your right you'll find an M-1 Garand rifle, and Japanese sub-machinegun. The pistol 
 is far less effective than these two weapons, so pick up the rifle, switch to your pistol, then 
 pick up the sub-machinegun.
  
  Your teammates will assault the rest of the village. Move forward with them and take out any enemies 
 you see. Don't rush ahead of the rest of the group, or you'll quickly be cut down by enemy fire. 
 Be sure to avoid any red barrels (they explode when shot) and watch for enemies throwing grenades.
 
  
  If you get lost, follow the compass in the bottom left hand part of your screen to the star symbol.
 
  
  Fight your way around the burning hut, and follow your team into another hut. This next area has 
 an emplaced machine gun firing at you. Take out the gunner and use grenades to clear out the enemies 
 around the gun. Move up the trail and you'll come to a small shrine. At this point enemies will 
 come out of the jungle and attack.
  
  * Objective: Rescue Second Squad 
  
  Move up and over the hill. On the other side you'll encounter some friendly units pinned down by 
 an emplaced machine gun and a spotlight. Shoot the spotlight, then take out the machine gunner. 
 Hop into that foxhole and use the machinegun to take out the remaining enemies.
  
  * Objective: Proceed to Extraction Point 
  
  Walk up the stream, and you'll see a group of 
 dead enemies. Take cover in the remains of the hut to your left, because this is an ambush. Because 
 the enemies here are close together, sub-machineguns and grenades work well. Watch for enemy grenades.
 
  
  Follow your group up the path, and you'll come to truck, with an enemy compound beyond it. Walk 
 up to the back of the truck and press the button indicated on the screen. Private Miller will open 
 one of the fuel cans, the truck will roll forward and explode in the enemy compound. Move to the 
 edge of the compound and take out the large wave of enemies that attack.
  
  * Objective: Plant Charges in Ammo Bunker with Roebuck 
  
  Once the area is clear, move to 
 the left side of the compound and you'll find an underground concrete structure. Enter, but watch 
 for enemies and grenades. Walk up to the charges (the glowing box) and press the button indicated. 
 Once the charges are set, run out of the bunker and toward the beach. As you pass the hut on the 
 beach, you'll be attacked and you'll be carried to the extraction boat.
  
  
  Little Resistance ---Next @ http://www. wikicheats. com/index. php/Call_of_Duty:_World_at_War_-_PC_PS3_XB360/Walkthrough 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MyMonkey
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 14, 2008 12:27 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty: World at War is one of those WWII games that despite being overused and unoriginal, 
 still brings some great gameplay to anyone looking for a FPS. You might have already noticed, but 
 World at War was developed by Treyarch, instead of Infinity Ward. Their previous title, Call of 
 Duty 3, received mixed reviews. Players said it didn't capture WWII well enough, and that it wasn't 
 as fun as Call of Duty 2. Treyarch responded to these criticisms, and promised that Call of Duty: 
 World at War would make up for those disappointments with more action, story, and weaponry. Thankfully, 
 they kept that promise, World at War is an excellent game, with many new touches that make you 
 wish that WWII games did it more often.
  
  For instance, Treyarch introduced a gore system, and while this seems like an uninteresting idea 
 at first, in actuality brings out the horrors of WWII. The more powerful guns will sometimes tear 
 off the limbs of an enemy, leaving a bloodied stump. The reactions of the enemy soldiers after 
 having they chest ripped apart by a double-barreled shotgun is a gruesome, if not an entertaining 
 experience.
  
  Speaking of which, there are new weapons in the game, since the spotlight on the American campaign 
 has changed from the European front, to the Pacific, and the war with Japan. This means a whole 
 arsenal of Japanese weaponry is available to you. And while they're nothing extreme in terms of 
 originality, they do keep to the actual weapons used by the Japanese during the war.
  
  The level designs are another positive touch, and while the Pacific front isn't as fun as the Russian 
 battles in Berlin, they're still original and well made. This does leave a fair amount of annoyance 
 when playing on a higher difficulty, since the Japanese soldiers tend to hide in the trees and 
 bushes around you, leaving you exposed to gunfire in which only a few shots will kill you.
  
  The multiplayer isn't anything new, in fact, it almost completely resembles that of Call of 
 Duty 4's multiplayer in terms of challenges and the Create a Class feature. And while this may 
 seem like a disappointment at first, it actually suits the game quite nicely. Most matches are 
 well balanced, and there is rarely a drop in frame rate, so overall the multiplayer should keep 
 you entertained for a good while.
  
  All in all, Call of Duty: World at War is a great addition to its genre, and should keep you entertained 
 for a good amount of time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oldschoolplayer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 14, 2008 12:22 pm PT
Review:  They did it. Yes they managed to pull this one off. I love the maps in this game. Single player 
 is about the same as COD 4 and the mulitplayer is everything you would expect in a COD game. I 
 am sure with some tweaks here and there through some updates the Treyarch team can carry the torch 
 home to victory. Mulitplayer is basically the same but with some different perks. I love the the 
 single player for the history lessons before each stage.. Simply another terrific game. Hard to 
 top perfection as with what COD 4 was but this is just as good if not better. Great Job Treyarch 
 and thanks for keeping the controls the same so when I go back to COD4 it wont be a cluster. Graphics 
 are about the same as COD if not a little better especially with bodily injuries. Get this game 
 especially if you liked COD4. Looking forward to more downloadable maps in the future. I would 
 have to say the maps in this Call of Duty trump those found in COD4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 03elswos
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 14, 2008 11:29 am PT
Review:  what can i say about this game, its brilliant, best in series so far, i cant stop playing it its 
 so much fun, the online is the same as cod 4 but with more perks, vehicles, and so much more, the 
 campaign is good and fun and the story is amazing, this game is a must buy, and then you have nazi 
 zombies mode when you finish the campaign, i must finish campaign to kill some nazi zombies :D: D 
 so anyway i highly recommend this game. The online experiance is very good its using the same engine 
 as cod 4 so its all familer to use and nothing new and you have the flamethrower which is brilliant 
 and fun also you have vehicle perks which is cool . hmmm what else can i say about this game, the 
 story is all about fact and history, it can make you jump sometimes when you get banzai attacked 
 also the maps on multiplayer are good and well made overall i gave this game a 10/10 and i say 
 its a must buy enjoy :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grant117
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 14, 2008 10:20 am PT
Review:  Not bad just cod4 repackaged as wwII and it seems like they completely just used the exact same 
 perk system with very few changes, same game types, and same hit system. the weapon challneges 
 are also identical to cod4, and correct me if im wrong but did any standard issue weapons actually 
 have silencers in WWII? i know they had flash suppressors, which changed the zeros on the rifles 
 and **** some guys up... but silencers? hmm.. idk but well done game all in all i was just hoping 
 for something a little... different... I am glad to have my bolt action back though! no more hammering 
 the **** out of my xbox 360 controller trying to put out about 13 SINGLE SHOT ROUNDS TO KILL SOME 
 **** omg. thank jesus for bolt action. and the vehicle perks allow for some interesting options 
 but i know ill sure as hell be sniping the crap out of this game 3.4 k/d ratio here i come... again.... lol 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SlayerX13
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 14, 2008 10:16 am PT
Review:  Welcome to World War II... again. For Treyarchs 3rd go-round at Call of Duty they didn't change 
 much. The title is basically Call of Duty 3 + Call of Duty 4. You have the setting and weapons 
 of WWII and the gameplay mechanics of Call of Duty 4. 
  
  The single player story is good. The bonus game is fun. Treyarch just failed to deliver anything 
 new. Granted there are some new perks (a feature created by Infinity Ward) . Other than that I saw 
 nothing worth the mention. 
  
  The graphics are nice, sound is good, but why WWII again? That was what killed it for me. There 
 are a ton of war theatre to choose from. Do we have to do WWII over, and over, and, over. How about 
 Vietnam? or are we only allowed to play war games where the US wins? (yes I'm from the US) .
  
  Maybe it's the years of Battlefield that has me slightly jaded with this title. Maybe it's 
 the lack of ingenuity and creativity from Treyarch. It is fitting that they did not title this 
 Call of Duty 5 since it does not deserve the title. 
  
  Call of Duty: World at War is nothing more that an expansion of Call of Duty 4 and does not warrant 
 the title of a true sequel. 
  
  
  (This title gets a 8.5 and Mirror's Edge gets a 7.0? What is wrong with you Gamespot reviewers?) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vxsubx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 14, 2008 9:13 am PT
Review:  yes i know WW2 is what this game is. but its the best of them all. great story. easy to follow. 
 it, s not over drama either. if you want a tough fight then put it on veteran level. nicely hard. 
 and compared to cod4. it is better in ways you have to play it all the way through. solo plus the 
 nice 4player co-op and the even more in depth multiplayer. more perks, higher levels. u cant compare 
 to cod4 in ways of weapons. thats unrealistic they are two different time frames. great game. get 
 it!!! ha ha ha ha he he ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha he he ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha he he 
 ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha he he ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha he he ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha 
 ha ha he he ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha he he ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha he he ha ha ha ha 
 ha ha ha ha ha ha he he ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha he he ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha he he 
 ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha he he ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha he he ha ha ha ha ha ha 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkhunter35
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 14, 2008 9:05 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 brought great single player and amazing multiplayer flawlessly. Call of Duty: World 
 at War brings the same multiplayer but with flaws. There are many glitches and the multiplayer 
 levels are poorly designed. In addition what's with starting most of the levels as a captured soldier. 
 Other than that the single player is good. However the weapon layout leaves something to be desired 
 and the damage rate is off kilter. I do like that they added an incentive to go prestige . A weapon 
 with good damage with stopping power does not do great damage as weapons like that in COD 4. Overall 
 it seems that Treyarch did a average job just as they did with COD 3, but the series should be 
 made by Infinity Ward. If the multiplayer doesn't bother you, you should pick this one up. A 7 
 out of 10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BIGWORTHY
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 14, 2008 8:17 am PT
Review:  Having played every COD in the series I could call myself a bit of a "COD GEEK"! But I have to 
 say I was not looking forward to "WAW" I thought the Beta sucked usual bad resporne and in my opinion 
 bad maps.
  
  So when I got COD: WAW from ASDA 27 I did not know what to expect and dam was I wrong the full 
 version seems to play completely different the single player is usual COD standard just the use 
 of the COD4 engine makes the icing in the cake, and changes this WW2 escapade into a playable work 
 of art.
  
  As for the multiplayer I know the engine was already there to use but boy have they used it to 
 its potential well done! I feel this will be again another reason for my wife to want to divorce 
 me (JOKE!)
  
  Yes WW2 has been hammered but this is one WW2 game which should be bought by any first person shooter 
 fan! 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lhunter
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 21, 2008 11:07 am PT
Review:  Let me get this out up front. This is not a bad game, but its predecessor was almost perfect. 
 
  
  If you are familiar with COD4, here is what I feel are the areas of the game that are not delivered 
 as well in World at War.
  
  Game play - feels a bit limited in that the player seems to get "stuck" on invisible objects at 
 times, which can be a pain when you're trying to run from a grenade. COD4 seemed much smoother 
 and uninhibited.
  
  Visuals - on screen displays are not a vivid as COD4. Many of the on screen icons look rough around 
 the edges and can be difficult to see on the background. It seems out of place given the game graphics 
 are as good as COD4.
  
  A. I. - I finished this on the second hardest level (Veteran) and the A. I. was terrible. I cannot 
 remember A. I  being this bad in a long time. Half the time enemies just wait for you to shot them. 
 This is more likely to happen in the larger battle scenes.
  
  Voice over - They must have paid big bucks for the voice overs (i. e. Kiefer Sutherland) , but the 
 result falls short of COD4. Many times, you just cannot understand what they are saying to you, 
 so you end up missing pieces of the story.
  
  Story - In the campaign roles switch as in COD4, so you get to see the war from different perspectives, 
 but the character and story seems to fall short of COD4 for me. The story just does not seem as 
 focused and you don't get the same level of character development.
  
  good game though.... I gave it a ratting of 7.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordbilly
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 14, 2008 2:05 am PT
Review:  This game has a touch of deja vu, it's just a rehash of COD4 but so well done I can forgive it.
 
  Multiplayer is where the best action is and this is where it excels. My only complaint been the 
 kill streaks, especially the dogs which are a little to good. And there seems to be a bug where 
 you can die but still keep your kill streak, people could exploit this to get instant kills again. 
 
  The tried and tested ranking system is back and just as good as the fourth game although the attachments 
 dont lend themselves to WWII weapons as much as modern weapons.
  Unlike other people I don't mind WWII themed shooters but I still think Treyarch should have explored 
 other possibilities rather than go back to the same old.
  Graphics wise it looks amazing and the audio side is just as good.
  To give the game its greatest 
 compliment is I played COD 4 to death and this game will go the same way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheReview
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 13, 2008 4:09 pm PT
Review:  If you played any of the Call of Duty's, you will love World at War. The campaign is longer than 
 Modern Warfare and the multiplayer stayed the same which is great, except instead of Radar, you 
 get plane recon, instead of Air Strike you get Artillery, and instead of the Helicopter, you get 
 the awesome, vicious... dogs!
  
  Of course, many people are a little upset and mad that the game is not set in the present like 
 modern warfare, but there's not really a difference; just the guns and the battles. They did a 
 great job in making what the war actually was like; the japanese runs at you with bayonets and 
 knives which is really cool.
  
  I actually thought GameSpot would give this game at least a 9.0, but maybe I'm just having so much 
 fun I rated it too high. There is no bugs at all, at least I never found any. They did a great 
 job with the gore! :) If you shoot someones arm with a sniper rifle, it flies off, and you get 
 to hear your enemies scream in pain. Call of Duty: WaW, never held back in anything.
  
  This Call of Duty also is a little more emotional than others. You get to see your comrades who 
 you've grow to like die by your side by different ways. The graphics are also simply amazing in 
 1080p. They also have a new mode! You and 3 friends can play the mode: Nazi Zombies, basically, 
 you're held up in a house and trying to stay alive with each round getting harder and harder.
 
  
  The Good:
  - Great Graphics
  - Awesome Gameplay
  - Story is the best of all Call of Duty's
  - Best in series
  - More realism
  - More Gore! 
 :)
  - Great Multiplayer (As usual since Call of Duty 3)
  
  The Bad:
  - You could argue it has a short campaign but it's not too short. Definitely longer than Modern 
 Warfare.
  
  All in all, if you liked any of the Call of Duty's, or you like FPS's, you will absolutely fall 
 in love with World at War. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steelcurtin26
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 13, 2008 6:41 am PT
Review:  This game has all the same things that you have come to know and love from the past call of duty 
 games and a few more. The graphics are great compared to Treyarch's last offering (cod3) but that's 
 also due to the fact it was running on the cod4 engine. They took alot out of the cod4 notebooks 
 and placed it in this game which ends up being a cod4 new release of a time frame in world war 
 II. You will not be disappointed if you pick up this game --- I believe by end of this year that 
 this game could be number 1 on the live charts. Well that is all I have to say and am not continuing 
 to write just to get a review in. This is completely ridiculous that you have to write a certain 
 amount of words before your review can be submitted. I am still writing due to the fact that I 
 have not typed enough words for you guys and this is something that definitely needs to be fixed.. 
 Now wonder why you don't get many reviews since you have to write a book in order to release this 
 thing!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Morpheusgg
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 13, 2008 5:32 am PT
Review:  World at War is immersing, intense and just plain incredible. The solo campaign immerses you in 
 the WW2 setting making you feel like your actually there. This isn't anything new for the Call 
 of Duty series, but the small additions to your arsenal make all the difference. The best part 
 of all is the Nazi Zombies; it's chilling to play 1 guy (or many on co-op) versus these wave after 
 wave of zombies. The points earned from dispatching zombies and rebuilding the barricades is brilliant, 
 when you earn enough points you can expand the bottom floor, open a gateway to the top floor or 
 buy new weapons. The multiplayer is solid and I mean really solid, it's essentially the same as 
 COD4 but I feel the maps are quite a bit better. I only gave it a 9.5 because it's basically the 
 same as COD4, but in many small ways better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nap11
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 13, 2008 12:44 am PT
Review:  Let me get this out of the way, when the original Call of Duty came out, I thought it to be the 
 best WW2 FPS ever. When Call of Duty 2 came out, I thought WW2 games could not get any better. 
 Well now that World at War has come out, I am stunned. This game is more intense, emotional, and 
 damn right better than any other FPS I have played. The controls are tight and easy to figure out, 
 the graphics are stunning and beautiful, and multiplayer is every thing you loved from Call of 
 Duty 4. 
  
  I really want to just talk about a few things I noticed about this game:
  
  1. Limbs..... they blow off. Obviously explosives do the job well, but i had much fun blowing the 
 legs off of Nazis with a double barrel shotgun and watching their bodies writhing around.
  
  2. This game is brutal, much more so than CoD4, and it helps bring out the intensity of the 
 game. To be honest I was more shocked stabbing a Japanese soldier in the neck than pulling a bullet 
 out of my arm in Far Cry 2. 
  
  3. Epic. Whether its fighting off a large Japanese Bonzai attack, or storming the Reichstag with 
 your PPsH, you feel like you are in the war fighting for the Motherland.
  
  4. With executing prisoners and the seemingly desperate Japanese tactics, WaW does an amazing job 
 of showing the no-quarter fight to the death battles in the Pacific and Eastern Fronts.
  
  5. Multiplayer is new enough in my opinion. More guns, perks, and challenges, plus the ability 
 to get more than five custom slots based on your prestige level, is all that Treyarch needed to 
 do.
  
  6. Its difficult. Well maybe its just me, but I was getting my butt kicked more on Regular than 
 I did on CoD4's Hardened.
  
  All in all, Treyarch did all I ever really wanted. They took the amazing engine that powered CoD4, 
 and made a truly amazing game. If you are a fan of WW2 games, you have to get World at War, and 
 be prepared to look down upon all other WW2 CoD games you have played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordDeArnise
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 13, 2008 12:29 am PT
Review:  "If it's not broke, don't fix it." That's pretty much the saying here with Call of Duty: World 
 at War, the 5th installment of the Activision franchise where it's about tantalizing campaign storyline, 
 and fast-paced action multiplayer. Treyarch takes the acclaimed aspects from Infinity Ward's Modern 
 Warfare and brings it to CoD's WW2 grassroots.
  
  World at War's campaign not only brings back Europe's Eastern Front, where you play a Russian soldier 
 hellbent on revenge, it also touches into the relatively untouched Pacific Theater. Finally, both 
 CoD fans and other gamers will get a chance to experience the fight against Imperialist Japan in 
 the eyes of a U. S. Marine. This means, you'll get plenty of bonsai charges, ambushes by Japanese 
 troops hiding in tall grasses, hidden bunkers, and on top of palm trees. On the Eastern Front, 
 you'll get an opportunity to snipe a German Officer, commander the famed T34 Russian tank, and 
 most of all, storm the Reichstag. On the last part, long-time CoD fans will remember the end of 
 the campaign on CoD1, where Russian troops storm the Reichstag and raise their flag on the rooftops.
 
  
  Of course, the real meat of the game is the fast-paced, adrenaline-pumping multiplayer. Taking 
 the success of Modern Warfare, Treyarch gives you the familiar perks and various modes to use. 
 The exception here, of course, is WW2 technology. Otherwise, it's pretty much the same. 3 kills 
 without dying gives you the Recon Plane, 5 kills for Artillery, and 7 kills to release a pack of 
 attack dogs. Unlike in Modern Warfare, you get the option to man tanks and tank turrets, so look 
 for plenty of tank shells, bazooka/panzerschreck rockets, and satchels to be flying in some maps. 
 You'll get suppressors to silence your gunfire, scopes to enhance your accuracy, and bipods to 
 let you post your machine guns on sandbags and window ceilings, and let the lead fly.
  
  The audio and graphics are stellar, as always, with some very nice voice acting. You'll hear people 
 scream as they burn to their deaths, Japanese troops screaming "bonsai" as they charge at you, 
 and Russian commanders spurring the troops to take out the Germans.
  
  If there is only one notable flaw in this one, then it's the lack of quotes you see when you die 
 in the campaign. Other than that, the various co-op modes, plus Nazi Zombies, a mode you unlock 
 after completing the campaign, where you and some friends can fight against zombified Germans; 
 combined with the things we all loved in Modern Warfare make World at War a great game, and a change 
 of pace from the more tactical approach needed in Gears of War 2. CoD: World at War is a must have 
 for all fans of FPS games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XxJDUBxX025
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 12, 2008 10:45 pm PT
Review:  For all fans of CoD 4 this is a must get. I cant find a single thing to complain about in this 
 game. I was not a fan of the whole world war 2 thing and what i came to realize it was the perfect 
 solution for such a good game (CoD 4) and how they could make it better. The graphics are simply 
 stunning and amazing. Not to mention the fact that when u actually get shot it looks more like 
 a shot, and nades, and tanks can actually blow off body parts which makes the game so much more 
 intense. The online multiplayer is straight amazing and of course the wonderful upgrades for the 
 guns, and the crazy perks they have created for this game are amazing. I would def. recommend this 
 game to every person out there who enjoyed CoD 4 and is up for playing the greatest game to ever 
 come out by far in my opinion. And ya the campaign is supsingly amazing as hell!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mr_pink88
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 12, 2008 6:36 pm PT
Review:  this game is really exactly what i expected it to be. it is another call of duty with dones off 
 action and tons of enemies coming from all directions. although i have to admitt that the change 
 to modern warfare was a really nice change i have always been a big call of duty fan and a big 
 medal of honour fan so a newly improved WWII game running on the COD4 engine was a must have for 
 me.
  
  the guns and action is awsome the enemies are very reactive and the action is just as intense as 
 all the rest of the call of dutys. there is lands and fights than all the other games and some 
 old ones. as for the graphics and gameplay the graphics are much better than treyarchs last call 
 of duty and the gameplay is very much the same as COD4 but in a WWII setting (which i enjoy more)
 
  
  all in all i am happy that treyarch could produce such a good game since call of duty 3 was a disappointment 
 to me i was worried that only infinity ward to produce that treyarchs performed perfectly well 
 done 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GadsDad
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 12, 2008 6:23 pm PT
Review:  I like this game, I think Treyarch really showed what they are capable of, but there's one area 
 I really am thankful for how they went above and beyond. Treyarch put a content filter in the game 
 that effectively eliminated the most offensive material, language and graphic gore content, and 
 I'm extremely glad they did. After checking the opening scene with and without the filter, I was 
 comfortable enough to play the game co-op with my son, which is something we really like to do 
 together.
  
  Thanks Treyarch, and Activision, you really made this dad happy.
  
  As for the rest of the game, I'm really very pleased and think World at War is a significant step 
 up from Call of Duty 3. The graphics, thanks in large part to the Call of Duty 4 engine, were great. 
 I really like the atmosphere of some levels, although at night it's difficult to make targets out, 
 but I take that as a nod towards realism.
  
  A top notch effort, and a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pcfitness1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 12, 2008 5:45 pm PT
Review:  Like the previous versions of Call of Duty, this one is amazing too. The maps are visually insane. 
 The music in combination with the beautiful enviorments really take you deep into the war. I'm 
 a WW2 fan myself, loved Call of Duty 4, but this is version is definitely my favorite and for many 
 reasons. I won't go too deep, i'll just say a few things.
  
  Graphics = Mind blowing at a consistant 60 frames per second if not better.
  
  Sounds = Surperb!
 
  
  Solo Campaign = Awesome!
  
  Online Multi-player = I can't say enough about the game when it comes to it's multi player. This 
 is where it's at for me, I love online play. It can't be both fast paced or slow paced, you set 
 the pace you want to play at and can kick ash at either one. I bought Call of Duty 5 for both the 
 PC and the 360. Graphically, the PC looks better, if you have a fast PC to run it. I do and I love 
 it to death. The 360 looks great too and is lots of fun to play 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sensei_hEnRY
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 18, 2008 12:19 am PT
Review:  call of duty is back! and this time, it back to the past, into the war on pasific...
  
  Using the graphic engine that rocks you with Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare from Infinity Ward, 
 Treyarch come with the latest -- still awesome and amazing -- call of duty. 
  
  The story follow the fight of US marine and Soviet army fighting Japan and Germany, the German 
 is obvious, but The Japanese, now that is new to this game. I really love the loading, it's not 
 an advance mission briefing like on the previous modern warfare, it's a stylistic mission briefing, 
 combining of cgi animation and real video documentation of WWII, great idea! (it's more awesome 
 than mission briefing on Quantum of Solace) The story is still, intense and great.
  
  The gameplay, fighting Japan Army is a new exciting experience because they have a really different 
 tactics and spirit! The Japan army doesn't afraid to die, they always make an ambush and traps! 
 Their snipers can climb over to the tree and shoot at us, they can hide on the grass or pretend 
 to dead then ambush you with a deadly strike! They even have banzai troops that will run without 
 fear to you (with their bayonet arisaka) and stab you to death! Fighting Japanese is great and 
 awesome! New Japanese weaponry like arisaka, type 100, and others is great although i can't fell 
 the different with other weapons. new design of BAR and new M1 Garand which you can reload in the 
 middle of the clip is great. Double barelled shotgun and molotov are great innovation too. One 
 thing that is really amazing is that the game doesn't have tutorial! Activision Blizzard (once 
 again, there's no 'blizzard' on the activision logo) and Treyarch are so confidence that everyone 
 who play this game, have already play Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare (the control layout is exactly 
 the same) . Maybe they right.
  
  The graphics, well, what can i say? it still call of duty 4, and for that, the graphics is amazing. 
 Some new polishment like moving and waving trees and other plants, new water and explotion effect, 
 and new characters motion (well, it's impossible to us army on 1942 to act like the modern one 
 right?) Oh yeah, i'm almost forget, now Call of Duty is really a mature game, you can see blood 
 splattered on ground or walls, you can blow someone's head or legs with shotgun (the pieces will 
 gone) , there are some strong language too, but no blood will come out when you shoot the bodies. 
 
  
  Minus point, i really don't want to write this part but, the splitscreen part from this game is 
 absolutely disappointing. what are they thinking when making it not fullscreen!!!??? player one 
 will get his window over to the upper left while the second one on the bottom right, then you can 
 see black bar on your screen... even to see the enemy is hard! i really disappointed! i'm hoping 
 so much with the cooperative play and this is what i got!? Well, just play the single player campaign, 
 okay?
  
  soo... despite the poor split screen this game is nothing but amazing. HIGHLY RECOMMENDED!!! LOCK 
 AND LOAD!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sikh101
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 12, 2008 3:58 pm PT
Review:  Last year's Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare was more than just a great game. It took a series that 
 made a name for itself under the rich tapestry of World War II and pushed it some 60 years into 
 the future. The end result was a game that used the latest advances in weaponry, in a setting influenced 
 by some of today's most tense conflicts, to produce an experience both stirring and refreshing. 
 Since then, the big question on everyone's mind has been this: What will they do with the fifth 
 Call of Duty? The answer, we know now, is a return to World War II. But rather than a step backward, 
 Call of Duty: World at War is shaping up to be a unique take on this familiar timeline. With part 
 of the campaign set in the often-overlooked Pacific theatre and plenty of inspiration drawn from 
 Modern Warfare -- both technical and creative -- developer Treyarch is aiming to prove there's still 
 life left in the World War II shooter. 
  
  NOT WIRRITN 
 BY ME BUT SOME GAMESPOT GUY OR SOMETHING 
  
  
  That 
 pretty much gives it to yea 
  im to lazy to write anything else 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deekyo
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 12, 2008 1:07 pm PT
Review:  This review is only about multiplayer. Cod: waw isnt quite the same as call of duty 4 yet its a 
 bit harder and takes what i think as more skill. I first started out with 4 of my buddies with 
 no radar just like call of duty 4. When i first shot the sounds didnt sound like i thought when 
 i ran it didnt feel that same and when i stabed it felt like it took my own energy to do so. Each 
 gun felt different and was different the environment was new but i knew that it wouldnt take long 
 to learn. Cod: isnt bad it felt good the guns and scenery where old school which isnt my thing 
 but i had fun thats all i really cared to say that it was fun. Good job, I only wish they would 
 have added new modes like old school mode, pistol mode, shotguns only, and stabing only modes like 
 that horde mode like gears at war would also have been nice they should think about that in the 
 future a 9 out of 10 for mutiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluebbo
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 12, 2008 9:57 am PT
Review:  First off, let me start by saying Call of Duty 4: modern warfare is my all time favorite game. 
 Zelda: Ocarina of Time might be the perfect video game, but I've logged so much time on cod4, I 
 can't argue against its addictive online gameplay. So now the new Call of Duty is out... World 
 at War. Me and my buddies were not very excited about this game and especially me because I'm not 
 a big fan of world war type games. But there was one reason I picked it up. The dogs! 
  
  The single player experience in my time with it is a step up from cod 4. The story is a lot more 
 brutal and the enemy AI is more varied. I love how some hide high up in the trees and how some 
 start kamikazing you. You really feel like you're part of a big battle within a war. Cod 4 was 
 more a covert experience but WAW feels bigger. 
  
  The multiplayer is awesome, period. Like stated before, I'm a cod4 addict, but they did enough 
 in WAW to enhance what was already the best multiplayer fps game I've played. I still miss my m4 
 carbine in hardcore search but WAW has maps that just look epic. I love how they look and play. 
 
  
  Good job Treyarch, you guys did a great a job with this game. Even if so much was borrowed from 
 cod 4, the game is just fun. Isn't that why we play games anyway? And the victory songs are hilarious! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrPush
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 17, 2009 11:33 am PT
Review:  First off to all the people dropping the low reviews.... really ? I mean think about it you knew 
 what the game was gonna be before you got it so to say oh the game sucks because its ww2 leads 
 me to believe your just haten the game mainly because of that reason. 
  !!!! this was in no way COD 5 this is just meant to hold the fans over while infinity ward develops 
 the next one!!!! look at the previous games and you'll see what I mean COD 1, 2, 3 ,4, waw then 
 5 so just be patient.
  I had my doubts but this game is really good don't take the bad reviews to heart because obviously 
 people were expecting some sort of messiah to come down and bless the game while they were playing 
 or something but.. this game is basically like COD4 which is not a bad thing it is a very good 
 thing. I thought it would be like the previous WW2 tittles I played, but im sure infinity ward 
 were close on hands when they were developing this one. I think it has a old school COD feel mixed 
 with the new, and a lot of the things that COD4 should have had they touched up in here. I mean 
 you cant get mad at the developers or the game for being similar because if you look at games like 
 Madden and the 2k series they don't change much .. why , honestly COD4 was one of the best FPS I 
 have played in a long time, and sure it had its flaws but I like that they at least improve on 
 their flaws, Basically if you liked COD 4 I would most defiantly pick this up, and I was gonna 
 get left for dead but they have a zombie mode in this that made me think about it... also 4 player 
 co-op.. I mean these are improvements honestly even the maps are more larger and open, and more 
 technical detail wise.... I doubt cod4 is getting any more patches or maps so go enjoy World at 
 war 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gpdaddy95
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 12, 2008 8:28 am PT
Review:  A great followup to CoD4. If they had the background structures change with damage (when mortar 
 fire hits a building, for instance) , it would get a solid 10. This should be in the running for 
 Game of the Year. For those of you worried that this wouldn't be as good as 4, stop worrying. The 
 actual game play (from disk) is far superior to 4 and very challenging. The online play is extraordinary 
 with your opponents blending in with the environment better. You need a sharper eye. Because you 
 spend substantially more time aiming down the barrel instead of relying on scopes, the game is 
 more challenging. The addition of the bipods to the heavy machine guns provides for more intense 
 destruction to your opponents. The use of dogs (and the subsequent rewards for killing them) is 
 much better than helicopter support although as more people get used to killing them, you will 
 reap smaller and smaller benefit from them. All in all, a GREAT game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blacklight2
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 12, 2008 8:06 am PT
Review:  I just absolutly love this game, people can be really critical giving this game reviews of like 
 5 and below when this game should be a 9 and above, i mean IGN gave this game a 9.2 so obviously 
 it's not bad.
  
  This game has one glitch that isn't even annoying, i can run through car doors that are open/exploded.
 
  
  This games gore is awesome and the textures, guns and water graphics are insane. This is definetly 
 a step up in graphics, gameplay, and everything else than the series.
  
  The gore in this game is insane and i like gore, but people who have children that watch them may 
 not want to pick this game up considering that if you shoot someone with a double barrel shotgun, 
 there arms and legs blow off. When you burn someone with a flamethrower or molative cocktail they 
 scream and try to stop drop and roll. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: car_freak19
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 12, 2008 7:51 am PT
Review:  It's easy to say that World at War is simply Call of Duty 4 set back around 60 years. However, 
 did you really expect anything more? The success of Modern warfare was unprecedented, Actvision 
 was bound to repeat it again. What TreyArch have done is not innovative in the least but the familiarity 
 of this game is what strikes you instantly. The game just feels familiar... from the controls to 
 the perk system to the whole online experience. But, this game is far from perfect. The alternating 
 pattern of developers does not offer the game any stability at all. COD 4 was the best received 
 Call of Duty game ever, and it was the only game set in modern time. So, why would you change it? 
 The fact is, the WWII genre is tired and overdone. It's time to move onto bigger and better things... 
 Nevertheless, here's what you'll get in WAW... An impressive story that is a lot more bloodier than 
 the last one (it's a good thing) . the inclusion of the gory details adds to the realism of the 
 whole thing. Online = AMAZING! (as in, exactly the same as COD4 minus a few new perks) . One thing 
 to mention about the online is it requires more skill to be able to deal with single fire rifles 
 as opposed to the spray and pray style which was all too common in COD 4. Nevertheless, the online 
 is truly the same and you WILL get hooked. The Co-op is a little bit pointless since the veteran 
 achievements require you to complete them in solo mode only (what were they thinking?) . All things 
 considered, it's a solid game and you should get it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flavored2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 12, 2008 7:50 am PT
Review:  I would have to say that this game is pretty much COD4 but with world war 2 settings. I played 
 the Beta and i knew this when i bought the game. If you are like me you played COD4 so much by 
 the end you couldnt stand it anymore and you needed something different, and i figured the new 
 maps would be enough. To me personally i like the new maps and the ability to control the tanks. (even 
 thought they are a little over powered and should explode after two rockets.) But honestly if you 
 still like playing Call of Duty 4, then by no means buy this game for the online. That said I like 
 the single player mode, i think it is fun probrobly better than COD4's but not better than 2's. 
 So the people who say this game is mediocre are exagerating a little but there message about being 
 the same as COD4 is right. Liek i said if you like COD4, you wont miss anything in COD WAW 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tomb_is_great
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2008 6:49 am PT
Review:  This game is sick you get a real sense, of the gruesomeness off WW2, from every time you blow some 
 ones head off or kill a bunch of guys trying to surrender, and the AI and graphics are a lot better 
 than its predecessor, I'm glad they brought the game back to its roots while sticking with every 
 thing that made COD4 great and threw in some zombies in along the way.
  
  The online is solid also providing the same great gameplay as the last one but turning up the heats 
 with some new, but old weapons alongside with some good maps and gametypes, my only complaint comes 
 down to the community stop being nubs and using your nubbernuaght my STV44 going to kill you regardless, 
 but besides that and a few minor glitches wich will be patched, the online is great.
  
  Over all they didnt re-invent the wheel with this title just made a great game greater and add 
 a lot more content, its worth the buy just for the zombie bonus level. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Toomsuba2
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 12, 2008 4:42 am PT
Review:  After the fabulous Call of Duty 2, Treyarch decided to make a 3rd Call of Duty. Again, it was a 
 complete remake of Call of Duty 2 with more glitches, slightly better graphics, and nothing else 
 really. Now, the ridiculously successful Call of Duty 4 has been remade, and its nothing new.
 
  The graphics haven't been improved from 4, and in some parts are much worse. Having WWII weapons 
 again slows down the gameplay because you continueosly have to cock your weapon. It is fun to use 
 some of the weapons like the flamethrowers, but it difinetely isn't worth the loss of modern weapons 
 like the M16A2 and the G36C that we all came to love. Vehicles were a stupid multiplayer option, 
 because they are ridiculously overpowered, making it feel like an unfair experience. The co-op 
 is ass-sucking too, it lags and the graphics suck (thats on split-screen) . The one thing thats 
 an improvement is the realism of the cruelness of the hostiles and the gore, the game provides 
 a realistic look at WWII. The online is Call of Duty 4 more than anything. If you are looking for 
 a superb shooting experience, look for Halo 3, Gears of War, Gears of War 2, Stranglehold, Far 
 Cry games, Call of Duty 2 & 4, and Halo 3 Recon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MTHoodlum423
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 12, 2008 3:31 am PT
Review:  Sure, its a WW2 setting. Believe it or not Treyarch pulled it off this time. This game is amazing. 
 I have played about half way through the single player so far. Its challenging, fast pace and intense. 
 I thought COD3's single player was terrible. 
  
  The multiplayer is fantastic. The maps are brilliant. There are not so much any firing lanes, the 
 maps are full of things to hide behind and to move around in. They have a lot of content to them. 
 It adds to the feel of warfare. UAV's are UAV's. The artillery strikes replace the air strikes 
 and it actually feels real when you see it blowing up around you. The dogs replace the helicopter. 
 I was skeptical about the dogs, but its actually hilarious and I find it to be much better then 
 the helicopter. When you have multiple hunting you down, you are trying to shoot them, stab them 
 and just when you think you are safe another dog gets you from the side. On top of all of that 
 chances are you have people shooting at you too. I am only rank 25 on multiplayer so far but from 
 I can tell the ranking system is awesome. Lots of guns to use, lots of perks. Besides you first 
 three perks like COD4, there is a 4th perk, which is for using vehicles. 
  
  The sound is good, the graphics are crisp. 
  
  If you are a fan of first person shooters, I 
 would just say buy it, but if nothing else give it a rent. Its well worth giving a chance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlashD
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 12, 2008 1:21 am PT
Review:  It's very clear that you can see that this COD release has been made by another team (Treyarch) 
 if you compare the game with the previous release (Call of Duty Modern Warfare) . The frustrating 
 save option is a real pain in the a... (but that is my personal opinion, for example in Far Cry 
 2 you can save the game any time you want I really like that) After 12 hours playing the game I 
 don't have the feeling that this game is a real improvement.. Going back to World War 2 again is 
 a risk. I personally think that many gamers don't like the old weapons. We've seen it and already 
 played it dozen times in other games. The old weapons really slow things down regarding gameplay 
 flow and the feeling of how you work your way through the game (like COD Modern Warfare had which 
 was a real rollercoaster feeling)
  
  Played the pc-version in single player mode.
  
  Good graphics though 
::::::

::::::
UserName: icybl00d3d
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 12, 2008 12:30 am PT
Review:  okay. i have played every single first person shooter online game out there to date. and i kick 
 ass in every single one. so im not just talk. Those who are saying that COD5 is COD4 online but 
 different mods need to shove their heads somewhere else.
  First person shooter games are based on the exact same thing.
  what did you want COD5 online 
 to be like? Dont worry ill wait.
  First person shooter is what it is.
  COD5 is just right.
  Weapons are fantastic. and far better then COD4.
  Gameplay is far better 
 because of the new team plays and matches.
  A lot more interesting to play because there is too many modern online shooters out there.
  Highly 
 addicting because of the way you rank up and level.
  Maps are Jaw Dropping!!!!!!!!!
  
  DEFINATLY A MUST BUY IF YOU LIKE FPS.
  
  AND DONT EVEN GET ME STARTED ON 4 PLAYER CO-OP.
 
  
  WoW . Awesome I played the beta forever. and now I gave up playing GOW2 For this game (Big GOW 
 Fan) . because its certainly just that amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ben D
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 11, 2008 10:14 pm PT
Review:  One thing to the people who say IW should take the credit since it's only a skin -- is nonsense! 
 That's like telling everyone who uses the unreal3 engine they did not really make the game, Epic 
 did.
  
  The MP is solid, if you liked COD4 you'll love this one too. I played the the SP and the amount 
 of action is amazing! I can't wait to play Zombies and co-op with my friends when they pick it 
 up tomorrow. Graphics are great, sound rocks; it's fun and you have so much replay value with this 
 game. Can't wait to try the death cards with my buddies.
  
  Warning it's brutal. There is a lot of blood, which might turn some people off, but I find it fits 
 so well with this setting. You don't have the slow camera zooming in on the gore -- so it blends 
 in great. The flamethrower is awesome! I really would have hated to face this weapon in real life, 
 it will strike fear into anyone. 
  
  Some might find the MP too close to COD4, but I think it's on the money-why change it if it works 
 so well. 
  
  A rock solid WWII game - okay the best WWII game to date. Pick it up you will not be let down- 
 well unless you are a fanboy who hates WWII. See you on the battlefield! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cgmann16
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 11, 2008 7:58 pm PT
Review:  I've been a huge fan of the series ever since COD2 revolutionized what fps meant. While the third 
 entrance in the series was not up to par, 4 has most definitely been my favorite fps for quite 
 some time. With this in mind, I was extremely nervous as to how good a game developed by those 
 who failed on COD3 could be. 
  
  I took my first steps into the chaos of this WWII shooter very timidly and quick to judge. Retarded 
 glitches and faulty physics seemed to plague my first level. Still I pushed on. Then I came to 
 what seemed to be great potential. As I progressed the level design became more open and I began 
 to notice slight alterations to the classic COD feel that made this game stand out from its predecessors. 
 
  
  Suffice it to say that by the third level I was blown away. The raw brutality and energy of this 
 game has recreated the first time I dove headfirst into COD2. I have constantly found myself yelling 
 at my screen in pure glee at this game's mechanics. First of all, the graphics are gorgeous, assuming 
 you can run them at high settings. This entrance in the franchise takes us out of the urban settings 
 and into the open warfare of WWII. The level design, while fairly linear, is absolutely gorgeous 
 and replicates the combat tactics of the time. The fact that the graphics are so well done only 
 amplifies the fact that this game has massively amped up the violence factor. I never quite got 
 used to the shatter of a soldiers helmet as his skull exploded or the gore of a Japanese soldier 
 burning while his arm is blown off by a shotgun blast. While extremely beautifully rendered, these 
 displays of violence are very real and very grotesque. 
  
  Overall the intensity of the game is what sells it. Nothing beats the satisfaction of grabbing 
 the rifle of a Japanese soldier as he tries to bayonet you and then stabbing him in the neck with 
 your knife. We've never seen a truly realistic representation of the brutality of this war until 
 this game, and I must say it is humbling to experience it. While I do miss the comfort of my M4's 
 dot site and popping off precise headshots from distance with my m14, it has been an extreme pleasure 
 to see yet another side of WWII. If you can make it past the first few awkward moments, this game 
 will grab a hold of you and not let go until the conflict has come to a bloody halt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shademar
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 11, 2008 7:39 pm PT
Review:  I loved CoD4. I loved CoD: Finest Hour. But remembering CoD: FH, I also remembered Big Red One, 
 the copy of FH with extra content. If you play only single player, then great, enjoy this game. 
 But don't buy it for multiplayer. You will miss absolutely nothing by sticking to CoD4. See, I 
 had hoped that Activision wouldn't make a CoD4 copy. I remember a joke made in a magazine that 
 showed the CoD4 cover with a 5 written over the 4. Well, turns out they did that - the box art 
 is even nearly identical to 4. This game is a waste of money unless you want gamerscore or only 
 play single player. But even the single player is so annoying that I just wanted to break the disc 
 over wasting the money on it. 
  
  In short, if you're truly a fanatic over the CoD series, then sure, buy it. But if not, this is 
 not worth $60, especially if you already have CoD4, because.. well, this is CoD4, only in the pacific 
 theater of war, during WWII. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pcs565
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 11, 2008 7:18 pm PT
Review:  First of all, the graphics and overall game play are phenomenol. After completing the first few 
 missions in co-op with a friend, I went back and started the single player campaign of the missions 
 and found they were not nearly as fun alone. However, in co-op they are awesome. Fantastic maps, 
 good enemy AI (BONZAI!) and beautiful graphics. The multiplayer is also the best of the series 
 and probably my favorite multiplayer experience of all time. A truly incredible game and probably 
 the best ever on the 360 platform. The only problem I noticed was some serious lagging in one online 
 game that caused the game to abort. I assume this was probably due to the number of people playing 
 the game the night it came out. Otherwise, the game ran very smoothly. Playing online co-op with 
 a buddy was seemless. Although you are playing in co-op mode, you compete for kill points and various 
 other points ala arcade mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hinder109
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 11, 2008 7:04 pm PT
Review:  I just beat the single player campaign, and all i can say is wow. i mean this game is freakin awsome. The 
 game play is very simular to cod4the action is immpressive, and the story is immersive. I think that 
 Treyarch mannaged to pull out all of the stops in this latest epic call of duty. I havent messed 
 around with the multiplayer much. but over all i would give this game a 10/10. Heres my full review.
 
  
  Presitation: the opening is excellent.9/10
  
  story: i found the story in this game to be quiet immersive. i liked how they changed the two campaigns 
 up, it added a feel of variation.9.5/10
  
  graphics: the graphics are simular to cod4, but with some nice texture tuch up.9.5/10
  
  gameplay: the 
 gameplay in this title is very challeging. especially the way how jap soldiers charge at you with 
 fixed baonets, and you counter their attack.10/10
  
  controlles: they feel like every other cod in the past.9/10
  
  replay value: with the option 
 to play the campaign in coop ,really adds high replay value to this game.9.5/10
  
  The bottom line: this game imo, is the best cod ever made. And it should be a part of ever cod fans 
 collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: USKB
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 11, 2008 6:29 pm PT
Review:  CoD5 is what you want. it's a little harder than CoD4, but everything is great. Some new weapons 
 help, the sticky grenades & flame granades are a knock-out punch! Although the dogs are annoying, 
 they can help you team. Alot of people doubted CoD5-WELL YOUR WRONG! CoD 5 is what you didnt expect. 
 Treyarch really brought a great game back. I love Halo 3-I played it 24/7-I had Played CoD4-It 
 was fun, but not the best-but CoD5- is probably 100x better than both. If you were awsome at CoD4-you'll 
 be working again... if you sucked in CoD4 & you knew the controls-You'd be really good at this game. 
 The multiplayer is amazing. You will probably enjoy every map, & regular multiplayer is great. 
 The graphics are really amazing. Great graphics. the multiplayer does help rare faulty LIVE connections 
 during games (but if you got a great router-your good) . CoD5- I'll see you in a couple of minutes. 
 Play me : H2o DAG 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roemdawg
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 11, 2008 4:47 pm PT
Review:  CoD World at War is a great game. The multiplayer is exceptional, with great gameplay, maps, and 
 weapons. The Boot Camp mode mkes it easy to get started online. When you start playing, the gameplay 
 is much the same as Modern Warfare (good thing) and even though its WWII, its familiar yet the 
 WW2-Style maps feel different. Its hard to describe, but when you start playing online in this 
 game, you completely forget about the convenient, amazing weapons from Modern Warfare and get by 
 with the cool, older weapons in World at War. I haven't played much of the campaign, but what I 
 can tell you is that the graphics are great, the sound and intensity is perfect, and from what 
 I hear, the storyline is amazing. Overall, the game feels great, plays great, and exceeds your 
 overall expectations for a Treyarch game. This game definitely deserves a solid 9 out of 10.
  
  Also, to those who wish that Treyarch changes the engine, your retarded. This game is way better 
 off with an Infinity Ward engine that brings great gameplay that we are all used to and dont need 
 to adjust to. That way we can still play Modern Warfare and not fail completely at it. Before you 
 review the game saying that you get sniped to easily and that you blend in too well on multiplayer, 
 maybe you should become good and competitive at the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mmaraz
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 11, 2008 6:07 pm PT
Review:  From the high bar that COD4 Modern Combat set, treyarch had their work cut hard for them to top 
 Infinity Ward last effort. Luckily Treyarch had Ward's game engine to work with for COD5 World 
 at War. And for the most part they didn't change much the engine mechanics. Champagne is where, 
 for me anyway, COD5, really shines. With added 2 player co-op offline and up to 4 player co-op 
 on-line adds value quality time with your buddies that's a blast. And the feel for champagne mode 
 feels like past COD games.
  
  However multi-player matches, which was the cream de la cream of Modern Combat, are not as up to 
 par. What has change from COD4 are, of course, the UAV, air strikes, and helicopter support. Being 
 WWII they replaced UAV with recon planes, air strikes with artillery, and helis with attack dogs. 
 Recon planes and artillery petty much works the same, though it is something different when the 
 attack dogs are coming after you as more than one swarm around you, where as with the heli you 
 can see in the sky and easily shoot it down. The use of tanks add a dimension to combat but it 
 also drastically changes gameplay that takes time to get use to.
  
  Map layout also change the feel of the game. Maps, depending on the size, are like mazes when you 
 start and hard find spots to pick off enemies. 
  
  Create a class has some of the same stand by perks (stopping power, deep penetration and some other 
 old ones with new names) but the new perks like gas mask is useless if the other players don't 
 use gas grenades. What's new with the special grenades are the signaling flares, like flash bangs 
 but last longer, useful for escape and shoot if you're pinned down but your enemies can easily 
 go around them. With gas grenades you almost have to have gas mask perk and again players can avoid 
 the gas all together. You do have choice of grenades, sticky grenades and molotov cocktails.
  
  Now getting to he graphics and sound. It seem that the champagne graphics are better than the 
 multiplayer matches. Champagne mode the textures make it easier to distinguish allies, enemies 
 and background but in multi-player maps are clutter with too much different shades dark colors 
 it's hard to see things. Audio just doesn't sound right, the you might notice that voice acting 
 during multi-player lacks excitment.
  
  The low down is though champagne mode just feels like familarity Ward's COD engine design, the 
 multi-player tweeks that Treyarch make champagne mode and multiplayer seem from two different game 
 engines. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: STLhead83
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 11, 2008 5:18 pm PT
Review:  Campaign is absolutely amazing, little videos before each mission gets you pumped to kill soomebody. 
 the whole campaign is amazing, and the ending it just simple spectacular. i stood up and yelled 
 "VICTORY!" the guns and sounds make you really feel there. you get so caught up in killing every 
 last Nazi its hard to hear anything around you. the HUD is basically the same, and the new (old 
 school) weapons are just amazing. each shot gives a lifelike muzzle flash and amazing sound. the 
 Campaign flips from the russian going to conquer berlin, and the us marines against the japanese. 
 the missions are very well thought out. not extremely hard, buut u will gte frustrated at points, 
 but the game is awesome. i haven't had enough time to play the multiplayer so i cant say alot about 
 it. but the graphics have been significantly upgaded and looks amazing. if the multiplayer is anything 
 like COD4 mulplayer this is going to be a stacked game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RightFromWrong
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 30, 2008 9:07 am PT
Review:  Now everyone knows that COD4 was a great FPS and deserved that game of the year award, it topped 
 halo 3 or bioshock, now im guessing a lot of people have been waiting for this game, and be happy 
 because COD 5 does satisify your shooter needs. I do not own COD 4 and don't know if it really 
 is a great game but after trying it out on my bro's ps3 and reading reviews it really was a spectacular 
 game, and so i went ahead and bought COD 5 and it is really fun, the best multiplayer game of 2008, 
 i can tell, but i had a few disappoinments too. WELL... its way too similar to cod 4, it hasn't 
 really changed like at all, it seemes to have a little more glitches and texture problems than 
 last year's. I am so frikkin tired of WW 2 games, and i have no idea what inside treyarch's head 
 made them create another one, but its a really stupid move. Its not bad actually, you have more 
 tanks and air support to control and a hellotta new weapons like the katana and the awsome flamethrower. 
 Sound has improved a lot, the noises of the guns and warfare are really realistic and beastly (?) 
 it has that "crunchy" gun sound that most shooters lack (excpet GOW2) . OVERALL, a really nice piece, 
 hope COD 6 ditches the world wars once and for all 
::::::

::::::
UserName: filipooh
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 11, 2008 3:41 pm PT
Review:  When i was playing through the first few missions, I kept an open heart, knowing it is not easy 
 to beat the success of COD4. However, as the game goes on, it just feels all too familiar, same 
 game in different era, even most of the weapons seem like clones of it's predecessor, other than 
 a few such as Molotov, and flame thrower. Semi auto rifles and grenade launchers are back, with 
 different looks but feels almost exactly the same. The single player has serious flaws, there are 
 various AI problems where you'll see your team mates and the enemy will stand in front of each 
 other, wiggling about, without firing a shot, or melee attacks. Sometimes you'll stand in the corner 
 to dodge enemy fire, but the predetermined paths of your team mate will come to block you in the 
 corner, and resulting from getting killed by grenades. You always have to reach a particular spot 
 in a level to unlock the next event, or else the enemy will just infinitely re-spawn, which means 
 you have to get really close to the front of the game, where enemy AI spam you with grenades after 
 grenades. It feels like a run-and-gun game, because there really isn't anything to be tactical 
 about, or even slightly realistic, the infinite enemies and their grenades makes this game frustrating. 
 The Japanese soldiers' bon-zi attacks (run towards you with their bayonet) is just laughable, they 
 charge you when they are still yards away, but killing them without reaching the front just means 
 it activate the enemy respawn again. This game repeat this "reach a point, waves of spawning enemy, 
 reach another point" is just silly, AI does not flank you or intelligently aim and shoot you, they 
 just spawn everywhere, and spam you with bullets and grenades. When the maps are so big (in some 
 areas) and the enemy infinitely respawning, you just have to rush rush rush to the front, unlock 
 the next part, until you finish the game.
  
  I think this game is made to give COD4 fans something different to play with online, the solo is 
 just the bonus content, which does not add to the value of the game. Online game is ok, just like 
 COD4, make sure you get promoted, get better guns and sights/add ons and kill the noobs who has 
 crappy guns. I guess the one thing i really like about this game is the dog attacks, which really 
 elicit psychological fear and hurts when bitten.
  
  Overhyped? may be, but COD5 is simply too afraid to mess up a working formula to come up with anything 
 new. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shooter94
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 11, 2008 2:49 pm PT
Review:  Wow just another shooter wannabe that if just like all of the other shooter games. If i wanted 
 to play Cod5 i just should of stayed with Cod4 because, they are exactly alike and there's no difference. 
 I'm really getting tired of this and activison should make a better Cod with a better plot. What 
 a waste of time and money. All of the weapons have different name but they all do the same thing. 
 Who ever reads the i suggest you put in a lot of thinking before you get this. Save your money 
 and go by something else. Hey that's just me but if you want to save some time don't get it. Cod4 
 was a really great game and hats off to activison for creating it. I thought that since that was 
 a great game maybe the next one would of been better but i was wrong. It is a very easy game and 
 it has a very short campaign. Controls are just the same and so if the graphics all that changed 
 so far is nothing. Maybe the glitches are no more becuase i didn't experience any yet but so far 
 none. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simon_levane
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 5, 2009 12:07 pm PT
Review:  Last week, Microsoft released Epic Games' much anticipated sequel "Gears of War 2". That game feels 
 alot like the last one and ditto for this "Call of Duty 4" follow-up. Activision's COD games have 
 always been developed by two seperate teams. The innovators, "Infinity Ward", have made the truly 
 great ones, while "Treyarch" (a longtime Activision bunch) follow-up with sturdy sequels that basically 
 refine. So once again, the "b" team have done just that. They have taken everything "Infinity Ward" 
 created and placed it into a whole new pacakage. Or I should say old since Activision has given 
 them freedom to take back the series to its WW II roots.
  
  If there is a complaint, it is that WW II re-surfaces again. Yes, the visuals have been created 
 with the truly great COD 4 graphics engine and the new, more brutal look at WW II (along with the 
 Pacific setting) gives it a fresh feel than previous pre-COD 4 games, but it's certainly no "Call 
 of Duty 2". That being said, Treyarch has made thier best COD yet, but it's by default since they 
 basically re-made the COD 4 experience. Props go out to the developer for including a zany zombie 
 mode, online vehicles, the flamethrower and adding coop modes which COD 4 lacked.
  
  Overall, this is a pretty good COD game, but purist fans of COD 4 will certainly ignore it, while 
 waiting for the predicatable Infinity Ward masterpiece which will be released next year. If you 
 can swallow your pride and pass the time with a "Treyarch" product, than please do so. You might 
 be pleasantly surprised.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tigerfan611
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 11, 2008 8:57 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty world at war is a fun non stop action game. you can pick up the controller and within 
 5 minutes be at least decent at it. the basic point and shoot. the graphics are incredible and 
 the details are astounding. points are awarded for special kills like head shots or knifing someone. 
 some guns and bayonets on them which you'll use other than your knife which is the same button 
 as knifing. the guns are accurate to the world war II time frame and the gunfire is realistic. 
 the only thing they didnt put in the game was the recoil guns really have, but its better without 
 the recoil because the game would be too hard with it. The co-op player mode is amazing. you can 
 revive your partner when they are injured and really work as a team in order to get missions done. 
 the split screen is fascinating as well in which the screens dont take up the whole screen but 
 a few inches short and off center from each other, has a nice background and helps deter from confusing 
 each others screens with your own. this game is going to be popular for a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hamnut
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 11, 2008 8:21 am PT
Review:  Lets just start off, I have played every single call of duty game and bought them.
  
  Graphics: The environments are probably the best part about this game, and the textures aren't 
 a step down. The water looks great, the fire looks awful.
  
  Gameplay: The campaign is awful, took me 5 hours to complete it. Sure it may be coop but why add 
 coop if the campaign is easy (including on veteran 4 player coop + Veteran camp = easy, for that 
 2 player coop on vet = easy) Anyways the multiplayer is complete rip off of cod4. Treyarch didn't 
 even bother to change anything. All they really did is add new perks (and the obvious new maps, 
 but they're from the campaign, and I know IW did that too but then it was fresh and not old like 
 Treyarch did.) The Nazi Zombies are probably the best part of this whole game, especially with 
 4 players (they still hyped it more then it should have, it was kind of a let down)
  
  Overall, the game is pretty mediocre and if they actually changed the engine lots then it would 
 have gotten a better score.
  
  BTW, this game is great for newbies to the call of duty series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fatty8692
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 11, 2008 8:05 am PT
Review:  Everyone is mad because they say this game is just like call of duty 4. isnt that a good thing? 
 its just as fun, it has the same structured online multiplayer, and it runs on the same engine, 
 except it has new added content. this game rocks. the new levels and weapons are awesome, new perks 
 add new gameplay and vehicles add a whole new level to the call of duty experience. i understand 
 that the use of vehicles will cause tons of players to hate the users of the vehicles, but the 
 fact that tanks especially are really very vulnerable balances it out. the graphics are awesome. 
 the lighting and the detail that goes into every level is cool. its awesome noticing little subteties 
 throughout the levels you play that really bring home the WWII setting. to be honest, i was skeptical 
 at first about this game being in WWII as there had been tons and tons of WWII games before. but 
 after playing this game, i understand WWII in a way i never understood it before. its darker, grittier, 
 and all around more amazing than any game i have played before. This is an awesome game that i 
 reccommend everyone to go out and buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guythomas76
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 11, 2008 7:47 am PT
Review:  Wanted a game that would take over for call of duty 4. didnt take.
  to be fair the game it is not a bad or broken game. it just did not make me want to play this more 
 than call of duty 4. if you are a fan of the modern warfare play than this may be too much of a 
 set back. Yes their ideas are good, but they are mostly ideas from call of duty 4. so it is good 
 but not original. if my friends are playing this it still does not make it more fun. i only gave 
 it a low score because in my opinion call of duty 4 is more entertaining. dont get me wrong cod 
 get it better than any other WW II game. As far as singlr player, i have never been a fan of going 
 where you are told. i perfer the rainbow 6 style, choose were you go. the only reason i get call 
 of duty is for the multi player and this is one i will not be playing any more 
::::::

::::::
UserName: colby256
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 11, 2008 6:07 am PT
Review:  This C. O. D World at War is great. I was wanting this game since August, and now thats its here 
 I cant put it down! Great Game, Great Graphics!! What can I say I love it. Let me say that the 
 Game Play of this game is amazing, the Franchise of this game is great too. I actualy think that 
 the C. O. D World of War is the Best Shooting game of 08'. I have played all the C. O. D game and I 
 thought that no other game could match the C. O. D 4 and they did with this one. I'll say it again 
 Great Game. Its great to play it on the 360. This game is more than you could want!! You can set 
 environments on fire, and like COD4 the visuals are as stunning as ever. Taking every good thing 
 from Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare, Treyarch did its job correctly in defining World At War to 
 be the best online and offline game too this year.!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rocknsteink
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 11, 2008 6:15 am PT
Review:  Truth be told every game has it's flaws. But as of now, I see no flaws in this game, which comes 
 pretty damn close to perfecting the first-person-shooter genre. This is without a doubt the finest 
 World War II shooter game ever produced. Forget about the Medal of Honor series, Call of Duty, 
 Call of Duty 2, and Call of Duty 3. Forget about any other WWII game produced before this one. 
 This is the one defining WWII game. Last year the folks at Infinity Ward created the hugely popular 
 Call of Duty 4, with its hugely successful game engine. Now Treyarch has used the engine, tweaked 
 it, and perfected it, all in the most impressive World War II game ever conceived, and one of the 
 finest first person shooters as well.
  
  Graphics: Darker and more impressive than Call of Duty 4's, from the blood, the flames, the shadows, 
 and the nighttime battles, you will be blown away. 10/10
  
  Sound: Realistic ambience sounds, terrific voice acting by Gary Oldman and Kiefer Sutherland, unique 
 and realistic sounds for every single weapon, the sound editors at Treyarch deserve a massive raise. 
 10/10
  
  Gameplay: Improving upon Call of Duty 4's game engine, World at War introduces new perks such as 
 the addicting flamethrower, a longer and more cinematic campaign, awesome cooperative modes such 
 as competitive coop and the soon-to-be classic Nazi Zombie mode. 10/10
  
  Replay Value: With all the new modes, the multiplayer maps, the achievements, the customization, 
 this game has enormous replayability. 10/10
  
  Overall: 10/10 What else needs to be said? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ctburesch
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 11, 2008 5:53 am PT
Review:  yes, this is a WWII shooter and it was announced at that. To the goobers who gave it a bad review 
 because of this, you need to stop playing games. These are the goobers of the video game world. 
 The game has amazing graphics and the enemies are actually smart unlike in Call of Duty 4. The 
 multiplayer is really addictive though I personally am still getting used to where everything is 
 in the maps which are real cool, except for roundhouse, I hate that map. This game gives you WWII 
 weapons which yes you can argue that they are not cool weapons like in Call of Duty 4. These weapons 
 are some of the most powerful guns in the world to date still. It actually takes skill to shoot 
 these guns too. So if you want to go in guns blazing like half the noobs in Call of Duty 4, this 
 game is not for you and you will most likely get owned. The environments are amazing looking and 
 the flamethrower is just plain fun as all. The different game modes are really a good concept on 
 Treyarch's part. After you beat the game you unlock Nazi Zombies which to me is really fun and 
 will tie me over till Left 4 Dead comes out next week. The driveable vehicles in multiplayer is 
 a welcome return in my eyes. The dogs are really cool if you are the sending out, not the receiving 
 end. To those that don't think a dog could kill taht easy, I train dogs (German Shepherds) for 
 a living for police departments part time. You can "play" with my dogs if you want and then tell 
 me they wouldnt destroy you in a takedown. Keifer Sutherland's voiceover adds some character to 
 the game too. I felt like I was in 24 or something. The only disappointment that I can think of 
 is the co op. Don't get me wrong, it's about time tehy added co op campaign. But someone who lives 
 in my house has an Xbox Live account. We can play local co op together. The problem I have is this. 
 Like in Halo, love it or hate it, it has one of the best models for multiplayer and co op to date 
 yet nobody follows it, you can play with someone in your house in split screen, then invite a friend 
 in over Xbox Live for multiplayer ownage. This is a huge thing for me that has yet to be brought 
 to the Call of Duty franchise. Replay movies of the game in a theatre like multiplayer mode would 
 be fun too. All in all this game is a very good multiplayer and campaign modes. If the game is 
 too easy as some have claimed because they are FPS gods apparently, change the setting to veteran. 
 You won't finish it in the 5 hours as some have claimed. I enjoy the Japanese setting as it really 
 hasn't been done well before. Except now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DonaldAWilliams
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 11, 2008 5:53 am PT
Review:  Let's just be honest here. All the skeptics that review it like "Oh, no it's World War II again" 
 or "Why not Modern Warfare" need to just keep their opinions to themselves because they apparently 
 aren't playing the same game. Basically, all the way trough the campaign, like COD4, you are immersed 
 in what's going on and there is no shortage of breath taking visuals or intense gun fights. Though 
 I will say this, if you decide to play Online Coop on anything Hardened or higher, you have you 
 work cut out for you. You will be healing your partners ALOT! This game is amazing. When you wall 
 through water falls the water trickles down your screen, water stays on your guns. You can set 
 environments on fire, and like COD4 the visuals are as stunning as ever. Character models are realistic 
 an fluid, with a dash of excellent voice acting. The addition of music adds a sort of intensity 
 and urgency to the gameplay that was well accepted. And about the Enemies..... Well, they are everywhere!!! 
 They are in trees, in bunkers, and laying in the grass. It can't be said that this is better than 
 COD4 because that game led the way to this one, but it can be said that they have definitely made 
 this the BEST SHOOTER OF '08!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jannuh
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 11, 2008 1:55 am PT
Review:  Well if you played Call of Duty 4 this is completely different, de game play is much easier. De 
 graphics are very cool, the use of old movies are very cool. The game told you the history of your 
 missions. The walk trough on easy level is indeed very easy its to do in less then 6 hours. I just 
 started on hardened then its completely different. A slide of critic, if you run like hell to get 
 to the nearest star (checkpoint) your team mates will follow and kill everything around you. If 
 you do not go forward they will stop and wait. There are some sniper levels they are though because 
 the targets to hit are moving or very fast, this was very cool. To get all achievements ill think 
 its a long way to go because te most is on veteran level. If you like war games this one is a must 
 have. A slight sorry for my language im dutch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kintarron
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 11, 2008 1:46 am PT
Review:  The game play is great, story, weapons and all. But I would have liked it better to be a more modern 
 environment. Kinda miss modern weapons. Freedom of movement, that we don't see in games like gears 
 of wars 2. Multi player is very nicely done, much improved. Dog lovers have a hard time in multi 
 player though, I don't like shooting dogs. Weapons OK- but Bolt Action rifles don't have the kick 
 they should. I am sure this is one of the greatest shooters of all time. I would like to see a 
 modern warfare game in this series again. Really enjoyed number 4. Graphics are really something, 
 very nicely done. I really liked the fact that versatility is at your disposal. But sometimes I 
 think that the story mode should be longer. Really liked some missions, but some were outright 
 boring. I guess this is part of every game. I overall recomend this game. Had a nice time with 
 it and now I will play the multiplayer, sometimes the Veteran mode is just too hard, not even the 
 most experienced players are able to beat easily. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zxburtonxz
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 10, 2008 10:58 pm PT
Review:  After playing CoD4 since its release date, I was hooked from the beginning. There are many times 
 during the campaign where my jaw hit the floor from graphics, and incredible innovation and twists 
 that were thrown at you. Infinity Ward re-wrote the CoD franchise, and it baffles me as to why 
 they weren't on board of CoD5. I am SO SICK OF WWII GAMES. We know who won, what happened, why 
 it happened, I don't need to re-visit Europe every year to find myself shooting Nazi's all over 
 again. I enjoyed CoD4 so much cause it was something different and I couldn't predict the ended 
 at all, and that's what I like. The campaign is well... worth playing, it's nothing to crap your 
 pants over, but I would play all the way through to unlock zombie-mode. My friends and I had a 
 blast trying to survive endless waves of Nazi zombies (Probably from all the other WWII games, 
 lol) . The multilayer is where its at. Although Treyarch just masked CoD4 with different weapons 
 and minimal graphics. Personally CoD4 was an art to me, it was extremely hard to let go. Treyarch 
 put the series to shame and its a let down to me, please rent this before you buy it, cause dishing 
 out $60 a game takes some thought 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deperkster16
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 10, 2008 9:41 pm PT
Review:  Ok, WWII is really starting to get old now. I got this at walmart tonight at midnight, and have 
 been playing it for the past couple hours (campaign) , and it just seems like all of the other previous 
 installments. As most people who seem to play this game, they obviously have not played the pervious 
 ones. As it is set in the pacific theater, it seems like it is way too identical to a mixture of 
 a COD4 method in a COD2 setting (not exactly but very close) . It seems to trample itself as it 
 seems way too fast paced, whereas everything just flashes over your head. It just doesn't seem 
 memorable, as i cannot remember what just happened before. Don't let that stop you from getting 
 it. It is very pleasing, but there are better choices out there. It is just mroe of the same, and 
 COD franchise didn't really step out of their box with this one. But still very solid. From a stand 
 point, either gears 2 or left 4 dead is an easy solution, but WWII games really need to stop. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XxKiLLaQuEEnZ
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 10, 2008 9:37 pm PT
Review:  First of all the online play is really great. Im kind of dissapointed though because i really expected 
 some changes but the new maps and guns sort of makes up for that. I always hear people talking 
 about how its the same as COD4 but who cares... its still a great game. What can you posibly do 
 to make the online play any better from COD4. The graphics and sounds are amazing... The online 
 gampley is great dispite some minor knifing and bullet registration problems... There are now squads... 
 now you can join someones party while playing a match.. A variety of new perks, second chace, gas 
 mask, fireproff, flamethrowers, shades, and a few more... more detaild maps... better ghille suits... 
 bolt action rifles.. (yes COD4 had them but now you can choose to put a scope, bayonet, grenade 
 launcher etc.) up to ten custom classes as you prestige.. I can go on and on but the point is its 
 a great game and i dont understand why people dont like it.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JackDjwh06
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 10, 2008 9:24 pm PT
Review:  So if you have played the call of duty 4 modern warfare then you have a good idea what to expect 
 from world of war. There are some differences though but not going to spoil them. The same thing 
 with the perks, weapon upgrades, and ranking system while also still having 3 kill, 5 kill, and 
 7 kill perks as well. in multiplayer One thing that is great that it is a all new campaign with 
 great graphics and little more gore to it. It also has a huge amount of multiplayer levels. So 
 many in fact I have been playing online for about 3 to 4 hours and still not come back to the same 
 level twice. I'm writing this review because my roommate wanted to play or else I would still be 
 in there like a zombie. The multiplayer is still great though with new perks that everyone can 
 like. Since I have not completed the game or ranked all the way up on multiplayer I can not explain 
 how great the entire game is but will tell you that it is a must buy and something you will not 
 get tired of at least online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chazzymoto
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 10, 2008 9:04 pm PT
Review:  An awesome game it is like a faceplate for Call of Duty 4 but I still enjoy the change. New maps 
 are great, weapons are great, but one thing is people are already hacking the leaderboards and 
 today it said there was like 809 billion players online kinda funny but no biggie. Artillery strike 
 shouldn't affect your own teams movement and it takes a while to actually work but other than that 
 there's the dogs which are awesome but they are a pain in the ass sometimes. But overall I really 
 enjoy playing this game. Some of the guns are a little over powered and some are a little underpowered 
 and have small clips, and another cool thing is the gore people legs get blown off in it. When 
 you prestige you get more custom slots so once your tenth prestige you will have 10 custom slots 
 (there are 65 levels instead of 55 this time) . If you liked Call of Duty 4 and you like World War 
 II also you should definitely pick up a copy today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mister_armolas
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 10, 2008 7:53 pm PT
Review:  Judging from the beta, and keep in mind this review is only of the multiplayer aspect of the game, 
 it is a slightly modified version of the Call of Duty multiplayer. Essentially they have changed 
 around a couple of the perks, added tanks, changed air strikes to artillery strikes, and changed 
 helicopters to dog attacks. These are the essential changes, but also the change of the basic shooting. 
 In Call of Duty 4, the basic weapon choices were almost all automatic, and had easy handling. Most 
 players used the M16, M4 or MP5 as their basic assault class. However, in this game the basic weapons 
 are the Thompson, a very poor-sighted automatic with a small clip, and the Gewehr 43 which is my 
 weapon of choice which is a semi-auto gun which kills with about 3 shots to the body and has very 
 little recoil. How my point here is that the main weapons that will be used are semi-automatic, 
 whereas in CoD4 the only semi-auto was the G3, and even the M16 was burst. So that is a whole new 
 shooting mechanic change, which I find makes the experience a little less enjoyable. It sounds 
 like I am nit-picking, however this game does not play as smoothly as its predecessor and the graphics 
 do not seem to hold up either. While playing each on the same computer on highest settings, World 
 at War didn't stand a chance against CoD4 from a graphical standpoint.
  
  Overall, this game lacks the polish that Modern Warfare had so much of. It is an overall less enjoyable 
 experience partly because of this, and partly because it was created in the shadow of CoD4, a much 
 respected game, and it is apparent that it was tailored to be a WWII experience of CoD4, but ends 
 up seeming like just another mod of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Purple300
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 10, 2008 3:18 pm PT
Review:  There are many great things about Call of duty 5, the new weapons are fun, 4 player co-op is great, 
 online is fun but just like cod4. The campaign is very similar to cod4. Its dramitic, fast paced, 
 full of action and replayable. The only problem I had with it is that its too much run and gun. 
 Its hard to die in situations. There are few points in the game were it gets kind of challenging 
 on the hardest difficulty of course, thats similar to the first cod4. Online is almost the same 
 as cod4. It looks the same but with different  other stuff. 
 
  
  I know this is a short review but its all the time I have right now.
  Overall Cod5 is a great game that is definitly worth getting but I would have to say if your going 
 to get a game soon get Gears of War 2 it definitly beats cod5
  Thanks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cm62673
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 10, 2008 12:57 pm PT
Review:  Wow, the only thing that could make this game any better is if Mario were a playable character 
 in it!
  
  I can only hope that in a week or two we will be able to pay $10 to play as either Darth Vader 
 or Yoda.
  
  Although this game basically steals the game engine, play mechanics, and bonus features that were 
 so satisfying and original in COD4, I still find them unique and refreshing in this version.
  
  Never before has a FPS been so realistic in capturing the intensity and rawness of war (except 
 for COD4) . The sound is so amazing that I often play the game with my eyes closed just to hear 
 the enemies die.
  
  Graphics: 11 out of 10
  Story: 11 out of 10
  Sound: 11 out of 10
  Playability: 11 out of 10
  Replayability: 11 out of 10
  Lack of Mario: 5 out of 10
  OVERALL: 
 10 (could have been 11. Come on Treyarch, is it too much to ask 
  for you guys to add Mario?) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beto05
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 10, 2008 1:11 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty: World at War. The bloodiest battles of World War 2, both in Pacific and Eastern Europe 
 are avalaible to play. 
  
  Treyarch made a wonderful masterpiece which will impress COD hardcore and COD 4 Modern Warfare 
 fans.
  
  The game itself has a wonderful introduction and presentation. Footages from WW2 add a sensation 
 of something big is happening, and you are making part of it.
  
  Every weapon of each front were researched. You'll find Arisaka Rifles, Type 100 SMG's, Flamethrowers, 
 Molotov Cocktails, M1 Folding Carbines, BARs, The Good Ol' Thompson and many more. 
  
  If you like war environment, COD: WaW is no exception. Differently from COD 4 where most of the 
 scenarios looked a like, in the new game you'll find yourself fighting at Stalingrad, the bloody 
 island of Peleliu , The Streets of Berlin and many other distinctive campaigns, together with nice 
 graphics and beautiful design of textures. With the flamethrower, you can make some mess at the 
 scenario. If you like carnificine , this is your choice.
  
  The Gameplay is the same as COD 4. One thing you'll find different is that you'll be facing eneimes 
 you have never fought before on the previous games ( apart from the Germans ) . The Japanese had 
 a very disciplined and obedient army. They gave their lives in honor to the Emperor and for their 
 country. So don't get scared if you face a Japanese Infantry man screaming Banzai ! running thowards 
 you with an Arisaka Bayonet. If you don't kill him soon, you need to be quick and drag a knife 
 on his neck, pressing the Right Stick before he sticks the bayonet at your chest. Same thing with 
 German Shepperd dogs.
  
  The sound is pretty good, since they use the same engine from COD 4. If you do have a Home-Theather, 
 I Recommend playing the game with it. Also, Kiefer Sutherland's e and Gary Oldman's voices ( the 
 last one which is very distinctive, since he does a russian accent) gives the game a nice touch, 
 specially the actor who protagonizes Jack Bauer, when he's screamingm you will know probably what 
 to do.
  
  Multiplayer really looks like COD 4. So, the fans from Modern Warfare will appreciate it. You will 
 find interesting maps from pacific and also from the eastern front. There is a huge gamma of weaponry, 
 although, for fans who like playing seriously like American using US weapons and Japanese using 
 Japan weapons, you will notice that both teams will use allied and axis weapons. You have many 
 classes and hundreds of game modes, so multi is really addictive. Also you can choose playing Co-op 
 with friends at SP and the bonus Zombie Mode.
  
  In conclusion:
  
  CoD: WaW is so far one of the best COD games. Treyarch really surprised me and they really made 
 a masterpiece.
  
  Graphics:10
  Sound:10
  Gameplay:10
  Replay:10
  Fun:10
  
  Overall: 10
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
