-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Call of Duty 2
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/callofduty2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Smooth, detailed graphics and great sound.
 Aggressive enemy artificial intelligence.
 Makes you really feel like a small part of a bigger war.
 Varied campaign.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Online multiplayer restricted to eight players.
 Higher pricepoint than its PC counterpart.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 15, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.8
Critic Score: 9.0, 90 Review (s)
User Score: 9.1, 15,271 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: Infinity Ward
Genre: Historic First-Person...
Date: Nov 17, 2005
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
On the Xbox 360, this first-rate WWII first-person shooter is every bit as intense and hard-hitting 
 as the PC version of the game. 

  When a game is announced for both the PC and consoles, the question always arises about what's 
 different between the two versions. Did any compromises have to be made on one platform or the 
 other? Did something get lost in translation? As it turns out, the recent release of Call of Duty 
 2 on the PC turned out to be a very accurate preview of what Xbox 360 owners could expect to get 
 from next-generation shooters. Almost everything that makes the PC version one of the year's best 
 shooters remains intact on the Xbox 360 version of the game, which looks just as good and actually 
 runs smoother than all but the most beastly of gaming PCs. If not for the online multiplayer that's 
 limited to eight players, the Xbox 360 version probably would have been hands-down better overall. 
 But as it is, Call of Duty 2 still sets a high standard for any shooters following in its footsteps 
 on Microsoft's new console, and it's considerably faster, prettier, and more exciting than most 
 any other shooter available on consoles.  

          Call of Duty 2 sets the bar high for Xbox 360 first-person shooters.     

  As in the 
 first PC game, Call of Duty 2's campaign will put you in the shoes of a few different soldiers 
 fighting for different Allied factions. You start off as a private in the Russian army, visciously 
 fighting off the invading Germans in Moscow and Stalingrad. The British campaign is unlocked after 
 beating the first Russian mission. For most of these missions you'll be fighting in the sand-swept 
 deserts of North Africa, alongside the Desert Rats, against Field Marshal Rommel's troops. The 
 final mission in the British campaign sends you to the bombed-out houses and hedgerows of Caen, 
 France. After you're done with that, you'll play as an American corporal in Europe. Yes, you will 
 be doing a D-Day landing, but not on Omaha Beach or Utah Beach, which you've probably played several 
 times before. Instead, you'll be scaling the sheer cliffs of Pointe du Hoc as artillery with the 
 Army Rangers. If you already thought rock climbing was an "extreme" sport, try doing it with artillery 
 and machine-gun fire raining down on you.  

  Each of the game's 10 missions is broken up into a few different stages. If you play the game on 
 regular difficulty, you could blow through it in about 10 hours. Ratcheting up the difficulty a 
 notch makes the game much harder and more tactical (this is probably the experience the designers 
 intended) . Since you'll be creeping and peeking more carefully through all the encounters, you'll 
 lengthen the campaign significantly, and you'll enjoy it more.  

  Breaking up the campaign into several different narrative vignettes arguably weakens the impact 
 of the plot as a whole, although that was never the strength of Call of Duty in the first place. 
 What this does is let the designers put you in a lot of different, interesting situations. One 
 memorable moment in the Russian campaign has you crawling through a raised pipeline to sneak behind 
 German lines and into a fortified factory building. As you make your way through the pipeline, 
 you'll spot and snipe small pockets of German infantry through holes in the pipe. When they fire 
 back up at you, you'll notice bullets tearing through the rusted pipe, ripping open holes for shafts 
 of light to poke through. It's a thrilling effect.  

  You'll also get quite a rush from both participating in and defending against all-out infantry 
 charges across open city squares in Stalingrad. But just as the novelty of these wears off, you're 
 shunted over to the British campaign in North Africa, where you'll do things like participate in 
 night raids of small Tunisian towns, climb up to the top of spires to call in artillery on enemy 
 tanks, and even drive a tank yourself. The American campaign has its own memorable moments, like 
 scaling the cliffs of Pointe du Hoc, or sniping at German mortar crews from the top of a grain 
 silo. The game paces itself so that you're always on your toes, and you'll find yourself switching 
 back and forth almost constantly from an offensive position to making a defensive stand against 
 counterattacks on the objective you've just captured. Yes, at the end of the day you're still just 
 shooting a lot of Nazis, but the constantly varying contexts of how and why you're doing it keep 
 the game compelling from start to finish.  

          Massive amounts of infantry can populate the battlefield.     

  You won't be participating 
 in these forays alone; far from it. In every setting you'll be surrounded by what seems like dozens 
 of soldiers, both friends and foes, who move and act in a realistic fashion. Lots of your artificially 
 intelligent mates will die by your side, along with the dozens of enemy soldiers you kill, but 
 more will come in from the rear echelons to take their place. The designers often do a good job 
 of reminding you that the war isn't just the infantry skirmish in which you're fighting. From time 
 to time you'll see planes engaged in dogfights flying overhead, or when you complete an objective 
 of capturing a German harbor, you'll call in a naval strike and see enemy merchant ships being 
 sunk at the docks.  

  In each confrontation, you'll find yourself setting up at logical stopping points to exchange fire 
 with German resistance. You can snipe dozens of enemies out of the windows and from the trenches 
 in front of a house, for example, but reinforcements replace them. It never feels as though the 
 game is cheaply spawning in more fodder for you; it just does a great job of making you feel like 
 there are a realistic number of soldiers holed up in a building. You need to get a feel for the 
 flow of each pitched battle, and this can be done by advancing your line when the enemy ranks look 
 thin enough, and then breaking into the house or bunker. Your allies will follow you in and help 
 you clear out the objective. Of course, if you're too meek at attacking and pressing your advantage, 
 the enemy AI is wily and aggressive enough to take charge. They're not afraid to pour fire on your 
 position and toss tons of grenades at you. Thankfully, a handy grenade danger indicator lets you 
 know when and where you have to scurry away from an impending blast. When you do die, the game 
 reloads very quickly, and you're even treated to a quote about war from various historical figures. 
 One that sticks out in our minds is an ironic one from Solomon Short: "The only winner in the War 
 of 1812 was Tchaikovsky."     

  One aspect of gameplay that has changed since the first Call of Duty is that you no longer have 
 a health bar. As you get shot, you'll see the screen growing redder and redder along the borders, 
 and your character will start to grunt and pant. If you continue to take damage in a short span 
 of time, you die. So as you get shot that first or second time, you need to get yourself back to 
 cover to hide for a couple of seconds to recover. Once your vision clears, you're good to go again. 
 Some people may be put off by this Halo-like gameplay conceit, but it actually works very well 
 here, and it really is no more contrived than hunting down and hoarding health packs. In the context 
 of Call of Duty 2, we'd go so far as to say that it's an improvement over the traditional health 
 system, as you never find yourself at a tough spot without enough health or medikits. Ammo's never 
 an issue either, as there's never a shortage of dead bodies to loot for guns, bullets, and grenades. 
 The focus stays squarely on the fight.  

          Every pitched battle in the game is intense.     

  Speaking of grenades, the other 
 major new gameplay conceit is the use of smoke grenades. You can pop these in front of machine-gun 
 nests or to obscure the view of enemy snipers, making infantry charges a more viable option. The 
 smoke effect looks outstanding and comes in handy in both the single- and multiplayer aspects to 
 neutralize the effectiveness of fixed machine-gun nests and snipers. There's also nothing quite 
 as exciting as running through a dense smoke cloud and finding yourself face-to-face with the enemy 
 (the view from the opposite side is pretty cool as well) .  

  The interface in Call of Duty 2 on the Xbox 360 is also well-thought-out and designed. You can 
 change your stance from kneeling to standing, or you can go prone to increase your accuracy. You 
 can carry two weapons at a time, and switching between them is just a matter of tapping the Y button. 
 The left and right buttons give you quick access to your smoke grenades and frag grenades, respectively, 
 while the right trigger fires your weapon. The left trigger toggles your aim down the iron sight 
 of your gun (or through the scope, in the case of a sniper rifle) for a slightly zoomed-in view, 
 and for better accuracy. Hold it down to aim, and release it to switch back to a normal view. You 
 can't move as fast while aiming, but the visual transition between moving and aiming is quick and 
 smooth, making it almost second nature for you to want to use the aiming feature. Unfortunately, 
 you can't peek around corners as you can in the PC version of the game.  

  Multiplayer Call of Duty 2 picks up right where the original left off, offering standard deathmatch, 
 team deathmatch, and capture-the-flag modes, along with the search-and-destroy mode from the original 
 game, where one team has to plant a bomb and destroy one of two objectives while the other team 
 defends. A mode called "headquarters" is also available, and it's probably the most enjoyable mode 
 of the five available in COD2. In this mode, two different areas on a map are designated as capture 
 points for either of the two teams. To score points, a team must control and set up a headquarters 
 on one of the two areas. Once that's set up, points begin increasing for the controlling team. 
 The other team must attempt to overrun the position to try to stop the points from ticking up. 
 During the time a headquarters is set up, the defending team members can't respawn (if they're 
 killed) until their headquarters is overrun or the HQ expires. Once one of those two things happens, 
 capture points are changed to different locations, and the teams begin anew to try to set up a 
 base. The nature of capturing and defending -- and a constantly shifting HQ location -- makes this 
 mode fun, because teams must adapt to different roles quickly and on the fly. As far as weapon 
 balance goes, there's a predictable relationship between bolt-action rifles, semiautomatic rifles, 
 assault rifles, and submachine guns. The smoke grenades can also change battlefield dynamics greatly, 
 as snipers can sometimes find their favorite killing fields obscured. The shotguns are also extremely 
 powerful in close-quarters situations, and they're fun to use.  

  Call of Duty 2 on the Xbox 360 also adds a four-player split-screen multiplayer mode for playing 
 with friends on a single TV. The hardware never breaks a sweat, maintaining a crisp 60 frames per 
 second even with action going on in so many windows. The problem is that the maps in the game are 
 too large to really lend themselves to just four players. You can play any of the game modes, but 
 playing two-on-two CTF or HQ is kind of silly. What's unfortunate about the online multiplayer 
 action is that it's limited to just eight players on Xbox Live. The maps are definitely more viable 
 with eight players than with just four, but you'll still find, in a lot of cases, that there's 
 a little too much room to roam around. The action can still be fun, and the network code is very 
 smooth, but those who've played the PC version know that the maps and game modes really play out 
 better with more than just eight players. If you have the inclination to move a bunch of Xbox 360s 
 and TVs together, system link brings the number of supported players up to 16.  

  The presentation in Call of Duty 2 is also topflight. Each mission is introduced with video footage 
 from the Military Channel, as well as documentary-style narration that helps set the historical 
 setting for what you're about to do. The game's graphics are also excellent, whether you play on 
 an HDTV or a regular TV. If you play the game at HD resolutions, you'll find that there's no discernible 
 difference between the Xbox 360 game and the PC one. The levels are just as well appointed, the 
 textures are razor-sharp, and there's a great amount of detail in the character models. The effects 
 from smoke grenades and explosions also look wonderful.  

          Smoke grenades can help obscure the view of enemy machine gunners and snipers.     

 
  Most importantly, though, Call of Duty 2 on the Xbox 360 runs buttery smooth -- even smoother than 
 the PC version did for us in a lot of cases. Areas and situations that would cause most PCs to 
 hitch up run perfectly fine on the Xbox 360 version. If you play on a non-HDTV, you do lose some 
 of the sharpness and detail. But the game still looks better than just about any shooter we've 
 played on a regular Xbox, and the frame rate seems even higher than when you play at HD resolutions, 
 making up somewhat for the decline in texture detail. Sound is where Call of Duty 2 excels like 
 no other FPS. From the stirring score that kicks up during key moments, to the top-notch gun and 
 explosion effects, the game sounds fantastic. And if you have a Dolby 5.1 setup, you'll appreciate 
 this aspect of the game even more. The speech is also pretty good, particularly the yelling that 
 your squadmates and enemies do during battle, which plays right in to your excitement and tension 
 as you fight.  

  Aside from the small-scale online matches, Call of Duty 2 is just about everything you'd hope for 
 and expect from a next-generation first-person shooter. Its varied campaign, excellent sound and 
 gameplay design, and generally good AI make it a worthy successor to the original game on the PC. 
 At the same time, though, it's still a World War II shooter. So if you've decided you've grown 
 weary of them, Call of Duty 2 doesn't do that much new to bring you back in to the fold. What Call 
 of Duty 2 does do well is nail down just about all aspects that define an ideal first-person shooter. 
 If you liked the original and have been thirsting for more, Call of Duty 2 will definitely deliver. 
 And if you haven't experienced a Call of Duty game before, then get ready for an incredible experience 
 in Call of Duty 2 for the Xbox 360.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1523 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: vaskaville
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 17, 2009 4:25 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Overhauled reboot from the original Xbox series, great sound effects, long single player 
 campaign, realistic gameplay.
  
  The Bad: Feels like a History Channel documentary, nothing special to make you want to buy it, 
 bland story, hardly any music.
  
  Call of Duty 2 is an overhauled reboot from the original Xbox Call of Duty series. Call of Duty 
 2 looks like another WWII shooter but it's a little more than average. Call of Duty 2 features 
 great realistic sound effects that actually make you feel like your in a real war. There's hardly 
 any music so the game starts to get old each time you play after an hour or so. Call of Duty 2 
 isn't all bad, it also features a long single player campaign which should keep you busy for about 
 15 hours. The gameplay is so realistic I actually forgot I was playing a game on several occasions. 
 Call of Duty 2 feels like a History Channel documentary because in the cutscenes they tell what 
 happened, Call of Duty: World at War was so successful because you experienced the timeline first 
 hand, in my opinion Call of Duty 2 should of done the same but the series was newer when Call of 
 Duty 2 was in development. Call of Duty 2 is worth the rental but if your a hard core first person 
 I would buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ferntfactor
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 15, 2009 3:49 pm PT
Review:  what can i say? this game was and always be a classic. fantastic. ten years from now, it will still 
 be in my collection and i'll pop it in for another round. great graphics, great sound, weapons, 
 historical significance. i feel that World War 2 was so important, so defining and history changing 
 that its dozens of significant battles are worth keeping alive in memory for generations. and this 
 game does a hell of a job of helping us understand just a fraction of what it was like, in an accessible 
 medium, and with more respect than most. it's probably the only war in the 20th century where i 
 would have found myself volunteering to protect the freedom of strangers. thanks to these companies 
 for revisiting it despite the onslaught of criticism and rolling eyeballs. hey, i think there a 
 few million of us out there who keep buying them despite the naysaying, so there is profit in it 
 too.
  
  The good:
  - everything. really.
  
  The bad: 
  - how the hell do i solve the final stage and "Silo" on Veteran?!! geez, i've tried and tried. 
 any tips would be appreciated. just 80 achievement point left to get, i think... whatever that's 
 good for.
  
  Summary: 
  - top notch, set the standard in its day. great value. replayable. great value. it'll get old, 
 but never tired. 
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: beavisbond
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 12, 2009 12:09 pm PT
Review:  Oh jeez, another WW2 game! This game was one of the first Xbox 360 games to come out. I know I 
 am REALLY late for this game to be reviewed. That's because I finally got my first 360 in June 
 of '08. A few days ago I walked in to the newly built game store that's in my town called "Play 
 'N Trade," and I found this game used for like 5 bucks! So I said "what the hell, it's cheap and 
 I love FPS games!" When I came home later that night I finally put what I saw was probably the 
 most cleanest used game disc in and started to play it! Now that I have put some hours into this 
 game I figure I should review it. Now here are the good parts and the bad parts about the game. 
 The good, this game has got a lot of action in it. Each level will probably take you a good 20-30 
 minutes to complete, depending on which difficulty setting you have it at. In this game you play 
 with the 3 main allies in WW2, the Americans, British, and the Russian army (obviously) fighting 
 against the German Nazi's. Typical WW2 game! The bad part about this game is basically the frame-rate. 
 Every now and then when I am playing it, I notice it kind'a got a little choppy when I am out in 
 the battle. I frequently also get blocked by things when I am moving around and it frustrates me 
 when all you have to do is just walk over it but sometimes it won't let me! The graphics in this 
 game aren't bad, but comparing this game to a couple other launch titles that came out with this 
 game, it's not as great as they are. Overall, It's another good WW2 game. It has a lot of action 
 and gameplay. But the graphics and the frame-rate I am not a fan of. So that's why I am giving 
 it a 7 out of 10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ishoturface
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 4, 2009 9:49 am PT
Review:  NOTE: I normally do longer reviews but this game does not have a lot of content, but that does 
 not stop it from being awesome.
  
  The good: awesome graphics that still stand today - very good sound - awesome firefights - good 
 gameplay good multiplayer.
  
  
  The bad: Multiplayer matches can only have up to 8 people at one time - campaign rather short and 
 easy - AI is rather well... not smart.
  
  Your first though will indeed be WOW by the masive firefights graphics, and sound.
  You play 
 as one of three soldiers throughout the game. A russian private, a british sergant and an american 
 private.
  Now if you have played any of the cod series before you will know that the campaign is broken down 
 into three smaller campaigns (hence russian, british and american campaigns) .
  But this time its a bit more of a timeline. By starting out as russians (where as in the two games 
 before this you always played as the americans first)
  Instead you will unlock more missions and you progress the timeline. and the Americans being last 
 since they were the last of the allies to invade Europe.
  You will embark on many different missions. With the russians you will be trying to take back your 
 homeland from the nazis, Or the british trying to take france back from the nazis.
  And of course the Americans where instead of D-day you play as a ranger who is meant to clear the 
 way for the allies landing on Normandy the next day.
  
  The campaign may take you around 6-10 hours depending if you have played a COD game before (and 
 if you havent you are missing out) . But on the hardest level (veteran) will take upwards of around 
 15 hours since you will die a alot.
  
  The gameplay as said before is awesome.
  Although the gameplay is a bit different from the previous two games in the series. Most of the 
 guns have different sounds thatn before making them sound more realistic, but some guns I like 
 the MP44 i wish tey would have kept the sound from that gun.
  The weapons are your basic WWII weapons like the MP40, springfield, mosin nagant, Thompson SMG, 
 MP44, Sten MKII and the list goes on.
  
  Now the multiplayer is no doubt the best part of the game despite the multiplayer only supporting 
 8 players per match.
  There are quite a few game modes like deathmatch, team deathmatch, capture the flag, Headquarters 
 which is one objective that both teams have to try and capture and hold as long as they can to 
 get points. Or search and destroy, now there are two teams, one defends objectives and the other 
 has to try and destroy them. But, if a team has all its members killed then the team still standing 
 wins.
  The maps are pretty good, there are a few brought back from previous cod games like brecourt and 
 st. mere egliese and there are some new ones like what seems to be the most popular toujane, which 
 is set in africa in a village that makes for a very good map.
  Now only 8 players online is a bit disppointing and not as chaotic as im used to on the PC which 
 can have up to 32 players at once.
  But there is 4 player splitcreen which actually tends to be more fun than the online multiplayer.
 
  
  The graphics are simply AWESOME. When i first saw them i was amazed (that was 3 years ago) but 
 even still they are very awesome to this very day.
  
  
  The sound is good. The guns all sound very good. The acting as usual for a cod game is very awesome. 
 And the soundtrack is even better than before.
  
  So overall if you have not played a cod game before then now is the times to start. With awesome 
 graphics and sound this game is awesome but not quite as good as the PC version.
  
  
  Singleplayer: 8.6/10
  Multiplayer: 9.4/10
  graphics: 9.7/10
  Sound: 9.6/10
  gameplay: 9.5/10
 
  funnessfactor: 9.0/10
  Overall score: 9.0/10
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tiagopati
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 24, 2009 6:44 am PT
Review:  As my first Call of Duty (CoD) experience, I was quite anxious about what I was going to see. Everyone 
 overrated the game, all the critics saying it was an amazing experience and for years I just put 
 the game aside believing that the marketing and the name did the job by itself... Then CoD 4 came 
 out and again all the noise and turbulence came up once more. Only then I realized I had to give 
 it a try. And I did... And I was and still am over satisfied and well surprised by the game. A 
 very complete game from every point of view in technical terms, and with a solid storyline - upheld 
 surely by an used and abused theme that the second world war is - and chronology throughout the 
 campaign. I'm only evaluating the single player campaign, by far the most exciting and played side 
 of the game.
  Amazing graphics, amazing sound - both soundtrack and it's timings and sound effects - amazing 
 graphics and one heck of a gameplay that does the job in full range... 
  A must play for anyone that loves action and likes to feel the heart rate changing from calm and 
 quiet to crazy and coming out of the chest levels - sometimes just by anticipating what's ahead... 
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: liugeaux
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 16, 2009 5:00 pm PT
Review:  I have literally never played a WWII game. I know its a gaming staple and the genre has been milked 
 to death with Call of Duty, Medal of Honor, Brother in Arms and Battlefield flooding the market, 
 but I thought I would dive right into arguably the best of these franchises, Call of Duty. (since, 
 my dad of all people, said it was cool) 
  
  Since I don't do PC games and I didn't want to start with a spin off (Finest Hour) the first one 
 I could do was Call of Duty 2. I checked the achievements before playing and realized that most 
 of them were for completing chapters on the Veteran setting (Veteran setting being the hardest 
 setting possible) . After a bit of online coaxing I convinced myself to try it on Veteran. I finished 
 about 2/3 of the game before finally bumping the difficulty down to Hardened. This doesn't make 
 the game bad, or good, it simply shows me how good or bad I am at shooters. 
  
  However, what it DOES tell me is that the tiny details Infinity Ward built into the AI will make 
 or break your ability to finish the game. No matter how many times I had to replay many of the 
 parts of the campaign, things NEVER happened the same way twice. My human interaction defined exactly 
 what the enemy would do, every time. In my opinion, the insanely robust AI was the most impressive 
 aspect of the game. 
  
  Obviously the game is great from a gameplay stance to a graphical stance, but gameplay and graphics 
 have been proven by other games. What Call of Duty brings to the table is unparalleled intensity. 
 I found myself physically ducking several times when being bombarded. Its immersive and engaging, 
 and makes you really want our troops to come home. There isn't a feeling anywhere else in gaming 
 like the one you get sneaking up on a Tank to place explosives. 
  
  I didn't play any of the multiplayer, simply because I didn't see the point, but I don't fault 
 Infinity Ward for that. I was unsure of how my experience would go with COD2, but boy I was pleasantly 
 surprised. If you don't like shooters, or if you have no interest in WWII, then I would stay away 
 from COD2, but at this point I am probably preaching to the choir when I say "BUY THIS GAME NOW!" 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadygeneral
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 13, 2009 12:42 am PT
Review:  Recently I completed Call of Duty World At War. After this I was known to say it's the best WWII 
 game ive played & that you couldn't get any better. This was a little premature. You see after 
 playing World at War I realised I may have been a bit harsh on all WWII games being rubbish. World 
 at War managed to be enjoyable despite its setting so I decided to try some more. The only other 
 one I found that was enjoyable enough to complete is Call of Duty 2. I can now say this is the 
 best WWII game ive ever played. 
  
  It just does so many things right that other WWII games don't. World at War was largely saved from 
 being mediocre because of the CoD 4 engine. It still had poor sound effects for the guns, they 
 weren't that fun to use, at least half of the game was your standard, generic WWII brown setting 
 & underwhelming set pieces. 
  
  Its only after playing CoD 2 that I can recognise this even more. The guns all have a much better 
 feel to them. They actually look & sound powerful for a change & don't all have a poxy 'tink' sound 
 effect every other WWII seems to suffer from. These actually sound like powerful guns being fired 
 not far from your face. Even the bolt rifles are usable & come with a satisfying reload noise after 
 every shot. 
  
  The atmosphere is also fantastic. All the fights are at quite close quarters with shouting & orders 
 being shouted from every direction in their respective languages. But with a constant soundtrack 
 of distant gun battles as well as your own teams battles not far from your position. 
  
  The set pieces are much more exciting & memorable than the ones ive experienced in other WWII games. 
 There's a lot of battles against tanks which do a good job of getting the blood pumping as you 
 storm trough the gunfire to get close enough to plant a bomb. There's just enough parts where this 
 happens that it remains exciting but doesn't become a chore. 
  
  Its greatest achievement though is the variety in the setting. Unlike most WWII games the brown, 
 grey trench & bunker settings take up a much smaller chunk of the game than normal. You start off 
 in the snow covered landscape of Russia, take to the sandy areas of Egypt, tackle farm areas & 
 local villages surrounded by fields & trees before lastly moving on to the inevitable brown landscape 
 of Germany. Which is necessary & not that unwelcome for a change after the previous locales. & 
 thankfully this only takes up about  of the game rather than  or  of it. 
  
  These facts all add up to being easily the best WWII game ive endured. However it does have some 
 pretty big problems that really drag it down.
  
  The biggest of these is the mission structure. Every single level seems to contain the following 
 structure - Go to area, either rescue someone by killing hundreds of Nazis or take over an area 
 by killing hundreds of Nazis, then hold this position for a set time while killing hundreds of 
 Nazis until back up arrives. I suspect this was the major part of the war itself (apart from the 
 number of Nazis bit) & therefore right for the game, but that doesn't stop making the game any 
 less repetitive. The holding position part of this becomes especially tiring as it happens far 
 too often & are really quite dull. It also seems to pay no respect whatsoever to the actual trials 
 of the war too. If the real war was like this, the entire population of Germany could have been 
 wiped out by a handful of soldiers in one mission. Oh & a stationary machine gun, which just happens 
 to be at every location you hold to help wipe out wave after wave of Nazis with little fuss. I 
 cant stress how often this happens in the game & how boring it becomes. 
  
  There is some variety, sure. Like the parts where you control a tank, taking out motor crews etc. 
 & the set pieces are, as I said, well done. But they pale compared to the monotony of the vast 
 majority of areas that consist of nothing more than the above. 
  
  It also outstayed its welcome for me. Its not the longest game ever but I was ready for it to end 
 a good hour or 2 before it did. It ended up becoming a chore & could have benefited by being a 
 bit shorter. This could be down to the mission structure also though. 
  
  That said, its still an accomplished game. For most part its good fun & is very well made. The 
 graphics have held up quite well too since release. & even with the poorly thought out missions 
 - that are probably mainly because of the restrictive setting - its still recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jtbug
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 2, 2009 4:15 pm PT
Review:  Call Of Duty 2 is an intense experience, and so far one of the most instantly playable WWII games 
 I have ever played. Enjoyable is perhaps not a word I would associate with this game, although 
 you do get a serious sense of accomplishment when you finish it and put down the controller; nerves 
 frayed, muscles taut, and generally exhausted.
  The campaign is one of the largest in a WWII game: you play a Russian campaign, a British campaign 
 and an American campaign over vast levels of extreme battlefields. Skip the easier settings and 
 go straight to Hardened (you'll be coming back for Veteran as much out of compulsion as you want 
 to unlock those 360 achievements) . The missions are vast: large areas where you'll be wanting to 
 duck for cover at every opportunity, where every bullet that flies past is a threat and cover is 
 constantly changing in terms of safety, with grenades seemingly bouncing in at you from all directions. 
 You get a nice feeling for squad-based warfare in these missions, and start to feel protective 
 of your comrades, though some sections might have you cursing their ineptitude because you feel 
 as though you have to do all the work. Thankfully, these sections are few and far between: for 
 the most part the squad mechanic works fluidly, and enemies will be disposed of without you being 
 aware. Still, the only way to advance through most sections is to advance literally: move up on 
 enemy positions in one nerve-wracking sprint to cover or stay pinned down and risk being taken 
 out by bullets and grenades. The smoke grenade is a nice addition to your arsenal: pinned down 
 by an MG, you fling a smoke grenade (frag grenades are sometimes too inaccurate to reach an MG 
 nest and you can only carry four at a time) , and dart through the smoke, strafing anything that 
 moves in the fog with a burst of Thompson fire.
  The firepower is not that impressive: mostly you'll be wanting to hang onto a rifle (usually a 
 Garand or a Gewehr - sniper rifles are somewhat rare) and a machine gun, this being either a Thompson 
 (great stopping power) or a German MP40 (holds ten more rounds in the clip) , ammo for which is 
 in endless supply. Having said that, there is a very weighty feel to the weapons and they are greatly 
 satisfying to unload on the enemy. You get a real sense of power and accuracy with these weapons.
 
  Overall, CoD2 is a great game, an instant classic, and one not for the faint of heart. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GRAW2596
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 16, 2009 3:54 pm PT
Review:  I am honestly amazed with this game. It is one of the first games released for the 360 and it surprised 
 me a lot.
  
  The player takes the part of a couple of soldiers in some missions during World War II. You can 
 carry two different weapons at once while carrying smoke and frag grenades. You can kneel or go 
 prone on the battlefield to get the best protection from the cover provided for you. You can take 
 control of enemy machine guns, flak cannons, and in certain missions you can drive tanks. There 
 are many intense battles that will amaze you. One of my favorite missions is the Pointe du Hoc 
 D-Day mission. When you climb over the wall you will be amazed as you see a huge battlefield with 
 explosions going off everywhere, guys being mowed down, bullets whizzing by you, it`s one of the 
 most intense battles I have ever played.
  
  The characters in the game are Private Vasili Ivanovich Koslov who participates in the battle of 
 Stalingrad, Sergeant John Davis in the North Africa and some of the Normandy campaign, and Corporal 
 Bill Taylor in the battle of Normandy.
  
  There are four campaigns in all. In the Eastern Front you will be playing as Private Visili Koslov. 
 The first mission will be a training mission which will lead to beating back a German assault. 
 The player is transferred to Stalingrad a year later and must recapture a building, hold that position 
 and then recapture another building. After this you go to house to house fighting across Stalingrad 
 and then finally destroy some German tanks with sticky bombs. You then have to retake and hold 
 a train yard followed by more house to house fighting and then you basically get to go on a sniping 
 montage.
  
  In the North African campaign you play as Sergeant John Davis of the 7th Armoured Division. The 
 first mission makes you do a sneak attack on the Germans and then you get to blow up a valuable 
 German Supply Station. Then you defend a town under a mass amount of Germans. Then you mission 
 is to capture a German HQ by fighting your way through trenches, machine gun nests, and destroying 
 some flak 88s. You then take the role of a British tank Commander by the name of David Welsh. You 
 basically shoot a bunch of tanks and infantry before you beat that set of missions.
  
  In the battle of Normandy you play as corporal Bill Taylor of the 2nd Ranger Battalion. You first 
 do the assault of Pointe du Hoc destroying artillery batteries and sniping morter crews. Then you 
 do the Hill 400 mission where you fight your way up a giant hill destroying bunkers as you go, 
 and then holding the hill against the counter offensive.
  
  Crossing the Rhine is the final mission where you are immediately under fire providing cover fire 
 against the Germans while you cross the river and then battle your way through most of the town.
 
  
  This is a long game but a good one. The graphics are definitely not like todays, but for a 2005 
 game they are really well done. You should really give this game a shot. Its intense battles will 
 have you shaking with excitement and amazement after your done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Magnarr
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 1, 2009 11:48 pm PT
Review:  Category : First-Person Shooter/Historic War
  
  Story 7.5/10 : Not much new here just the same old WW2 story from all the other games, which is 
 told through videos from the military channel. which is pretty cool.
  
  Gameplay 6.5/10 : The gameplay is pretty much like all the other FPS's out there, in the since 
 you just do you what you need to do while shooting the enemy soldiers when they get your way. The 
 gameplay is really fun until you get the the "Veteran" difficulty, and thats when it gets hard 
 and can make you pretty mad sometimes, I have beat it three times on vet and there is always a 
 part I get stuck on.
  
  Graphics 6/10 : There okay since this was a lunch title for the 360, there is some pretty good 
 detail in the guns but saying that about the guns I do have to say that the environments could 
 have been better.
  
  Audio/Music 7/10 : The gun sounds is maybe, just maybe the best thing about the game since they 
 went and recorded the real guns and use the sounds for the game which is pretty nice, Not much 
 about music in this game so don't worry about that.
  
  Single-Player 7/10 : The single-player is pretty straight forward and does'nt take much to learn 
 the controls and get good at the game, If you want a challenge then I have to say that you need 
 to play on veteran, that will test anyone's skill at this game.
  
  Co-Op/Multiplayer 5/10 : The multiplayer in this game kinda is it's downfall since you can choose 
 the sniper rifle but the maps are to small to use it, and it's not well put together since all 
 you do is run around the map and grap the flag or just kill the enemy, plus I like to a rank or 
 reward system, and there is nothing like that in the multiplayer, but playing with just a friend 
 on the same 360 or over XBOX Live can be quite enjoyable.
  
  BREAK it down : Good solid shooter that can be enjoyed by just about any gamer, and challengeing 
 if play on the higher settings which will make anyone happy when or if they can get all the achivements. 
 And if you like multiplayer with no rank system then this is the game for you since the really 
 only point to the multiplayer is to just kill and not rank up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSBFan12
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 30, 2008 4:48 pm PT
Review:  In this World War 2 game you are three people. One person when you are the russians whose name 
 is Stakeyvock. (Or something like that) One person when you are the British whose name is David. 
 And one person when you are the Americans named Johnson. You are the Russians for only 8 levels. 
 You are the British for about 13 levels and you are the americans for only 9 levels. The Russians 
 levels are in the motherland where it is winter time and you explore everywhere in the city. The 
 British levels are out in Egypt and in France. And the american levels are in Germeny. The game 
 has great sound and smooth graphics. The game is long and it is just right. But online only allows 
 only 8 people to play. The game is a great game for anybody to play. When you play the game it 
 feels like you are actually in World War 2. The levels are fun and attacking enimies is really 
 awesome. The game is just really fun. Some of the levels though don't have that much checkpoints 
 and if you did something really amazing and if you die then it takes you back really far. So the 
 game has some downs but alot of ups. I think this game is great for people who like war and history.
 
  
  The good of the game is that there is alot of levels. The difficulty is just right. The game makes 
 it actually feel like you are in World War 2. The game has great sound and smooth graphics.
  
  The bad of the game is that the game is all about the british really. You can only go up to 
 8 players in online.
  
  Overall this game is really a great game for poeple who like war or history. This game gets a 8.0 
 outta 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amirsafar
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 29, 2008 3:27 pm PT
Review:  Right, I'll break it up into sections:
  
  1) Single Player Story- The single player story is great and pretty long too!, You will play as 
 a british and russian soldier, but also an american one. This really gives a good variety of weapons 
 and enemies
  
  2) Multiplayer- I have spends AGES on the multiplayer. Looking back on it, it was great, you even 
 find a few games now every now and again. But its quite rare, so if your looking for a multiplayer 
 experiance then go for COD WaW, which is awesome, or Cod4 which is also awesome!
  
  3) Graphics- Really good, still has pretty good graphics even though it was a launch title!
  
 
  4) Sound- The sound the bullet makes is very cool. Makes it a little more realistic. The music 
 in the game is also great and adds to the intensity and tension of the game. 
  
  5) Gameplay- I think the controls are perfect. The game plays out very nicely. Everything is fluid 
 and I have encountered no glitches what so ever so far.
  
  Overall, if this was 1-2 years ago, then i would say this is A MUST BUY. DO NOT RENT THIS GAME. 
 but, as CODWAW and COD4 is out, try to buy it cheap. Nevertheless, the SP is awesome and long, 
 so id get this if its cheap now., 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warrior427
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 21, 2008 4:08 pm PT
Review:  very good shooter and it improves greatly on the first game the history portion of the game was 
 well done and it is still incredibly intense like the original and the weapons are better in this 
 game and the campain is awsome so the first call of duty game for the 360 is awsome there isnt 
 much to point out about this game except it should have been longer with more surprises in the 
 campain mode and I belive split screen co op would have greatly improved the game the diffrent 
 level of difficulty keeps you coming back but some parts on any difficulty can be difficult and 
 frustrating like the level with the tanks once you play through the game once you'll be ready to 
 play through it again but I still cant help but notice the game is to similer to the first call 
 of duty game and it shares the same atmosphere which is a good thing but can be a bad thing to 
 depends on the way you look at it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roger7660
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 24, 2008 6:27 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is a very great game. Its very realistic and very fun. The game play is fast, intense, 
 and chaotic. Its in your face action. This is a hard game to play through. I'm currently half way 
 through the game. I'll finish the game tomorrow. I'm looking forward to playing again. There are 
 lots of cool world war 2 weapons in this game and they are a blast to use. The first two campaignes 
 are awesome. Killing Nazis is very fun and never gets old. The varied campagines makes this game 
 much better.
  The graphics are very great and are sharp. Everything looks real. The back grounds are awesome 
 and the character models are great too.
  The sound effects are perfect. Everything sounds as it should. The music suits a war game. The voice 
 acting is superb.
  The replay value is great. This is a high quality game. The multiplayer is amazing.
  The combat 
 is top notch. Killing your enemies looks real.
  The story is great as well. It keeps the game moving along quite nicely.
  I give 9 out of 10 
 for the game play. 8 out of 10 for the reply value. Great game play. 8.5 out of 10 for the graphics. 
 9.5 out of 10 for the sound. 9 out fo 10 for the combat. 8 out fo 10 for the story. 9.5 out of 
 10 for the controlls. Overall I give 9 out of 10 for this superb game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maniak4life
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 23, 2008 7:08 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 1 was very, very good.
  Call of Duty 2 improves on the first game in every single way.
  I have no qualms in saying that 
 this is easily the best original game on the XBOX360.
  I could go on all day about the moments in this game that took my breath away, but at the end of 
 the day what makes the game is the captivating atmosphere.
  Without trying to sound too cheesy, or trying to disrespect any of the men involved in the conflict, 
 it really feels like your there.
  You need a serious sound system to do justice to the explosions, gunfire and screaming that is 
 going off all around you.
  For an original game, the graphics are fanastically ambitious and having played the game again 
 after playing COD3 i can safely say there isn't much difference at all.
  If i was pressed to find a bad point about this shooter it would be that perhaps the game is a 
 bit too short, but firstly, thats probably because iw as enjoying it so much i didn't realise how 
 fast time was going by, and secondly, and i'm sure every single right minded gamer will agree with 
 me, i'll pick quality over quantity every day.
  
  Oh, and when you do finish the campaign there's always multiplayer, just remember to set an alarm 
 or something so you don't actually waste whole days playing.
  
  And now its cheap, you have no excuse not to pick up this piece of gaming history.
  
  +
  
 
  Atmosphere is mindblowing.
  Sound is shockingly visceral and absorbing.
  Graphics are ambitious and well done for original game.
  Whole package goes together brilliantly.
 
  
  -
  
  Campaign slightly short, although multiplayer makes up for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prenandrew301
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 16, 2008 11:24 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 Is not Really the Second CoD game but is the "Sequal" of Sorts. Expanding on an 
 Ever Growing Fan Base and Critic Hailing the Call of Duty Franchise is the Best Selling WWII Series 
 in the Market above Medal Of Honor.
  
  Call of Duty 2 throughs you into Vivid Combat on three front with 3 Allied Nations. You Will Fight 
 for your Motherland as a Soviet Soldier at Stalingrad. You Will fight as a British Infantrymen 
 against Rommel in the African Deserts. And you will Fight as a US Marine From Point Du Hoc Into 
 the Heart of German Territory for the Final Crushing Victory Blow. As would be Expected each Faction 
 has thier own Historically Accurate Arsenal of Weapons form Grenades to Heavy Machine Guns. As 
 in the First if you run out of ammo just pick up a Fallen Germans Weapon and Fight on. Each Faction 
 has a Storyline split into Chapters. One thing to Notice is the Different Enviroments of the game. 
 The Cold, Snowy Russian Winter, The Humid, Hot African Deserts, and the Stormy, Raining Events 
 of D-Day.
  
  CoD 2 has a very high Replay Value due to its Extensive Multi-player. From the Basic Game type 
 of Death-Match to many many more Fun and exciting Modes. Each player has the ability to Rise in 
 the Chain of Command and Unlock New Bonuses.
  
  The Xbox360 Version has Serveral Live Marketplace Map Packs as well as a Free Bonus Map to Download. 
 Its Graphics are also Next-Gen in Eperiance. There is Also Game of the Year Edition with Extras 
 Unknown to me.
  
  The PC Version has both a Standard Edition and a Collectors Edition with a Bonus Disc with a very 
 nice Documentary of First-Person Accounts from Point Du Hoc.
  
  So For any Fan of the Series or WWII Games its a must Play if not a Must Have. Recieving Many Awards, 
 Editors Choice's and General Praise its no Wonder its the Highest selling WWII game Out There. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rezpatriot
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 11, 2008 10:43 am PT
Review:  The deal with me with this game (COD2) this time around, is that I traded it in for Blazing Angels 
 2 at my local exchange shop. They are offering a deal to return the game after 5 days for the exact 
 shop price. So this deal was music to my ears because I would save some cash, but 5 days to complete 
 the game? Of course it was possible but because of other issues it was eminent that I had only 
 Sunday and Monday to complete it. In Veteran. 
  
  The game itself is great, and compared to the PC version there is no real difference. I had one 
 crash during the PC on an Egyptian level and no crashes for the 360. Yet some would say that the 
 360 offers less control compared to using a mouse. This actually didn't cause me a problem, the 
 controls were natural and options to change the XY axis automatically during the first mission 
 helped a great deal. I would not fault the game.
  
  The missions were the same except the added 360 achievements, which only really are gained if you 
 complete Veteran levels. So you want to know if I completed it in 2 days. Sadly no. I took the 
 game back for the exchange earlier today for "Bully" which I have yet to play. I actually got to 
 "The Silo" on Veteran, which was quite good, but I have completed the game on the PC. I actually 
 got frustrating caught trying to capture a house. (F) . Which I am not sure whether I was doing 
 them in the right order, but because of time limit I chose F after A. I even remember F being a 
 pain in the royal backside playing in Normal on the PC. 
  
  Fate will bring me back to this excellent game one day, maybe not today, maybe not tommorow but 
 one day I will complete the last two mish on Veteran.
  
  If you have not played COD2 then you are missing out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: delta_116326
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 8, 2008 1:05 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 Is not Really the Second CoD game but is the "Sequal" of Sorts. Expanding on an 
 Ever Growing Fan Base and Critic Hailing the Call of Duty Franchise is the Best Selling WWII Series 
 in the Market above Medal Of Honor.
  
  Call of Duty 2 throughs you into Vivid Combat on three front with 3 Allied Nations. You Will Fight 
 for your Motherland as a Soviet Soldier at Stalingrad. You Will fight as a British Infantrymen 
 against Rommel in the African Deserts. And you will Fight as a US Marine From Point Du Hoc Into 
 the Heart of German Territory for the Final Crushing Victory Blow. As would be Expected each Faction 
 has thier own Historically Accurate Arsenal of Weapons form Grenades to Heavy Machine Guns. As 
 in the First if you run out of ammo just pick up a Fallen Germans Weapon and Fight on. Each Faction 
 has a Storyline split into Chapters. One thing to Notice is the Different Enviroments of the game. 
 The Cold, Snowy Russian Winter, The Humid, Hot African Deserts, and the Stormy, Raining Events 
 of D-Day.
  
  CoD 2 has a very high Replay Value due to its Extensive Multi-player. From the Basic Game type 
 of Death-Match to many many more Fun and exciting Modes. Each player has the ability to Rise in 
 the Chain of Command and Unlock New Bonuses.
  
  The Xbox360 Version has Serveral Live Marketplace Map Packs as well as a Free Bonus Map to Download. 
 Its Graphics are also Next-Gen in Eperiance. There is Also Game of the Year Edition with Extras 
 Unknown to me.
  
  The PC Version has both a Standard Edition and a Collectors Edition with a Bonus Disc with a very 
 nice Documentary of First-Person Accounts from Point Du Hoc.
  
  So For any Fan of the Series or WWII Games its a must Play if not a Must Have. Recieving Many Awards, 
 Editors Choice's and General Praise its no Wonder its the Highest selling WWII game Out There. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Regimbal
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 1, 2008 9:30 pm PT
Review:  You get to play in three different armies. When you first play, you start as a Russian soldier 
 in Russia fighting in the winter. Then you are a British soldier fighting in the desert in Egypt. 
 Then after that you are a American soldier just fighting in Europe. In some missions; you have 
 to take over cities, defend a building or area until reinforcements come, destroy a building or 
 vehicle, and in one mission you have to repair a telephone wire. Some of the missions get frustrating 
 such as in D-Day, you have to hold of the Germans then retreat pretty much the whole time, and 
 in the second to last mission you have like 5 people with you and have to defend a building from 
 like 100 Germans attacking. That was like the only things that frustrated me. I haven't played 
 the multiplayer yet so I can't tell you about that. This game is worth playing and you should at 
 least rent it to try it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scorch0188
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 16, 2008 10:57 am PT
Review:  I played it on the hardest difficulty the first time through to get all the achievements, and it 
 was awesome. There were some spots in the game that took me an hour to get past, but they weren't 
 so hard that i completely gave up on the game. This was really fun, had great graphics, and the 
 overall game play was awesome. 
  
  It almost felt real in some stages, knowing that it would only take a second or two for your character 
 to be put six feet under. You really had to strategically take out the enemy to get ahead in this 
 game, and every single checkpoint counted. I LITERALLY had to crawl through long distances during 
 certain gunfights just to get a check point. I know that sounds boring, but my squad went through 
 some frantic battles and you WILL almost cry if you overcome an enemy and then get shot down before 
 the game auto-saves.
  
  The multiplayer on the other hand was not as impressive. This is why i had to give the game an 
 8.5 instead of a 9. I just didn't have fun in this game's multiplayer. I really don't know what 
 it was. I feel that it might have been a mixture of maps that I didn't find interesting or fun, 
 and the inability to end up in a room with players that gave half a crap about the team. It seems 
 as if though no felt to need to try to work together in EVERY single game i played. Was this because 
 there were no multiplayer achievements? Did i really just have THAT bad of luck? I don't know.
 
  
  I highly recommend this game, ESPECIALLY if you are one of the few gamers that does NOT have X-Box 
 Live yet (and believe it or not, you're not alone) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sloppyfalstaff
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 14, 2008 3:56 am PT
Review:  I have trouble understanding why everybody thinks this is a great game.
  Maybe for the time ,it was released, it was a decent shooter but there are a couple of very awful 
 design issues that that make it difficult to like.
  
  A couple of examples
  
  1- Making progress.
  
  The best way to make progress in the game is just to run forward.
 
  Two things happens when you run forward. 
  The Germans stop spawning and your own troops will run forwards. 
  The whole game mechanic is 
 based on spawning of a almost endless supply of German soldiers. The only way to stop this is to 
 advance a couple of feet. It doesn't matter if you shoot them , you can finish levels without shooting 
 one German soldier. Just run forwards under the cover of some smoke grenades. 
  
  2- Very linear level design.
  
  Most levels are design in a way that there is only 1 path to 
 take.
  There is almost no strategy possible. Yes you can snipe mortar crews , but this is more an on rails 
 experience then a strategic choice. There are a lot of activities in the game that have only 1 
 solution possible.
  
  3- Same same.
  
  Missions are mostly the same for the whole game.
  Kill the mortar crews and defend the position 
 you just conquered.
  You will do a lot of those two activities in the game. If you ,after a lot of running forward , 
 finally captured a objective there is a 80% chance that you need to defend it afterwards.
  
  4- Game play Dictator.
  
  There a couple of situations where the game forces you to act 
 in a certain way.
  For example after taking hill 400 you , of course ,have to defend it. 
  If you stay in the bunker the game will spawn grenades out of nowhere forcing you to exit the bunker. 
 There are a lot of moments in the game where these cheap tricks are used to force you in a certain 
 direction.
  
  5- Closing comments 
  
  The game looks good , the animations , props and sounds all do a good job of creating a good atmosphere. 
 But the game has to many issues with freedom and unfair game mechanics to make it a great game
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flobba
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 4, 2008 7:48 pm PT
Review:  Now in my opinion this is the second best CoD game in the series, it was simple but yet it played 
 really well. It also did have you revising your strategy for levels quite considerably on higher 
 difficulties as it was easy to get taken out for taking one step too far in a certain direction 
 or killing a different enemy first... This was all good, it was how it should be.
  
  The campaign has you playing as three different characters from three different countries (Russia, 
 UK and USA) and the levels vary to match this, when playing the Russian character your in colder 
 environments etc. You also have to accomplish a number of different tasks when playing this game 
 and most of them are genuinely believable for one person... Well there are nearer the beginning, 
 these tasks involve for example destroying a tank or two with explosives or defending a certain 
 building until reinforcements arrive. Unfortunately they get a bit more... Unrealistic later on 
 for example re-securing an entire village pretty much by yourself, its still a fun challenge though. 
 Don't let this put you off however as accomplishing these... Crazier tasks is a lot more satisfying 
 when you finish them
  
  The multiplayer on this game works very well for a release date title as there was little to no 
 problems getting games through matchmaking. The levels are very fair and can lead to some pretty 
 intense matches, especially if some of foes are skilled and know what there doing.
  
  Weapons wise this game also has a nice selection and each countries weapons are different based 
 on their countries natural conditions (Russian sniper rifles have leather around the scopes to 
 stop the lens freezing up for example) .
  
  The achievements for this game are also very respectable, not so hard that you can't do them but 
 hard enough that you get a satisfied feeling when you do.
  
  All in all this game is definatly worth playing, be it renting it or buying it and as its been 
 out for a number of years now you should be able to pick it up fairly cheap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: allotheabove123
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 28, 2008 1:58 pm PT
Review:  this game is just fun. the story is outregously long with like 27 levels and 3 campaigns the online 
 isnt like call of duty 4 because you cant make your own classes but it is still a pretty fun game. 
 there are lots of levels for split screen multiplayer and their are more for download on xbox live 
 marketplace. The russian cakmpaign is pretty good, but the british one is an absolute blast to 
 play because their are so many levels to play. i havent started the american campaign because my 
 360 scratched my game really badly. But if you are looking for a good word war 2 first person shooter 
 to play until call of duty world at war comes out then this is a really good game to play (and 
 since it has been out for a while it is pretty cheap i got mine at best buy for 20 bucks) so overall 
 it os an awesome game to play so i would recomend it to any fan of the series or first person shooters 
 in general. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: creeping-deth87
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 19, 2008 11:11 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is a great follow-up to the original, staying faithful to the roots of its predecessor. 
 There's nothing new here from the original, but that's not to say that it feels rehashed or boring.
 
  
  The campaign is an incredibly cinematic experience, worthy of a Hollywood CGI adaptation. You won't 
 get personally attached to any of the characters you get to meet, and this is partly because you 
 assume different personas throughout the game, but this is more an advantage than a detriment to 
 Call of Duty 2. You will play as a Russian, British and American soldier. This effectively exposes 
 you to several unique theatres of war. This gives you the sense of how different the confrontations 
 were between each nation and how the environments affected the tactics each side used. In this 
 way, the campaign remains fairly interesting throughout, with nary a dull moment to be had.
  
  The shooting mechanics are excellent, and this is ultimately what will keep you coming back 
 for more. You can shoot from the hip or aim down your iron sight, which greatly limits your field 
 of vision but allows for pin-point targeting. This also greatly detracts from your mobility, understandably. 
 Throughout the game you will frag, shoot, and snipe Nazis in droves. You will call in artillery 
 fire and drive your own tank in the Middle East laying waste to Rommel's troops in what is shockingly 
 a very good vehicular combat experience with intuitive controls. To add to this wonderfully varied 
 experience is the solid presentation of the game. Call of Duty 2 looks great. The cinematic feel 
 is aided greatly by the smooth frame rate and sprawling battlefields. There are few load times 
 to cut up the action, which maintains the fluidity of the experience.
  
  Each nation has a great s campaign, taking you from the snowy vistas of Russian battlegrounds to 
 the rocky cliffs of Pointe du Hoc on D-Day. They all have their own spectacular moments that will 
 leave you in awe, you really can't ask or expect more from a World War II themed action game.
 
  
  The multiplayer is similarly very polished and refined. Everything loveable about the campaign 
 is to be found intact with the multiplayer. X-box Live offers a seamless online experience, free 
 of lag and with several users and games running almost around the clock even years after its release. 
 There's nothing more to be had than the standard death and team death match modes, along with other 
 typical shooter fare, but the shooting mechanics and great gameplay of this game will have you 
 coming back for more. The single player lacks this replayability, unfortunately. Once you've beaten 
 the campaign there's very little reason to do it again, other than to perhaps play through it on 
 an increased difficulty level. There is definitely something to be said about the scripted battle 
 sequences Infinity Ward has created, though. Most, if not all, will pump your adrenaline. Even 
 when the game throws similar goals at you (taking several buildings in a certain area) , it somehow 
 always feels like the first time you did it. This is definitely a testament to Infinity Ward's 
 superb game design.
  
  Call of Duty 2 is a great game for any shooter fan. Whether you're tired of the World War II theme 
 or not, there's a great campaign to be had here and an equally good multiplayer experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lemmy2
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 16, 2008 7:39 pm PT
Review:  I just finished playing COD 2 again for the second time, this time beating it on hard. The thing 
 that bothers me about this game is the thin that bothers me about COD 4. Infinity ward"s idea of 
 what makes a good FPS is little strategy to accomplish you goal, it's just a matter oa wading through 
 constant enemy gunfire. Which is easy if you have enough smoke grenades. I get the feeling that 
 Infinity ward as a thing for grenades, because like COD 4 they are constantly being thrown at you. 
 Every enemy must have back pack full of them. On the plus side you'll also find lots of grenades 
 for yourself. On the down side, you can't cook them, so enemies throw them right back a lot of 
 the time. 
  
  I also found this game has the least varity of levels of all the COD games. It doesn't feel diverse. 
 i now there are a lot of different settings, but when I compare the types of missions you do in 
 this game compared to all the other COD games this one seems lacking. I even thought COD 2 : the 
 big red one was better.
  
  Infinty Ward also seems to love the enemy repawn style of FPS, where it doesn't matter if you kill 
 a whole line of enemies from a distance, if you don't move forward, more enemies just take there 
 place. I find this annoying as it does remove a certain amount of strategy from the game. You almost 
 have to have a Leroy Jenkins style of attack to complete your objective. This also makes the sniper 
 rifle in the game virtually useless, because as soon as you snipe someone, another German rushes 
 up to take his place. Why even put the sniper rifle in teh game. 
  
  Enemies seem to see you almost everytime you pop up your head even if you've moved "stealthfully" 
 to a nother advantage point, other times they are so dim witted they don't seem to see you two 
 feet away.
  
  Probably the biggest flaw to COD 2 is your own comrades, who are incredibly stupid. I've watched 
 them run right up to Germans and crouch down on the other side of a crate and not notice the German 
 there. The problem with your comrades is that there are so many of them they give you a sense misplaced 
 comfort that they'll assist you. This sense of security can get you killed, you almost have to 
 forget that you have these guys with you because they are stupid, and are horrible shots. They 
 rarely hit the Germans, although they do sometimes. When you're holding a position trying to kill 
 some Germans in front of you they will often run in fromt of you and having you accidentally kill 
 them. This results in the "friendly fire will not be tolerated" message which causes you to go 
 back to the last check point. I got so mad at how stupid and inconviencing my allies were that 
 I purposefully butted a guy to death with my rifle just to make myself feel better. I didn't care 
 if it made me restart. It made me feel good to do it
  
  The multi player of this game is good though, although not as many people play it anymore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiredcrescent
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 2, 2008 2:05 pm PT
Review:  COD 2 takes us back to WW II and places you in the shoes of multiple people with different sides 
 of the allies as they fight off the Nazi war Machine. This setup was fine, but it seems that we 
 have even less back story of each person than we had on Call of Duty Finest hour. This detached 
 me from actually caring about who i was playing and made the game seem more generic.
  
  Gameplay wise, the game doesn't differ much from Finest Hour. You have your standard "go to this 
 area kill all these dudes." The game however does give you a chance to explore the game as you 
 are forced to drive vehicles and occasionally snipe. This technique breaks up the monotony of the 
 game.
  
  The game does however give a great sound and graphics presentation. The music really gives dynamics 
 to the game and gives you the sense of what your actually doing, whether it be sneaking behind 
 enemy lines or engaging in an all out firefight. This games graphics are just awesome as they could 
 very well be the first to show us what the 360 can do. I do however think the character models 
 could have been done a little better, as sometimes the animation does seem kinda repetitive and 
 generic. You don't get the sense of individuality of people as they all kinda look the same in 
 some form or fashion.
  
  For those of you wanting a good WW II there are few better than COD 2, but if you want something 
 totally groundbreaking in this genre, its best to keep looking.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster33
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 2, 2008 8:11 am PT
Review:  PROS: The controls are very smooth; lots of intense action throughout; fun multiplayer.
  CONS: The single player campaign drags on too long; there isn't really much of a story; by today's 
 standards, the graphics are ugly.
  
  Like Call of Duty 1 and 3, this is a WW2 first person shooter. The controls are very much like 
 the other Call of Duties, and they work fine. The single player campaign can be beaten in around 
 10-15 hours, but it tends to drag on for too long. You play as multiple characters throughout the 
 campaign, but I don't think the levels are that fun to play though. There isn't much variety to 
 the weapons, either. You have automatic machine guns, light machine guns and sniper rifles. You 
 can see through binoculars to spot your enemy, and you can also melee your enemy. I personally 
 don't like to use some of the guns, but that's just me. For one mission you actually ride in a 
 tank and try to take out other tanks, which kind of gets boring, and the controls don't really 
 work all that well. Graphically, this game doesn't do that well. The models look mildly deformed, 
 but the environments look nice. The sound in the game is great, along with the voice acting. The 
 multiplayer is really fun. There are a variety of different game modes to play, like Team Deathmatch, 
 Free-for-All, Capture the Flag, and so on. I enjoyed the multiplayer a lot better than the single 
 player. 
  
  Story: 6/10 -- just an average storyline and there aren't really any surprises
  
  Gameplay:8.5/10 -- the campaign takes a long time to beat, and the controls work very well along 
 with the fun multiplayer
  
  Graphics: 6.3/10 -- the environments and guns look good, but the human models look pretty bad
  
 
  Sound: 8.1/10 -- the voice acting and sound are both great
  
  Multiplayer: 9.1/10 -- really fun, there's a variety of different game modes and it will last you 
 a while
  
  Enjoyment: 8/10 -- The single player campaign is a little long, but fun, and the multiplayer is just 
 great. That will give you at least 25+ hours of gameplay. There's lots to enjoy in this game, so 
 go rent or buy.
  
  Final Score: 7.8/10
  
  Final Thoughts: If you like FPS/action games or like WW2, then get this game. The multiplayer is 
 a lot of fun, and the single player campaign is enjoyable. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Little_Socrates
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 21, 2008 8:57 pm PT
Review:  The Call of Duty series has some of the most driving gameplay the first-person shooter genre has 
 to offer. Whether you're playing standard multiplayer, or going through the campaigns, you're happy 
 to be doing it.
  
  Call of Duty 2 offers some of the best designed levels in the series. The British Campaign is an 
 absolute blast, the Russians are fun (albeit short) , and the Americans are fun for what they are; 
 D-Day, then an onslaught.
  
  Pros:
  -Campaign Mode: The game is certainly a perfect scale of difficulty as you go further through the 
 game; you start as the Russians, who have a somewhat easier campaign, and by the time you're playing 
 the Americans, you're in for a real fight.
  
  The Russian campaign is focused on maintaining control of Stalingrad (after a short training mission) , 
 and although this part of the game is short, it's certainly a great way to start the Call of Duty 
 series. You'll be challenged, but not so challenged that you won't be able to familiarize yourself 
 with the interface and weapons.
  
  The British campaign is easily the most well-designed, and is based on the African front, and follows 
 all the way through to the Battle of Tunisia without shortcuts. These levels are absolutely fantastic 
 (excluding the ones where you drive the tank) , and contain the by-far best character of the Call 
 of Duty franchise, Captain Price. Otherwise, why would he his successor have returned in Call of 
 Duty 4? The dialog in this section is very well done, and every character is a team player.
  
  The American campaign begins with a bit of a disappointment (as opposed to playing the Battle 
 of Omaha Beach on D-Day, you're taking Pointe du Hoc) , but the rest of the campaign is difficult. 
 A surprise few missions from the British company shows that they preferred developing them as opposed 
 to making a truly memorable American company, but the Americans aren't too bad.
  
  Overall, the AI in this mode is strong, the difficulty is good, and the levels are well-designed. 
 An overall worthy experience.
  
  -Graphics/Sounds: The first great game for the Xbox 360, this game also was the top graphical achievement 
 on the console for a long time, and its graphics are by no means bad at this point. Sure, they're 
 nowhere near powerhouse games like Assassin's Creed, but they're easily as good as popular games 
 like Battlefield: Bad Company and GRAW. The sound is about as good as the graphics, which is a 
 major plus.
  
  -Multiplayer: Very simplified in comparison to a lot of FPS games I've played, the game has you 
 picking one of two teams (Allies vs. Germans) and picking one of six weapon types. You then go 
 at it in one of the five or so multiplayer modes. The Allies are one of three teams (the Brits, 
 Russians, and Amis) depending on the map. Every team's guns are VERY different, and picking a team 
 can actually make a difference on the battlefield. However, if you don't like your team's guns, 
 you can easily make at least one kill and take your enemy's weapon.
  
  The maps are well-designed (you'll recognize a few of them from the campaign) , and the teams are 
 well-balanced. This multiplayer was the most popular on the console before the release of the first 
 Gears of War, and it's not hard to see why. The game may be simple, but becoming a strong player 
 is purely skill, and it's honestly been a long time since something like that has come out.
  
  Cons:
  -Vehicle levels: The vehicles in this game just kind of suck. They don't control intuitively, 
 and are a pain to use. The only time you're in a vehicle long enough to actually care is in the 
 British campaign, but it's a severely irritating experience. Meanwhile, the level devoted to driving 
 a tank breaks up the building pace the British campaign has, which is sad because that campaign 
 is so strong.
  
  -Achievements: For once the achievement complaint isn't about achievements being online, but the 
 fact that they're just boring. After completing the game on NORMAL difficulty, no matter what you 
 do, you'll only earn 200 Gamerpoints. The other achievements are all for beating the game (or specific 
 levels) on Hardened or Veteran difficulty. I know this game was released before more specific achievements 
 were around, but they do suck. For the Gamerpoint-addicted saps like myself, this is basically 
 a do-or-die situation; either play the game or Veteran difficulty, or ignore the Achievements entirely.
 
  
  -Limited Play: The game doesn't last very long without Xbox Live (2v2 multiplayer has nothing on 
 the 4v4 the game is designed for) , and now that most gamers have moved to Call of Duty 4, this 
 game has only so much time for your average gamer. The Call of Duty devoted will be glad to have 
 this sitting and gathering dust, but after you beat this game, you're likely to just pick up Call 
 of Duty 4 and leave this on the shelf.
  
  Overall: I recommend a rental of this game if possible, or a used purchase. It's a very good game, 
 but it's not one you'll be showing to your friends or playing online every night. This is a good 
 way to get into the Call of Duty franchise if you've never played one of the other games, and a 
 good addition to the franchise for veterans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TX360
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 20, 2008 9:14 am PT
Review:  Call of duty 2 is now over 3 years old the same age as the 360 so you would expect this to be rather 
 average compared to the modern 2007 + shooters but actually cod2 is well above Shooters like RSV2 
 because its just so addictive.
  
  Single player 
  The game has a very fun single player challenging AI great objectives and if you put this on Veteran 
 hugely hard.
  
  but i want to talk about the multiplayer you see ever since i bought this i played it 8 months 
 straight on MP because it was just so fun play CTF HQ etc and the funny thing is this was the first 
 shooter i have ever played and now i just love them but the game has its problems i mean most of 
 the time you will get disconnected from games or some other problem and you get tons of whiny kids 
 calling you a camper.
  
  verdict
  fantastic launch game 
  excellent MP
  fun SP
  
  overall just a fantastic game that is still worth buying but once your finished move onto COD4 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snakes3425
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 10, 2008 11:41 am PT
Review:  The title "Best in the Series" can often be misleading, and in the case of Call of Duty 2, it's 
 meant to be the best game in the entire Call of Duty Franchise, that honor belongs to Call of Duty 
 4: Modern Warfare, but rather CoD 2 is the best game in the Call of Duty World War II Series. 
 
  
  With Call of Duty 2, the player is returned to the role of a Russian Red Army Soldier, British 
 Desert Rat, or US Army Ranger in the midst of World War II in Europe. Like it's predicessors the 
 game is divided into three campaigns, Russian, British, and American. Each of which focus on a 
 different front of the war. The Russian Campaign once again focuses on the events surrounding the 
 Battle of Stalingrad, however an improvement has been made by setting the first mission during 
 the Siege of Moscow. The British Campaign is actually divided, with the bulk of it taking place 
 in North Africa, the climax of which is the famous Second Battle of El Alamain, however the final 
 mission of the British Campaign actually takes place in Normandy, focusing on the Battle of Caen. 
 The American Campaign is also divided into two distinct branches, focusing on Normandy and the 
 Push into Gemany.
  
  The game has made some improvements over it's predicessor, for the first time you are presented 
 with a linked campaign, with characters from the American and British Campaigns interacting with 
 each other during the final mission of the game, and fighting on the same battle front during the 
 American Campaign. Another improvement is the expansion of the British and Russian Campaigns, to 
 include the Siege of Moscow, and the Battle of El Alamain. The biggest improvment is of course 
 the graphics, which are far more realistic then the first Call of Duty Game, which help add a far 
 more gritter feel to the game then it's predicessor, and the addition of improved multiplayer is 
 a welcomed sight. 
  
  Despite it's successes, CoD 2 does have it's fair share of flaws, the biggest of these is that 
 the campagins are reused, in fact many such as Normandy, have been done to death. The reuse of 
 old campaigns makes the game play at times feel stale and repetivive, which will take away from 
 the game's over all enjoyablity. 
  
  Dispite these flaws, CoD 2 is by far the definitive World War II: European Theater Game, thanks 
 in part to it's strong storyline, and vast multiplayer. The game will without a doubt appeal to 
 fans of the Call of Duty series, and World War II games, as well as traditional Hard Core gamers. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mgcrider08
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 10, 2008 6:40 am PT
Review:  I know, Call of Duty 2 has been out for three years. But you may be in the same situation I am... I 
 purchased Call of Duty 4 when it came out, was obviously very impressed by it, and decided I wanted 
 to backtrack in the series and see what the hype was about before. I bought COD2 used at Blockbuster 
 for $10, and the first thing I noticed was the gameplay is still very similar to COD4 and the graphics 
 are very good for being one of the first games to be released on the 360. You will make your way 
 through several WW2 military campaigns as a Soviet, British, and American soldier. If you played 
 COD4 on veteran and beat it, first of all, you are a stud. Secondly, you'll find COD2 similar in 
 difficulty, perhaps a little easier, but not much.
  You are a ground soldier, but you'll also shoot down airplanes and fight through the tank wars 
 in North Africa. There are roughly ten campaigns that have three or four "acts" to each one. This 
 is one of those games that the multiplayer is great, but I haven't even gotten around to it because 
 of the intriguing campaigns. Also rewarding is the fact that if you defeat the game on veteran, 
 you are awarded with all 1000 achievement points (roughly 800 of the game's 1000 points can only 
 be unlocked by playing on veteran) . The difficulty is modest in all the Call of Duty games; even 
 though it's not likely every enemy soldier will score an automatic headshot in real-life, it's 
 not insanely difficult to kill enemy soldiers with precise shooting. Soldiers on veteran can take 
 about 4-6 shots unless you get them in the head. If you're looking for a bargain and haven't taken 
 a look at some of the "older" games, definitely try COD2. It's worth the small price you'll pay. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spartan_lord
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 8, 2008 4:12 pm PT
Review:  1st thing you will notice about the game is that it sounds GREAT!
  2nd thing you will notice is that its fun as hell and addictive,
  i myself suck when it comes 
 to playing single player games for drawn out periods of time, but when i had nothing else to do 
 for 7 hours at the girlfriends when she went to work, this was perfect, i wasn't bored once!
  there are masses of enemy's in this game and although all the same looking it doesn't matter to 
 you because all you want to do really is shoot the S*** out of them.
  The campaign allows you to play out he war in a time line style, switching your control between 
 Americans, Brits, and Russians.
  the levels aren't repetitive at all there is enough new content each level to keep you immersed 
 in the game and wanting to continue.
  this game is defiantly worth picking up and having a good spill at it. its fun to play and the 
 game score is rewarding.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leeman911
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 6, 2008 1:13 pm PT
Review:  This is my first call of duty game and its a awesome first person shotter with great graphics and 
 a awesome stor mode. It hase great gamplay and solid controls so im impresed with this game and 
 if you have a 360 you should get it for hours of single player fun and I think it has hours of 
 replay vaule because I have beaten it twice. It has tough acvements but hopefully your get some 
 of them like me. My favorite wepon to use is the thompson or the shotgun o o o o o o o o o o o o 
 o o o oo o o o o oooooo oooooo oooooooo ooooooo oooooo ooooooooo oooooo ooooo oooooooo oooooooo 
 ooo oooooo ooooo ooooo oooo oooooo ooooo ooo ooooo oooo oooooooo ooooooo ooooooo oooo ooo ooooo 
 oooooo oooo oooooooo ooooooo ooo ooooooooooooo ooooooooo oooooooooooooo oooooo oooo oooooooooo 
 ooooo ooooooooooo ooooooooooo oooooo oooooo oooooooooooo oooooooooooo ooooooooo ooooooooooo oooo 
 ooooooo oooooo oo ooooo ooooooooo 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BoringGlorioso
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 1, 2008 7:09 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 the sequel to the first Call of Duty is the best sequel ever. The campaign is long, 
 and has great depth. The Russian campaign seems a bit repetitive but its good all the same. The 
 British campaign is probably the best, as you are getting tank support through most of the levels, 
 and one level you can drive a tank. One thing that I love about Call of Duty is the weapons. Like 
 the Lee-Enfield or the M1A1 Carbine. Its a great mix of tons of WWII era wepaons, and they are 
 all good in their own right. The last part of the single player game is the American campaign, 
 which is short but the levels are hard and pretty challenging. The Americans invade Normandy at 
 Pic de Peyennes on the first level, and then keep pushing in until they cross the Rhine, which 
 is the last level of the Game. Then there is multiplay, which is great, but on XBL you can buy 
 all sorts of new maps, like some Russian or Desert ones. If you own the game, you should buy those 
 maps.
  Call of Duty 2 when you are done playing leaves you refreshed and feeling like you did something, 
 unlike some mindless alien game (Halo3....) . Anyone who has a liking for FPS needs to own this. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: walker1846
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 23, 2008 5:31 am PT
Review:  i might have played call of duty 4 before i opened the box to this beauty but i was still impressed 
 by the graphics, sound and gameplay of one of the best xbox 360 launch games. the campaign is a 
 great way to waste time and infinity ward has done a great job at recreating the WW2 scenario which 
 they seem to deliver to the public so convincingly its great do not miss this great shooter or 
 your conscience will never forgive you.
  
  GREAT!!!
  - gives you a good variety of weapons to shoot nazis with
  - you really do feel like a small 
 part of a huge war
  - great visuals and sound and awsome gameplay to go with
  - AI is top notch
  - every mission is very memorable
  
  NOT SO GREAT?
  - can be very diffucult 
 and punishing at times
  - minor graphical issues
  - i dont think there will be another WW2 shooter as good as this except maybe COD 5.
  
  Graphics- 
 9.5/10
  Sound- 8.8/10
  gameplay- 9/10
  overall- 9/10
  
  it maybe a world war two shooter but always trust infinity ward to deliver for all you military 
 and FPS nuts out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nick_manthe
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 15, 2008 12:16 pm PT
Review:  In Call of Duty 2 you once again fight the Nazis in WWII. First, you start out in Russia as the Russians. Than 
 you go to Northern Africa and fight Nazis as the British. Finally you get to be the Americans and 
 once and for all defeat the Nazis. The graphics were the best out of all the other launch titles 
 for the Xbox 360. While I was playing Call of Duty 2 I felt I was apart of the battle. The sound 
 in this game was awsome I loved hearing Mortars and Grenades exploding and the guns sounded fantastic. There 
 was a severe flaw in Call of Duty 2. The multiplayer didn't work, it use to be very laggy and you'd 
 lagg out of games. Though that was fixed with an update about a half a year later and they fixed 
 the multiplayer setup and you can now choose what maps you want to play and don't want to play. I 
 was kind of dissapointed that it only supported 8 players online, but they'd fix that in the next 
 Call of Duty. That's why I think this game deserves a 9.9 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: connor52
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 9, 2008 8:06 pm PT
Review:  When i first got this game it rocked out!!!!!!!! every thing was great in this game you can play 
 as russians, the british, or the usa. all of the weapons and story were great but after about 6 
 months it got old but only the story mode did live is still really fun so if you like FPS than 
 this is probally 1 of the best games you will ever play!!!!!!!!!!!! another thing too this games 
 graphics kick butt for an older 360 game. and the sounds and the voice acting will blow you away!!!!!! 
 not to mention there are no bad levels all of them are fun the only thing bad about the game is 
 that it is way to hard on vetran i was just like give me a break this is 2 hard but other than 
 that the game is perfect!!!!!! the part i think that you will find the best about this game is 
 the live wich is just  same with 
 the guns and the atmosphere!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! all of it is just flat out  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greenday4500
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 31, 2008 8:33 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is a World War 2 shooter. But unlike most WW2 shooters it's intense, fun, and probably 
 the best WW2 shooters out there. Call of Duty 2 never gets old. I've played the D-Day invasion 
 over and over. Also for the people who like Captain Price, well he's in this game too! You could 
 learn more about him and instead of a fisherman hat, he has a beret. Also if you see the ending 
 credits. You see him not on the British, but in fact saving Sergeant Randall on the American Army! 
 Sorry for that spoil. Unlike most shooters, Call of Duty 2 has smart AI (artificial intelligence) . 
 The missions are intense and are well thought out. It's fun to charge with a whole squad or more 
 people like in the Russian or American campaign. You play as a Russian named Vassili in the first 
 campaign. Then you move up to a British infantry man. Then you go as a American in the D-Day invasion. 
 Each Campaign takes about 2 to 5 hours. The British is the longest. In the British you can also 
 ride and control a tank. It doesn't stop there though. The multiplayer is Great. Even though a 
 lot of people don't play much anymore since Call of Duty 4. You can still find them playing from 
 time to time. Call of Duty 2 also in each campaign you will find movies about what happened sort 
 of like a news report.
  
  Graphics: 8
  Sound: 9
  Story: 8
  Gameplay: 9.5
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Garfield360UK
Rating: 9
Date: May 22, 2008 10:02 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2
  
  
  Gameplay-
  
  Call of Duty 2 was one of the first games I got with my Xbox 360. I have found the gameplay to 
 have been matched by few games in recent times due to the excellent controls, acurate story and 
 much more.
  
  Starting off with the controls for the game, they are mainly good. Where you aim is usually where 
 your target hits and the button layout is excellent. The tank level could be improved I feel due 
 to the controls still feeling like you are walking but in a tank and this makes things alot harder 
 to do. However, overall I would say controls were very good with the game.
  
  In terms of actual gameplay, there is much going on. You can rarely stand still in the game due 
 to the set pieces happening around you and you get the sense of urgency in that you are taking 
 part in something big.
  
  Your allies you see are allways welcome and are good to have along side you in battle, you feel 
 part of a team from this rather than somebody out on their own.
  
  
  Graphics-
  This game features great graphics. The grenade and shell shock effects work well, you do loose 
 the ability to move around properly from this and so it does not feel tagged on like racing games 
 where if you take your lights out you can still see perfectly fine. The explosions are good and 
 your allies and enemies faces are well detailed. The environments generally are good although sometimes 
 they seem a bit bland but this is something you rarely feel.
  
  Sound-
  
  The choice of music works well and the points where the tracks kick in are very effective. The 
 actual gun sounds seem realistic and your colleagues are good to listen to. The whole sound package 
 works really well but sometimes the sounds are overused such as the grenade shock which is the 
 same each time.
  
  Modes-
  
  This game has an exclent campaign mode. I have managed to recently complete this on easy difficulty 
 and it took me over 10 hours to do so its quite good. The camaign sees you play as different people 
 for the different allied forces (you play as a Rusian, English, and American recruit) and you see 
 vast areas. You gain 200 points at most for doing the game in easy so you would need to try Vetran 
 difficulty. This level of dificulty is extreemly hard, you seem to die very quickly but this is 
 more rewarding when things pull off and its not the game "cheating" against you where it feels 
 unfair, it seems very realistic.
  
  In terms of multiplayer I spent many an hour playing this on Live and is very enjoyable. Unlike 
 the newer versions this game has no online achievements which is a shame but regardless this is 
 one excelent online package. There are the usual modes such as deathmatch, capture the flag, team 
 deathmatch but also a deffend/attack style game where you have to destroy a radio and the other 
 team deffends it. Multiplayer is a big selling point of this game on the Xbox 360 and no wander 
 as it is a fantastic way to play the game.
  
  Overall-
  
  This game is a must buy for fans of FPS games and those who are willing to try something different. 
 Whilst it is not the most original game, most of what it does works well and I highly reccomend 
 PC and Xbox 360 gamers alike play this game. It is cheap now and still supported online I believe 
 (I played a couple of weeks ago and found full rooms still) .
  
  In short-
  Good graphics, good sound, great gameplay, great multiplayer, good single player.
  
  A must 
 for FPS fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lahdeedah
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 28, 2008 5:00 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is one of the best games ever made. It has good graphics, amazing gameplay, and 
 the guns you would be using back in the time. The voices of the characters were really good. The 
 game has four different difficulties. The difficulties were easy, regular, hard, and veteran. Veteran 
 is basically impossible. If you don't have much money on you and are looking for something cheaper 
 get this. It's the best in the series! Actually it's probably one of the best for the X360. There 
 aren't a lot of good first person shooters. This is one of the best and I beat it in a day or two 
 because I was really addicted. You will want to play this again on higher difficulties because 
 of how fun it is. The harder the difficulty the longer it'll take you to beat it. On veteran difficulty 
 it's nearly impossible. One hit you're dead. The level below veteran... two hits you're dead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Voork
Rating: 10
Date: May 16, 2008 8:08 am PT
Review:  Call Of Duty 2 Is just Awesome. The campaign Mode is about maybe 8-10 hours long depending on the 
 difficulty. But, after the campaign mode you have my favorite, Multiplayer. It's just plain fun. 
 Theres no Perks or anything, Its you and your gun fighting it out to the death. There are the linear 
 modes like Capture the flag, Deathmatch, and team deathmatch. Theres also 2 very unique modes. 
 Search And destroy which has one team planting a bomb and the other trying to stop them, with only 
 1 life. There's also headquarters. In headquarters you have to take control of a radio station 
 and if you lose it, you must destroy it. 
  
  On to the Campaign review. The campaign has you as the american's, British, and Russians in seperate 
 Campaigns. It is very easy to beat on normal, but the fun comes on veteran. Veteran difficulty 
 gets you killed in about 3 shots. Which makes it very hectic and hard. I still have yet to full 
 beat it on Veteran. Combine The Great campaign with fun multiplayer and you have a masterpiece 
 of a game. Also the graphics aren't too shabby either. 
  
  i Give it a 10..... out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: no-scoped_jfk
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 9, 2008 12:24 am PT
Review:  I picked this game up off ebay for 13.50 (australia) and its provided with me with over 10 hours 
 of great gameplay.
  
  im still playing it, the graphics are great for a 3 year old game, its got good story lines, not 
 just run and gun. There are different difficulties and a few different modes too.
  
  the online is popular too. The acheivements are challenging but fun.
  
  Its a buy, especially 
 if you can get it brand new. Look around and you'll find it in a bargain bin.
  
  Have fun
  
  Review by: no. scoped_jfk
  
  extra words for submission extra words for submision 
 extra
  extra words for submission extra words for submision extra
  extra words for submission extra words for submision extra
  extra words for submission extra 
 words for submision extra
  extra words for submission extra words for submision extra
  extra words for submission extra words for submision extra
  extra words for submission extra 
 words for submision extra 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phxsns1
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 23, 2008 7:55 pm PT
Review:  Buy this game. Simple as that. It doesn't matter that it's almost 3 years old, it doesn't matter 
 that the graphics may be slightly outdated, it doesn't matter that we have Call Of Duty 4, this 
 is still an amazing, intense, exciting, fun experience. I bought this for free (ya know, buy 2 
 get one free at gamestop) and I have been playing it ever since last christmas. The graphics are 
 excellent, the gameplay is amazing, the sound is just some of the best, probably ever, and the 
 story is just like any other WW2 game: AWESOME. The best thing about this game is probably the 
 intensity. There are times when there are enemies all around you, shooting from everwhere, people 
 yelling, bullets flying, and that's how I like games, intense. The weapons are just like any other 
 WW2 game, just you're basic WW2 weapons, M1 Garand, Thompson (my personal favorite) , and the BAR. 
 The graphics are great, even today. The characters look good unless you get up close to them, but 
 otherwise, they look pretty good. The enemies are just, Germans. But what's better than killing 
 Nazis??? Overall this is one of the best games I've played and in my opinion will go down as one 
 of the best WW2 games ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PerfectlyDark
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 30, 2008 3:30 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is a complete package and has plenty to love. It looks plenty good, plays amazingly 
 well, and has alot of options. The lack of Co-Op is a slight bummer, but otherwise, this is the 
 best Xbox 360 launch title that came out. Forget Perfect Dark Zero, buy this!
  
  Graphics: Not the best, but they look good in terms of scale. The massive battlefields are richly 
 detailed and look spectacular. The weapons all buzz with a deep effect and the game runs a sweet 
 60FPS and never bogs down. If you have an HDTV, this game looks even better. The best effects are 
 the character models and the smoke effects, easily some of the best ever seen. The Sound is incredible. 
 You are in WWII battlefront sitting in your room. A great game, in the effects department, but 
 does it play as good as it looks?
  
  Gameplay: Call of Duty kicksass. The gunplay is fast, loud and in your face. You basically go from 
 point A to Point B completing objectives. This sounds simple but the amount of variety keeps it 
 hot. The Missions are in 3 different campaigns, Russian, British and American in that order. Each 
 campaign takes place in a different part of WWII. While playing as the Ruskies you'll be in the 
 snowy fields of Stalingrad, where as the Britsh, your in the deserts of North Afrika and finally 
 in France and Germany as the US troopers. The missions are AWESOME and you easily get 3 or 4 plays 
 outta of the best ones in you first 20 hours. The game lasts about 9 hours first time on Normal 
 and about 7 on easy.
  
  Overall expressions: A very good game to have on your 360, and its very cheap, a must own for any 
 360 players. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: twilight7896
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 29, 2008 8:16 am PT
Review:  this is a great fps that is fun, additcive, and historicaly accurate. the inviroments, levels, 
 and battles are amazing, the multiplayer is adicting, even with 2 people, and the weapons are great. 
 the only objections i have are, no co-op, only 8-players on live, and 16 players only on system 
 link. i cant imagine what it would be like with 16 people. its a great game, one of the best fps 
 ive ever played, but it doesnt stand up to the big guns like halo 3, gears of war, and call of 
 duty 4. if anyone is a fan of wwII games, fps, or war games in general, this is the game for you. 
 its recomended you have xbox live if you want to play multiplayer. if this is your first fps, start 
 on easy, if youve played a few fps in your life, start on regular, if you have played call of duty 
 1, 3, or 4, start on hard, and if your a 1337 newb pwner, go on veteran 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fat_otter
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 27, 2008 9:44 pm PT
Review:  Let's accept the fact that WWII shooters are dead. But 2.5 years ago, there was a WWII game that 
 was worth playing, and is still worth playing today. And that game is Call of Duty 2. The single-player 
 campaign lets you see the war from three different perspectives- An American, British, and Russian 
 soldier. While the campaigns all play out the same, the Russian campaign looks the nicest graphically 
 with a great snow effects. The British campaign is the longest and features intense desert combat 
 as well as a two-level tank campaign that is fun, but is over way too quickly. The American campaign 
 has to be the best with an extremely intense D-Day mission, as well as some other great moments. 
 Call of Duty 2 has excellent enemy AI that actually knows how to take cover and shoot back. Unfortunately, 
 your allies aren't nearly as smart, and whenever they kill an enemy, it feels like they're stealing 
 your kill rather than helping you. Call of Duty 2 also has solid multiplayer. While it only supports 
 eight players and doesn't feature any unique game modes to play, it's still a very fun and engaging 
 experience. Call of Duty 2 is a great game that manages to put in a great, lengthy, intense campaign 
 as well as fun multiplayer which makes this game a great package for any Xbox 360 owner! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: titanic100
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 26, 2008 7:09 am PT
Review:  Call of duty 2 
  
  Call of duty 2 is a lot better than call of duty 1 
  
  Call of duty 2 is a lot better than the first call of duty and it is now on the Xbox 360 which 
 makes it a lot better. 
  
  The game play as the same as call of duty one you are a British soldier fighting a would war against 
 the Germany and the first mission is the training so you can get used to the controls and how to 
 handle a weapon in combat. 
  
  The sound quality is a lot better than call of duty one and you can hear more clearly, but when 
 a grenade goes off you can not hear anything only you're breathing and the screen goes blurry as 
 well. 
  
  The graphics are a lot better and it is even more amazing when a grenade goes off near you the 
 screen goes blurry and you can hardly see anything then when you get back on your feet everything 
 is back to normal, 
  
  So what my suggestion is that if you have a Xbox 360 and you love wars like call of duty fighting 
 in a world war I would suggest that you buy this game and see everything for your self. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattman127
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 19, 2008 6:26 pm PT
Review:  Your running out of ammo. You KNOW, that the enemy is smart. You KNOW that the enemy has a better 
 armory, but you also know that your not alone...
  
  This game rocks, so I'll be quick so you can get back to playing it! Let me discuss the sound. 
 Ahh the glorious sound in this game. Every time you unload your Thomson, fire that Springfeild, 
 or just hear the slight ping as you pick up another bandilier for your Garand, you feel like your 
 in the Allies fight for survival against the Nazi horde.
  
  The story is good for Russian and Amirican, but the British campain is probably the most entertaining 
 of the three, altough all three are great.
  
  Graphics are amazing................ ya
  
  Finaly, the multi player is FLAWLESS. I've never expeirienced a "gay kill" and this game STILL 
 has people playing.
  
  ......................... what do you want, an invitation? GO PLAY!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Unheard-Volume
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 19, 2008 2:41 pm PT
Review:  I have had my eye on this game for the past two years (since it came out) but I couldn't justify 
 spending $60 for it brand new. So after waiting two years I bought it for $10 used over at Gamestop 
 (the world's best store) ! Since then I haven't been able to put it down! The graphics are amazing 
 (As you would expect from an Xbox 360 game) , the campaign is great (although story line is lacking, 
 they have minute long "history channel" type videos that let you know what was going on at the 
 time) w/ 4 difficulty settings: Easy (for people that have never played an FPS) , Normal (for the 
 "average Joes") , Hardened (for those seeking a more challenging experience) , and Veteran (for the 
 people that are playing the game to get all the achievements!!!) . As of now (3wks after buying 
 it) I am on the 2nd chapter of the last section of the campaign on Veteran difficulty (and it is 
 pretty dang hard) But I have found that the way to beat most FPS games on the hardest difficulty 
 is to take it slow (as is true w/ this game) . Up to this point the game has been enjoyable, there 
 are times when the game seems impossible and others when you think that you are playing on an easier 
 difficulty setting. I should have the game finished up in about another week, and as far as I can 
 tell this game would be a BLAST if played on Normal or Hardened difficulty. 
  
  The multiplayer aspect of the game is where it is lacking. With only 8 people able to play in one 
 room over XBL or system link it is not as fast paced or as enjoyable as other games such as Halo1, 
 2 or 3 (but in all fairness. no game compares to Halo's multiplayer) . If you are the type of person 
 that doesn't enjoy the fast paced game play of other FPS games than I would recommend checking 
 out this game. 
  
  Overall this is a game that most people will like. I give it a 9/10 because it was the 1st C. o. D 
 game for the 360 and is one of the best F. P. S games for the 360! 
  
  Graphics 8/10
  Gameplay 9/10
  Sound 8/10
  Tilt 9/10
  Overall 9/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: setonj18
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 16, 2008 12:10 pm PT
Review:  I'm not a big FPS, but this game definitely is an exception. The levels are sick with battles like 
 D-Day, Battle for Hill 400, El Alamein, and other great levels you will surely replay over and 
 over. The muliplayer was also fantastic with neverending fun on all levels. Even if you didn't 
 own Xbox live it was still a blast to play split screen with some friends. The guns are also cool 
 like the M1, and the BAR. My favorite level was D-day because they captured it very nicely. I love 
 the part in that level when you are climbing the rope to get up the cliff and if you look up a 
 fellow comrade gets shot and falls down. The game is pretty easy unless you play on veteran. If 
 you play the game on veteran I suggest you hide the whole time and let your soldiers do all the 
 work. If you're deciding between this and any other war game, get this its the best!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrcod4
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 26, 2008 5:24 am PT
Review:  Cod2 is a very good FPS I would say. The graphics are good gameplay etc. I would say strongly that 
 the graphics are good. But it is for the 360 with is Microsofts new system. The new guns are cool. Your 
 regular German guns, USSR guns and all that stuff. Your with Cpt Price in the dessert and in small 
 town. And your with the USSR and the Americans. But you will be in trucks cars and these boat things 
 on d-day. In the d-day level you will climb up a rock and then captur all of these buildings. The 
 levels are in the desert are so fun. Almost all the levels are good. The USSr is kind of fun. It snows 
 every level. You would think the last level is hard but it isn't. You just shoot some Germans. I think 
 you might have to snipe. That is kind of tough but not really. There really isn't a story to the 
 game. Well kind of but it is not susposed to be a story like game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FPS_Gamer123
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 25, 2008 5:35 pm PT
Review:  Infinity Ward has a created a shooter with a great story and a great multi-player component. This 
 is already out on the PC but the newly released Xbox 360 needed some games. Microsoft ended up 
 getting Infinity Ward and Activision to make a console version on the already great PC version 
 of the game. Is this port worth your money or is it better on the PC? Find out!
  
  Game-play: 9 out of 10
  
  The components are completely alike to the PC version with re-worked 
 controls for the new Xbox 360 console. The features are completely the same except for one very 
 striking difference. Only up to EIGHT players on Xbox LIVE!! This is next generation here, and 
 EIGHT PLAYERS! The PC version at least had way more than that, and I think that Infinity Ward just 
 cut time, or was rushed by Microsoft to get the product out for launch date. Either way the lack 
 of customization and player control brings down the multi-player to a considerable margin. Somehow 
 this game still manages to be fun online, like the PC version and the original Call of Duty. I'll 
 explain more on the multi-player later.
  
  The other features are that there is a quite lengthy Single player experience where you play 3 
 allied nations; the British, the Americans, and the Soviets. Each of these missions is based on 
 real events that actually occurred in the Second World War. If you're calling is actual militaristic 
 footage, then Call of Duty 2 has what you're looking for! The Military channel has provided Infinity 
 Ward with some actual images on the war that base the missions. From messages from President Roosevelt 
 to Tank fighting in the deserts, some missions begin with short cinematic black and white scenes. 
 
  
  The campaign, like Call of Duty has tried to replicate the authentic Second World War feeling, 
 and it has! With German forces emerging left and right firing away, to realistic bolt action rifles, 
 this game gets that World War 2 feeling right into you! Fighting through an ever intense Veteran 
 difficulty will have you yelling and the controller on the floor before you get through! Speaking 
 of difficulties, Easy and Normal are practically useless German idiots running around the battlefield 
 taking what they believe is cover and what you see is them ducking behind an old wall and hiding 
 even if you come around to shoot them. However, on Veteran they seem to know exactly where you 
 are and will hunt you down if not careful. This causes many players to get frustrated easily and 
 find the game to difficult to find enjoyable.
  
  Call of Duty's slogan is no one fights alone, but it sure seems that you do fight alone. While 
 the enemy A. I is smart as hell, your allies will only move up when you do, regardless of whatever 
 difficulty that you play on. This is a continuing problem with many other games as they make the 
 enemy A. I dangerous and your A. I a bunch of idiots. I've been ranting for quite enough, so it's 
 time to move onto the great features of Call of Duty 2.
  
  For one, and I know I've mentioned it above, the Single player is a fantastic 27 mission campaign, 
 which will take at least a day on your first play through. All the missions are divided up into 
 sub-categories, like the D-Day missions are all put into the D-Day section in the mission select 
 which allows for better navigation. You can further unlock missions to be selected in mission select 
 by playing through them. The new Xbox 360 achievement system is implemented through playing various 
 missions on various difficulties, which may vastly expand your time playing the campaign modes.
 
  
  There is little repetition in all the missions except 3 little things: One thing is that many missions 
 have you clearing houses before you get to your objective. Whether this is historically accurate 
 is unknown to me. Also there is an exceeding amount of waiting 5 or so minutes just for reinforcements 
 to arrive. This next repeating phenomenon within Call of Duty 2, which I know is historically accurate, 
 is the destruction of German 88 Flak guns. Over the course of WWII, the Germans used many Flak 
 88 guns to easily destroy enemy vehicles, and aircraft. The allies obviously found this as a problem 
 because their reinforcements and air support would be cut off. It's no wonder why at least half 
 of the missions have some form of Flak 88 guns in them, so it wouldn't really be considered "repetitive" 
 because of the Germans major use of the Flaks. 
  
  You can use each and every piece of equipment to your disposal, with the smoke grenades used for 
 concealment, which can be very helpful in the harder difficulties. Fragmentation grenades can be 
 ricocheted into tight areas with a devastating effect on you, or the Germans. Bolt-action rifles 
 can be used for further distances to pick off heads, while a sub machine gun would be a close quarters 
 weapon. There are only Tanks available as drivable vehicles, but only in 2 tank based missions. 
 However these tanks are unavailable in the multi-player component. The tank controls are kind of 
 clunky as you have to use the left stick to drive, and the right stick to aim, when I would have 
 preferred the Halo style vehicular controls. The way your Tank cannon are pointing isn't necessarily 
 the way the rest of your armoured vehicle would move. 
  
  MG42's which are used by the Germans can be picked up by your A. I team mates in the campaign to 
 be relocated to a position to be used on enemy infantry. The MG can be used to mow down a massive 
 amount of enemies in a short amount of time. The only thing is that you have to have a good shot, 
 or else your just firing. What really bugged me about the MG42 is that the animation didn't show 
 the massive amount of bullet caps flying out of it. It just didn't feel right firing it when every 
 other gun had a bullet cap animation. 
  
  There are sniper rifles in this game, which can be used to pick off people from a distance. They 
 don't have to hit the head for a one shot kill, which is pretty nifty if you're a bad shot. The 
 two usable ones in multi-player only have 5 shots a clip with a lengthy pop them back in one at 
 a time reload, so don't get caught unloaded. I've seen many come up to me with an unloaded rifle 
 to try to kill me, but it trust me, they always die. 
  Over the course of the game, at one point the three protagonists will pick up some form of explosive, 
 whether it be thermite or conventional. They are used to take down objective points, get to unreachable 
 spots, or your allies will just command you to take down enemy armours. Once you pick up an explosive 
 set, your character will seem to have unlimited, using them whenever needed, and not seeming to 
 run out of explosives.
  
  The game is great on the campaign, with various use of weapons, grenades whether it be smoke or 
 fragmentation, explosives be it thermite or regular, and many more. I'm going to talk more in depth 
 about the multi-player. 
  
  On the PC version, the multi-player was really the meat of the game even after the campaign because 
 of the high magnitude of fun. Loads of players were playing on the PC version, with filled up servers. 
 If you made the decision to purchase this on the Xbox 360, then you're looking at the same thing, 
 only no mods, and EIGHT players. I know I've expressed the eight players' thing before, but I feel 
 the need to give it again. Eight players means only 4 per team unless on free-for-all. I don't 
 see how there could still be lots of action with only 8 people, but somehow the fast respawns and 
 mainly close quarter maps make it easy to forgive only 8 people
  
  The modes are the casual Team Deathmatch, Deathmatch which is free-for-all, Capture the flag, Headquarters, 
 and Search and destroy. You probably need some explanation on what Headquarters and Search and 
 destroy are. In Headquarters, teams race to set up a radio, and defend it for points. If another 
 team sets up the radio before your team does, you must destroy it before you can build yours. Search 
 and destroy is the Allies trying to blow up the German's objective with explosives. If the Allies 
 manage the plant it, the Germans have little time to defuse it.
  
  
  There are player matches, and ranked matches. Player matches are just for fun, while Ranked are 
 matches where you work to get your skill up. It doesn't matter which one of these you choose. If 
 you can't find a map, it's likely the game will make you make your own server, where you control 
 the game type, and options. One problem is, you get the most generic customization options I've 
 seen. When you do manage to get in-game, you can either be a spectator, or depending on what map 
 you're playing in, An American, British, Russian, or German soldier. There is auto-assign which 
 puts you on a random team, which usually is the team that is out numbered. After a few rounds of 
 playing, your either going to love or hate the game, and if you hated the Single player, chances 
 are you won't like the multi-player, as many of the maps build of major campaign areas. 
  
  That's it for game-play as it is where this game truly is superb. Enjoy playing which ever modes 
 you feel!
  
  Graphics: 8 out of 10
  
  I'm not going to say this game looks bad, but I'm not going to say this game looks visually stunning. 
 I'm not going to blame Infinity Ward for this either, as they explained in a DVD for the Game of 
 the Year edition, that they had to create new graphic methods for the Xbox 360, which at the time 
 wouldn't exactly be a piece of cake. They did well to replicate its PC brother and the maps look 
 great but one thing that really bogged this game down in the graphics department in the character 
 models.
  
  All the character models don't look like they've been in a war, rather an army training camp. Not 
 enough bloody stains on their faces, and uniforms, and especially far too low scars on faces. It 
 doesn't look like your characters are really fighting in World War 2. Some of the supporting crew, 
 like the various amounts of troops, haven't looked like they put a lot of work in them, as they 
 apparently alternate unless they are a specifically important character. The Germans aren't that 
 impressive either, as there are only a few specific models for them, usually always consisting 
 of a few obese Germans, which are lousy shots. 
  Another let-down in graphics is the explosive smoke. I'm not talking about minor frags, or air-strikes. 
 The tank firing smoke looks almost 2 dimensional and blocky. I can't help laughing in one of the 
 British missions where you launch Air support on the German forces and when the explosives were 
 dropped, they looked like 2-D cartoons. The smoke from the smoke grenades looks kind of like that 
 but only from afar. The game tries to make it look like World War 2 with constant explosions in 
 the heavier missions, which is a good thing although they are aesthetic, and they probably won't 
 hurt, let alone kill you. 
  
  
  Either than those two graphical constraints, the maps look impressive, and the accuracy of the 
 maps with reality is simply astonishing. I really like how Infinity Ward actually sent staff to 
 the historic sites just to find out what they looked like. This was expressed in the game of the 
 year DVD, as they explained it so easy for Americans to judge how a French barn would look like, 
 and how different they would be. Gun models look good too, with decent animations for all of them, 
 including bullet caps *cough* MG42 *cough* excuse me. There is a default set of maps based on all 
 of the campaign missions, and with Xbox LIVE marketplace, you'll never know, with map pack there 
 could be a lot more to come. 
  
  Each map has their strengths and weaknesses, and cover. They all have MG-42 set ups so you can 
 funnel enemies in to get them K. I. Aed. Snipers can easily take down anyone given the sniper is 
 in a covered position, and that the victim is running around like an idiot. 
  
  The graphics in Call of Duty 2 look great, but they could have been a whole lot better, and with 
 map packs already on the way, be sure for more unique looking maps!
  
  Sound: 9 out of 10 
  
  Dropping explosives, or firing your weapon, the sound puts you into 
 the mood for World War 2. Nothing sounds like it has been altered from the original gun, and the 
 triumphant music at the end of each mission has it in for great sound. They could have easily messed 
 this department up, but they did a great job.
  
  What I found very good about the sound was that the A. I would either shout militaristic terms at 
 you, helping you through your objectives, and helping you find enemies. The Germans also bellow 
 out cries to their allies, and even though I can't understand what they're saying, Infinity Ward 
 must have put it in there for extra effect. 
  
  I personally loved the music, and maybe you should pick up the soundtrack or download it, but one 
 thing that annoyed me was the amount of times your allies yelled "JERRIES!" which is a nickname 
 for the Germans. Good job anyways Infinity Ward!
  
  Value: 8 out of 10
  
  The replay ability in a lengthy campaign, an addictive multi-player, and achievements could still 
 blow a hole for a 9, but I'm easily singling out that 8 player multi-player. I might spawn a lot 
 of hate for this but it's just true. Please don't whine to me about "What about the Map packs!?" 
 because we all know that this will call for the apparent Microsoft points for payment. Depending 
 on the value of the map packs, and they will be around 10 dollars US, People probably will get 
 them.
  
  For what this game shipped with, for most it would be enough, and I didn't particularly buy this 
 game for the multi-player either. I like to learn about the past and the Holocaust is one of the 
 big events in our past. It would be foolish not to learn from mankind's mistakes, or else (you 
 probably hear this next phrase a lot, so I'm even going to quote it) "History is bound to repeat 
 itself unless we learn from our mistakes.". 
  
  Call of Duty 2 doesn't have an amazing amount of value, but it sure doesn't have a bad amount either. 
 
  
  Tilt: 10 out of 10
  
  I have always absolutely loved the Call of Duty franchise from the second I started playing it. 
 I'm glad to see that Call of Duty 2 wasn't a failure and rather an amazing success as this game 
 earned 2005 game of the year, and was the first Xbox 360 game to go platinum, as it sold over a 
 million copies first. If you're a fan of the World War 2 genre, and you're a fan of the shooting 
 genre, check Call of Duty 2 out, it's a pretty fun game! 
  
  True Score: 9 out of 10. 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drwario64
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 17, 2008 2:43 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is what set off the FPS for the XBOX 360. Before the system hit stores, you could 
 always go to your local electronic store and play the demo of the system and what was everyone 
 always playing when you got there. Well of course Call of Duty 2. If your familiar with the series 
 on the PC, then you'll like the feel of this game. 
  
  The game's Single Player mode shows you that you don't have to always play FPS online against somebody 
 else. You can definitely sit and spend a good five to six hours on just the easy difficulty. Which 
 can be a good thing or a bad thing, Depending if you want to play a much shorter or longer Storyline. 
 
  
  Now if your a player that likes to play for Achievements then this part is for you.
  This game holds 13 achievements worth 1000 points towards your gamerscore. Not difficult achievements 
 by any means. All of them are unlockable in Single Player action.
  
  Now for the bad. This game shows a lot of the same scenarios throughout the game. Knowing that 
 you play as three different countries, it always seems that your fighting in the same places. The 
 online part of the game is limited to 8 players in a match which can be pretty boring after awhile. 
 The maps for online play are also limited and the only way of getting more maps is to of course 
 pay extra and download them off of XBOX Live Marketplace.
  
  So, if you are looking in to this game for some online FPS fun. It's great for it but make sure 
 you also pick up some extra Microsoft points. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LuthorLex54
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 10, 2008 7:38 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Three different campaigns, Great Visuals, Quality Voice Acting, Solid Gameplay, Multiplayer.
 
  
  The Bad: Repetitive Use of Missions, A. I. not that great.
  
  Call of Duty 2 is a good World War II First Person Shooter, but it's not the best. There's been 
 a ton of them out for years, each varying in quality from Hour of Victory Bad to Call of Duty Good. 
 As the first true Call of Duty console game, does it do well. Well, yes it does. 
  
  First off, the visuals are great in this game, especially the smoke effects. The sound is pretty 
 good too with both music and solid voice acting. And the story is accurate to certain battles in 
 WWII. But, the missions can get pretty repetitive. Most of the game i played involved taking an 
 enemy position and then defending from a large counterattack either on the level or the next mission 
 (Battle for Hill 400) . I find the sheer number of times you have to defend against a counterattack 
 to be overwhelmingly annoying, i mean i know counterattacks do happen, it's strategic, and is a 
 war game, but you don't need to do it about almost every level. 
  
  Getting on, multiplayer is decent, however there's not many players online, so i can't say much 
 for that. 
  
  Overall, the game is worth a rental or a buy. Whatever, but i do suggest to to fans of WWII games. 
 It is good, but not good enough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PredadorPT
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 8, 2008 2:00 pm PT
Review:  If you liked Call of Duty, your bound to like Call of Duty 2, the gameplay is there, the great 
 weapon design is there and above all the cinematic battles are there.
  In this game you'll visit every major place of the Nazi offensive and consequently the Allis counter 
 attack, from the deserts of Africa where you'll fight Rommel's Desert Korps, to the beaches of 
 Normandy, France, where you'll have to climb a steep cliff to take the Nazis strong point of Point 
 du Hoc.
  The sound and visuals are gorgeous and both play an important role in making this game an incredible 
 experience, from the sound of the guns, to the noises of the plains flying over head , the sound 
 is just great. Graphically the game is just about perfect, and there are no significant frame rate 
 issues, or graphical glitches to point out.
  The multiplayer is great, the battles are competitive, and tactical, and you can't just "run and 
 gun", you have to check every corner, window or patio in order not to get shot. The only downside 
 is the fact that only 8 players can fight each other on Xbox Live, giving you the impression that 
 the battles are small, and restricted to one area. 
  In conclusion, Call of Duty 2 is a worthy sequel; it captures the spirit of the original Call of 
 Duty, and takes it one step forward, a just one for every shooter fan.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cristaph
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 20, 2008 4:44 am PT
Review:  You start of as Private Vasili Ivanovich Koslov a member of the red army and after a training mission 
 in mosscow you move on to stalingrad. on the whole the capaign is exellent and fun to play however 
 what would have been nice is a mission were you dont have a weapon and have to charge at the enemy. 
 What is diffrent from most russian ww2 capaighns is you have accsess to most of the best russian 
 weapons. Then you play as British Sergeant Davis and David Welsh, a tank commander, the british 
 campaign is just as exiting as the russian and is slightly longer. However the tank levels were 
 the worst part of the game for me and the most difficult as the controls felt clunky and slow. 
 The last campaighn is the american campaign wich is also exiting and fun to play. 
  
  One problem with COD 2 which might put some people off is the story. unlike brothers in arms you 
 dont get to know any of the charecters or care for them. Also there is no conclusion for any of 
 the storys they just end. If this doesnt bother you this is probably the best ww2 fps game out 
 there but if you like storys and a plot buy brothers in arms. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yeah_write
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 31, 2008 9:25 am PT
Review:  The Call of Duty series is as quick as they come in the WWII genre. The sequel brings the same 
 fast-paced action that keeps you on your toes while managing to immerse you in the battlefield. 
 
  
  Not content to handle just a single mission or campaign like other games in the genre, Call of 
 Duty 2 sends you through the war in three different armies. You'll start out with the Russians, 
 battling through snow-covered war-torn cities, then switch to the British in the African deserts, 
 and finally take control of the Yankees as they storm Normandy. 
  
  Though the gameplay is the same for all three armies, the game does an admirable job of making 
 each campaign feel different from the other. Your brothers in arms scream in appropriate accents 
 and dialects, and the weapons and architecture are authentic to each campaign. The large battles, 
 constant noise, and hectic environments do a terrific job to make you feel like a small piece in 
 a big war. 
  
  As for the war itself, don't expect to have time to stop and strategize. For the most part, this 
 is a straight run and gun game. Your computer-controlled allies are helpful for the most part, 
 though there are times you'll wish there were some kind of basic commands you could issue, like 
 when they rush into heavy machine gun fire, or jump in front of your line of fire causing you to 
 kill them (and end your game) . Still, they prove helpful when it comes to clearing houses of Germans 
 or tossing back enemy grenades.
  
  The single player portion should take around 12 hours to complete on the default difficulty, though 
 switching to the hardest mode makes for a much longer and challenging experience. The basic FPS 
 levels are all here-heavy infantry combat, sniper roosting, rail shooting sequences, and even a 
 couple of tank levels. You've seen it all before, but the controls are tight, and things like the 
 excellent smoke grenades and aggressive enemy AI keep the combat tense and interesting. Beating 
 the game doesn't net you any unlockables, but the achievements offer a bit of replay value.
  
  The multiplayer, though sadly restricted to eight players, is in time with the single player 
 tempo. Most of the maps are the right size for the number of participants, with plenty of bonus 
 packs available for download. Hopping into games is easy, and there are still people playing regularly.
 
  
  As a launch title, CoD2 looks great. The guns, uniforms, and indoor environments feature an appreciable 
 amount of detail. The character models and facial animations may be the best in the genre, and 
 they animate fluidly. The guns discharge with satisfying sounds that pack a punch. Orchestral music 
 swells in and out at times, but it's mostly overshadowed by the chaotic sounds of the battlefield.
 
  
  Overall
  It sticks close to the FPS basics, but the hectic action, beautiful graphics, and unique perspective 
 on the war make it worth playing through.
  
  Purchase?
  Long after its release, CoD2 still stands strong as one of the 360s best. If you're looking for 
 some visceral run and gun gameplay in an immersive environment, you can't go wrong with Call of 
 Duty 2.
  
  
  
  *This review was originally posted under my old username, APWC. It has been edited for style and 
 content to match the higher standards of Yeah Write.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheDarKlown
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 7, 2008 6:40 pm PT
Review:  people just because this is another WW2 shooter doesn't make it a bad game.
  This isn't no Medal of Honor crap this game is actually good and easily the best WW2 fps there 
 ever was so don't be negative to this game. I do prefer cod 4 but at Myer the other day I picked 
 this game up for $18 and there was no catches, it was still wrapped in plastic and all I must say 
 it is one of the best deals i have ever come across especially at an expensive store like myer.
 
  cod 2 is longer than cod 4 and still manages to keep up all the intensity.
  The game is just as mind blowing as cod 4 so if you like cod 4 then i couldn't highly recommend 
 any more at all that you play this game. Screw MOH and the WW2 shooters give cod 2 a try and I 
 guarantee you won't regret it. Don't bother with cod 3 as it is a complete copy of cod 2 and lacks 
 in everything good about this game except a bigger online play but if its the online play you want 
 get cod 4. Seeing as this game is only $18 and cod 3 in store is still like $110 you'd be an idiot 
 not to bu this. So please turn around your stupid belief on WW2 shooters because cod 2 is so over 
 Exaggerated it hardly fits the genre.
  A truly awesome game and a must buy for the 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rdwolf260
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 7, 2008 12:06 am PT
Review:  WWII first person shooters almost seem to flood each platform over a few years, thanks to Medal 
 of Honor franchise. Fortunately, Call of Duty pulls the entire WWII shooter genre out of the accelerating 
 spiral of mediocrity. This is simply put a well designed game that plays and looks beautifully 
 (except for the grenade explosions, they look awful) . AI is smart about utilizing cover and if 
 you ratch up the dificulty a few notches it will become absolutely deadly, making you groan and 
 curse in frustration after you die time and time again. With Call of Duty 2, Infinity Ward has 
 set the bar for all other WWII first person shooters to follow. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Snake6phw
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 5, 2008 12:52 am PT
Review:  We've all played WWII shooters. Everyone and their grandma has played one. Out of all the available 
 genres a shooter could be, WWII is the most used and saturated theme. Out of all of them, the Call 
 of Duty series takes the title as champion. 
  
  Call of Duty games are known for their ability to immerse you in not just a small skirmish, but 
 an entire war. Call of Duty 2 allows you to play with three different soldiers from the Soviet 
 Union, Britain, and the United States. The missions consist of multiple objectives that may require 
 you to clear out buildings of enemy troops, destroy machine gun nests, or blow up vehicles. The 
 missions are all varied and a challenge to complete.
  
  The enemy AI is ruthless. It seems that they always know how to pick you out of a crowd and will 
 keep their sights on you until you are dead. You might as well not even have a squad with you because 
 they will always shoot at you. Not to say that your fellow troops are useless; this is a shooter 
 where you teammates ACTUALLY SHOOT THE ENEMIES. It seems in most shooters these days your fellow 
 gunmen are only there as distractions. Very frustrating.
  
  The game can be VERY tough at some points with a seemingly insurmountable force of enemies coming 
 your way and nowhere to hide. Although, I suggest this game be played in its hardest difficulty 
 because in this difficulty you are forced to play Call of Duty 2 the way it was meant to be played. 
 You absolutely MUST use your smoke grenades, something you probably won't use if you play on an 
 easier difficulty. Also, you really feel like you are fighting a real war on the harder difficulties, 
 because when you come up to an enemy hardpoint you need to dig in and eliminate them one by one.
 
  
  Overall Call of Duty remains fun throughout. It never becomes boring because the objectives vary. 
 If you're looking for a good shooter however, the other games in the Call of Duty series are better.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: willt1963
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 4, 2008 10:10 am PT
Review:  Great game played the other version like this more. I am a big fan of COD and of MOH. Best game 
 yet is still Finest Hour. I am new to XBOX 360 (THNX Santa) did not know what I was missing! I 
 am all FPS and I am all over this one! Graphics are cool but who really has time to look at the 
 scencery! Love that you can move around and out flank your opponents. The AI is good to the point 
 where the enemy is relentless. Very few times I had to ask why they do that and come to think of 
 it I was trying to be stealthy so I guess they gave me that one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr-Elijo
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 3, 2008 4:06 pm PT
Review:  I finished this game ages ago and I enjoyed it alot. There were only two things that dissapointed 
 me. The first was the shortness of the campaign. I have finished Call Of Duty 1 and it was nowhere 
 near as short as this. The other thing that dissapointed me was the achievements. There are only 
 2 achievements you can get without playing the game on veteran. Apart from those things the game 
 was good, the visuals were great, the campaign was highly addictive and the sound was magnificent. 
 
  
  I always enjoy the Call of Duty campaign because you don't only fight for one country, you fight 
 as different soldiers and it shows you how the weapons vary when you are fighting for different 
 countries. Also I found that the the Call of Duty 2 multiplayer is very fun apart from the fact 
 that there is an 8 person game limit. I enjoyed playing this game alot and I think it was definately 
 worth buying 8/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: taino1128
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 31, 2007 11:31 am PT
Review:  The original Call of Duty came out in 2003 on the PC making its mark as one of the best World War 
 II shooters made and it attracted many hardcore shooter fans as well as other fans of games. It 
 stood out instead of being just another WWII because of almost every reason possible. If you thought 
 that it couldn't get any better, you're wrong. Call of Duty is back with more solid gameplay, improved 
 visuals, and the most realistic battles ever seen in a WWII game.
  CoD2 has some of the most solid gameplay and controls ever seen in first person shooter. It controls 
 perfectly. The left trigger is used to aim down the sights, CoD's trademark gameplay mechanic, 
 and the roght trigger is used to fire your weapon. The Y button is used to switch your weapon. 
 There is no need to worry about switching grenades because the left back button if used for smoke 
 grenades and the right back is used for frag grenades. This mechanic may just sound ordinary, but 
 when you're in the heat of a battle, you'll see why it's amazing. The B button is used to change 
 your stances among standing, crouched down, and prone. If you tap it quickly, you'll switch between 
 standing and crouching, but holding it down is how you go prone. Crouching down and going prone 
 are useful for taking cover from fire. The right analog stick button is used for melee, if you 
 decide to get up close and person with your enemy and knock him out. When sniping, you hold down 
 the left analog stick button to hold your breath. This means that for maybe 2 or 3 seconds, you 
 can concentrate and kill your opponent without the sniper rifle moving. This is another amazing 
 mechanic. Surprisingly, you don't pick up health packs to regenerate your health. The game has 
 a 'Halo-like' health regeneration system where if you are taking heavy fire and are about to die, 
 the edge of the screen will turn red and after about 5 seconds of not taking fire, you will be 
 back to 100% health. This might feel out of place in a WWII shooter, but it keeps the game fun 
 and the action constant.
  I am surprised that CoD2 is rated Teen. Unlike most other WWII shooters, it has blood and intense 
 violence. There isn't gore or blood splattering on the walls or ground, but there is still a lot 
 of blood when bullets fly into your enemies. The smoke effects are probably the best part about 
 these visuals. When there is an explosion, which also looks awesome, or when someone throws a smoke 
 grenade, the smoke in the air looks so realistic that it can actually block someone's view. It's 
 smart to use smoke grenades when you're going up against a machine gunner. The environments and 
 guns go down to the smallest details. The guns actually have spots, stains, and fingerprints on 
 them. The environments have great backgrounds and the buildings, both inside and outside, make 
 you feel just like you're on the actual battlefield. The game also maintains a steady frame rate 
 that never drops. The only problem is that the soldiers don't have enough detail. They do look 
 somewhat real, but there are no cuts, wrinkles, freckles, etc. Everything else in the game looks 
 so great that you will probably forget about it.
  The best part about this game is the sound, just like the previous CoD, is the sound. All weapons 
 and explosions have that special 'oomph!' added to them, which is another reason why the battles 
 are so intense. The game already sounds great just on your regular TV speaker, but surround sound 
 is where you'll get the best experience. When your in the middle of a battle, it will sound like 
 gunshots coming from all different directions. You might possibly even get frightened, especially 
 when your just walking somewhere when you think that the area is clear then there is the sound 
 of machine guns are rifles coming from behind. It will sound like the bullet is coming right for 
 the back of your head. The explosions sound really loud and will make you jump, just like they're 
 supposed to. This, without a doubt, the best sounding FPS.
  Haven't I already mentioned the intense battles? YES, I HAVE! Those battles never get old or repetitive 
 and will keep you coming back for more. The enemy artificial intelligence is far from idiotic. 
 They always know when you're coming. At certain times, especially snipers, they will try to take 
 headshots to kill you without wasting ammo. Just when you found the perfect spot for cover, don't 
 stay there too long, because they will come and get you. If the don't, they'll throw a frag grenade 
 to make you run out of cover so that they will have an open shot. Choose your cover wisely.
  Just like before you don't only play as the American army, you also play as the British and Russian 
 forces against the Nazis. The battles take place in the North African desert, cities torn apart 
 by war in Russia, and some areas of WWII Europe. These are the main reasons why the CoD series 
 stands out so much. The campaign on regular difficulty will take you about 10 hours, which is normal 
 for a shooter. You will definitely want to play through it again on hardcore and veteran. On those 
 difficulties, the enemy AI is even greater. You will then move more slowly, think things out, and 
 use a lot more cover, which will then make the campaign about 15 or 16 hours, adding a lot more 
 lasting appeal. 
  There is multiplayer, both online and off. There is splitscreen with up to four players, system 
 link with up to 16 players, and online play with up to 8 players, which is rather disappointing. 
 The online play should have allowed a lot more players in a game. It doesn't make sense how system 
 link has more players. Online, there is standard match, which is just for playing with friends 
 just for fun, and ranked match, which is competitive play and you cannot invite friends. There 
 are Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, Capture the Flag, Headquraters, and Search and Destroy. This isn't 
 the best multiplayer game anyone has seen, but it can still be entertaining.
  CoD 2 is the best WWII shooter ever made and one of the best FPSs ever made. It has an excellent 
 campaign and a good multiplayer experience. It has extremely visceral action and there is never 
 a dull moment. CoD2 is a game that everybody should check out. It would be foolish of anybody not 
 to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 09231991
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 30, 2007 1:14 pm PT
Review:  COD 2 is a very enjoyable and just plain fun experience that anyone who has a 360 or a good PC 
 shouldn't miss. I first played this on the PC then I went to the 360 version. This game is just 
 awesome. The game's campaign mode will run you around 26 or so missions that are very intense to 
 the bone. The game's frame rate also is a surprise because with the amount of things that are going 
 on at the same time on the screen that it doesn't chug (In some cases on the PC it did though.) 
 The game offers great campaign that stays as close to real life events as possible and doesn't 
 strain off into some make believe story and such like a lot of shooter and WWII shooters do (*cough* 
 MOH *cough*) Overall, COD 2 is a great and very intense gaming experience that definitely shouldn't 
 be passed up. A must buy for fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RELL1K
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 21, 2007 9:00 am PT
Review:  You start out as a Russian and it shows. You have to practice with potatoes instead of grenades 
 and after you throw the potatoes you have to retrieve them because they're your lunch. the visuals 
 in this game are awesome and you tear through the intense fighting sequences on your way to Hitler's 
 bunker. You never reach Hitler's bunker but as he killed himself I can understand why that part 
 wasn't in the game. The guns you use in the game are great and feel realistic due to the excellent 
 audio for this title. The controls are tight and easy to use. I like the fact that you fight battles 
 as a soldier in the Russian, British and US Military and get to do so on different fronts. One 
 of my favorite was in the dessert as this is one of the first levels I played in the demo and one 
 of the reasons I purchased this game to begin with. The scenery is beautiful and constantly changing 
 as are the enemies costumes. So you always get to kill someone different! This game is great and 
 makes a great addition to any library. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: appl4s
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 19, 2007 6:02 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty 2 is a great shooter, but not nearly perfect. 
  
  The graphics are great with great lighting and character models. Everything appears as a stunner 
 from planes overhead to explosions and smoke. It's a pretty game to look at.
  
  But being pretty isn't everything... You need to be fun to... Which cod2 is but not for long periods 
 of time. The enemy's are brainless and the shooting is easy because of lock on and no skill or 
 tactics are requiered. Even on veteran the enemies are brainless.
  
  Thankfully the sound is dead on it is very realistic like hearing the guns to bombs going off everything 
 was planned out for the sound.
  
  To be honest it isn't worth how much it costs because it isn't doing anything different from the 
 first one other that graphics.
  
  If you like shooters pick this one up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joe_Do_This_To
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 10, 2007 9:59 pm PT
Review:  This game when I got it and played it. I was just amazed at how nice it was and is. The Campinge 
 is Challenge then yet satisfying. So many Germans running at you so satisfying in bringing them 
 down. Bam Bam.
  
  So you start the Campaig in Russia haveing to fight off the Germans. So the try running in. You have 
 to chase em out. The Campaigh is satisfying well worth it but the Ending is a bit anti dramatic.
 
  
  Multiplay is awsome. It is real simple. It is really fun to run on the flor then go to the roof then 
 take out the enemy with a sten.
  
  You SHOULD GET THIS GAME!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FarmerJohn55
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 10, 2007 5:09 pm PT
Review:  Now let me say that I know there is a Call of Duty 4, but I think this is the best in the franchise. 
 This game is really just one that you can play the missions over and over again and not get bored, 
 not to mention the fact that there are many missions, all being about as long as those in Halo 
 3, i only wish Halo 3 had as many levels. I have not played the multiplayer, but based on past 
 performances, this game is great for it, everyone says that return to castle Wolfenstien has the 
 greatest shooter multiplayer, I think this is better. This game is also one that you can just hang 
 out, listen to music and shoot some Kruats. This game also has pretty nice graphics and great sounds 
 for it's time. While it is a 360 game, it was made back when graphics weren't as good as they are 
 now. This game really gives you a feel of a lot of games in one, it has so many parts that just 
 made me happy I was playing it and made me really think outside the box, what i think all games 
 should do. The only bad things are that I hate no jumping, WW2 is an old game topic and the weapons 
 are unoriginal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bermudabrian
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 5, 2007 9:14 am PT
Review:  The Call of Duty franchise has solidified itself with this installment as the 'go-to' franchise 
 for WWII gameplay. With immersive stories, rememberable characters, and gameplay that is both fun 
 and challenging, Call of Duty 2 is the new WWII shooter benchmark.
  
  The game eases you into the gameplay with a short training session as a Russian conscript, but 
 you'll find yourself thrust into the war as quickly as these poor souls were in the actual conflict. 
 From the beginning, you'll be struggling to survive in a mentally and physically challenging conflict 
 that will test your limits but not overwhelm your senses.
  
  As you progress, you'll experience the campaign from several points of view: American infantry 
 in Normandy, British SAS in Africa and later in Normandy, and as a European tanker (can't remember 
 the nation - Belgium?)
  
  Throughout the game you will feel immersed and important to the mission, but still just a part 
 of a larger conflict. This is what makes Call of Duty so great, as you are not a super-soldier 
 taking on Nazi Germany single-handedly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: savetehhaloz
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 4, 2007 2:17 pm PT
Review:  The Call of Duty series is the flagship of the WWII shooter series. Starting back with the original 
 Call of Duty and its expansion pack, United Offensive, Call of Duty 2 brought the fight against 
 the Nazis to the Xbox 360. 
  When you first play Call of Duty 2, you start off with the average "how-to" and mini training camp. 
 Then a messenger arrives and tells your captain that they have captured a German soldier. The soldier 
 is interrogated and reveals that there are German divisions approaching. You and your comrades 
 are then whisked into battle; impromptu. Call of Duty 2 is just like its predeccesors; Balls to 
 the Wall. The game is full of action, and some historical and patriotical moments as you gun down 
 Nazis in the process of saving Europe (and the world) from tyranny. The graphics are amazing and 
 have been polished from the PC version. The game lets you play as Russian, British and American 
 troops in different environments ranging from the beaches of Normandy to the snowy Russian front 
 and finally to the deserts of Africa. The singleplayer is relatively short however.
  Infinity Ward unfortunately left out vehicles from the multiplayer; a bummer since Call of Duty 
 2 was as fun as Halo and Halo 2 (including taking the rebounding health system) . Since Call of 
 Duty 3 features vehicles (Grey Matter) it is best to skip Call of Duty 2 and buy Call of Duty 3 
 if you're looking for fun multiplayer combat. This is not to say that Call of Duty 2 multiplayer 
 is not fun, since the multiplayer combat is fast and offers many multiplayer types ranging from 
 Deathmatch to Headquarters. 
  Call of Duty 2 continues and improves upon Call of Duty 1, but is dissapointing considering it 
 has no multiplayer vehicle combat. However Call of Duty 2 is highly recommended, but try it before 
 you buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tcloss
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 2, 2007 7:33 am PT
Review:  The Good: Gritty War Combat, Lots of Guns, Awesome Sound
  The Bad: Story isn't so great, Graphics could be better, too short.
  
  
  The Call of Duty 
 series has always done an exceptional job at immersing their players in a war torn 1940s universe, 
 with intense combat, great graphics, and incredible sound. Though it isn't the best in the series, 
 Call of Duty 2 is no different. 
  The Games controls fine, the shooting is satisfying, and the sound (The Best Part) is awesome. 
 There are 3 different Campaigns: In one you play as a Russian Soldier, Then a British Soldier, 
 and an American Soldier. These campaigns don't take very long to complete, but some of the levels 
 are so fun that you want to play them again. The Graphics are good, but could have been better. 
 All in all, This is a good game, but its just too short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XDGRifle
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 30, 2007 10:32 am PT
Review:  Its the same story line for every callofduty game but it is better. The graphics are the best of 
 the next gen war games and now it is very very cheap so if you need a cheap game I really think 
 this is the game for you. The online play is next gen and it is very phenominal and if you are 
 a war gamer and you love next-gen graphics, a deep story classical WW2 action then i think you 
 should really buy it. Even though its a old game it has very great achievments and gameplay. I 
 would Pick it up for like $20.00 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Benevolentbob
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 1, 2008 11:34 am PT
Review:  All I have to say is wow. This game really impresses. The graphics are top notch as well as the 
 sound effects. The fire fights are a pure adrenaline rush, with dirt flying everywhere, bullets 
 zooming over your head, and your ears ringing from that grenade that just went off next to you. 
 Basically, the action is without a better word, stunning. The enemy A. I. is great and rather than 
 acting like perfect killing machines, they act how real people may have acted in similar situations. 
 The atmosphere is great, you can always hear shots begin fired and explosions going off in the 
 background. If you look in the air smoke is every where and there are planes on fire or bombs bursting. 
 You can always hear the Germans screaming for who knows what. The action is a challenge but not 
 so much of one that you stop playing, well except for one level. They made running and crawling 
 seem really realistic, trudging through the dirt to avoid getting blown up is an awesome experience. 
 There is better variety of locations here than you will see in any other WW2 game, and all are 
 well detailed and seem to be exactly how the real thing would have been. There is a decent selection 
 of well detailed guns that all feel great, but I would have liked more I think. The frame rate 
 is very solid as I never had any slowdown or anything. I The vehicles sections are not as good 
 as they could have been and are sometimes boring but I guess its a break from the typical action. 
 The multi player is fairly solid and pretty chaotic, although sometimes it is camper heaven. Bottom 
 Line, you will not find a better WW2 game, and this at least rivals the best of the best of FPS 
 games in other genres as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stinkfinger724
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 28, 2007 7:46 pm PT
Review:  If this is what the history of FPS WWII games has in store for us, then you better start saving 
 your money. This is because Call of Duty 2 is a fantastic Xbox 360 launch title.
  
  On the positive side: If you know the GameSpot "Oh Snap!" merit, this game has a bunch of those, 
 except they are "OMGWTFdidyouseethat?" moments. The opponents in the single player mode are laudable 
 and very friendly A. I. and you don't understand this game unless your playing it in 5.1 suround 
 sound.
  
  On the negative side: ... well.... basically nothing.
  
  Verdict: A game with no negatives? Of course your going to buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Praetor
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 27, 2007 2:04 pm PT
Review:  World War II. The Allies and the Axis. Good versus evil. This war was truly epic. The efforts of 
 the Allies freed a people and saved a race from genocide, not to mention saving the enitre world 
 from the German war machine.
  
  This game is a great reflection of the war from the signiture Call of Duty multiple points of view. 
 Start out resisting against the German insurgence in West Russia. Fight in North Africa against 
 Rommel's Afrika Korps with the Desert Rats. Then, scale the cliffs of Normandy with the American 
 troops.
  The excellent voice acting give the game an authentic feel, with your comrades calling out the 
 positions of enemies.
  
  The only reason this gets a 9 is the lack of a developed multiplayer. Of course, Infinity Ward 
 realized this and fixed the problem deftly and effectively in their sequel, Call of Duty 4 (no 
 I didn't skip over 3. That's the hated step-child of the Call of Duty family.) . IW wisely focused 
 the achievements in this game on where it counted, so while 1,000 are hard to get, they are accessible 
 and aren't made even more difficult by the presence of stupid players. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Feedbackdrmmr15
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 7:08 pm PT
Review:  Released: November 17, 2005
  Publisher: Activision
  Developers: Infinity Ward
  Game Genre: Historic First-Person Shooter
  ESRB Rating: T for Teen
  ESRB Description: Blood, 
 Mild Language, Violence
  
  Opening Thoughts:
  This was the first game I ever played on the Xbox 360 and I loved it. It was also the first great 
 FPS released on the system.
  
  Story (8/10)
  Set in World War II, you start as the Russians, then move on to the British, and finally the Americans. 
 As the Russians you are defending Stalingrad after the German invasion. As the British you travel 
 through Africa, defeating General Rommel and his Africa Korps. In the American campaign you play 
 through the events on D-Day and the week after.
  
  Gameplay (10/10)
  From the friendly soldiers accompanying you through the mission to the absence of a health bar, 
 Call of Duty 2 features some of the best aspects of any FPS to date. In harder difficulties you 
 become dependent on your allies to suppress the enemy, throw live grenades back at the enemy, and 
 help hold your defenses. Bringing your gun up to look from the sight becomes second nature due 
 to the smoothness of the gameplay. Unfortunately, you never get to drive a vehicle, but you do 
 sit in a half-track and control a turret. The D-Day missions are incredible. I had to remember 
 to breathe. From the moment you exit your ship on the invasion, the battle becomes complete chaos. 
 At one point, you climb up a rope to get to the top of a cliff. Two men are climbing above you 
 when one gets shot and falls down onto the other, knocking him off and barely missing you. The 
 reality of this game will make you say "Holy crap, I'm glad I wasn't there".
  
  Graphics (10/10)
  Graphics go hand in hand with the gameplay. The looks on the faces of the Nazis 
 can be visibly seen writhing in pain as you shoot them. The terrain, along with the snow and grass 
 on top of it, has amazing lighting and shadowing effects. The game is completely smooth from the 
 first mission and doesn't skip a beat, even during the massive counterattacks the German troops 
 launch against you.
  
  Durability (9/10)
  The game has a medium length and online multiplayer is far from boring.
  
  Overall Score (9.25/10)
 
  
  Final Thoughts:
  It's a couple years old, so buy it used and play it. This game is amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unbiasgamer
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 18, 2007 11:10 am PT
Review:  Gameplay- First of all, CoD2 is a long game compared to other FPS games. The are 3 Campaigns, spanning 
 across North Africa, France and Russia and there are 26 missions in total. The missions will be 
 unlocked as you complete other missions so youll be playing the missions in the order they happened 
 in real life, meaning youll be switching between each campaign regularly. All the staple WW2 weapons 
 are here, along with a few new ones. The bark of each weapon is really satisfying and really gives 
 a good punch. Its nice to know that the majority of the weapons sounds were revamped from CoD1 
 to CoD2. The enemies are very intelligent, but on the higher difficulties, they seem to instantly 
 aim at you and kill you in ways that seem unfair. The Veteran difficulty, will make you go suicidal. 
 
  
  Graphics- Great. Obviously, for a 360 launch title, they are aging, but hold up very well. This 
 is a very visually appealling game. Probably the nicest things are the weapons and character models 
 because they are fantastic. Water and mud effects are also very nice. The only bad thing is that 
 the explosions from fuel barrels and the flames they spew out look pretty last-generation.
  
  Sound- As I mentioned above, the weapon sounds are great. CoD2 does a good job of setting the 
 scale of a battle with sounds. When theres a bunch of enemies in a bunker, youll know it by the 
 cacophony of noise. The music is nice, but unfortunetly, is used sparingly.
  
  All in all, CoD2 is an excellent game with a lengthy campaign and strong multiplayer and I reccomend 
 it to anyone looking for a good FPS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bman2k8
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 3, 2007 4:36 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty, probably the first thing that comes to your mind is World War 2. Well your right, 
 yet another game in the Call of Duty collection number 2 is not one to miss. It features a suprisingly 
 hard (on veteran mode of course) single player, that's a hay-day with achievments. With 50 score 
 per achievment, CoD2 will have you coming back for more. Featuring multiple levels for 3 different 
 armies ( Brits, Soviets, and of course Americans) it is also somewhat long. Whether you be fighting 
 in a desert in Egypt, or a barren snow covered city in Russia, you can't get bored of CoD2's extensive 
 gameplay. If that didn't suprise you, then online will, Featuring up to multiple players on many 
 different maps ( not including downloadable ones) it is very fun. With a couple different game 
 modes and a taste for Nazi but-kickin' online patches it up nicely. Whether you be a new gamer, 
 or an old veteran of gaming, Call of Duty 2 is one to have in your collection.; 
::::::

::::::
UserName: syorks1
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 1, 2007 7:36 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty 2 is probaly one of the best WWIIs shooters ever. It is awsome and a great game. I 
 would say it might be the best in the series. This is a strange Call of duty game because the Russian 
 campaign is the worst campaign while the american campaign was the best. This game was great with 
 tons of fun lvls. it has pretty good graphics and good sound. The only problem is it could be short 
 if u play it on easy and u are a fan of the series or genre. There are tons of replayability though 
 and u can have tons of fun with this game monthes after u beat it. the point du Hoc mission was 
 especially fun and so is The rangers lead the Way mission. Those 2 missions I've played dozens 
 of times. this game is awsome and should definitely be bought by anyone that is a fan of the genre 
 or series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: celtic1962
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 29, 2007 10:41 am PT
Review:  I remember seeing this game on display at a store a couple of years ago as one of the premier launch 
 titles for the 360. I was impressed with the graphics but as a die-hard PC FPS player I still had 
 limited interest in any console shooter. My experiences with FPS games on the PS2 didn't do much 
 to change my opinion. A little over a month ago I finally bought a 360 and with the great prices 
 now available on their older games I decided to give it a shot. My first experience was with Ghost 
 Recon Advance Warfighter and I was extremely impressed. Now it was time to look at a more traditional 
 FPS with COD 2.
  
  GAMEPLAY (9) - I have to say that the control in the two 360 FPS games I've played are much better 
 than what I ever experienced with previous consoles. The controls were set up in a very friendly 
 matter and it was a simple matter to do all the necessary actions: fire, aim w/sights, frag grenade, 
 smoke grenade, jump, crouch, even melee attacks. A problem I had in the past was that console aiming 
 felt too loose and out of control. With COD2 the control was tight and accurate. Not saying it's 
 quite up to using a mouse but very good nonetheless. Similar to the first COD this game gives you 
 a fascinating insight as to what it would be like to be fighting from several different armies 
 as you'll be a Russian in Stalingrad, a British soldier in North Africa and an American in France 
 and Germany. Most of the game is frantic house to house battles as an infantryman but there are 
 a few vehicle stages, including a large tank battle against Rommel's forces in the desert. During 
 the battles you will have numerous objectives such as simply taking and holding on to a position 
 or perhaps knocking out an antiaircraft gun with explosives or a mortar team with a sniper rifle. 
 By introducing different objectives the battles never seemed stale or repetitive.
  
  GRAPHICS (9) - Very impressive, and this is certainly not a game you would look at and think of 
 it as being two years old. Character models and backgrounds were very detailed, and all of the 
 soldiers moved and acted very realistically. A couple of times I just stopped and watched my fellow 
 soldiers during battles as they each did their individual part, it was almost like watching a movie. 
 A special mention must be made for the great effect of using smoke grenades. Many times I would 
 run into an enemy that was firmly entrenched and in a position where I could not outflank him. 
 A basic frontal assault would pretty much be a disaster. This is where the smoke grenades came 
 in. The effect was very realistic as the area will be filled with smoke and we would make our advance. 
 As I moved through the smoke I really couldn't see much of anything and then eventually I could 
 make out hazy outlines of ghostly soldiers where I might have that split second to react before 
 he did. It was an awesome effect and one I'll long remember.
  
  SOUND (10) - From the sound effects of the different weapons and explosions to hearing the yelling 
 from my fellow soldiers and my enemies, it doesn't get much more immersive than this. Just as I 
 had noticed how realistically the soldiers moved so too were the comments I would hear. Yelling 
 insults at the enemy, officers giving commands, men screaming as they were hit, all of these were 
 mixed in the unique sounds from different guns and grenade explosions, not to mention the ominous 
 sounds of an approaching Tiger Tank or the roar of planes swooping down on a bombing run. This 
 game dares you to crank it up on surround speakers, though be prepared to feel the wrath from anyone 
 else in your house that has to listen to it!
  
  VALUE (9) - This game probably took about 12 hours to play, which overall I feel is about right 
 for a FPS game. It also offers several different levels of difficulty which will force you into 
 taking a much more strategic approach as the difficulty goes up. It offers multiplayer which I 
 haven't tried but I've heard is quite good. I bought this game used for $15 and definitely got 
 my money's worth.
  
  SUMMARY - Something else I'd like to mention is the great presentation. As the game would switch 
 to different battles it showed a short documentary of the battle you were about to enter with real 
 movie footage. As a WWII buff I really enjoyed watching those. There has been quite a few WWII 
 based FPS games over the years but I would have to say that COD2 has done the best as far as making 
 you feel you are there along with great controls that will provide you with a very fun time. Highly 
 recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nascarfan123
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 19, 2007 7:49 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 was released in November 2005 as a launch title for the Xbox 360, and it was also 
 1 month later after the PC version was released. For the most part Call of Duty 2 is a direct copy 
 of the PC version onto the Xbox 360, and for the most part its a good thing.
  
  The game play in Call of Duty 2 is the same as it was when it was released on the PC. The campaign 
 has the exact same missions and levels and all of the weapons and enemies reappear on the Xbox 
 360. The only thing that is different is the fact that the controls arent the same, obviously, 
 because now we are talking about playing on a console rather than a PC. That being said, the controls 
 are fairly easy to get used to and within an hour of playing everything will feel natural.
  
  The battles are just as intense as they have ever been; you are never fighting alone in this 
 game. There is very little downtime in between battles so it is highly recommended you take a small 
 bathroom break any chance you get, which would only be on the loading screens. Even though you 
 are fighting with a large number of friendly AI, you are still doing most of the work. It feels 
 as if the enemy AI is always smarter than the friendly AI. This can lead to a couple of frustrating 
 moments because you feel that they should have backed you up when they actually let you down. When 
 it comes to your health, Call of Duty 2 mimics Halo 2. After you have taken a couple of shots, 
 you need to find some cover quickly or you are going to die, your health will eventually regenerate. 
 A nice feature about this is that there is no bar on the screen to indicate your health. Instead, 
 if you take a couple of hits your screen will start to turn blood red. Its a nice benefit because 
 it gets rid of the need to go searching for a health bar lying on the ground.
  
  There is one downside that makes the 360 version feel inferior to the PC version, and thats the 
 multiplayer. On the PC; you were able to have up to 32 people playing at once on a server; on the 
 360, its an 8 player max. It makes the multiplayer feel really scaled back, especially since the 
 fact that the 360 can actually handle 16 players. Its a wonder why they didnt set the multiplayer 
 to allow 16 people to play at once. Besides that, all of the maps and game play types are the same.
 
  
  There is one advantage this game has over the PC version, and that is the graphics. You got to 
 take into consideration on how powerful PCs were a couple of years ago and compare those to the 
 360 version. That being said, at the time of release for this game the graphics were slightly better 
 than those on an average PC. Texture quality and detail, not to mention special effects like explosions, 
 all looked better on the 360 than they did on the PC. Its now 2 years later now and average PCs 
 are capable of running the game better now and surpass the 360 version, but for 2 years ago this 
 version was graphically superior.
  
  Even though the graphics are great, the sound in the game is the best aspect. The sound is what 
 makes the game very intense. When you are fighting in a battle, it actually sounds like that you 
 are fighting in WWII. There is also very great music in the game but sometimes you won't be able 
 to hear it over all of the guns and explosion. The game sounds very real, almost too real. It is 
 simply awesome no matter which version of the game you are playing on.
  
  If you have already played the PC version of Call of Duty 2, like I have, then you arent missing 
 out on much. However if you have an Xbox 360 and a low-end PC, this game is a must have. If you 
 are just a genuine shooter, this game is worth playing through at least once. For hardcore shooters 
 who like to play a full blown multiplayer with as many people as possible, the PC version is for 
 you.
  
  Gameplay: 9
  Graphics: 10
  Sound: 10
  Value: 7
  Tilt: 8
  Average: 8.8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sealedexit
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 17, 2007 2:40 pm PT
Review:  This was the second COD game that I have played, the first being Big Red One. Which was good too. 
 This game was great as far as gameplay is concerned. Some very intense moments in the game. The 
 graphics were OK, gotta remember it was a launch title. Particle effects were good. Smoke grenades 
 were amazing. The sound was great too. The thing I dislike about it the most is how you play as 
 three different people throughout the game. The choices of guns is good if you can ever find them 
 laying on the ground before they disappear. I just wish they would let you pick from an armory 
 at the beginning of new missions. It was actually the reason I first wanted a 360. It is an all 
 around good game. Especially if you like WWII FPS's. It definitely doesn't disappoint you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zero030
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 6, 2007 12:44 pm PT
Review:  I love this game. It was my first 360 game and its just plain fun. For people that are intrested 
 in call of duty 4 but they never played one before get this one. Obvisouly there is no story line 
 but it is a true call of duty game unlike 3. This was also the first really good game for the 360 
 imo. The multiplayer is really the only replayabilty because call of duty 2 campaign isn't one 
 that you can keep playing again and again. It really lays it on you the first time you play through 
 but it will feel old if you keep going through it. So back to the multiplayer. It is very fun and 
 you can choose your weapons you set out with and can change them in the middle of the game but 
 you won't get them until you die. There are no vehicles so all the combat is in city streets in 
 multi but It's fun playing it with someone who isn't an AI and having unscripted battles. So play 
 this until november. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fazio93
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 5, 2007 12:43 pm PT
Review:  Well I beat the whole COD2 on Veteran which got very frustrating at times, but I enjoyed it. Anyway, 
 this was the first game I got for XBOX360 (had my mind set on it) and I am glad I got it. So far, 
 this and COD: Finest Hour are my favorites. Graphics: There were many different environments in 
 the levels. The graphics were excellent on my 23 LCD HDTV. Sound: Normal as all the others
  
  Gameplay: Playing on veteran made the levels take much longer. The game loads extremely quick. 
 At the beginning of the game, there were just enough checkpoints. Toward the middle of game there 
 were barely any and then after the level: The Silo (the hardest level that took me like a month) 
 there were just enough again. Your British buddies don't do much because they make you go into 
 houses by yourself. The Americans help much more though. Tanks need getting used to when driving 
 them. The grenade indicator is not very accurate which led to some annoying deaths and the friendly 
 fire drives you crazy when your buddies walk in front of you while you're shooting or walk towards 
 a grenade you just threw, which leads you to lose. But you buddies do help a lot though. The AI 
 were VERY smart and actually learned as you kept re -spawning at the last checkpoint. It's like 
 they knew you were you were going to the same spot so they would shoot at that direction. There 
 was a lot of repeated game play like: take out the artillery teams, clear these houses, or take 
 the town. You find yourself using the MP40 A LOT because of its large magazine. Also, the cut scenes 
 were fun to watch.
  
  The multi player is fun. There are many maps (especially if you DL more) and I like how you can 
 be British, German, Russian, and American.
  
  All in all, if you like FPSs or the Call of Duty series, this is a MUST OWN. One of the best COD'S 
 so far and I'm glad I got it. Plus, its CHEAP! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkWatchman
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 25, 2007 2:08 pm PT
Review:  Yeah yeah i know what ya think Call of duty 3 is better why rate the second one well my point is 
 im not wasting $30 on it when call of duty 4 is about to come out. Well anyway if u feel like killing 
 someone fast instead of constantly shooting like gears of war and halo get this game. Don't get 
 me wrong gears of war and halo are great multiplayer it's just the sniping is hard and I don't 
 recommend starting out with a game that 's hard to snipe cause ppl move fast in halo/GOW (GOW = 
 Gears of war) . Well if u have'nt expereinced online gaming i suggest this game ppl are really nice 
 online (with any games) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thomass60r
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 24, 2007 3:47 pm PT
Review:  campaign
  
  very fun to play through and challenging at the same time lots of nazi killing but an enjoyable 
 story to go with it and the veteran modes will take you to the limit of what you can do its the 
 hardest 60gp on xbox live.
  
  multiplayer
  
  mega addictive to play fantstic maps like toujaine tunisia and the guns are just perfect they feel 
 real and are easy to use if you are a begginer at fps games.
  
  verdict
  
  fantastic game that is cheap to buy today and is easily the best fps ive ever played.
  
  ps
 
  
  pick it up A. S. A. P you will get more than your moneys worth from this i played more than 100 hours 
 and i have not stopped yet oh no, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homes225
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 23, 2007 9:41 am PT
Review:  Call of duty 2 was released after the WWII FPS era where every developer tried to release a good 
 WWII FPS and it got old so COD 2 had a lot to live up to since it was the sequel to the great COD. 
 The first thing one usually notices about COD 2 is the sweet next gen graphics and the thing about 
 them is they don't need an uber computer to run them. Gameplay is a huge difference than other 
 FPS's, which is good, with artillery shells flying over your head as the screen shakes and bullets 
 hit the ground in front of you. COD2 really makes you think you are in WWII and even more so if 
 you have a good quality sound system because it has great sound effects all around. Call of Duty 
 2 takes around 10 to 12 hours to complete with all of its missions ranging from the Russians in 
 the snow, England in Egypt, and the US in Germany. There are many weapons such as the M1 Carbine 
 and ST-44 which are also historically accurate just like the battlefields. The multiplayer also 
 brings new maps and fun gameplay which lasts a longtime. Though Call of Duty 2 has many great features 
 it also has some downsides such as no health bar so you just hide behind cover for 5 seconds to 
 gain full health making it unrealistic. As with any FPS sometimes the enemy models glitch and the 
 MP doesn't have the best anti-cheat protection so hackers can be common. Other than its minor faults, 
 Call of Duty 2 is a must have WWII FPS with lasting play and great graphics that make it not just 
 another first person shooter game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BINGOCRASHER24
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 21, 2007 5:07 pm PT
Review:  All game fans, not only FPS fans, can probably agree that Call of Duty 2 was by far the best starting 
 title for the 360. The graphics were great for its time and the sound effects were just as good. 
 I've always liked the diversity when it comes to nations in a World War ll title. Like in COD2, 
 you play as the Russians, British and Americans. But too often with this feature, do games give 
 up the storyline. Which COD2 does. But other than that, the single player portion of the game is 
 impressive. COD2 does take advantage of the next-gen by having more allies in the battle for an 
 overall better experience. This is especially apparent during the American campaign when you play 
 the role of an Army Ranger scaling cliffs during a beach landing on D-Day. The multiplayer is what 
 brings me back to this games every time. Although you can only have eight players in one lobby, 
 they make good use of maps and game-modes. They have deathmatch, team deathmatch, capture the flag, 
 headquarters, and search &amp; destroy. And thirteen maps come with the game and you can buy even 
 more over Xbox Live. Although the main letdown on the multiplayer is that you don't have a way 
 to track your progress on ranked matches.
  I personally love this game and it was the first game I bought. This game is should very well be 
 the next in your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: charley_mcd
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 21, 2007 1:59 pm PT
Review:  Graphics 7/10: back in 2005 these graphics would've been stunning but this is 2007 and we have much 
 more detailed games. That does'nt mean this game is ugly- its simple, smooth graphics are really 
 good, and if im shooting nazis 90% of the time I dont see why I would want to stare at the detail 
 of the floor!
  
  Gameplay 9/10: Call of Duty 2s gameplay is fantastic its got a rock solid framerate, smart AI, and 
 atmospheric sequences throughout the game. It puts recent medal of honour games to shame. The checkpoint 
 system is well placed so if you die you can rest assured that you have to be set back another hour 
 like some games do. On veteren mode (hardest mode) The checkpoint system loses that novelty and the 
 ability to save in-game would of been welcome.
  
  Sound 7/10: Scary gun noises and the sound of artillery in the bacckgroung make Call of Duty 2s 
 audio top quality. Though its very well done it's not exactly perfect i. e how can i here my comrades 
 crystal clear when they are on the other side of battlefield? I wont whine about that but I should 
 still point it out for all perfectionists out there.
  
  Story 6/10: Following the classical WW2 storyline the game makes you play as the Russians, Americans 
 and British as you fight to take over German territory in Russia, Africa and France. Some parts of 
 the game indicate that war isnt as fun as it seems by seeing you're teammates heads getting blown 
 etc which is admirable.
  
  Online 7/10: Online is fun no lag, no bugs, no violent community but also no point unless you do it 
 for fun. Play as Axis or Alies in your classical online modes. Deathmatch, Team Deatmatch etc.
  
  For the price you can get it now this is a worthy purchase that still outclasses any EA games 
 made in the past 3 years. I would reccomend it to any FPS fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kevinkiller
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 12, 2007 10:11 am PT
Review:  First off, I have to get this out of the way: I am NOT a fan or World War II shooters at all. I 
 don't like playing them, I don't really find them all that interesting and most of them aren't 
 worth the time it takes to play. That said, I LOVED Call of Duty 2. Besides the multiplayer, there 
 is honestly little to complain about, save maybe the difficulty. This is a game for any fans of 
 FPS games, but only if your computer won't play it, because the multiplayer on the Xbox 360 is 
 lacking.
  
  Gameplay:
  Pretty much exactly what you'd expect. You take the role of several different soldiers throughout 
 the different campaigns and you plod your way through each of the missions. There are 13 campaigns 
 total, but each is made up of several missions, which makes for a pretty hefty game. There are 
 very few instances where I felt like I had already played this mission, which I have found to be 
 the case with other WWII shooters. Weapon choice is mostly preference, but there are definite advantages 
 and disadvantages for every weapon you find. Enemy AI is quite possibly the finest I've ever seen 
 in any other game. They will do everything to kill you. They are unrelenting and will give you 
 quite a hard time even on normal difficulty. That brings me to the Achievements for playing Veteran 
 difficulty. Be warned, Veteran difficulty is a deathwish. It is insanely difficult, but also quite 
 satisfying when you do finally accomplish it. In short, the gameplay isn't necessarily groundbreaking, 
 but definitely great.
  Online is a totally different story. While I didn't get lag every time, it seemed like 8/10 matches 
 I was totally bogged down to the point where I couldn't even really move. This does not make for 
 a fun live experience, especially after playing much Perfect Dark Zero. Also, the omition of creating 
 your own game and inviting people (and the max 8 players to a round) really hinders the experience... Even 
 if there wasn't lag. Considering how great the single player campaign is, the multiplayer is a 
 big blemish on an otherwise beautiful package.
  
  Graphics:
  Pretty self-explanatory... They are breathtaking. I brought my dad in to watch some of it and he 
 was amazed at the detail and realism that goes into everything. The environments look real, the 
 weapons look great... well, damn near everything looks perfect. I noticed no frame rate issues (except 
 online) . My only complaint about the graphics is the radar/map thing doesn't look so hot. It can 
 be kinda hard to read at times.
  
  Sound:
  Oh good god... If there is one thing that tops the graphics of this game it is the sound. One of 
 the most memorable moments for me is in the very first mission where you are making your way through 
 a trench and tanks start rolling overhead... while they cue the orchestra. Gave me goosebumps. Aside 
 from that music and the music in the load screens, I never noticed much else... but honestly, it 
 doesn't matter. The guns, people, vehicles, explosions, background noise are all frighteningly 
 realistic and vivid. If you don't have a good surround system, you are missing out on a nearly 
 cinematic experience.
  
  Value:
  The singleplayer campaign is fairly long and has some replay value if you decide to go back and 
 attempt to play on Veteran. I think most players should be able to beat everything in around 10 
 hours, give or take. I'm not even gonna say that multiplayer adds much to the value, but if they 
 fix the lag or at least bump the max players to 16 (or more) it will greatly increase the experience. 
 It could probably serve well as a rental if you have the time to sit down and plow through it, 
 but there is replay value available if you are a fan of the series, or a fan of FPSes. I have not 
 regretted buying it myself.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt:
  This game has completely renewed my interest in WWII shooters. I can honestly say that I am looking 
 forward to Call of Duty 3. I can only hope they will patch the multiplayer, as that would make 
 the game so much more enjoyable... However, singleplayer is worth the cost of admission. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hessticle
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 12, 2007 5:52 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is a launch title that still stands supreme to the games of it's genre that have 
 been released since. The graphics where great. The sound was fantastic. The gameplay is supurb. 
 The game has both an excellent single player game and an excellent multiplayer online experience. 
 The single player game can be very easy to very difficult on the veteran difficulty setting. Play 
 it through on both settings, the game has high reply value. It really has it all. Best of all this 
 game can be had ultra cheap at any used game outlet. You should be sure to pick this one up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rainydayreality
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 4, 2007 1:14 am PT
Review:  This games was an excellent launch title and is very impressive for its time. It is a must play 
 for any X360 owner. If I were to get any shooter game within the first year of the launch date 
 it would have to be this one. Graphis are right on, gameplay holds its own and the multiplayer 
 is average. sound is decent but not the best. the AI is very intelligent but not extremly challenging. 
 Like I said for its time it was the best shooter and extremly epic especially in the last 3-4 levels. 
 Overall good game with some frustraiting sections and tons of fun aswell! So go get your butt out 
 there and rent rent RENT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: austinmuckelrat
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 3, 2007 10:17 am PT
Review:  This is one of the best world war two games out there. The Single player is long and perfect to 
 start off with. Xbox live in Call of duty 2 is ok, But it did'nt really shine. Its a good game 
 to buy.
  
  Graphics nex gen
  
  Sound Realistic
  
  Value worth 50 are less
  
  Call of duty 2 is a game to buy for single player are online. The Game is the nex gen gaming system 
 to buy for you Xbox 360 are pc.
  
  Call of duty 2 play with 4 soldiers  only.
  My favority is the 
 Americans, But sometimes I use different teams to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brother_GraFiX
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 1, 2007 9:51 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is an amazing World War II first person shooter that is well worth the buy! It has 
 great and challenging single player, and a completely amazing multi-player that makes the game 
 fun to play time and time again. The single player in Call of Duty 2 is some of the most fun and 
 challenging single player I have seen in a game to date. The single player includes fantastic battles, 
 dramatic visuals, and outstanding game play. For example there is one mission where you need to 
 clear out a house only to find out that the Germans have locked themselves in a room upstairs. 
 The captain decides to plant explosives around the house to cause the house to collapse. After 
 the bombs are planted and you make it out of there you see the house collapse and it is one of 
 the most exciting explosions I have seen in a video game yet. Moving on to difficulty, the veteran 
 difficulty on the game is near impossible. If you are the type of hardcore gamer that enjoys a 
 challenging game then veteran difficulty is the right thing for you. In order to acquire all of 
 the achievements you will need to complete the game on veteran difficulty. The single player consists 
 of campaigns from three different countries. The three countries being Russia, United Kingdom, 
 and America. You see many historic battles such as D-Day and The Battle of Caen . The controls 
 are easy to use and user friendly. The Single player altogether on the lowest difficulty may take 
 about 30 hours more or less. Now getting into my favorite aspect of the game. The multi-player. 
 The only reason that this game is getting a 9.5 is because at launch the online multi-player was 
 extremely laggy. But with a patch the game became almost perfect. The game also supports system 
 link and up to four player split screen. The game comes with ten maps to play on and 8 maps that 
 are downloadable through 3 different packs over the Xbox Live Marketplace. Now, lets get into gameplay. 
 Call of Duty 2 for the most part is a fast paced. The gametypes included in the game are: Deathmatch, 
 Teamdeathmatch, Headquarters, Capture the flag, and Search and Destroy. You can chose from teams 
 such as American, British, Russian, and German. Each team with their own set of weapons. Multi-player 
 is insanely fun to play with friends and it has everything needed for a perfect game. Overall, 
 Call of Duty 2 is a must buy. Don't pass it up because the game is old because this game has still 
 got some fight in her. That will be all until next time.
  
  ~GFX~ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigb89
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 28, 2007 7:53 am PT
Review:  Gameplay
  
  Call of Duty 2 is a first-person shooter. The player takes on the role of several Allied protagonists 
 in specific missions during World War II. The player is limited to two different choices of weapons 
 which can be swapped with those left on the battlefield, and also carries both fragmentation and 
 smoke grenades. The player can use the battlefields tactically by taking a kneeling or prone stance 
 in addition to standing, and using cover for both protection and stealth. A compass on the heads-up 
 display (HUD) shows both friends and foes, and objective markers to indicate locations the player 
 must reach, areas to defend, or enemy cannons or tanks that the player must plant explosives on 
 to disable. The player may also use stationary machine guns, mortar cannons, and flak cannons to 
 take out enemy forces, in addition to specific missions where the player takes control of a tank 
 to disable the enemies' tank force.
  
  Should the player take damage, the screen will turn red and the sound of the character's heartbeat 
 will become loud; the player must find a way to stay out of fire to recover before entering battle 
 again or else will die and have to restart at the last checkpoint. Some attacks, like grenade explosions 
 or tank blasts, will kill the player instantly if the player is too close to the center of the 
 explosion.
  
  In April 2006, Infinity Ward released the Call of Duty 2 Radiant, which allows a player to create 
 their own multiplayer or single player maps. Along with Radiant, the mapmaker includes Maya plug-in 
 support, an effects editor, and an asset manager which allows custom models to be made and imported 
 into the game, as well as custom effects.
  
  Multiplayer
  
  Each PC multiplayer server can hold a maximum of 64 players, while the limit is eight players on 
 the Xbox 360. There are a total of 13 official maps, and three of these are remakes from the original 
 Call of Duty.
  
  The maps vary from Normandy, Africa, and Russia during the winter. Each team can choose a variety 
 of weapons, depending on the map and which teams are playing. Depending on the map, players can 
 choose between American soldiers, Soviet soldiers, and British soldiers for the Allied forces, 
 while the Axis forces must play as German soldiers.
  
  Call of Duty 2 features several game types: Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, Search &amp; Destroy, 
 and Headquarters. Many of these game types are retained from the original Call of Duty and its 
 expansion, United Offensive.
  
  Campaign
  
  Call of Duty 2 contains four individual stories, split into three campaigns. Each story concerns 
 a World War II soldier overcoming insurmountable odds in the war.
  
  Eastern Front The player takes the role of Private Vasili Ivanovich Koslov, a Red Army soldier 
 on the Russian front; The first Russian mission is a training mission during the Battle of Moscow. 
 Referencing the stretched supply lines of the Soviet forces, the player uses potatoes as practice 
 grenades on the grenade range. After finishing 'training' by beating back a German assault, the 
 player has to recapture a building, walk through trenches as tanks plow over them, hold a position 
 and recapture another building at the end of the level under hails of gunfire, but ultimately watches 
 his commander order the building to be destroyed. After this, the player takes part in house-to-house 
 fighting across Stalingrad, ending with the destruction of several German tanks via the use of 
 sticky bombs. Soon afterwards, the player is to retake and hold a trainyard, again under heavy 
 suppression, destroys a german tank and recapture several other locations in the same map. Later, 
 the player then has to participate in house-to-house fighting in Stalingrad, destroying yet another 
 tank in the process, and ultimately reach, recapture and hold city hall, performing sniper combat. 
 African Campaign The player plays a British soldier, Sergeant John Davis of the 7th Armoured Division. 
 The first map has the player in a sneak attack on German troops, ending with the destruction of 
 a valuable German supply station. The next map on the same night has the player defending a crucial 
 town from overwhelming numbers of Germans, finally achieving victory by destroying much of the 
 German tank force using artillery. This is followed by the Second Battle of El Alamein, during 
 which the player has to fight through several trenches, machine gun nests, flak 88s and finally 
 taking the German's field HQ. The assault on El Daba to intercept the remaining Germans in Africa 
 and destroy several flak 88s soon follows, ending the first British campaign. An addendum to the 
 second set of missions has the player taking on the role of a British Tank commander, David Welsh. 
 The first mission of the third campaign in Toujane has the player immediately under fire, holding 
 a household with a single machine gun and then wreaking havoc with an armored car, forced out by 
 mines, and then escaping the town with a bare handful of men. The following mission has the player 
 retaking the town, and the final map involves capturing Matmata and shooting down several Stukas 
 using a flakvierling.
  
  Battle of Normandy As Corporal Bill Taylor of the 2nd Ranger Battalion, the player starts off by 
 playing a part in D-Day, at the assault of Pointe du Hoc, to destroy a German artillery battery, 
 and hold it against a massive German counteroffensive in the following mission. Soon after, the 
 player captures a nearby town and serves as a sniper against mortar crews until reinforcements 
 arrives. The second US campaign is focused on Hill 400, involving the capture of Bergstein, a disastrous 
 charge at Hill 400's bunkers and the defence against the German counterattack, with the player 
 again performing sniper work against German mortar teams, destroying enemy armor, and generally 
 holding the hill against the counteroffensive, all the while burdened by artillery and overwhelming 
 numbers of German soldiers.
  
  Crossing the Rhine The final mission is set amongst the Americans in the Rhine River crossing into 
 Germany. It begins as one of the few missions with the player immediately under fire, providing 
 cover fire against the Germans until reaching the river banks and then fighting throughout most 
 of the town. The final fight has the player defeat two German Tiger Is while they are moving out 
 through the town wiping out any American soldiers, followed by several Germans to protect them 
 from anti-tank attacks. In the last scene, Sgt. Randall receives a field promotion to Lieutenant 
 and suggests to the Colonel that he should promote Corporal Taylor to replace the now empty Sergeant 
 position.
  
  The end credits depict the dramatic rescue of Captain Price from German hands by American soldiers. 
 After the credits end, the words No cows were harmed in the making of this game appear, as in the 
 original Call of Duty. This is in reference to the dead cattle visible in the Normandy missions.
 
  
  Reception
  
  Call of Duty 2 received numerous perfect and near-perfect reviews from the media upon its release, 
 as well as praise from many others. However, some reviews had minor criticisms. In general, some 
 complained that the new health system, which allows players to regenerate health if they go under 
 cover, makes the game less realistic than the original. Others say that while the remakes of the 
 original game's maps were interesting, the game could have had more original maps. For the Windows 
 version, some said that the game's performance is occasionally slow.
  
  The PC version scores 88% on Game Rankings based on 77 reviews. The Xbox 360 version scores 90% 
 on Game Rankings based on 87 reviews.
  
  Call of Duty 2 was the most popular launch title on the Xbox 360, with 250,000 units sold in its 
 first week of availability. 77% of people who purchased an Xbox 360 also purchased the game, which 
 contributed to its high sales.] As of July 2006, 1.4 million copies of the game had been sold on 
 the Xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryuthekaizer1
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 28, 2007 4:24 am PT
Review:  That's the thing about Call of Duty 2. There is no half-way point. One either dives in and becomes 
 a full part of the war effort, or they get the hell out. Like its older brother, Infinity Ward's 
 PC and Xbox 360 shooter creates thunderous walls of sound and graphic action that instantly engages 
 the player to such a degree that for me, as a writer, it's difficult to pull far enough away from 
 the experience to describe it accurately and with clarity.
  
  Much like the original, Call of Duty 2 (COD 2) covers World War II across three interwoven campaigns 
 featuring the Russians, the British, and the Americans in Stalingrad, Africa, and France, respectively. 
 You're given four levels of difficulty to choose from and the ability to jump between campaigns 
 and time periods. This extra little freedom plays a subtle part in the way the sequel has opened 
 up and unleashed a slightly more freeform set of paths, compared to the more rigid original. One 
 of the most impressive aspects of COD 2 is that despite containing scripts and linear paths, the 
 game is so rigorous and demanding that I literally forgot I was being led through missions or that 
 they were predominantly linear. The experience is so packed full of fighting, constant gunfire, 
 and continual chatter from teammates and enemies that eight hours will flash by in an instant. 
 To say COD2 is chaotic, fast-paced and gripping is to sell the game short. Fight the Germans in 
 thre distinct and colorful campaigns. Sensory Overload
  While many early Xbox 360 games are simple high-resolution versions of their current gen brethren, 
 COD 2 was created in tandem with the PC version. This means that both versions demonstrate a hefty 
 amount of special effects, visual polish and no visual compromise. The game looks especially crisp 
 in 1080 and 720, and the level of detail and crispness is undeniably different when compared to 
 the same game in 480p. In the higher resolutions, the texture work is often excellent, and in any 
 mode it's complemented by both fluid moving characters and great animation. You run into a blown-up 
 building and the crumbling walls show granular detail. Your feet kick up dust. Scrapes, scratches, 
 and holes aren't repeated from building to building. And the fidelity of each object, whether it 
 is a broken desk, a destroyed tank, or a torn apart building, is crisp and sharp looking.
  
  The smoke grenades are easily the most interesting visual effect in the game. They're slow 
 to take affect but once in full bloom, they're dense, large, and fluid. Inside one, you will not 
 be able to tell where you are, which direction you entered the billowing cloud, or who's your ally 
 or enemy. When an enemy is finally close enough to determine - usually within a three-foot radius 
 -- there is a split second before you must make a decision. Nazi soldiers will bludgeon you quickly 
 if you're slow on the draw. The grenades are manageable out in the open, but if you mistakenly 
 hurl one inside a building, good luck soldier. The sense of confusion and chaos of a smoke grenade 
 outside is one thing, but inside a building, you feel helpless and blind.
  
  With Call of Duty 2, like its predecessor, you're wowed by the amount of chaos that's whirring 
 wildly about you, but when the cloud of smoke settles and you have a look around, the impeccable 
 work that has gone into these backgrounds, environments, structures, and textures is remarkable. 
 The game looks like it's running at a high framerate with dozens of characters on screen simultaneously 
 without hiccups or major drops in frames. The Xbox 360 version is comparable to a high-end PC system 
 running the game, and in some little cases -- like a lit landscape or a full-blown fighting sequence 
 -- the Xbox 360 version looks superior. Call of Duty 2 is easily one of the best looking Xbox 360 
 games for launch. It's amazing COD 2 is rated T. It's easily the grisliest T-rated game I've seen. 
 There isn't much blood and there aren't guts splashing all over the place, but characters take 
 physical damage from shots with force, and you will bear witness to the many animations of dying 
 soldiers. Some try to slowly crawl away, while others will take their handgun and limply -- a la 
 Tom Hands in Saving Private Ryan -- attempt to pull off a few last shots. If you're not careful, 
 they'll tag you. Or they'll try to drag themselves to safety. There are little splashes of blood 
 here and there, but the game is remarkably free of it.
  
  While the visual components are quick, beautiful, and constant, the audio is brilliant on every 
 level and, in many cases, it's even more powerful than the visuals. Just like the striking cacophony 
 of voices, explosions and gunfire that set Call of Duty 1 apart from other games in the sub-genre, 
 the sound in Call of Duty 2 comes through with striking force. Amongst all of the human chatter, 
 the sounds of war come home with furious anger. Tanks blast walls into rubble right next to you, 
 often delivering a blurry shellshock that whites out all noise for a few seconds. While in the 
 midst of any given firefight that might include several dozen enemies firing from rifles and machine 
 guns and throwing grenades at you, squad mates will bark out commands to flank, hide, or snipe. 
 You must comply quickly to succeed, but most of all you must listen to everything to know what 
 to do. Call of Duty 2 engages your eyes with force and motion, but Infinity Ward's game intelligently 
 engages your mind with audio commands that engage you on a deeper level and that many games erroneously 
 dismiss. Mission progress is usually delivered through ally chatter, and the Russians, the British 
 and the Americans all deliver their own distinct vernacular with verve and color. The Brits constantly 
 refer to the Germans as Jerrys and are constantly yelling Bastards! , while the Russians call them 
 Fritz and talk about sending them home to their mothers. The Americans are just as colorful. On 
 the other side, the Germans soldiers constantly yell out with a ferocity and intensity that's undeniable. 
 They'll scream when you raid them, and they'll howl in pain when shot - or when they see a grenade 
 they cannot avoid.
  
  
  Pilot tanks and experience a wide-open set of levels in Africa in the British campaign. Frenzied 
 Action
  Speaking of blood, Infinity Ward has changed the health system to a Halo 2-style system -- health 
 kit free. If you're hit, a red, blood-like film grows bolder and your breathing increases in volume. 
 There is little HUD. Functionally, it works well. The health bar is invisible but regenerates when 
 you remove yourself from the line of fire. But honestly, does it make any sense? No. You're not 
 wearing Mjolnir armor. This is World War II we're talking about -- amidst Infinity Ward's attempt 
 to create an atmosphere of realism and believability, this feature breaks up the immersion. While 
 the new health regeneration system is perhaps more efficient, eliminating the need to grab health 
 packs, it just doesn't make sense. If you can buy into the new health system (and most people will) , 
 you'll really enjoy the deeply layered set of missions. For the most part, they replicate the inch-by-inch 
 reclaiming of territory by the three Allied factions. This means that nearly every level your squad 
 and you take over a location step by step, clearing it of enemies, tanks, half-tracks. The missions 
 are fluid and multi-tiered; they keep you moving at all times, something that the AI works to do 
 well, and they're complex. In North Africa I cleared underground tunnels and piloted fast-moving 
 but vastly inferior English tanks as we fought Germany's Desert Fox. In another section, I spotted 
 tanks on rooftops outside the town perimeter and had them blown to hell. In the Russian levels 
 I withstood an onslaught of German troops that poured through their own smoke grenades to take 
 a building, and we held the bastards back. Elsewhere, I withstood enemy tank attacks and planted 
 sticky bombs to their treads. Then I watched as my allies hurled a grenade into the cockpit only 
 to see the enemies scrambling to get out before exploding inside. As an American I become part 
 of the wave of soldiers that climbed the sheer cliff wall at Point Du Hoc and fought back the Germans 
 from the beach.
  
  In all honestly, the missions themselves are often very familiar in structure and can even be a 
 little run of the mill. But, the way in which the AI acts makes all the difference in the world. 
 It reacts to your positioning on every level. You'll hear captains commending German soldiers to 
 take cover, flank, throw grenades, and snipe, and they'll do it all with efficiency and unusual 
 effectiveness. The enemy hurls perfectly aimed grenades at you. They take cover regularly and they'll 
 stay down if they see you pressing the left trigger to aim. The do all sorts of cool things: They 
 hide well, bludgeon you if you get too close, and they occasionally flank you. But the enemy is 
 not perfect. I've seen it pour into small rural openings, bottlenecked at certain points, and then 
 receive a beating. I've seen enemies stand in one place for far too long, and unwillingly move 
 when I shot them to pieces. The four difficulty settings is a smart move for Infinity Ward, and 
 many players will need to start on medium or even easy at first. I started on normal and moved 
 up to hardened (the third setting) , but if I had begun on that setting my experience would have 
 been frustrating and slow.
  The missions are lengthy. The earlier ones line up mission objectives in order, so there is no 
 choice. You follow the expertly designed corridors from one to the next. But deeper into the game 
 you'll receive orders to fulfill several objectives in any order you want, opening up the play 
 field and design more than the first Call of Duty. Because the levels are so intense and well populated 
 with intelligently placed enemies, you'll hardly notice how little freedom you have, but after 
 playing several levels, you will want it, and Infinity Ward gives it to you, even if sparsely.
 
  
  While there were several times when I wanted to command my teammates, Infinity Ward chose not to 
 create a squad-based shooter. I'm sure they discussed it at end, and the design works extremely 
 well without it, but there were several instances where I felt the need to send my team to flank, 
 lay down suppressive fire, or to send out a scout. Occasionally, I wanted them to get the hell 
 out of the way in narrow corridors, like when a grenade would drop at my feet. Still, the same-side 
 AI is surprisingly good at its job. Non-interactive squad mates will do a good deal of legwork 
 on their own. With the exception of running into too many live grenades, these soldiers stick by 
 you, opening fire and calling out targets and enemy grenades. They do such a good job of following 
 along with your progress that they'll position themselves and wait apparently forever if they get 
 a little too far ahead.
  
  Infinity Ward has honed to a science the perfect WWII mission scenario. The rhythm usually includes 
 a brief set up of action that leads into enemy territory, often leads up to defend this location 
 while waiting for reinforcements, section, and follows with one last burst of enemy activity before 
 it ends. When the cavalry finally does come in, the music swells and the screen fades to black. 
 Call of Duty 2 nails this style.
  
  
  Go multiplayer on Xbox Live or in four-player split-screen. Multiplayer Madness
  The action continues 
 without a skipping a beat from the single-player campaign straight into the multiplayer levels. 
 The developer has kept the Xbox Live player numbers down a little lower than we would have liked, 
 with eight players simultaneously playing on Xbox Live, but we figure that given the game's great 
 looks and smart design, more than eight players might ruin the framerate, rhythm or multiplayer 
 maps in some way. But for those who love System Link parties, a surprising 16 players can vie on 
 a local area network. For those who have played the first COD, the sequel brings back a handful 
 of the old maps for a total of 13. You'll also get two new weapons in multiplayer, the PPS42 and 
 the M1897 Trench Gun, the latter of which is great in close warfare, but logically terrible in 
 medium or long-range fighting. They levels are pretty, varied, and have a decent sense of verticality, 
 with second story buildings, mortal craters, and trenches providing leverage and quick hiding ground.
 
  
  Making use of the Xbox 360's multiple processors, Infinity Ward also dug into deep with four-player 
 split-screen goodness. There is no co-op mode, but 2-4 can hop onto a MP game, though I recommend 
 having at least three players. The maps are medium to large in size, and of all the gameplay modes 
 - Headquarters, Search and Destroy, CTF, Deathmatch and Team Deathmatch - only Headquarters is 
 really viable with less than three players. I played on both LANs and on Xbox Live, and the difference 
 is minimal. Headquarters Search and Destroy Mode are objective-based, with icons showing up on 
 the map to indicate where you need to go. In HQ mode, each side must attempt to establish a base. 
 When their HQ is enabled, your team members can't re-spawn when they die, and you must destroy 
 their HQ object to bring your people back to life. If everyone on your team dies, it's over buddy. 
 You'll also get one point for every second that your HQ is up, with the winner also determined 
 by who gets the highest score, but primarily by who survives. Search and Destroy is pretty self-descriptive. 
 You have to get to an object, such as a giant gun, and blow it up. The defender can defuse the 
 bomb, or they can also win by killing your team before you plant the explosive.
  
  This should be a big, lively Xbox Live multiplayer experience. The team games especially are ripe 
 for riveting hours and hours of constant fun, given their variety of design, multi-tiered surfaces, 
 and just the right amount of ammo. In one level with a barn and farm houses, I played an awesome 
 CTF game that was particularly fun when we hurled grenades into the opposing team's barn to capture 
 their flag - and to prevent campers with shotguns. These maps aren't linear like the single-player 
 games, so the wide open design enables you to play differently.
  
  Closing Comments
  Infinity Ward should be congratulated. Everything comes together in Call of Duty 2 to create a 
 fantastic, engaging, and nerve-rattling World War II experience. It succeeds graphically, over-achieves 
 in the audio department, and plays with such deft design and implementation that the linear paths 
 and lack of freedom won't even matter. Your ears will be rattling and your senses bombarded with 
 such force, youll actually be happy to be directed through these levels. It's hard to believe 
 I'm saying that, considering how many games have done the exact same thing, but Call of Duty 2 
 rises above the competitors with an intense attention to the minutiae that grips onto you and doesnt 
 let go. In my humble opinion, this is the best Xbox 360 launch title, hands-down.
  my rating g10.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SirTacobell
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 26, 2007 1:19 pm PT
Review:  This might just be the best WW2 game out. Its very addictive both online and offline. Even though 
 it did get a little annoying trying to get the gamerscore for the veteran missions it was still 
 enjoyable at the same time. If your looking for a good cheap war game this is one of the ones to 
 go with. It provides hours of fun. Online is very easy to understand and get used to. Not too easy 
 though it still provides a challenge. Im anticipating Call of Duty 4. ( still havent played 3 yet 
 lol) but i give props to Activision and Infinity Ward! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpartanTnT
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 26, 2007 12:49 pm PT
Review:  Damn, gamespot got rid of the old review system for player reviews. The old one made me feel more 
 organized than just branching out everywhere, but whatever, a review is a review nothingness. Call 
 of Duty 2 was one of the first games I got for Xbox 360, and it truly is a great game. The Call 
 of Duty franchises didn't really have any great console games before this one, since the previous 
 2 weren't as good as the PC versions, but this one breaks that chain and turned out to be the best 
 one yet. The campaign mode is long and fun. There are many different environments and it lets you 
 play as British, American and Russian soldiers. The achievements for this game can all be unlocked 
 if you beat the game on veteran difficulty, and that is a very hard but satisfying experience. 
 So far in my gaming life, beating Call of Duty 2 on Veteran difficulty is the hardest thing I ever 
 done in gaming. The online multiplayer in this game is fun, my reason, because it is meant to be. 
 I find myself playing with people who only play online for achievements, where in this game, everyone 
 is playing online because they want to. The reason why i am giving this game a 8.5 instead of a 
 9.0 is because throughout the journey of completing this game on Veteran, I have never been so 
 pissed off at a game, ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NakedSnake25
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 25, 2007 10:17 pm PT
Review:  This game is a very good game, so long as you don't expect too much variety and you haven't played 
 Gears of War online. I mean single player's a blast and playing as three different countries armies 
 is quite pleasing. My only complaint is that the missions don't really vary too much from level 
 to level. You can only plant bombs and snipe enemies so many times. The online on the other hand 
 is a little lacking. Its just run around on the map, shoot at the other guys, and bam. There's online 
 rolled into a sentence. It is fun, don't get me wrong, but once you've played Gears of War or Rainbow 
 Six Vegas online, you realize the possibilities online. The depth and skill it takes online in those 
 to games is really spectacular. This is fun though and if you enhoy FPS games then this game should 
 be right up your ally. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cube_of_MooN
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 10, 2008 7:01 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2, released nearly two years ago now, remains a solid game that no 360 owner should 
 go without. Its intense and enjoyable gameplay can appeal to anyone, even if the gameplay is not 
 terribly deep. Its many difficulty levels can welcome both veterans and newbies, and for a mere 
 $20, this game is a great value.
  
  Call of Duty 2's campaign starts off in the USSR in 1941, right in the middle of the Battle of 
 Moscow, a battle relatively early on in the Nazi invasion of the USSR. From here, you will play 
 a few more Soviet missions, each occurring a year after the last, including the famous battle of 
 Stalingrad. The game continues with a series of British missions that take place in Northern Africa, 
 including famous battles such as El Alamein. The final missions are American; ending at the point 
 the Allies cross the Rhine River and enter Germany. Naturally, there is a D-Day mission. It's pretty 
 fun to battle in such famous places, as well as humbling to know that every action and victory 
 you achieve is but a tiny victory in a huge war.
  
  The gameplay is as solid as any FPS out there. It is set up like a traditional FPS, and features 
 a rather unique health system; after injury, the screen flashes red. After staying in hiding or 
 avoiding damage for a few seconds, the screen will return to normal, and your health to full. If 
 you happen to take too much damage in a short amount of time, you will die. Death comes more quickly 
 the higher the difficulty level is. However, the only real challenge the game presents is on Veteran; 
 the other difficulty levels just feel too easy. Of course, this is coming from a person who plays 
 shooters all the time, so keep that in mind. Taking on Veteran reaps the greatest rewards in terms 
 of achievements, as a majority of the game's achievements are tied to beating missions on Veteran. 
 The other achievements are simply gained by beating the game. It is a great disappointment that 
 none of the achievements are tied to multiplayer, as the full one-thousand can be gained simply 
 by beating the game on Veteran.
  
  Most of the game involves either attacking positions or defending positions. The game's map shows 
 where the objectives are, and the basic goal is to get there, perform some action, whether it be 
 stealing documents or clearing the base of enemies. From there, another objective is given, and 
 so on, until the end of the mission. Sometimes there will be multiple buildings to capture at once, 
 and it is up to the player as to the order in which they should be captured. The game also features 
 a tank mission as well as a few other unique parts, such as calling in artillery strikes with binoculars. 
 The gameplay is astoundingly simple, but fun enough to make the game worth playing.
  
  As far as weaponry goes, there is plenty of typical WWII stuff. There are unique gun sets for the 
 British, Germans, Russians, and Americans, though the main differences are in appearance rather 
 than functionality. Most guns in one set match a gun in another set. Of course, each weapon is 
 unique, but the weapons are balanced well enough to keep them relatively equal. One big issue comes 
 up with grenades. They simply take too long to explode. A grenade indicator shows up when a grenade 
 has fallen near the player, and usually it takes a good five seconds for the grenade to explode, 
 more than enough time to get away. This is, of course, more than enough time for the computer as 
 well, though the computer generally doesn't react to grenades very often. Smoke grenades are a 
 useful tool that can be used to advance up to buildings with a lot of guys in and around them. 
 They are particularly useful on Veteran, where an uncovered advance usually results in quick death. 
 
  
  The game features very solid graphics, especially when taken into account that it was a 360 launch 
 title. Textures can look a bit ugly, and player models a bit ugly, but for the most part, everything 
 else is good. Smoke from smoke grenades creates a plume that is very realistic looking, and it 
 clouds vision appropriately. The guns feature enough detail, and in general, the environment looks 
 good. The cities are very detailed, helping the immersion factor along. Games nowadays exceed it 
 in this area, but for an older game, the graphics are still strong. 
  
  The game also sounds very good. The weapon noises sound authentic, a very important feature for 
 a shooter to have. Some characters can become annoying, but for the most part the parts of soldiers 
 are acted out well. There is WWII slang abound, giving the game an authentic feel, even if this 
 slang does seem a bit overused at times. The only noticeable music in the game is some dramatic 
 music that plays at the end and then following conclusion of battles, music that is appropriately 
 clichd, but there is nothing bad about it really.
  
  And now on to the multiplayer, which features strong team-based and free-for-all action. The possible 
 teams are allies (country varies based on map) and the Nazis. There are a variety of weapons available, 
 each for its own situation, at least in theory. The main problem is, snipers are overpowered (usually 
 a one-hit kill) , and most players use them exclusively. Play is limited to eight players, which 
 truly limits the game's online potential. Also, aside from deathmatches, the online gametypes are 
 rather weak. And by now, people have moved on to other games. Still, the game would be fun to play 
 split screen if the opportunity arose.
  
  If you don't already own it, and see Call of Duty 2 sitting in some bargain bin, pick it up. It 
 will be worth your time and money, even if its replay value is limited. After beating it on Veteran, 
 there seems no reason to go back to it. Also, with a sparse online population, do not expect to 
 find many games. But for a bargain price, a good 15-20 hours of fighting in WWII is well worth 
 it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rainbowsix11
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 20, 2007 9:28 pm PT
Review:  If they had just added vehicles they would of had the perfect world war 2 fps. The single player 
 game has a couple of levels that you are in vehicles which add a little to the campaign mode but 
 dang if they would of added a couple of vehicles to multi play you would of had a game that is 
 perfect. Now the maps in this game could have vehicles in them especially in the places that are 
 french country side. If they would of come out with this game a bout a year later they would of 
 had the perfect game like I said before almost (it is so close) but not quite. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AdmiralDan
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 19, 2007 9:36 pm PT
Review:  From the great music to the great variance of difficulties for every player from newcomer to veteran 
 to the comfortably weild-able weapons, CoD2 was by far the best Xbox 360 launch game and my personal 
 favorite WW2 era shooter behind the Brothers in Arms series. In the game you play on one of the 
 Allied sides which include the Russians, Americans, and British for a lengthy 20+ mission campaign 
 stretching from the deserts of North Africa to the villages of rural France and snow-filled destruction 
 in Russia. While playing each side. Infinity Ward gives the player a glimpse of the motivations 
 for fighting against the German war machine from each Allied Power's perspective, and gives cinematic 
 moments that feel ripped from a Steven Spielberg war movie.
  
  As for game play elements, the controls are some of the best in any shooter. Every gun feels great 
 with the control sticks, and it is a testament of skill when a player can use a 98 to knock off 
 enemies in the far distance. Similarly, close combat weapons are not able to reek much havoc on 
 the open hills, which forces the player to think a bit like a soldier may have to think.
  
  Graphics are very top notch, with draw distances far in the distance and glare and bloom kept at 
 comfortable levels. The men in your company look great, and most animations work out fine 90+% 
 of the time. I played this on a 22 Acer monitor with HDMI hookups and the game looked awesome.
 
  
  As for weaknesses in the game, I have only 2 major ones, each docking my score 1/2 a point. 1st, 
 the fact that enemies seem to never stop respawning in some areas causes the player to have to 
 use brash tactics to get through parts of certain levels on higher difficulties. The Silo in particular 
 forces the player to rush into some buildings and pray for the best, dying over and over until 
 trial and error lead to success.
  
  The 2nd weakness I had was the lack of control over other soldiers on your side. Always having 
 to run recklessly ahead to get your teammates to move ahead to the next checkpoint is a bit annoying, 
 and leads to many deaths on higher difficulties. While I do not need the same control as BIA, a 
 simple advance command would have been nice.
  
  These flaws only slightly detract from the experience, though. All-in-all CoD2 is a great WW2 experience 
 and you will feel truly accomplished when you beat the entire game on the Veteran difficulty. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: philiptroaca
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 14, 2007 12:24 am PT
Review:  when i played this very realistic game it gave me the felling how it was like in WW2 the game really 
 makes you fell like i was in the game. if you are a fan of MOA the you will love this game.
  
  the online gaming isn't the best but still good. but the one player is awsome. split screen 
 is really fun if you envite some friends over and vs each other in team deth macth, all vs all, 
 capture the flag, head quarters and more .
  
  the game is werth getting.
  
  if you want to know more then please email me at philiptroaca8@bigpond. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drago709
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 12, 2007 4:03 pm PT
Review:  This is game was the very first game i bought with my brand new xbox360 console and needless to 
 say i was glued to the screen. I'm not a big fan of first-person shoot em ups or World War 2 epics 
 for that matter but fro some unknown reason i was entralled by this game. Throughout the ame you 
 are given the ability to play as three different types of soldiers playing all their different 
 parts in the war such as the Russians, the British and the Americans, all obviously fighting the 
 Nazi's. Each nation plays a different set of historically accurate levels which all open with a 
 small clip from the history channel. You have many weapons to use such as machine guns, pistols, 
 sniper rifles, rifles, grenades, smoke bombs and fixed turrets. In one of the British campaigns 
 you even get to take control of a tank. The graphics are simply stunning in every way. The first 
 time I walked through a smoke grenade i actually felt like i should hold my breath for a short 
 while. Needless to say you won't actually need to. You have three stances in battle, standing, 
 crouching and lying down. You can also jump over obstacles. When holding a gun you can look down 
 the sight for improved accuracy and also while using a sniper rifle, u can press down the right 
 thumbstck to hold your breath for a short period of time. Overall, Call of Duty 2 is a fun and 
 interesting game to play and should be on your to buy list. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrimLesh
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 11, 2007 5:49 pm PT
Review:  Not only is this the best launch game of the 360, it's also the best WWII shooter in existence.
 
  
  The campaign is super long that allows you to play as a Russian, British, and American soldier. 
 With each campaign there are about 10 missions that each take about 30-45 minutes. Also with each 
 campaign, you have your own mini story where you write in a diary making, as another user said, 
 you feel like a small part of a bigger war. The campaign is intense and one huge rush after rush 
 after rush.
  
  The multiplayer while awesome, is limited to 8 players. But there is a reason for that. If there 
 were to be more players, we'd have a huge latency problem because of the smoke grenades. But no 
 worries, the maps suit eight players perfectly and the smoke grenades are so worth it; they are 
 quite possibly the best smoke grenades in any videogame.
  
  The weapon's look really cool. They give you the idea of a gritty war because they look beat up 
 and old and war torn. They also work really well and the balance in the game is near perfect.
 
  
  The maps are great and there are some of the classics such as Carentan and Brecourt. The game shipped 
 with about 10 maps but now there are like 20-25 maps on the marketplace that should be free by 
 now.
  
  There are a lot of people who still play it so it should be easy to find a match. You will love 
 this game, I guarantee it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lancealot325
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 10, 2007 8:41 pm PT
Review:  What more can I say? Call of Duty 2 is just another well-designed WWII based shooter. This game 
 stands toe to toe with its PC predecessor, and its just plain awesome. The game is about WWII. 
 You play as a Russian soldier, a British soldier and an American soldier. But you all have something 
 in common: fighting against the axis. Whether you are a sniper, a tough-as-nails soldier or someoone 
 who likes to hide behind cover and let your buddies do all the work, you play against a very well 
 designed AI. They're tough, and certainly won't let you get close to crack their skull in with 
 the butt of your Tommy gun (or whatever you're holding in your hand) .
  
  All in all, Call of Duty 2 is just another great game that should be enjoyed. the multiplayer is 
 also great, though only 8 people can play in it. But still, very addictive and very good game this 
 is. Enough said. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: calui
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 10, 2007 7:10 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay 8: The gameplay in Call of Duty 2 remains fun and intense thrughout, but it does come 
 with some more flaws in the gameplay department than some other shooters on the 360 nowadays. The 
 game can get frusterating in many moments from the brain dead team mate a. i. to the hardly any 
 cover in some really challenging places. The team mate a. i. will litterally stand right in front 
 of you when you are engaging enmies and will get shot and make you restart from the last checkpoint. 
 This is really annoying considering you might have just beat a really tough part then you shoot 
 your team mate and you have to beat it again. Another annoying factor is sometimes you will find 
 yourself with litterally no cover at all. Now you might be able to get by with this is the easier 
 difficulties but on Hardeneded you need to keep behind cover through most of the game to survive 
 and sometimes all you can do is throw smoke grenades. These flaws asside the rest of Call of Duty's 
 mechancics are very solid and polished. The enemy a. i. is agrressive and inteligent, which keeps 
 the action intense throughout. The melee kills are satysfying and there are a lot more enemies 
 in Call of Duty 2 than most any other shooter I've seen. The guns work well, and the smokes and 
 frags are satysfying as well. There are a few tank missions but not really enough to keep the gameplay 
 from getting repetative. Still overall the gameplay is great. Graphics 9: The graphics still look 
 on track with most of the 360's other titles even after two years. The enviornments are really 
 detailed and the character models look great as well. Sound 10: Flat out fantastic sound. You can 
 hear every explosion every gun shot and every vehicle on the battlefield. The voice acting is excecuted 
 very well also. Value 9: Right now you can find this game for 15 or 20 dollars anywhere and with 
 it's lenghty campaign and good online play this game is a steal for twenty dollars. Overall 8.8/10 
 Call of Duty 2 isn't the revolutionary shooting game you might be waiting for, but it still executes 
 everything done in the past well also. There isn't a whole lot of noticeable faults, and even the 
 minor flaws can't stop this from being a must own game for anyone who enjoys shooting things. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ballroompirate
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 9, 2007 10:57 am PT
Review:  As most of you know Microsoft has a hard on for fps and as myself I really dont get into FPS games 
 but it doesnt mean I dont try em or play em.
  
  CoD2 is another WWII FPS which I know some of you are like not again! with the numerous WWII games 
 out there, what makes CoD2 different from the others? for once your actually part of a squad which 
 most other army/war games your some john wayne soldier who can apparently take on Nazi Germany 
 all by yourself which in my opinion can kill a game before you can even put it in your console, since 
 having a squad with you it makes it feel more realistic since most of the time a battle is never 
 in the hands of one person, its almost always more than one person whether it be a squad, platoon 
 or a battalion. What I love about having a Squad or Platoon in CoD2 is not everyone makes it back, your 
 team mates will die from gun fire, shrapnels, grenades or get beat down my the end of a German soldiers 
 rifle. Your squad will try to cover fire for once and the golden goose you might say for having 
 a squad/platoon is if a grenade is thrown in your direction and a squad mate is near you they will 
 actually try and throw the grenade back at the enemy!.
  
  Unlike half of the fps games CoD2 is almost always outside with snow effects that are still prolly 
 one of the best I've seen ever, the rain effects are just wow, as a sample in one mission your playing 
 as an american corporal and its night and dark, its raining you and your platoon are drenched to 
 the bone, it looks like your actually wet from the rain which I've yet to see in a game whether 
 its FPS or not. As for the smoke effects they are up there if not one of the best smoke effects 
 I've seen, its insane how no matter how good your vision is you can not see through the smoke which 
 at times can mask yourself and your squad from being gun downed by Germans or mask an upcoming 
 frontal assault from German forces.
  
  As for the sound very few games try and put you in the realism of war/battle and CoD2 does put 
 you there, your fellow squad mates will taunt/insult the Germans same with the German soldiers insulting 
 yourself and your squad mates, the sound of far off explosions will be almost constant in the all 
 out war campaigns, the sounds of enemy tanks are actually telling you that a metal mammoth is coming 
 in to destroy infantry and weaker armored vehicles. The best/most realistic part of the game in 
 terms of sound is your squad will yell out man down if one of your squad mates gets hit, when a 
 building is clear your squad will yell out clear or so and so is clear .When your in a fire fight 
 and germans are advancing from a spot a squad mate will yell enemys coming from the North or even 
 go as far as enemys advancing behind the broken wall to the south which adds to the realism of 
 being in a war with a platoon/squad.
  
  If your into FPS games, a video game collector or just play games for causal fun I recommend CoD2 
 for every type of gamer out there and you will not be unimpressed by the sure awesomeness CoD2 
 delivers as a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smartcobra
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 9, 2007 9:01 am PT
Review:  This time activision present a new type of story and great graphics and amazing sound and new type 
 of style of game play and the effects is amazing i think this is best in series.
  =
  =
  =
  =
  =
  Graphics is amazing i give it 10 out of 9.
  =
  =
  =
  =
  Sound is great 
 i give it 10 out of 9
  =
  =
  =
  =
  Story is good i give it 8 out of 10
  =
  =
  =
  =
  =
  Game play is amazing i give it 9 out 10
  =
  =
  =
  =
  =
  =
  =
  =
 
  Effects is amazing i like it to much i give it 9 out 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RangedReCoN
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 8, 2007 3:49 pm PT
Review:  The game has alot of in depth game play,
  They made the game incredible and I even notice that it was the first game to come out for the 
 360 it still has some of the best graphics.
  Champaign was insanely fun and pretty challenging on veteran even though I've already played the 
 champaign a million times it still surprised me with how fun it could be.
  Call Of Duty 2's Multiplayer online was the best I've ever seen to! it has a small amount of people 
 in the game but it is quite suitable for the map sizes, it has a very challenging aspect to it, 
 like if you shoot at an enemy and he ducks and moves away you have to calculate the chances if 
 him coming around what corner next or what building window or corner.
  Some of the weapons are un-balanced though The MP 44 has some pretty cheap aspects to it and as 
 well the M1 Garand is over played and used to an advantage the real gun could only fire about 24-32 
 clips a minute and while in the game it's like a mini machine gun if you have the right beat and 
 finger trigger time to when the bullets goes into the barrel. like I'm telling you if you get the 
 hang of that M1 than you can take out the SMG's in that game close range with no problem with the 
 way I've been able to fire.
  But as well the Kar 98K try's to balance it out with the one shot kill in the torso which is still 
 a really good weapon and exceptionally fun to use at times but sometimes bolt action one shot rifles 
 aren't for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DBARTON
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 5, 2007 7:04 pm PT
Review:  Loved this game !! Action packed and intense at times (depending on the level you Play) . The graphics 
 are nice and gameplay intuitive. The AI is excellent and almost makes it seems as if you were actually 
 in a battle.
  Some levels are very simple and easy but other are quite hard. This is a good mix for the flow of 
 the games which adds to it's addictive nature. The player gets to experience some easy battles but 
 are also challenged at length on others. I think a lot of developers miss this important element 
 of making a great game . The game can not be to easy but at the same time not so hard that it leads 
 to frustration. Great game... will not disappoint any fps gamer !! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: battalion93
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 3, 2007 8:51 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is a historical first person shooter game based on the many events of World War 
 two. The game has very solid game play, on both single and multiplayer (as long as you don't lag) . 
 The game's story campaign mode starts you as a Russian soldier and works you up to French campaign 
 mode, then finally American. I would say the most realistic level of the game was the opening scene 
 of D-Day, which is the first level of the American Campaign. It is very realistic on the events 
 that happened on that day. The multiplayer aspect of the game could not get any better. You can 
 choose between ranked and un-ranked matches. There are several types of game-type options featured 
 in multiplayer: Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, Capture the Flag, Head Quarters, and Search and Destroy. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nymets819
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 31, 2007 12:29 pm PT
Review:  It was an outstanding installment to the series. It was an outstanding installment to the series. 
 It was an outstanding installment to the series. It was an outstanding installment to the series. 
 It was an outstanding installment to the series. It was an outstanding installment to the series. 
 It was an outstanding installment to the series. It was an outstanding installment to the series. 
 It was an outstanding installment to the series. It was an outstanding installment to the series. 
 It was an outstanding installment to the series. It was an outstanding installment to the series. 
 It was an outstanding installment to the series. It was an outstanding installment to the series. 
 It was an outstanding installment to the series. It was an outstanding installment to the series. 
 It was an outstanding installment to the series. It was an outstanding installment to the series. 
 It was an outstanding installment to the series. It was an outstanding installment to the series. 
 It was an outstanding installment to the series. It was an outstanding installment to the series. 
 It was an outstanding installment to the series. It was an outstanding installment to the series. 
 It was an outstanding installment to the series. It was an outstanding installment to the series. 
 It was an outstanding installment to the series. It was an outstanding installment to the series. 
 It was an outstanding installment to the series. It was an outstanding installment to the series. 
 It was an outstanding installment to the series. It was an outstanding installment to the series. 
 It was an outstanding installment to the series. It was an outstanding installment to the series. 
 It was an outstanding installment to the series. It was an outstanding installment to the series. 
 It was an outstanding installment to the series. It was an outstanding installment to the series. 
 It was an outstanding installment to the series. It was an outstanding installment to the series. 
 It was an outstanding installment to the series. It was an outstanding installment to the series. 
 It was an outstanding installment to the series. It was an outstanding installment to the series. 
 It was an outstanding installment to the series. It was an outstanding installment to the series. 
 It was an outstanding installment to the series. It was an outstanding installment to the series. 
 It was an outstanding installment to the series. It was an outstanding installment to the series. 
 It was an outstanding installment to the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RobtBizzle
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 30, 2007 5:35 am PT
Review:  A very promissing WWII game!
  
  Call of Duty 2 has an exellent gameplay, good graphics, impressive sounds and a good AI. This is 
 one of the first xbox 360 games but it has still good graphics, the gameplay is amazing and u won't 
 get bored by the campaign.
  
  Multiplayer is a disappointment u get bored easily and there's no gamerpoints to win. if u want 
 a massive online with achievments then u'll rather get COD3 instead. If u want to win the gamerpoints 
 u'll have to play in veteran which is very hard ( that's why i put hard in difficulty) .
  
  So, u'll probably want to rent this, get all the achievments in campaign and thats it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vengefulwill
Rating: 9.9
Date: Aug 1, 2007 10:50 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is absolutely amazing. not as good as CoD 1 or United Offensive, but is definitely 
 better than CoD 3. At christmas 2005, I got my Xbox 360, and I got Call Of Duty 2 with it, as I 
 liked the CoD franchise. There were 2 diffrent game modes:
  
  Single Player (Campaign mode)
  The good thing about campaign mode on CoD 2 was that mission were 
 put inside Chapters. those chapters were the 3 army campaigns: Russia-Stalingrad
  British-Africa
  USA-France, Belgium &amp; Germany.
  These were very big missions altogether 
 and each time you could go one way or the other. Multiplayer (Xbox Live)
  I didn't get Xbox Live until my Birthday in Febuary, But then I found out some of the wrong things 
 with Call Of Duty 2.
  1. Lag.
  2. 8 people on 1 map.
  3. Boring maps......
  
  But there was good things with multiplayer also. 1. A Full house.
  2. Throwing a grenade into 
 a window, killing all the enemy team.
  
  Call of Duty 2? 9.9/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jono8192
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 26, 2007 6:56 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is in my opinion one of the best games in the WW2 genre. It combines everything 
 from smooth graphics, impressive sound, and a deep campaign into one complete package.
  
  The campaign mode in the game is very well plotted, with a vast variety of battles for you to take 
 part in. You get the chance to play as Russian, British, and American soldiers, and take part in 
 the most famous campaigns of WW2 including Stalingrad 42', and most notably, D-Day. The visuals 
 in the single player mode are a lot better than online and weather conditions, especially the rain, 
 look really good. The game play is very smooth and simple to handle and you won't encounter any 
 annoying little glitches like in other games. The main campaign will take you a while to complete, 
 especially if you play on Veteran difficulty for a real challenge.
  
  The online mode is also very entertaining. Although you can only play with seven other people, 
 there is a big selection of maps (more can be downloaded) , and a good choice of game modes to keep 
 you happy. It will take you a little while to adjust to the frantic stlye of play but once you 
 have got the hang of it, you will definatley enjoy it. Graphically, it is a little worse than the 
 single player mode, with the only weather effects being day and night. However, the whole feel 
 of the online experience is a very good, and you are sure to have hours of fun with your friends 
 or other random gamers.
  
  Overall, a well-rounded game showcasing the reasons why the Xbox 360 is as popular as it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vincent9mm
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 25, 2007 10:15 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is one of many First Person Shooters based on World War II, this comes as nothing 
 new to anyone who has picked up a video game console anytime within the last decade. What seperates 
 Call Of Duty 2 from any other WWII based shooter is that its easy to pick up, fun to play, challenging, 
 and has a perfect length campaign.
  
  In this WWII shooter you assume one of three roles throughout a 10 mission campaign. Starting in 
 Russia you are trained in the basics (how to throw grenades, aim and shoot guns, pick up weapons, 
 and smack someone) . Suddenly of course you find yourself in dogfights with Nazis in broken houses 
 and corpse ridden alleyways. One of Call Of Duty 2's more impressive elements is its depicition 
 of war. It really appears as if your in war with your comrades and eneimies dying feveriously all 
 around you. Historic Scenes like D Day are probably the best ever reproduced for a video game.
 
  
  While gun types appear accurate they do not take away from the action based gameplay whatsoever. 
 Which is another reason Call Of Duty 2 is such a good game, its action based. Rather then worrying 
 about every corner your taking or where the best position for the fight is, you really don't have 
 time much like war should be and will scramble to take cover and pop a few Jerries before they 
 take you out. You will die often but loadscreens really dont take up much of your time at all and 
 you will see some of the greatest qoutes regarding war before being thrust right back into the 
 action. Luckily Call Of Duty 2 also avoids making you repeat the entire mission and rather checkpoints 
 after objectives and main events throughout its mission, making it easy to play with so much death 
 going on.
  
  Finding your way around the battlefields is suprisingly easy thanks to your compass, pointing out 
 ally locale and your desitinations. The play is linear but for a shooter where your following your 
 team so you dont get blown apart by a mortar or a tank doesn't run you over, it more then makes 
 up for a simple go here go there play style.
  
  Interactive elements such as blowing up doors and tanks are well placed and exciting. Nothing beats 
 destroying a panzer admist 15 troops aiming for you. They are easy to pull off, so you never feel 
 taken away from the heart pounding action.
  
  A few moments of break up styles of game play such as an entire mission based in tanks and gun 
 turret sequences make you keep playing. They however are few and far between and Im sure im not 
 the only one who would have loved to see some air to ground or air to air combat as well.
  
  There is little bad to say about this game, some graphical errors like clipping bodies occasionally 
 appear during ground to roof combat and other such errors kinda knock the overall production down 
 a bit. While some battles end with great victory and triumph a few are rather anti climatic and 
 leave you standing wondering whos going to attack you just to bring you to the Victory screen.
 
  
  Missions are broken into two to four pieces per mission giving you a little time to breathe and 
 not worry about always getting through a mission before putting down the controller to come back 
 later.
  
  A lack of Narrative or concern for your character does two things for this game. One makes it feel 
 more like a historic vision with less emotion tied to it, taking you out of feeling for one person 
 and seeing the grand picture of war. It at times however makes you feel unenthused and disconnected 
 to the overall events of the game. Then again, for a WWII game this is probably a very good thing.
 
  
  Overall Call Of Duty 2 strikes a diamond where everyone else has only seen coal. Its a heart pounding 
 action driven WWII experience. The only WWII game I can say that is truly worth playing. For its 
 current price tag its an impressive buy for the Xbox 360 and a great introduction into FPS games 
 as well. Do not overlook this one whatsoever, a campaign this good is a shame to miss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kickinurazz
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 22, 2007 7:54 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is a must buy for only $20, it stands out among all the other WWII shooters. When 
 your able to be fighting Nazis in all the major cities in WWII, you feel like you are there in 
 this game. Call of Duty 2 is a must buy. The multiplayer is this game is great, the *new* Xbox 
 Live maps have made the game even better than it was before. Compared to the newly added Call of 
 Duty 3, this game stands as an equal or better. Call of Duty 2 will continue to have fans throughout 
 the Xbox Live community. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterchief1392
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 19, 2007 10:02 am PT
Review:  Yes I only tried veteran, and easy, but I feel that is enough to review this game. Anyways, Ill 
 start off with the A. I. Countless times while trying to beat the game on veteran did I have one 
 of my stupid teammates step right in front of me while I am shooting. Friendly fire isnt tolerated, 
 (or you betrayed the motherland) so you have to restart at a checkpoint and fight through to that 
 part again. Let me tell you, veteran is ridiculously hard. Moving on to graphics and sound. Yes, 
 I know its a launch game, but the graphics were definetely not the best. They were pretty good 
 for a launch game, dont get me wrong. The sound, on the other hand, was amazing. Gameplay is pretty 
 fun, just another shoot-em-up. But once again, veteran is insanely difficult. It also happened 
 to be the first difficulty i tried. So dont do what I did. Personally I disliked the multiplayer 
 because once you find somebody, the firefights over in seconds, but i guess the realisticness (not 
 a word) adds a certain edge to the game. All in all, rent not buy. Well thats just my opinion, 
 and trust me if you started out on veteran it would be your too. To add, under scoring im just 
 going to put just right for difficulty because it really depends on what difficulty you play the 
 game on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zebu9
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 18, 2007 3:25 am PT
Review:  This game is an instant classic, it takes on all of the best thing from Call of Duty 1 and adds 
 a couple of things, in order to make it a hit. The gameplay is fairly simple for a First Person 
 Shooter &amp; you don't actually spend too much time learning how to play the game. The graphics 
 are good considering it was a launch title. Gamplay wise it is one of the best launch titles games. 
 Enemy as well as Allied's AI is very very good. Like you won't feel much disappointed about the 
 way the allied accompanies you. There has been atleast a million games made on World War II, even 
 then it scores well because of its intense gameplay. Varying Mission objectives are good, &amp; 
 you will feel that you are fighting an intense battle. Game plays very smoothly and rarely there 
 is any glitches or any graphical error. Again I would say it is an extreme FPS experience &amp; 
 you will enjoy this game only if you love playing FPS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: armymanryno
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 15, 2007 6:01 pm PT
Review:  this is a really reat ww2 game. better for pc but on the 360 its still amazig fun... this is a game 
 to get. wow this is such a great game. great 2-4 player game... sweet levels and missions
  this is a really reat ww2 game. better for pc but on the 360 its still amazig fun... this is a game 
 to get. wow this is such a great game. great 2-4 player game... sweet levels and missionsthis is 
 a really reat ww2 game. better for pc but on the 360 its still amazig fun... this is a game to get. 
 wow this is such a great game. great 2-4 player game... sweet levels and missionsthis is a really 
 reat ww2 game. better for pc but on the 360 its still amazig fun... this is a game to get. wow this 
 is such a great game. great 2-4 player game... sweet levels and missions 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jameogameo
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 15, 2007 10:05 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is nothing short of a realistic, thrilling and challenging first person shooter 
 from EA, and still after over 18 months after release no other game of its genre has come close 
 to beating it (e. g. Call of Duty 3) . The 360 version is fantastic, revolutionary graphics and gameplay 
 (for 2005) that must be seen to be believed! The campaign itself is both immersive and fun to do, 
 but also at the same time quite challenging There are over a dozen lengthy missions to complete 
 spanning through the war where you play as British, Russian, American and Polish troops fighting 
 for good against the Nazis. Oh, did I mention the sound? Some of the best heard on any console 
 EVER! And yes, the game does have XBOX live, but definately not much of a highlight as there are 
 no achievements for it at all, never mind.
  
  A well though through game that anyone in their right mind will enjoy. Brilliant. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Meto_360
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 14, 2007 3:24 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty 2 is good game. Wit nice clean graphis, easy gameplay, descent storyline, and easy 
 achivements.
  Tha game oviously takes place during WW2. U start off as a Russian Soldier. And it's when Hitler 
 betraded tha Soviet Unoin. And it took place around 1942. And it is pretty long. After u play as 
 Sergant John Davis in tha British army. It's pretty short but challenging. And after that u play 
 as Corpral Bill Taylor. Ur a Army Ranger (just like in Saving Private Ryan) . It is D-Day. And after 
 that u have to like... it's hard 2 explain really. And i think at tha end u play a SGT. John Davis 
 (i barely play tha game) . And i guess that should be it.
  Tha graphics r really nice. At some pionts ur allies look real, tha envionment is breathetaking, 
 and tha weather effects look very beatiful. So just like Borat u'll be saying Very Nice .
  Tha gameplay is simple. Just run around and shoot Nazis. U can stand, crouch, and lay on ur stomach. 
 Tha game has a good amount of weapons. But ammo can be limited. So u'll be picking up and dropping 
 German weapons.
  Tha game is really good and tha achivments r just beating tha game on Veteran mode. So that 1000 
 pionts in gamerscore r pretty easy but it'll take u a while. Trust me... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Korubi
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 13, 2007 8:36 am PT
Review:  No game since the original Call of Duty has been able to capture the essence of the genre quite 
 like it. The second game in the series, and Call of Duty's debut on consoles, follows in the footsteps 
 of its predecessor by providing a campaign brimming with intense gun combat and a fully featured 
 fast-paced online multi-player mode. Although Call of Duty 2 may not have much of a narrative, 
 its exciting action and addictive multi-player will keep you interested one way or the other.
 
  
  You'll start the campaign as a Russian soldier, but later you'll fight as both a Briton and an 
 American. Besides having weapons distinct to each faction like the American's Thompson sub-machine 
 gun and the Russian's Mosin Nagant, each faction has distinct battles. For example, as a Russian 
 you'll defend Stalingrad and as an American youll take part in a D-Day landing on Point du Hoc. 
 Although each faction has subtle differences, youre still killing Nazis when it comes down to 
 it.
  
  Each mission begins with a vignette, which includes authentic war footage, but unless you're already 
 interested in World War II history, these intros are pretty dry. Also, Call of Duty 2 has no characters 
 or narrative to follow. The story is almost non-existent, but the game makes up for it with a genuine 
 feeling of camaraderie between you and your fellow soldiers.
  
  As a member of your squad you fight for your life just like everyone else. Nazis constantly fire 
 from all sides so youll need to use cover and have a steady shot in order to be successful. But 
 youre not alone. Your squad mates are adept and theyll often help YOU just as much as you help 
 them. Bits of their dialog like Cover me, Im reloading! also help establish the bond between 
 you and your fellow soldiers.
  
  If there's one aspect of World War II that Call of Duty 2 conveys best, it's the frenetic action 
 of warfare. Theres never a dull moment, whether youre kneeling behind sandbags picking off Nazis 
 one by one, sniping enemies from afar, or commandeering tanks in the North African desert. Most 
 objectives are simple: make it to the spot on your compass-map while killing every Nazi on your 
 path. And thankfully the shooting is lots of fun, because youll be doing a lot of it. Each gun 
 has a growl that sounds genuine and feels powerful, and the aiming reticule is subtle to keep you 
 immersed in the action.
  
  Although the multi-player isnt a cinematic experience, its fully featured with several maps and 
 game types. Its easy to get right into the action with a Quick Match, and a whole lot of fun 
 to pick your favorite faction and weapon to hone your skills with. The maps are varied, giving 
 you a variety of options and overall the game has a top-notch online experience.
  
  Call of Duty 2s thrilling campaign and competitive multiplayer make it one of the best first-person 
 choices on the Xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bloodbore8
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 14, 2007 4:53 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2's booming sound effects and other features are actually a huge part of the game 
 that successfully keeps you entertained and makes you want to keep playing. If all World War II 
 shooters were like this, people WOULD ACTUALLY want more games in that overflooded video game genre. 
 The single player campaign also has great, epic moments scripted perfectly with great voice acting 
 and dialogue. The multiplayer also comes with lots and lots of maps to play around with and is 
 a blast to play. The game would be almost perfect if the game had a longer Russian campaign. That 
 campaign is just as fun as the American and British but it doesn't even compare in length. This 
 game is a must-play so, if you missed it at the 360's launch, go out and buy it now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Emericarocks
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 5, 2007 9:37 pm PT
Review:  This game is great in almost every aspect. The graphics are great. Gameplay in Call of Duty 2 is 
 simply amazing, great chaotic first person shooter action. The music and voises are good. The game 
 is pretty long to. So you can have fun with this for awhile. There's really no complaints here 
 for me. I can't wait until I can buy Call of Duty 3. I spent a good 30 hours playing it, and I 
 will continue to play this game until I can buy COD3. It relates to world war 2 well and it just 
 rocks as a first person shooter game. AI is pretty smart too. The difficulty is just right for 
 me personally. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark_Nexus3367
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 5, 2007 2:27 pm PT
Review:  Another year, another World War 2 game. The only difference this time is that this WW2 game is actually 
 worth the money. Call of Duty 2 is the follow-up to the original Call of Duty that debuted on the 
 PC. Just like it's predecessor, Call of Duty 2 is a great game and an engaging experience. The campaign 
 is intense and heart-stomping. While the game is pretty easy on the normal difficulty, on the veteran 
 difficulty it is a completely different experience. The AI is smarter, more brutal, and make every 
 fight a true struggle for survival.
  Of course this isn't to say the multi-player isn't as good. The on-line is fun and very well done, and 
 the maps are very nicely detailed. The multi-player is clearly the strong point of this game, as 
 you will spend countless hours playing non-stop. This is due to the great on-line community and 
 the great gameplay that keep you interested in the game for weeks on end. Saying that Call of Duty 
 2 is another standard World War 2 game is an insult to a game that is sure to be an instant classic. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SLAPMONGROL
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 4, 2007 9:09 pm PT
Review:  this is easily one of the best shooters out there. Great campaign, extremly fun, and extremely 
 hard. Feels like you're part of a war, tons of enemies on screen, and the best sound you can find 
 an any game. Great guns, and long campaign. Very atmospheric. The online is awsome to. Really fun, 
 and forces you to learn how to play every game type, on every map, so it doesnt get old. Requires 
 team work. Could have used more than 4v4, like the pc versions, but that didn't stop it from being 
 a great game.
  
  Graphics: Were some of the best ever at the time. Awsome, huge maps in differnt cities all over 
 Europe.
  
  Sound: Best sound ever! Great guns, makes the game extremely atmoshperic, every time you move, 
 some one could here you and blast you!
  
  Gameplay: Extremely addictive, great online, all the guns are fun to use, all the game modes are 
 awsome, and it features some of the best sets of maps out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ffgothic
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 25, 2007 6:31 am PT
Review:  In this wide universe of video games, there exists a long list of World War II shooters, and the 
 term WWII shooter, is pretty much a genre in itself. We have seen great games of this type, including 
 Medal of Honor Frontline, Brothers in Arms, and the original Call of Duty. Unfortunately there 
 are many horrific WWII themed shooters such as Combat Elite WWII Paratroopers, and most recently, 
 Hour of Victory. Yet there is one game that stands above and beyond all of these titles, greatly 
 improving upon its critically acclaimed predecessor. That game is Call of Duty 2.
  
  COD2 maintains much of the traditional flare and mechanics that are held true to the first, while 
 introducing expanded and fairly new features to the franchise. Just like the original, the player 
 will progress through the games single-player campaign in three different sub campaigns, consisting 
 of the Russian, French, and American perspectives of WWII. The Russian campaign replicates the 
 Winter War in Moscow, furthering into a large portion of the battle at Stalingrad. The British 
 campaign undergoes The Battle of El Alamein and Afrika Corps, to a mission in Caen, Normandy. Lastly, 
 players will experience the American campaign, which commences with a vivid emulation of D-Day, 
 the conquering of Hill 400, and the last push into Germany. Due to these true to life battles, 
 Activision reached out to the Military Channel to provide visual and verbal pieces of historical 
 information of World War II during mission briefings throughout the single player campaign, which 
 is a nice little addition.
  
  One goal that COD2 accomplishes is making the single player more engrossing. While the events of 
 WWII are learned in our general history publications, this installment fully engages you. If you 
 wanted to make a generalization of the games storyline, the concrete statement would be you vs. 
 Nazi Germany. Yet the characters and their background provide a significantly deeper quality to 
 make the single player inspiring enough to play all the way through. For instance, in the Russian 
 campaign, you play as Private Vasili Ivanovich Koslov, who enters the war to seek revenge for his 
 family murdered by Nazis. Another factor COD2 improves on is making the gameplay itself more engaging. 
 You have your traditional objectives pin pointed on your map, but there will be instances in the 
 game where you have the ability to tackle objectives by your own order. It isnt completely non-linear, 
 but it definitely works well to give the player a bit more sense of freedom, which justifies something 
 fairly new for an FPS.
  
  The Call of Duty games are famously known mostly for their cinematic gameplay, and it has never 
 been so vastly proven in this installment. The battles you indulge in look, feel and play more 
 intensely than ever, nevertheless it is not so visceral to the point where you become frustrated. 
 In actuality, most players may thoroughly enjoy the in-game cinematic playing style; there are 
 even moments when my jaws-dropped while playing, especially during the D-Day mission. The game 
 plays with more of an unscripted feel; you wont just be shooting enemies to get to one door. More 
 enemies may flank from your left side, while another fleet may be appear directly behind you on 
 a roof of a building to snipe. Enemy AI has improved. They also take cover, they will even launch 
 thrown grenades back your way. Many times they attack much more aggressively. While you are fighting 
 through the trenches and towns with a squad, tactical gameplay similar to the likes of Rainbow 
 Six is not necessarily emphasized in COD2. Instead youll feel like you are part of a small war. 
 Your squad mates can provide covering fire, open doors, deploy smoke grenades and more actions 
 of that nature, but you handle most of the fragging and suppressing. The controls are tight and 
 comfortable, the button layouts are simple, easy to pick up and become used to. Many weapons from 
 the original COD make a return, which is quite a good thing. One reason is to be historically correct 
 and another is that these weapons are highly useful. The majority of them feel powerful, and the 
 variety is decent. Certain weapons are specific to certain countries fighting in the war of course, 
 such as the Germans MP40 assault rifle. Melee attacks are used by clicking down on the right stick. 
 Grenades are thrown using the right and left bumpers, and expect to use smoke grenades a lot more 
 this time around. Vehicles are emphasized more in COD2; there is an entire mission where you will 
 be manning a tank. Overall, the gameplay is a standard FPS with that official COD touch.
  
  Call of Duty 2 has an excellent presentation with very good graphics and superb sound. WWII has 
 never looked so realistic in a game. The character models are pretty neat, but the textures start 
 to pixelate a bit the closer you zoom in to look at them; although you wont really recognize it. 
 The weapon models look wonderful, and the graphical upgrades can effortlessly be seen from those 
 who have played the first COD. The battlegrounds and environments leave you in awe. The game additionally 
 has some wonderful weather effects. The lighting is very well done, such the gleam reflection on 
 the metal exterior of your rilfle when standing under a spotlight or aiming towards the sun. The 
 animation is smooth and very vivid, especially during the in game cuts-cenes. One of the most impressive 
 graphical assets in COD2 is the effect of smoke grenades. This shooter contains the most awesome 
 smoke effects ever seen in any game! COD2 maintains a phenomenal soundtrack just like the original. 
 The orchestrated battle anthems set the dreadful and depressing tone of war, while patriotic instrumentals 
 are played when levels are completed. This sequel upholds the franchises fame for sound effects. 
 They are extremely realistic, almost bizarrely real at times. The gunfire of each weapon is very 
 distinct, and you can tell which sound belongs to which weapon. Call of Duty 2s graphical and 
 audio presentation helps portray WWII in a profound and highly authentic manner.
  
  You are easily reminded while playing, that COD2 is an FPS, and of course its a bit elementary 
 that there is multi-player to be found. This is where the overall game attains a good replay value, 
 next to the single-player campaign already having a significant length. All your standard multi-player 
 modes are available; Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, Capture The Flag, etc. There are also a couple 
 of other modes, Retrieval and Headquarters, which are basically exclusive to the franchise and 
 are complex yet fun to play. All of this can be played over Xbox Live, Split Screen, or by System 
 Link. Additionally, the Xbox 360 version offers achievement points in which are unlocked for completing 
 the game missions on Veteran difficulty, the highest difficulty. It may seem like a frustrating 
 task, but believe me, it isnt too difficult to accomplish, especially for veteran Call of Duty 
 players.
  
  The value of Call of Duty 2 is self-proven. It was the main launch title for the Xbox 360 back 
 in November 2005, and a substantially large number of players are still throwing down in multi-player 
 action over Xbox Live! Not to mention, the single player campaign justifies the games greatness 
 on its own. Overall COD2 is a top-notch first person shooter. While it may not be as tactical as 
 others, it still stands alone as an awesome game, and the best WWII themed video game ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: papas_slave
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 29, 2007 8:37 am PT
Review:  When i first rented this game i thought it was going to be one of those wannabe world war 2 games, 
 and i played the whole game on veteran not realizing it was be incredibly difficult. The game play 
 was outstanding in all perspectives from polish to Russian to American and Canadian. It showed 
 all different aspects from the war and what it was like being on the front line facing Germans. 
 The graphics on this game has to be one of the best ever made. The sound of grenades exploding 
 10 feet away. The sound of rockets blowing up a house or even the bullets coming out of your gun 
 going rat-a-tat-tat (if you have an assault rifle that is) . I don't think there was one single 
 flaw in this game to dissapoint me in any way. I think its perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aaronfilmltd
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 27, 2007 7:30 pm PT
Review:  The WWII gaming franchise has now been done by many developers. The most remembered of this franchise 
 was Call of Duty, a game that redefined WWII first-person shooters for the PC. Released as a launch 
 title with the Xbox 360, who knew sequels could ever be so good?
  
  Call of Duty has shown that it's no Mario Party, and that it can improve each time upon past weaknesses. 
 Call of Duty 2 introduces itself loudly with its addicting 8-player multiplayer and wide variety 
 of weapons.
  
  The single player is great, and provides great levels of suspense and action you'd come to expect 
 from a CoD game, ranging from bombing Nazi bases to just plain ol' Rambo-style mowing people down.
 
  
  There are four levels of difficultly, though the hardest may prove impossible in its own right. 
 Four shots at the most in a row and you're dead, machine gun or not. Even if there ARE four difficulties, 
 it's best to probably go with normal.
  
  So through its intense single-player storyline, it's staggering multiplayer, and its wide assortment 
 of selectable weapons, this excellent game will have you sitting on the edge of your seat as you 
 encounter the many terrors of WWII. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dfoboost
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 25, 2007 7:03 am PT
Review:  What i like about this game is that it is way better than the first one and how the graphics look 
 way better, im not saying that the first one didnt have good graphics but 2 had way better. I also 
 like how you got to play as diiferent people like the russians, then just playing as the americans 
 the whole time. Im a person who likes to switch it up spmetimes. I didnt like how you had so many 
 parts in one chapter, you would have like 4 to 3 missions to do in one whole chapter and theres 
 like 8 chapters. I also didnt like how you couldnt plant the bombs realsticaly like you can on CD3. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lebbin
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 28, 2007 2:26 pm PT
Review:  This is like bascally any other WWII game out there. What sets it apart? The intensity of the battles, 
 the awsome graphics, the fun mutliplayer, the good sound, and it is just plain fun! The game's 
 length is great b/c you you get to do alot of missions that are varied. The game kinda dragged 
 in the middle with an African mission that got kinda repetitive. But who cares? The game rocks! 
 The enemies and characters look awsome, the enviorments are beutifful for the most part, and the 
 lighting effects and rain effects are surperb. The best level with graphics is the one called Tiger 
 . I remember playing the multiplayer for 6 hours straight, it was so fun. The sniping is super 
 fun, and it is one of the best multiplayer games ever made! The maps are pretty well made. Anyway, 
 this is a great WWII game with great veriety and great levels that is worth buying or renting! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadow218
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 22, 2007 5:51 am PT
Review:  A, very good game it has a great single palyer and a unfortgably addicting multiplay.., i mean come 
 on this game is cool. i cant rember the last time i stayed up a whole night playign this game singel 
 palyer and multi-player i mean i made alot of friends on xbl also.. i mean... this game has it all, graphics, sound, replay 
 value... evrything.. in my opion i think this is a halo killer... lol... aha j/k on that one.. but anyways.. its 
 awesome i still play it ull catch me hostign my own severs on ther and having a full house it never 
 gets boring....:) ;)  
 im jsut fillign up space.....) ) () () () () () () ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomcrito
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 21, 2007 10:36 am PT
Review:  The Good: Amazing gameplay which makes you feel like you are actually fighting together in a war; 
 superb, grimy graphics; unrivalled sound in a FPS; Best Xbox Live game yet
  The Bad: Grenade mechanic is annoying; some face textures are not the best.
  
  Call of Duty 
 2 (AKA CoD2) is one of the first and best games to come to the Xbox 360 and you will definitely 
 want to check it out. CoD2 is the sequel to the gritty and realistic PC FPS Call of Duty. It has 
 come to the Xbox 360 and this is not the mediocre console port of a PC game that we have seen for 
 years but a carbon copy of the original and a game that you will want to own and play on for a 
 LONG time.
  
  Call of Duty 2 has a amazing single-player game that can go from easy to hard in nothing flat. 
 Throughout the single-player you will be playing as three great nations. You will be playing as: 
 Russia in the city of Stalingrad, Great Britain on the African front, and the United States in 
 France and rushing the beaches of Normandy yet another time. With three great nations to play, 
 they all combine to make three different campaigns which all make a total of twenty-seven missions. 
 The Russians go through three fronts all with sub mission in them, but while playing as these Russians 
 dont just think it will be a slaughter fest of Russians, but you will be doing a LOT of sniping 
 and you have to take down German command posts and defending city hall from a German offensive 
 in one of the best missions Ive ever seen on a FPS. Now as the British you will be not only going 
 through desert raids and killing Germans all over the place but you will be trying to escape a 
 town from a German assault and doing some mildly fun yet short tank missions. As the Americans 
 you will be moving from the beach to scale the walls of the French cliffs and take over a town, 
 just in turn start rushing to the beach in a last minute defensive. You will also be stopping mortar 
 strikes and defending an outpost from a German attack. There is no actual story so to speak, just 
 a couple of diary entries by the people you are playing and some amazing real war footage.
  
  When the action starts all hell breaks loose and the Germans are relentless in trying to kill. 
 Gameplay-wise, this game is great fun and all guns are featured with a great aiming system. Besides 
 from killing of German soldiers left and right you will have to destroy airplanes, tanks and call 
 in air strikes to destroy boats which change the game in a pleasantly nice way. Now what you will 
 be killing all the Germans with is up to you. You can either stick with the two guns youre given 
 at the beginning or you can take guns either from fallen comrades or enemies. There are also spots 
 in the game when they will give you certain weapons because trust me you will need them at that 
 time. At these times they give you certain weapons be ready to either defend or do a full scale 
 assault. When they do these defences and assaults it really changes the game from just run and 
 gunning to now you have a real objective and you dont want to see your comrades get gunned down 
 before you eyes. Now with all these people one screen at one time sometimes it will get chaotic 
 but it also makes this game stand out from other World War II shooters and it is what makes this 
 game great. There is one thing that gets slightly annoying though, grenades. I guess they were 
 trying to be realistic so they gave the opposition the same amount of frag grenades as you, 3. 
 They have also programmed the A. I to throw grenades a lot, so if you are in a full scale battle 
 you could have 25 grenades thrown at you. And they are very accurate. So it becomes very annoying 
 when you manage to kill most of the Germans when a grenade luckily bounces underneath you from 
 behind and blows you to smithereens.
  
  I bet most of you have seen the graphics and thought WOW and the full game is no different. The 
 character models are great and it features some of the best gun and building models I have ever 
 seen. To also make this game seem more realistic when you get hit your screen will turn slightly 
 red and then when you get hurt bad enough you screen will blur and being red all over, and thats 
 when you find a good hiding place to recover. It is a very good health system and I wonder why 
 no one has ever picked up on it. The sound is also brilliant and it is absolutely mad when a full 
 scale battle is happening because you can hear bullets whizzing past your ear and explosions happening 
 left and right. But probably the most impressive things is the way the smoke in the smoke grenades 
 slowly rises up and can enter and exit houses. That really struck me and reminded me that the next 
 generation of consoles has actually arrived. And all this happening while running at a very steady 
 frame rate.
  
  The single-player has a fairly large length to it and will take you about 12 hours to complete. 
 Of course you can try and tackle the insane veteran mode for achievements, which will take you 
 about 7 more hours. Now to get out of this single-player style of run and gunning Germans you can 
 go online via Xbox Live and play with up to 8 other players in death match or objective games. 
 Now I have played on many Xbox Live games and it is safe to say this is well and truly the best 
 of them all. The gameplay of COD2 is perfectly suited to Live play and the maps are simply the 
 perfect size for 8 people to play in. While playing Call of Duty2 online it can feel like an all 
 out brawl and can get intense, but then you will have some slower games were every person gets 
 a sniper rifle and finds a hiding spot and sits. With these two very different strategies during 
 game you will find that certain maps are better for sniper or for a shotgun/machine gun brawl. 
 Now if you think 8 people isnt enough for a multiplayer game just wait you will end up to loving 
 it and if you still dont then you can always get friends with Xbox 360s and play a system link 
 game of up to 16 people. Trust me, you will be hooked.
  
  All in all COD2 is the fastest most intense shooter for the Xbox 360 to date and it doesnt seem 
 to be letting up any time soon. If youre tired of World War II shooters go buy it anyway. If you 
 love shooters and dont mind it being the 100th World War II shooter made then it is a must buy. 
 It is definitely the best Xbox 360 launch game, and it also probably the best war game ever made. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: a2entertainment
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 20, 2007 1:17 am PT
Review:  I recently picked up a copy of Call of Duty 2 from a sale at EB Games for $29 (which i thought 
 was great) because i had heard so much about it.
  
  Graphics: 7/10
  Whilst not revlutionary in any way they are very good. They definately help to create a very war-like 
 atmosphere. The smoke and explosion effects are really nice and It's hard to look away when youve 
 just planted an explosive on an enemy tank. Textures are nothing special but thankfully the detailed 
 models make up for them.
  
  Gameplay: 8/10
  Gameplay is the main thing i look for in a game. Fortunately Call of Duty has very fun and easy 
 to pick up gameplay. It can get repetitive after a few hours at a time but the games atmosphere 
 manage to keep you playing. There are four difficulty levels with the hardest one being a challenge 
 for all FPS players. The only problem I have with the gameplay is that is is too short...
  
  Sounds: 9/10
  Sounds were great! Every thing from footsteps to tanks blowing up sounds realistic 
 and if you have surround sound then your in for a real treat. Only problem is sometimes if you 
 face away from a player that is talking his talking sometimes goes too quiet. I guess this adds 
 a sense of realism to it but they should have made it so that just the distance to that player 
 effects his speech volume.
  
  Value: 9/10
  If you can pick it up for below $50 than you not wasting your money. If your paying more then it 
 is a bit of a waste because this games is ageing a bit now. Online play is great and is almost 
 worth the $50 alone! Campaign is rather short. (Took me 5-6 hours)
  
  Conclusion:
  Recommended to all Xbox Live players and all WW2 fanatics. In fact every FPS lover should adore 
 this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamst3r
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 18, 2007 9:51 pm PT
Review:  this game is awsome its a pretty long campaign with replay value wich that alone will keep you 
 busy for atleast a month then there is alot of multiplayer too even with cod 3 out this is a game 
 any shootting fan should rent probably not buy cuz i think you should buy cod 3 and rent this and 
 play its campaign then play cod 3 multiplayer my uncle used to work at activision when they made 
 this game and he says that activision was paying only for commercials and not were they really 
 needed money so he left before they made cod 3 bottom line rent! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: radikal01
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 17, 2007 2:30 pm PT
Review:  WWII has inspired hundreds of games, perhaps too many. But Call of Duty 2 is worth it. It has so 
 many great points, and few bad.
  
  The single-player campaign is very fun, but a tad short. In different chapters, which are made 
 up of missions, you will switch places in the war. The first few chapters, which obviously include 
 Training, will set you as Russian Private Vasili Ivanovich. In the second few chapters you will 
 play as both British Sergeant John Davis and Tank Commander David Welsh. The last few chapters 
 are the most tough and action-packed. You play through D-Day, the assault on Hill 400, and the 
 crossing of the Rhine River as the American soldier Corporal Bill Taylor. This game is full of 
 achievements, but about 80% will test your patience and commitment to the game. If you only play 
 on Easy, you'll probably get about 200 Gamerscore points by the time you beat the game. The rest 
 will require you to play on the dreaded Veteran mode, which has no degree of easiness. However, 
 beating the entire game on Veteran will give you a whopping 800 points, considering you've beaten 
 the campaign and the training once before. The Veteran mode is challenging, perhaps a little too 
 challenging, considering the cheap advantages the enemies get over you. For example, German MP40 
 sub-machine guns will fire twice as fast as when you fire one, and do more damage. Clearing out 
 a bunker on Veteran with some Nazi MP40-wielders is absolute hell on Earth. It will take you several 
 nervous and frustrating tries to clear out a single bunker. But the thought of 1000 new points 
 for your Gamertag will probably keep you motivated, until you get tired of the challenge.
  
  Multiplayer is pure fun and mayhem, in a bit of contast to the single-player. It only has up 
 to 8 players, unfortunately. But every weapon available in single-player, plus an etra or two, 
 are available at your disposal. Gametypes such as Capture the Flag, Headquarters, and Deathmatch 
 keep the game fresh and exciting. This is a game to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thomas830
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 15, 2007 9:39 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 strengthens the experience offfered by previous WW2 games with next generation graphics 
 and decent online multiplayer. The duck and shoot gameplay keeps the campaign realistic enough 
 and is entertaining from beginning to end. It also adds enough special moments in the campaign 
 to make it seem realistic and surprising. The multiplayer is decent but doesn't live up to the 
 expectations made by the campaign. It has a more run and gun gameplay but it makes up for it with 
 the multitude of maps and the occasional shootout between two broken down buildings in France. 
 Take out the jerries. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frostmore
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 13, 2007 8:29 pm PT
Review:  CoD2 was a pretty fun game, and i just love killing nazis. It makes you feel like you are in a real 
 war, especially in some of the in game cut scenes.
  
  storyline is quite ok, as you get to play different countries.
  difficulty is easy when easy and 
 hard when hard.
  difficulty differences
  easy-you can run up like rambo and kill everyone. -you get close to max grenades everytime you 
 step over a dead body.
  veteran-one nazi can kill you -grenades are rare
  
  Overall its a good game, but gameplay tends to get repetitive when you do about the same thing in 
 every mission. Its usually bomb this, take out the tank, defend the area.
  
  7.5/10
  
  minor mistake in the game: smoke from smoke grenades can go through walls. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shifty_saint
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 13, 2007 4:14 am PT
Review:  From the Winter in russia, to the beaches of Normandy!
  
  This games has an array of missions, all unique and excellent in there own way, classic weapons, 
 and great detail to equipment, and weapons!
  
  And finally some decent British missions, including the ill fated assault on Caen, which was well 
 behind plan! That mission as a basis for graphics alone shows the capability of the Xbox 360, and 
 the attention to detail, and enviroment!
  
  Aswell as an imersive single player story line, it has the excellent multiplayer concept, which 
 i love, from those crafty snipers, to the new guy, with a suicdial idea. What fun you can have, 
 great graphics, and excellent gameplay! makes this one of the best, and an instant classic! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gbird991
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 10, 2007 6:08 am PT
Review:  Infinity Ward should be congratulated. Everything comes together in Call of Duty 2 to create a 
 fantastic, engaging, and nerve-rattling World War II experience. It succeeds graphically, over-achieves 
 in the audio department, and plays with such deft design and implementation that the linear paths 
 and lack of freedom won't even matter. Your ears will be rattling and your senses bombarded with 
 such force, youll actually be happy to be directed through these levels. It's hard to believe 
 I'm saying that, considering how many games have done the exact same thing, but Call of Duty 2 
 rises above the competitors with an intense attention to the minutiae that grips onto you and doesnt 
 let go. In my humble opinion, this is the best Xbox 360 launch title, hands-down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kinky_Kost
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 6, 2007 8:22 am PT
Review:  Well this was the first game I bought for my Xbox 360 and I am having a blast playing it. I am 
 playing through the campaign and I have to saw it is amazing. The story is good and interesting, 
 seeing how it really was back in those days. Also the quotes you get when you die are very nice, 
 though you may see some more than once but it really isn't a bother. I love the black and white 
 clips they show, instead of showing game clips of how there going to fight they pull in clips from 
 way back in the day when it first happened. Let me go over each detail of the game here.
  
  *Gameplay: This game is fun to play, it's very challenging. Veteran is really hard and the AI are 
 smart. You throw grenades they pick them up and throw them back, they pinpoint it to your exact 
 location almost every time, forcing you to move out the way. When you are shooting at them, they 
 take cover and fire back, they move run out and move somewhere else if they see there about to 
 be shot. This is from me playing Veterans though, don't know if it would be the same on Easy or 
 Normal.
  *Graphics: Seeing as this was one of the first Xbox 360 games to come out it still has better graphics 
 than some of the Xbox 360 games that came after that. The weapons have nice details on them, the 
 vehicles are very nice. The buildings are crisp, everything you see is very well made. It's sharp 
 and clear and isn't blurry.
  *Sound: One of the best sounds I have ever heard in my opinion. Running through a battlefield while 
 the enemies are launching mortars at you and you can hear them coming down and you feel the impact 
 of the blast and your screen shakes is amazing. Hearing the grenade go off and your teammates yelling 
 at you to defend the house is spectacular.
  *Value: Use to be $60 when it was released, now if you plan on getting it, you can find it as low 
 as $15. They sell them used for $20 at EB Games and $30 new in just about any other store there 
 is. If you want one for $15, check online like Ebay, Amazon, etc.
  
  Anyways this is a excellent and cheap game to get and enjoy. The multiplayer still has hundreds 
 and hundreds of people playing everyday. There is very minimal lag and the setup is just like the 
 Halo 2, where you wait in a lobby until you find players to join. And if you want to play it for 
 Single Player only, than still manage to pick up this game if you haven't, because the Single Player 
 is just as amazing as the Multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: klusps
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 4, 2007 1:35 pm PT
Review:  We have seen many standard WWII game in the past and they're getting repititive. Infinity Ward 
 is back now, which is known for making the impressive COD series for the PC. This time they've 
 made COD2 for the PC and also the Xbox 360. Many COD game has been done the past and this one just 
 surpass them. With a new health system ( which is similar to Halo 2) , and a change of the feeling 
 of the battles happening around you this is a game worth experiencing. In this game it is really 
 standard if you're talking about a WWII game. You can be the Russians, which are fighting in Stalingrad, 
 British who fights in Africa and parts of Europe, and the American which in Normandy to Berlin. 
 You can expect levels like storming the beaches of Normandy France, D-Day, and driving a tank through 
 the desert of Africa. The gameplay has changed from the other COD series. You now don't have a 
 health bar, instead if you taken damage too much you need to find cover fast. The screen will turn 
 red which is your sign of getting to cover. There are also new things like the smoke grenade and 
 less linier levels. The fire fights is the best thing of all. The battles are epic and with the 
 new hardware from the Xbox 360 there can be many soldiers in the screen at once. The fire fights 
 now has soldiers screaming orders to each other (enemy and your allies) , loud gun sounds, and explosion 
 which makes the battle feel really chaotic. The graphic is really good. The water effects has reflection 
 and the texture is smooth and realistic. The shadowing is really cool too, you can see the shadows 
 of each individual soldier's uniform. When you go into a dark area your weapon on screen goes dark, 
 when it is sunny like in the desert of Africa your weapon shine. You can see great details on the 
 weapon as you Aim Down Sight of gun. The snow in the Russan campaign float around realisticly instead 
 like other games where the snow just fall straight down like rain. The framerate is really smooth 
 and I haven't even incounter one slow down or lag through the entire campaign. The sound is what 
 makes COD2 so chaotic. Like what I said earlier you have soldiers screaming orders, talking to 
 each others, or just yelling for help, the loud gun sounds, and the explosions makes the whole 
 battlefield chaotic and realistic. The voices of the soldiers are really good and realistic too. 
 The music is not express that much through the game. You will have some music here and there, but 
 it is not reconizable. The multiplayer in this game is not that impressive. You can play up to 
 8 players in Xbox Live, 4 players in splitscreen, or 16 players on system link. I don't know why 
 you can only play 8 players in XBL and 16 in system link, it is kind of odd. Well you get the standard 
 deathmatch, team death match, capture the flag, Headquarters, and Search and Destroy. There is still 
 some replay value left in this game. Besides the multiplayer, the campaign is sometimes worth experiencing 
 again. And if you're looking for achievements points then this game is a good way to get it. You 
 can play through the whole game in Veteran mode (the hardest mode) to rack up more gamerscore. Overall 
 the game is really worth experiencing. Some of the levels in this game is really epic, expecially 
 the D-Day mission. The campaign lenght is decent, it toom me about 10 hours or more to beat it 
 in my first time through. By adding all my time playing the campaign, it provided me 10 to 20 hours 
 gameplay, and I'm still not done yet. If you try in other difficulty settings then it is going 
 to be longer. I highly recommend this game to any lovers of WWII or a person who like play FPS. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bubear666
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 4, 2007 8:59 am PT
Review:  I love a good old frist person war shooter. Being a big Medal Of Honor fan I found this a nice 
 change and the music and sounds of machine gun fire are awesome. The graphics are really crisp 
 and popping nazi heads with a sniper rifle is always fun. The british desert missions are good 
 fun although all very similar listening to the brits shout at the jeryy b****rds is pretty funny. 
 I would reccomend this for everyone especially at its current low prince you can pick this up for 
 around &pound;15 now so check your local bargain bucket. May find it even cheaper once the new 
 one comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grassgreener12
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 3, 2007 4:45 pm PT
Review:  i actually bought cod2 after i bought cod3.... i loved cod3 so i thought that cod2 would be pretty 
 fun,.... i wasnt expecting to be blown away by the sheer fun of this game. though it came before 
 cod3, i think that it is a lot better.
  
  graphics ---the graphics are superb for a launch game.... the textures are great looking, the guns 
 are modeled nicely, and the soldiers themselves are nicely detailed. except for some awkward animations, 
 the graphics are very good.
  
  sound ---the sound is also superb. the guns in the game have a huge and imposing sound... especially 
 the tommy gun. if you put your speakers to a high level, you would feel like someone actually shot 
 a gun right in front of you.... the dialouge, though sparse is interesting since the different countries 
 have nicely done accents that are appropiate.
  
  gameplay ---the shooting action is fun.... while the levels are too constricted, the killing of krauts 
 is still awesome.. thats all i have to say
  
  value ---the multiplayer, while only 8 players is a lot of fun and make the game worth every penny.... in 
 short GET THIS GAME IF YOU'RE A FPS FAN!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamesgj
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 1, 2007 6:17 pm PT
Review:  I enjoyed this game and continue to enjoy it to this day it's an overall fun game. Gameplay - This 
 first person shooter takes place in the WWII era and brings some interesting battles to you. With 
 simple controls and the great feel of the xbox 360 controller makes this game easy-to-use. Though 
 the feel of the game is great single player lacked alittle for me. Wasn't short at all but infact 
 how long a game should be. But there was to much going on and it ended up being a bit repeative 
 for me. While single player was good but didn't impress me multi-player brought some great fun 
 into the game. When the xbox 360 was released the best multi game out had to be Call of Duty 2. 
 With great guns and interesting maps multi mode added hours of gameplay to the story. Graphics 
 - While not as good as alot of other xbox games Call of Duty did bring some great HD visuals to 
 the system. Sound - While sound tracks were decent the sound effects added and overall 8.0 in ratings. 
 Overall a great game and must own for the xbox 360 while not as interesting as alot of other titles 
 definately a must for xbox gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Angrycarebear
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 1, 2007 5:26 pm PT
Review:  This is truly an amazing game that really puts you into the battles of WWII. The difficulty is 
 just right because you can choose from multiple difficulty levels so that its just right for you. 
 The time spent playing can also vary depending on what difficulty setting. Easy can probably be 
 run through in about a day, while veteran will take you weeks. The graphics in this game a'rnt 
 the best but the environments definitely make up for it. You will go from snowy to desert to farms 
 and in the middle of towns and even in the forest. The guns are also a strong point. There are 
 alot to choose from. You would be a fool not to buy this game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryanbell36788
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 30, 2007 6:44 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 draws you in with highly intense visuals, sound effects, and music... Great value! 
 I've been playing it for about a year off and on when I have the time. I have beaten it a couple 
 of times and still enjoy it to this day... The interactive sound adds good drama and somewhat allows 
 you to know how things are going for you in the game.. Game play is above average but could still 
 use some tweaking. I love the clarity of detail and atmospheric effects. These effects aid in the 
 targeting of enemies. Shrapnel and vibration add to its realism separating it from its predecessors. 
 Over all, the game was well planned and achieved. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pcs565
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 30, 2007 2:09 pm PT
Review:  I played CoD2 on the PC when it came out so when a friend requested I get it for the 360 so I could 
 play on line with him and some other buds, I was not too crazy about the idea. But the 360 version 
 really blew me away. I have a pretty high end graphics card and computer, but the 360 graphics 
 were WAY better. Although the physics of the characters suffer somewhat (as always) , the environments 
 are incredible. During one snow scene it really took me aback. I actually felt like I was there 
 . I have never experienced that in any video game before. The controls are also much smoother with 
 the Xbox game pad. I had little trouble controlling tanks levels which were pretty tedious on the 
 PC. The AI of the single player characters are very good. The enemy will flank you regularly instead 
 of just coming at you straight on. The online game is every bit as fun as the PC version which 
 I spent hours playing. All around very fun game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RebornInFlames
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 29, 2007 8:12 pm PT
Review:  This is by far the best WW2 game I have played, and certainly one of the top shooters for the 360. 
 The game does a very good job of immersing you in combat so that you feel as if there is truly 
 a war around you. For instance, early on in the campaign, you and your russian buddies take over 
 a building, then are told enemy reinforcements are coming. Look out the window, and over a hill 
 come dozens of Nazis. The first time I played this bit I really had a sense of dread watching their 
 onslaught, thinking how the hell can i get out of this one? The graphics have a very crisp. clean 
 feeling, and show off different environments as you play as Russian, British, and American soldiers 
 from France to North Africa. Combat is fast and furious, you get a real sense of bullets zinging 
 around, and will have to spend a lot of time behind cover using smoke grenades on the veteran difficulty. 
 Enemy AI is fairly good, and the Nazis will use cover and flank you regularly, although they have 
 plenty of scripted rushing parts for good old fashioned shooting-gallery type action. Your allies 
 however are not so smart, although they are tough and can take out enemies effectively. The problem 
 with them is all too often they jump in front of your gun, and if you happen to pop one (they seem 
 to die even if you wing them) you fail your mission and must restart the checkpoint. This is very 
 annoying, and is my biggest complaint with the game. Besides the friendly fire issue, the game 
 has a couple problems in that the checkpoint system, while forgiving, sometimes saves with you 
 right in an enemy's ironsights, which may or may not result in having to restart the entire mission. 
 Also, on the tank levels, enemy tanks sometimes shoot right through hills and hit you. I have not 
 checked out the multiplayed, and I hear call of duty 3 is better for that anyway. This game is 
 a must-have if you even remotely enjoy shooting nazis (and let's face it who doesn't) , and by now 
 is very cheap to buy. Highly recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scorpionfish2
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 28, 2007 5:10 am PT
Review:  Have you ever wanted to fight on the Russian Front in World War II? Perhaps you have a desire to 
 fight in North Africa in 1942 or France and Germany in 1944. If you haven't, you will after playing 
 COD2. You take control of three soldiers fighting the Germans on three fronts between 1942 and 
 1945. The campaign is divided into 10 overall missions, each of which is made up of several smaller 
 ones. The first 3 are Russian, the next 4 British and the last 3 American. You unlock the first 
 British campaign by clearing the first Russian mission and to unlock the American campaign you 
 have to complete the first three British missions. Graphically the game is good, but not brilliant, 
 which is to be expected from a launch title. The sound is immersive and there is a wide selection 
 of weapons, both allied and axis. The AI is surprisingly good with enemies using cover and trying 
 to flank you. The game is very easy on the regular difficulty mode but gets very hard very quickly 
 on Veteran. The levels are well designed and you don't always have to follow a set path to objectives. 
 Checkpoints are frequent on lower difficulty levels but very sparse on Veteran. You have allies 
 with you but they can end up being useless. Also if you accidentally shoot them the game tends 
 to reset you to your last checkpoint. The only other major problem with the single player is that 
 it is far too short and I managed to clear the entire game on regular in one day. There is multiplayer 
 via split screen, system link and Xbox Live. There are several gamemodes, all of them adversarial. 
 The multiplayer is fun, if you can find a game online, but it is limited to eight players. All 
 of the achievements are earned from the campaign and range from very easy to very hard. Overall 
 this game is well worth buying and I would recommend it to any 360 owner looking for a very enjoyable 
 shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adolfobaja
Rating: 9
Date: May 27, 2007 7:16 pm PT
Review:  The first time i have the chanse to play Call of Duty 2, my skepticism about the game was two-fold. 
 First, by no means was I ready for another WWII shooter (in my opinion, the genre has been outplayed, 
 overplayed, and beyond) . And second, because the original Call of Duty on PC was arguably the best 
 WWII shooter ever made, the bar was set extraordinarily high. But, as we soon found out, Infinity 
 Ward is not a one trick pony. In the Call of Duty 2 single-player mode, you'll once again follow 
 the Russian, British, and American campaigns from 1941 to 1945. The Soviet campaign spans from 
 snowy Moscow to Stalingrad, the British from Northern Egypt to Libya and Tunisia, and finally to 
 Normandy in 1944 at the start of the American force's deployment on D-Day. Frankly put, Call of 
 Duty 2 is simply breathtaking, emphasized by normal mapping, exceptional shading and lighting, 
 specular highlights, and some absolutely phenomenal particle effects.
  Multiplayer-wise, Call of Duty 2 supports a whopping 32 online players with general FPS game types, 
 including deathmatch, team deathmatch, and CTF, and Call of Duty 2's own brand of Headquarters 
 and Search and Destroy -- all wonderfully smooth via online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pittfan666
Rating: 9
Date: May 21, 2007 7:19 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 brings a great refreshment to the otherwise dull WW2 FPS by bringing excellent graphics, 
 gameplay, story plot, and multiplayer which is seemingly lacking in all the competition. COD 2 
 takes you on both sides of the war by letting you fight as an American, British, and European soldiers 
 fighting against the seemingly unstoppable Axis force. Graphics in the game are amazing. When I 
 first popped in the game and threw a smoke gernade I was astonished at what the smoke clouds looked 
 like. Smoke clouds in the game look like what they would in real life, characters are extremely 
 crisp and next gen looking, and the environments are highly detailed. Along with great graphics, 
 COD 2 also brings fast paced gameplay which never let's you relax, especially on the Veteran difficulty 
 which is extremely difficult. The only downside to the gameplay is that enemy soldiers will constantly 
 respawn until you reach a certain checkpoint in the game. So if you are constantly picking off 
 soldiers thinking they will stop respawning and you will walk forward without opposition then you 
 are wrong. You have to reach a checkpoint in order to stop them from spawning and trigger certain 
 events in the game. This is what makes the game nearly impossible to complete on the hardest difficulty. 
 Anyway the multiplayer is a great all-around experience, but the lack of ranked settings and details 
 and number of players allowed in the game brings the game down. There are no online achievements, 
 and the game doesn't track your kill/death ratio like Gears Of War achieves. Besides these few 
 downsides the game is great, if you are looking for a exhilarating single player experience then 
 this is a must buy, but if you are looking at it mainly for multiplayer then I would recommend 
 another purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danbouk
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 14, 2007 11:42 am PT
Review:  Call Of Duty 2 was a launch title for the 360. The game is set over 3 campaigns the Eastern Front 
 , Normandy Invasion and North Africa.
  
  The SP Campaign in COD 2 is Excellent and on its hardest level offers a good challenge and some 
 awesome fire fights.
  
  Graphics and sound are good plus the game-play is amazing and still IMO the best SP FPS on the 
 360.
  
  The game offers a Multi-player component which is ok but has now be surpassed in COD 3, which has 
 improved on the Multi-player of COD 2.
  
  If you like FPS's and havn't played COD 2 then I would recommend it, even if you have played COD 
 3 as it has a better campaign.
  
  If youre looking just for a good on-line game, then I would slip COD 2 and move forward and play 
 COD 3 instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: walbeb
Rating: 9
Date: May 13, 2007 7:25 am PT
Review:  Man do i love this game, this can't be beat, it's fun addicting and it's what a classic shooter 
 should be like. Sure single-player ends kind of short when you get down to it and veteran diffuculty 
 should be nicknamed, Heat seeking grenade and all bullets are headshot mode. but with all the games 
 trying to be more tactiacal COD 2 shows that even a classic game w/o cover schemes and bloody gore 
 can be one of the best games on the 360 to date. Yes sometimes your dummy AI partners will run 
 into the middle of battle and fallow you even if your trying to sneak around somewhere blowing 
 your position and getting shot is never fun but all in all this is what classic gaming is about 
 and i love how it has a classic setting WW2. In my opionion this should be the last WW2 game ever 
 made because it would be leaving off on the right note, activision should shrine this game because 
 it is probably going to be the last fun addicting WW2 shooter now that we have to many battlefield 
 clones. So if your looking for a good time and can hook 2 360's up with 8 buddy's this game can 
 be the best damn time of the whole month hell maybe the year depending on who's there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majorasmask22
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 7, 2007 6:57 pm PT
Review:  When I first got Call of Duty 2, I knew it would be good, but I got better. When you play it, you 
 get as close to the battlefield as close as gaming has ever made possible. Sure, it's graphics 
 aren't Gears of War amazing, but still really packs a punch as a really good game. Hopefully you're 
 not a blood-thirsty monster, because it holds back on the blood, which is a good thing if you think 
 about it. When its more suitable for younger audiences, more people will get it. It's not even 
 funny how good the sound is. Like I mentioned before, you literally feel like you're out there, 
 with the danger of you'r comrade dying. Overall I suggest you pick up this game. Complete fun, 
 thats all there is to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Antonius86
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 5, 2007 5:41 pm PT
Review:  When i got my Xbox 360 console in February 2006, I wanted to play Call of Duty 2 so bad, so I had 
 to look into different stores to see if they got any, lucky i found one in Wal-Mart in Kentville, 
 Nova Scotia. The game is great, i must say the graphics could have been a little better but other 
 than that, the game is awesome to play. Smooth controls and the new health regeneration system 
 really makes the game fun, keeps you in the action like most people are saying. The Achievements 
 for CoD2 is pretty good, kinda hard at times, you will have to be really good at what you are doing 
 in this game because in hard difficulty it is hard. To get all the Achievements in CoD2, you need 
 to beat all the missions in Veteran setting (very hard) and play the game through, if you can do 
 that, you are sure to have all the achievements in the game, straight forward I know.
  
  For me, to beat the game in Veteran took me about 2-3 weeks to get, not bad.
  
  Anyway moving 
 onto Online Multiplayer. Since i'm new to Xbox console, i really enjoy the online gaming. It makes 
 me feeling like i'm playing single player game over xbox live. Smooth gaming, no glitches and the 
 like the idea of new maps coming later. Makes the game more fun to play, and new stuff is coming 
 our way. Well thats all i have to say, if you're a Shooters player, you should definitly get this 
 game, its a blast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lukaneus
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 3, 2007 11:45 pm PT
Review:  COD2 is all round a very good game its got some pretty nice graphics and has alot of good gun fights 
 but the main problem with it is the multiplayer. The multiplayer is where COD3 has been concentrated 
 and seems very good. Now back to the good points the very best point of COD2 is the campaign whether 
 you like sneaking up into a pillboc and hosing down whats in side or if you like charging across 
 a vast battlefield with a bunch of men running with you it has it all. The good thing about it 
 is that you play to how ever you feel. Say you dont want to do all the hard work but still wish 
 to lend a helping hand you can stay back while you men are doing the fighting and just pick one 
 or two guys of until they al dead. Whereas say your men are getting masscared and you want to help 
 them why noty charge across the battle field guns blazing and hey if you die you respawn and what 
 with so many checkpoints it is hard not get frustarted. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: K1LLSWITCH
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 4, 2007 1:20 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2, in my opinion, has to be the best World War II FPS in the genre. The action in 
 the game is so exhilerating and intense it left me wanting more. I couldn't put the controller 
 down for 5 straight days. I can see why it made Game of the Year in 2005.
  
  Although the WWII genre is tired and boring, Call of Duty 2 is still worth picking up at your local 
 Gamestop or EB Games in the bargain bin section, if not for the action. After all isn't the gameplay 
 the reason to play FPS's?
  
  The only complaints that I have with COD2 is that the player will catch onto walls easily. Especially 
 annoying when trying to run away from grenades or simply trying to avoid a nasty fire fight when 
 turning around a corner with a bunch of angry enemies with itchy trigger fingers. Not fun.
  
  The AI is suprisingly helpful. They're not the brightest group of team mates in the world as 
 they seldom make very good doors as they block your path every so often, but they do help out when 
 finding and locating enemies. It is especially frustrating when the grenade indicator doesn't appear 
 on-screen. It's not fun when the sound of the grenade bouncing around can be heard but not seen.
 
  
  As a whole Call of Duty 2 is worth a buy. Just don't expect an exciting plot twist or anything. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Markman-7
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 3, 2007 5:31 pm PT
Review:  When the xbox 360 came out, there weren't a lot of games for the system that were good. They were 
 mostly rushed and uninspired copies of their older generation games like Madden NFL and NBA 2K 
 series. This game broke through all of them to be the first great shooter for the 360 and PC. Now 
 obviously from the title (until the new trailer for COD4-Call of Duty 4 came out placing it in 
 the modern day middle east) that this game is set in World War II during the early 1940's. You 
 play soldiers from three different countries which are the U. S. (Duh!) , British (bollicks) and 
 Russia (I must break you) . These soldiers are placed in all kinds of terrains for the battlefield 
 where you will fight Germans and probably get shot or worst, blown into millions of piece by a 
 puny grenade. The game plays like most first person shooters but this series has been known to 
 put you right in the middle of the battlefield and it does so successfully. It does get a little 
 bit hectic especially when you have to rely on your wits and cover to make any progress in this 
 game. Unlike most shooters, the enemy proves to be a formidable opponent thanks no part to the 
 evenly balanced AI that keep each battle different and unpredictable. You do need to have patience 
 to get through some of the more difficult mission especially in the last bit with the Americans 
 so it can get hard at times even on Normal difficulty. When it comes to the looks (graphics) of 
 the game, it does look absolutely amazing especially when it runs smoothly on 60 FPS (frames per 
 second) all the time. Despite all the recent shooters that come to the 360 for the past few years, 
 it still holds up there with the big dogs of shooter games. The sound is really impressive which 
 puts you right there in the middle of a war raging on within Europe along with Africa. When there 
 is music, it really is well done and perfectly in tune with the intense moments of the game when 
 you are overwhelmed or outnumbered with the odds not looking so good for you. The guns sound pretty 
 close to their real counterparts used in the war futher emphasising how damaging these weapons 
 could be when they were used in WWII. The Online Multiplayer is very smooth just like the single 
 player and not only that, this title is still played by quite a few players especially the ones 
 I know of on Xbox Live. The online connections between other players runs pretty well for a 2 year 
 old game. It also has the matchmaking feature which helps match you up with players that fit your 
 preference. Even though World War II has been done to death over and over again, this title actually 
 breathed life to the console industries batch of WWII shooters and blew all the competition away 
 (in a literal sense) . If you are a First person shooter fan and you don't mind that it has the 
 typical WWII setting, you need to play this now instead of the good but flawed sequel to Call of 
 Duty 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: latiii12
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 30, 2007 2:34 pm PT
Review:  Single Player:
  - It is a great single player experience, it had me hooked for a while there; first played it and 
 beat it on normal; and once the online server dies or something I'll go play it on veteran. The 
 sound is simply amazing, and missions like D-Day will make you say WOW.
  
  Graphics:
  -Graphics are good, I can't say they are amazing because I would be lying to you. It looks better 
 than any last-gen game, and that many next-gen; yet games like COD3, Gears of War (DUH!) , GRAW2, 
 and Oblivion will show a noticeable graphical improvement.
  
  Online
  - Live for this game is what makes up for whatever it lacks of. With many great online games out 
 such as GRAW2, R6 Vegas, Gears of War, COD3, Lost Planet, and GRAW; I still believe that COD2 is 
 the best among all of these, it is so much fun. One word, simplicity, is what makes the online 
 the best there is on Live; you just pick what you wanna play and the server sends you right to 
 the lobby. If you haven't played this game online then do so because it is one hell of a game, 
 you will highly enjoy it, you have my word.
  
  My overall score a 9.6 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abu123
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 28, 2007 7:33 am PT
Review:  This game is awsome even though it is not perfect. The game has ok length but can get frustrating 
 especially if you die a lot. Which you will especially on Veteran mode. Which in Veteran mode you 
 take three hits and your dead. The levels are each very creative even though I wish the tanks were 
 easir to control and they were more of them instead of two levels. The multiplayer is great and 
 the deficulty is veteran ( you die in three hits.) I just wish they could have bigger maps but 
 have eight on eight. People play this game now but somtimes it's hard to get four v, s. four. Also 
 people only play deathmatch or teamdeathmatch and sumtimes capture the flag so all the other modes 
 are usless. All in all this games great i just wish veteran mode was a bit easier. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rob1224
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 26, 2007 7:01 pm PT
Review:  all i have to say is this Xbox live game it is so insne on xbox live it will be right next to gears 
 on online + its FUN! so just kick back relax and kill some AXIS or Allies SCUM!!!! all i have to 
 say is this Xbox live game it is so insne on xbox live it will be riall i have to say is this Xbox 
 live game it is so insne on xbox live it will be right next to gears on online + its FUN! so just 
 kick back relax and kill some AXIS or Allies SCUM!!!! all i have to say is this Xbox live game 
 it is so insne on xbox live it will be right next to gears on online + its FUN! ght next to gears 
 on online + its FUN! all i have to say is this Xbox live game it is so insne on xbox live it will 
 be right next to gears on online + its FUN! so just kick back relax and kill some AXIS or Allies 
 SCUM!!!! all i have to say is this Xbox live game it is so insne on xbox live it will be riall 
 i have to say is this Xbox live game it is so insne on xbox live it will be right next to gears 
 on online + its FUN! so just kick back relax and kill some AXIS or Allies SCUM!!!! all i have to 
 say is this Xbox live game it is so insne on xbox live it will be right next to gears on online 
 + its FUN! ght next to gears on online + its FUN! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Max-Th3-Noid
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 22, 2007 7:57 am PT
Review:  Positive: Amazing sound , intense battles , lengthy campaign , solid multiplayer , crank up the 
 difficulty to veteran and prepare for the most groundbreaking and amazing WWII adventure of your 
 life , plenty of weapons and gameplay changes.
  
  Negative: Lack of French campaign.
  
  Call of Duty 2 is easily the best FPS available for the Xbox 360 launch. The single player campaign 
 mode is great and the graphics and sound are simply outstanding. It doesnt tell as good of a story 
 as the Brothers in Arms games, but the gameplay is a lot more fun and that is why CoD2 is the best 
 WWII shooter yet. Xbox 360 owners, this is a must own game.
  
  In Call of Duty 2 you play as the British fighting Rommel in Africa, the Russians driving the Nazis 
 out of Stalingrad, and the Americans in France. The three separate campaigns all have a very different 
 feel to them and it all comes together to make for a really satisfying experience overall. CoD2 
 doesnt try to tell a detailed and specific story the way Brothers in Arms does and instead sort 
 of lets you make up your own story. The battles are all historically significant, yes, but you 
 arent thinking about that when you are playing. You are instead focusing on trying not to get 
 killed in some of the most realistic and intense battles ever to grace a videogame. It is all about 
 your fear and your excitement and your happiness when you get out alive and it is all really enjoyable.
 
  
  Call of Duty 2 features some of the most intense firefights I have ever played in a videogame and 
 the gameplay is what really makes this game special. The game moves at a brisk pace (much faster 
 than, say, Perfect Dark Zero) and the FPS fundamentals are all very well implemented. This is a 
 shooter that just feels right when you play it. The levels and objectives are mostly linear, but 
 they open up a little bit more as you play through the game. Basically, though, you move through 
 the levels until you reach a bottleneck where the Nazis are dug in and you shoot it out. If you 
 dont press and try to take their position when you see an opening, reinforcements will arrive 
 and the battle will continue. It is a great mix of aggressive shooting and ducking for cover that 
 works extremely well. There are also sections where you will have the strong point and waves of 
 enemies will try and take your position. You have AI squadmates fighting with you, but you dont 
 have any direct control over them which Im thankful for. You just have to focus on saving your 
 own butt which is more fun if you ask me.
  
  The game is fast paced and hectic and amazingly immersive. The AI for both the enemies as well 
 as the soldiers fighting alongside you is incredibly good and everyone around you acts just like 
 you expect them to. Even though the levels are mostly linear and you are funneled from one set 
 piece to the next, the battles are so intense that you wont really care that you cant run around 
 and explore. You are entirely focused on blowing the treads off of that tank or taking that building 
 away from the Nazis. The game is filled with objectives that hold your attention in the short term 
 but strings them together so close to one another that you never, ever feel the game is becoming 
 boring or repetitive. One aspect that sort of ruins the realistic feel is that you dont have a 
 health bar. When you get shot your screen turns red and you have to duck behind cover to recover 
 for a few seconds similar to Halo. While this isnt realistic, it shifts the focus from collecting 
 health packs back onto actual fighting so it is a lot more fun. Whether you are fighting in the 
 streets of Stalingrad, driving a tank in Africa, or climbing the cliffs of Pointe du Hoc in France 
 on D-Day, Call of Duty 2 is undeniably fun.
  
  Call of Duty 2 also has a multiplayer mode that does a fairly good job of capturing the intensity 
 of the single player game. You can play four player splitscreen or up to eight people on Xbox Live, 
 but the splitscreen is pretty limited since the maps are huge and not all that fun with four people 
 and the Xbox Live play, while fun, isnt as good as the 16 players available on the PC. The multiplayer 
 is still very fun, it just isnt as good as it could have been. Youll find deathmatch, team deathmatch, 
 capture-the-flag, search-and-destroy, and a new mode called headquarters. In headquarters, capture 
 points are assigned to the teams and you have to control one and set up a headquarters. It then 
 becomes a game of defend and attack like the single player game where you win by either killing 
 off the defenders if you are the attacking team or holding out a certain period of time if you 
 are the defending team. The defenders do not respawn until a point has been awarded which makes 
 the game even more strategic and more fun. More players would have been better, but what is here 
 is pretty darn good.
  
  What really brings all of the intensity and fun of Call of Duty 2 together is the incredible graphics. 
 The environments are extremely sharp and look great overall. The character models are also startlingly 
 realistic and have great animation. Details such as crumbling walls, destructible objects, and 
 a section where you are sneaking through a rusted pipe and bullet holes allow individual streams 
 of light through add a lot to the overall look and feel of the game. Amazingly, the game runs at 
 a buttery smooth framerate at all times. This is an impressive looking game.
  The sound is also really incredible. Sound effects for weapons and explosions are top notch and 
 sound nearly perfect. The voice work is also very well done and it is very cool, but also rather 
 haunting, the hear soldiers screaming at each other during battle. The music is also good and picks 
 up at just the right moments to give the game a nice big epic feel in all of the right places.
 
  
  Call of Duty 2 is one of the best, if not THE best game available at the Xbox 360 launch. It does 
 a great job of displaying the power of the system, but it also delivers a gameplay experience that 
 is better than just about anything else out there. Call of Duty 2 is one of the most intense and 
 immersive games available and really is something you have to play to believe. The great single 
 player is complemented by a fun multiplayer mode which means you get a lot of quality gameplay 
 bang for your buck. Call of Duty 2 is a great game that I highly recommend for a purchase for Xbox 
 360 owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Powerhitter0418
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 21, 2007 6:53 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 for the Xbox 360 was one of my first games and It is on of those games that will 
 suck you in and you will have to keep playing it non stop until you finish it.
  
  Story: Well there really isn't a story line in Call of Duty 2 except you will start off as a Soviet 
 soldier and then work your way up from the British and Americans. It would be nice if you could 
 stay with one country for the whole game because some countries levels are more exciting then others. 
 But all the levels for all the countries are very good and you start to feel as if you know the 
 soldiers around you personally because they all have different personalities.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics in this game are amazing you can see things like single blades of grass 
 to water splashing while you run through the trenches. It is impressive how this game has such 
 graphical beauty for one of the 360's first titles.
  
  Gameplay:
  The gameplay is wonderful and is very realistic. You really get the feeling that you are on the 
 battlefield when you're sargeant is yelling orders and locations of enemies as bullets whiz past 
 your head with the surround sound on. The enemy AI is also wonderful as soldiers will advance and 
 fall back as you either win or lose a battle.
  
  Sound: Well I already explained some of this above but it is great because when you are firing 
 your Thompson you really get that bark as if you were really firing a gun. The battlefield sound 
 is amazing between the constant chatter of both sides of the battle combined with all the firing 
 of the weapons.
  
  Online:
  On Xbox Live this game is good not great because you can only have 8 players in the game at once 
 with very large maps so a slow paced game will only have about one kill every fifteen seconds. 
 But still it is very addictive and you will spend hour after hour playing it online.
  
  Overall:
  Overall this game was amazing and I did actually feel sad the first time I had completed 
 it because it was so amazing and for about thirty dollars it is a must have game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kwh1te24
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 20, 2007 4:00 pm PT
Review:  I think this was a good game. This was the first game I got with the 360. Like in other Call of 
 Duty games, the veteran difficulty is very hard. But if you are going to get a call of duty game 
 and you don't want to spend a lot of money for the 360, buy Call of Duty 2. It's only $30.00. And 
 it's worth it especially if you're a big Call of Duty fan. This was an instant classic and was 
 addictive in some parts. The multiplayer is good too. This was a good replica of the world wars 
 and made it seem like you were actually in the war. The gameplay was good and the graphics were 
 all right. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pulledabooth
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 19, 2007 7:24 am PT
Review:  I think it is a great Game for WWII role playing, first shooter game!
  I like the game in the online mode, but the single player mode is lacking in plot and storyline. 
 In the online mode I like the capture the flag, but love the team deathmatch game. In a patch they 
 should fix that you can pick a primary weapon and a secondary weapon, then having a set package 
 of weapons. Xbox live does a great job of matchmaking for this game. Overall it is a great game 
 and you should all buy it, it the best first person shooter right now. Final thought BUY IT AND 
 GET CALL OF DUTY 3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Game-Hog
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 17, 2007 7:25 pm PT
Review:  Let me start out with the fact that I just wanted to get some Xbox rewards challenge points so 
 I started playing this game just for that reason. I have to say the different mission requirements 
 kept things interesting. Driving and blowing up the tanks was my favorite part of the game. The 
 difficulty level was never frustrating and it was a well rounded fun game for anyone to enjoy. 
 A little on the short side but not as bad about it as most games are now. Everything looked really 
 good. Controls were never difficult. I might have to give Call Of Duty 3 a try when I can pick 
 it up for 20 bucks like I did this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beutlich99
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 14, 2007 8:32 am PT
Review:  Well, since everybody seemed to be raving about how great the Call of Duty series is, and how CoD2 
 was such a bar setting game for the 360, I thought I would give it a shot and be as impressed. 
 Maybe my expectations were too high. My first problem with the game is a lack of story. Or maybe 
 it is too many stories. There are three different campaigns in the game (Russian, British, and 
 American) , so you are never left long enough with one nationality to fully understand what the 
 heck is really going on, or develop any kind of close association with your character or those 
 around him. My second problem is the overall disregard for any kind of realism in the game. If 
 you find good cover, and start shooting Germans, then Germans will continue to keep defending their 
 objective. No matter how many you kill, they will keep spawning. So the only way to take an objective 
 is to try to kill as many as possible from afar, then rush headlong into the objective in hopes 
 that you get there before the new spawns magically come about. Basically, the player is left with 
 a feeling that if he stands in the open long enough, runs around fast enough, and shoots a whole 
 heck of a lot of bullets, then you'll survive, beat the Germans, and be victorious. Maybe I have 
 been playing (and liking) too many games like Brothers in Arms and Full Spectrum Warrior where 
 you simply can't run and gun through a whole game. I understand that running and gunning is fun, 
 especially when I know that the game is pure fantasy/fiction (Halo, Timesplitters, Mace Griffin, 
 Serious Sam) , but when the game is supposed to based on actual events, characters, locations (ie 
 World War II) , then I guess I expect tactics to come into play just a little bit. I enjoyed playing 
 CoD2, because it was next gen, had beautiful graphics and sound, ran incredibly smooth, and had 
 all kinds of authentic weapons and targets/missions, but that is about where it ended for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wilzy_ccfc
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 12, 2007 1:23 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is a 'must-buy' game. Its easily one of the best shooters on the 360, and there 
 are many, and i'm sure many will agree that the multiplayer is superb. The graphics of this game 
 are immense. They are unbelieveably realistic, from the smoke and dust right down to the areas 
 and soldier models. The sound matches this level of excellence, with every gunshot, explosion, 
 footstep and speech being supremely created in the game. The single player campain has you playing 
 as British, American and Russian soldiers. It has good lifespan, great lifespan when the difficulty 
 is cranked upto veteran and has great replay value because of the sheer fun that it creates. But 
 even considering all these great factors, it is the multiplayer that is surely te best. Whether 
 on or off-line, it is truly unbelivable. The maps are suitably sized and the weapons well varied. 
 It is so ultra-compelling that your'll not want to stop playing, it truly is that good. I think 
 that this game is cheaper now as it is a 'classic'. That only adds extra incentive to get this 
 game and it doesnt have to be officially named a 'classic' as i believe it became an instant one 
 long ago. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: westsidejedi360
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 9, 2007 8:57 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 was the premier launch title for the XBOX 360 (PDZ? fuggedaboudit) along with PGR 
 3, and it is a shining example of how to do a next gen title right. The graphics, while may not 
 be the greatest ever, are definitely solid, and its great that the frame rate remains rock solid 
 despite all the **** that is going on. The gameplay sticks to tried and true WW2 fps conventions, 
 and the controls are a solid mix of traditional WW2 controls (B to crouch, LT to sight, click the 
 right stick to melee) and Halo-esque controls (X to reload, Y to switch weapons, and A to jump) . 
 All aspects of the sound such as the music, explosions, and teammate chatter are awesome though 
 some of the German weapons sound underpowered. The only major downside is that the game is pretty 
 short, i beat it in like, 4-8 hours (i don't have XBOX live) , but the sheer awesomeness of the 
 scenarios will want you to play them many times over, especially for the achievements, which are 
 really hard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gta11
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 1, 2007 4:48 pm PT
Review:  Call Of Duty 2 For 360.
  
  
  
  
  
  ===========================================================
  THE GOOD : Good Graphics For A Launch 
 Game, Sound Is AWESOME, Guns Look Great, Sweet Campaign.
  ===========================================================
  THE BAD : Splitscreen Multiplayer 
 Could Have Been Better, Objectives Are Always The Same, Not Enough Blood (lol) , Veteran Is Just 
 Too Tough.
  ===========================================================
  
  War is one of the most captured events in video game history. Many different franchises try providing 
 fun simulations of wartime combat, but many fail. Fortunately, Call of Duty 2 emerges from the 
 ashes and creates a game experience unlike any other. Here's a look at possibly one of the best 
 war games ever.
  
  Gameplay : Activision has really done a good job with the controls for CoD2. The movement is tight, 
 aiming seems natural, and knowing when to run comes naturally. The 360 controller provides a comfortable 
 canvas for the button placements, and it works out great. It's never been easier to lob smokes 
 or grenades, or to melee an unsuspecting enemy in the back. One of the biggest next-generation 
 differences I noticed was the computer A. I. It's developed so much since last-generation consoles, 
 it's incredible. The computer will now wait ever so patiently from behind cover, it's almost frustrating. 
 If you throw a grenade, no longer will they sit and watch, they'll throw it back, or run for cover. 
 The sound of gunfire or the sight of smoke will draw them out, but they hardly ever travel alone. 
 Suffice to say that Call Of Duty's artificial intelligence has really impressed me.
  
  The balance of the game in multiplayer is good, but not perfect. The starting rifle is almost always 
 a one hit kill, and if you have fast reflexes, you can dominate. The sniper rifle is rendered almost 
 useless, since it's simply a scoped version of the normal rifle. Most automatic weapons are decent 
 from close range, but lack the accuracy for long range battles, which several maps feature. Speaking 
 of which, the map selection is good. There are around 15 or so different places to play, each have 
 a unique environment and strategies.
  
  Writing this, I've already beat the game once, but I'm going back to beat each level on veteran, 
 which is a challenge so far. The game is so good, it'll just make you want to beat everything on 
 the best difficulty.
  
  Multiplayer is fantastic. Even if there are no computer bots to play against, if you can manage 
 to get 3 of your friends to come over and play, the experience will be rewarding. The single player 
 intensity is carried over very nicely to the split screen action, and you'll find yourself trash 
 talking after a nice kill, or cursing after an untimely death. Not many games can make you do that.
 
  
  On top of the GREAT split screen multiplayer, there's also the system link, for linking up several 
 360s, and of course, the online experience. Can it get any better?
  
  
  Graphics : The character models 
 in this game are excellent. They compare quite nicely to high quality PC games in terms of detail. 
 There's still a tiny bit of awkwardness in the model movement, but it's as smooth as it's ever 
 been. When starting off, you might find it difficult to distinguish between your troops and the 
 Germans, but soon, it becomes second nature.
  
  The weapon models seem detailed, but not so realistic. It's hard to describe, and I think the best 
 example would to compare them to Counter-strike: source. A realistic, nicely textured look, but 
 somewhat out of proportion or odd looking. Still, the weapons are getting more and more detailed, 
 and CoD3 should fix that right up.
  
  The textures in this game are amazing. When I first played, I spent almost half an hour just marveling 
 in the detail of the textures in the snow and on the buildings. Then I got to the British campaign, 
 and saw the levels in France. They're just graphically stunning. I was unaware that a console was 
 capable of generating such graphical beauty.
  
  
  Sound : Usually sound takes 
 a backseat, for me at least, and I sometimes forget to notice it. Not the case for CoD2. Right 
 away, the sound will create the excellent atmosphere around you. Gunshots, to screams in foreign 
 languages, to the terrifying hum of the Panzers, you'll learn to recognize, and react by sound.
 
  
  The voice acting is great as well. They're nothing Oscar worthy, but great for a first person shooter. 
 You learn your role in the squad very quickly, as you'll have your comrades screaming: Davis! 
 Get some smoke out there! or : Davis! Clear that bunker!
  
  The music cuts out during the actual gameplay, but starts up again when you're about to finish 
 the level. It may sound unimportant, but it's one of my favorite parts of the game. You've just 
 barely made it through the last, and you don't know how much more you can take. Just as you're 
 about to give in, the soft victory music starts to play, and you know you've almost made it. It's 
 great stuff.
  
  
  Although I may not agree with the values of war, I can certainly agree with this game. With smart 
 computers, stunning graphics, and an intense atmosphere, Activision has knocked me off my feet 
 with this offering. It's an on of the older games for 360 but I still enjoyed the heck out of it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KFrog
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 8, 2007 5:49 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty has been around for some time now with many different games and on platforms, from 
 the PC, the Xbox, Gamecube, PS2, PSP, PS3, Wii and of course the Xbox 360.
  
  I bought the PC version in the deluxe edition box set that includes the original Call of Duty and 
 its expansion pack Call of Duty United Offensive. Problem was my video card was unable to handle 
 it so I never played either game. Maybe I will some day. I got away from PC gaming when I got my 
 original Xbox a few years back. Now Ive moved on to the Xbox 360.
  
  Which brings me to the subject of this review: Call of Duty 2. This has to be one of the most exciting 
 games Ive ever played. Its fast paced, challenging and visually stunning.
  
  The game starts you off at the battle of Stalingrad. You play as a Russian recruit and get through 
 training just as youre thrown into battle. You get your first taste of Russian rifles and machine 
 guns which are pretty effective. The snow effects are spot on, you might find yourself getting 
 a slight chill
  
  You have different types of missions to perform from defending areas to taking out tanks as you 
 move though the city. You attack, take a position only to have the Germans counterattack. This 
 is pretty fun stuff.
  
  Next is the British North Africa campaign. I really liked the North Africa campaign. You get a 
 look and feel of a part of WWII not covered as thoroughly as the European theater. The desert towns 
 are very realistic and the battles are street to street, some are wide open with you trying to 
 take out the enemy at a distance.
  
  At one point you take control of an anti-aircraft gun just as the German fighters start their staffing 
 run on you. Just lead them a little and blaze away. Sweet. For a short time you even get to pilot 
 a tank. Once you get the hang of driving one of these things it really gets good. Spot an enemy 
 tank, aim fire! One kraut tiger down! Look at that sucker burn!
  
  The common theme of Call of Duty 2 is you fight as a team. Your squad mates come and go pretty 
 fast in this game but not before taking out some of the Jerries for you. Its interesting that 
 in a game like this the developer took the time to give each soldier a name and his rank. A nice 
 touch.
  
  The American missions start where else? Why D-Day of course. It is different in that you have to 
 scale the face of a mountain at Pointe du Hoc first before coming face to face with the enemy. 
 Once youre over the top its unbelievable. The blistering attack the Germans put on you is relentless 
 and tough. I was wondering if I would ever figure out how to get through it. I died often.
  
  Later in the game there was a mission where it seemed the Germans were coming at you from all 
 directions. There is rifle fire, machine gun fire, grenades landing at your feet, then a Tiger 
 tank! They come in on you wave after wave. Jeez, what else can they throw at you? When this game 
 came up on my 50 1080p DLP I was stunned by the graphics. This is truly next gen folks. Character 
 animation, lighting, explosions, gun fire, its all here. The Enemy AI is pretty good too. Some 
 of the early missions can be sort of run and gun at times but as you move into the American campaign 
 the difficulty meter ramps up noticeably. There are parts when the Germans come at you in waves 
 as I mentioned and other times theyll try to flank you. When you go into buildings I can almost 
 guarantee you there will be several guys around every corner and several in some of the rooms. 
 Chuck a few grenades in then go in with guns blazing just to be sure!
  
  Call of Duty 2 is one of the finest games on the Xbox 360 with just about every base coved. I think 
 it is great addition to the Call of Duty franchise and well worth consideration as an addition 
 to anyones collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: icup01
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 8, 2007 5:02 pm PT
Review:  It is the best Historic First Person Shooter, the minute you start playing this game you cant stop, this 
 is betterthen Call Of Duty 3 so if your having a hard time choosing beetween Call of Duty 2 or 
 Call of Duty 3, choose Call of Duty 2, this game iv very realistic and you sort of feel like your 
 in the action,
  this game is worth it, but like every game, it has its ups and downs, i dont like friendlyfire 
 because your teamates always get in the way and you accidentaly shoot them causing you to fail 
 the mission. also if you woinder about your teamates, they are very helpfull in my opinion, so buy 
 this game and you wont regret it, if there was a video game hall of fame, then this would be inducted 
 as a classic 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danalfmon
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 28, 2007 3:19 pm PT
Review:  The game is fairly good. My biggest problem with the game was that their is no lean ability, otherwise 
 a great game. It kind of feels like Call of Duty (PC) . You start out in Russia. The Russian campaign 
 seems like a never ending Winter even though it spans two (2) years. The British campaign is a little 
 different because you experience different types of terrain and weather. The American campaign 
 is somewhat similar to the British campaign. The game is kind of fun but chances are you won't 
 be playing through it to many times, except to to probably get the achievement points which are 
 fairly easy to obtain. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonicare
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 28, 2007 12:08 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 takes place during the events of World War 2. The game is split into 3 campaigns 
 where you play as a different character for each allied faction - the Russians, the British, and 
 the Americans.
  
  The game seems to pride itself on the recreation of historical battles and scenes and spends great 
 detail in recreating these environments. From the wartorn streets of Stalingrad to the sheer cliffs 
 of Pointe du Hoc, the gamer becomes immersed into the imagery and struggle of world war 2.
  
  Any veteran of WW2 shooters will feel right at home and be able to jump in right from the start. 
 The game controls and plays like your standard FPS. Your character can can carry 2 different weapons 
 at a time and these vary from pistols, to submachine guns, bazookas, sniper rifles, etc from that 
 time period. The character also has access to grenades and smoke grenades that come in very handy 
 in sticky situations.
  
  The gameplay differs from the standard WW 2 shooter in a few aspects. The most important one is 
 the epic scale of the battles. You're not an isolated character fighting his way through enemy 
 lines on some fictional quest. Rather, your character plays as a soldier involved in some of the 
 historic battles of world war 2. You face hordes of enemy troops, but you are not alone. Your allies 
 fight along side you and play a critical role in your success.
  
  Unlike many shooters, there is no health bar or status. As your character gets hit, the screen 
 starts to flash red. You can only take so much damage before your character dies. However, if you 
 find cover and stop taking damage, after a short time your character is fully healed and able to 
 take more damage. You don't need to search for health packs or health upgrades. I would say its 
 similar to the rechargable energy shield of Halo 2
  
  On the lower difficulty levels, it's pretty easy to ignore your allies help and just run and gun. 
 You seem to be able to soak up quite a lot of damage before dying. On veteran difficulty, however, 
 you need to be extremely cautious. One or 2 hits with the right weapon is more than enough to finish 
 your character off. You will find yourself ducking for cover and depending on your allies to help 
 turn the tide.
  
  While the scalable difficulty levels added some challenge to the game, I found the highest level, 
 veteran, to be a little bit cheap. In addition to slight improvements on the AI and much more use 
 of enemy grenades, your character has far less damage reserve at the veteran difficulty level. 
 There are many parts in the game where your character will die before you even know he's under 
 attack. One or two shots and he's down. If an enemy gets the drop on you, it's over. You will literally 
 find yourself simply trying to get from one small checkpoint in the game to another. It would be 
 one thing if it meant that you had to be more skilled at shooting or quicker at moving, but this 
 difficulty just seemd a little cheap and imbalanced. I remember a sequence where my character had 
 to man a mounted machine gun to keep the enemy at bay. Only problem was that by the time my character 
 would grab the gun and stand up, he was dead. No chance to even aim or fire.
  
  To be fair, that's why it was the hardest level, but I just wish it would have required a change 
 in my tactics or skill and just less blind luck.
  
  Graphically the game was very impressive. The characters looked good and realistic and the environments 
 were well done. The sound was decent but nothing groundbreaking.
  
  I have not played much of the multiplayer, but it seemed fairly standard from a fps standpoint. 
 Nothing revolutionary but solid nonetheless.
  
  All in all, this is a decent game for the 360 and certainly very entertaining. While the higher 
 difficulty levels may be a little unbalanced, the overall gameplay is very solid. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilsimon04
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 22, 2007 10:30 pm PT
Review:  Call Of Duty 2!! Excellent, just an excellent game, i wasnt really to thrilled with the single 
 player, but playing on xbox live is like nothing before. In my own opinion it wouldnt really be 
 that great of a game if it wasnt for the online play. It just a real blast online! But anyways, 
 the graphics and sound quality are good in all. So if you already have COD3, then i still think 
 the purchase of COD2 is still agood move to make. The game is well worth the money spent! The only 
 flaw really about the game is there is a few noticable glitches in the game and not very often 
 but sometimes you will get disconned , which just drives me up a wall!! But seriously just to make 
 it a short little review, just get the game, you will not be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bluey2323
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 30, 2007 8:14 pm PT
Review:  This is a game that is worth buying a Xbox 360 for. This was my first 360 game and i still play 
 it all the time. This a game had a brilliant single player mode and a great multiplayer mode. My 
 version recently broke and a plan on buying a new one as soon as i can. We played this game at 
 parties all the time. One time all we had was this and we played it all night long. The multiplayer 
 is really fun but it can only have up to 8 people online. The single player is worth playing over 
 and over again. I would say that if you own a 360 you need to own this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d3r7y
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 20, 2007 10:02 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty is absolutly the best WWII series to date. If you want to experience what the soldiers 
 had to go through set your difficult settings to VETERAN. For 360 users its your highest achievements 
 to get on that setting. From beginning to end non-stop action. With the three campaign stories 
 you go through the characters never get dull. And from what I know I believe your playing real-life 
 heroes during those times of the war. Even the Tank missions is fun, heading into war in the African 
 deserts with your tank squadron couldnt be anymore fun. But it isnt until you start up the American 
 campaign that the game starts to really get hard. Jumping into foxholes and bunkers is seriously 
 life or death for you. My advice STAY LOW!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ArcTrooper3827
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 14, 2007 5:36 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game, honestly the first one that I played and really didn't get caught up in the 
 hole boss battle and repetitive action of the Germans. From the moment I started playing this game 
 till the time I beat it, I was awed at it's unique battle controls and the all around smartness 
 of the computer (German soldiers) like usually when I have played previous WWII games the computer 
 would do just basic moves and stick to one formation and always repeat this through out the game, 
 but in this game I figured that they would be executing the movement, but! I was wrong. For example 
 I like to snipe alot, I like to think I am good at it.... but anyway, I figured that the would come 
 in at a straight line or a similarly straight axis so I could pick the off one at a time and be 
 done with them. Well I was mistaken when I got the first one in my cross-hairs they (German soldier) 
 totally scattered and was some what hard to get a positive lock on them because the used dodging 
 techniques and taking cover or just plainly getting down on the stomachs and crawling up behind 
 cover. It was great to see this because It was more of a challenge and not just a shoot and continue. 
 Also this game had some great battle fields and were quite accurate which was nice for a change 
 (not saying that other war games don't) but this game was more detailed in the general battle fields. 
 Well what else is there to say is that if you are looking for a good war game this is one to get. 
 It is not only fun but knowledgeable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luckypool04
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 13, 2007 11:17 pm PT
Review:  Some games seem to take things to new and more intense heights with their gerne and this is certainly 
 one of them. The level of chaos that takes place on screen as bullets fly past; squadmates shout 
 out orders and locations of the enemy, is quite astonishing. Your health is like Halo and usaully 
 is ok, which tends to take away from the action
  
  ENTERTAINMENT: the objective of war is not to die for your country but to make the other poor b****** 
 die for his . This is the type of famous quote you will recieve when playing the game. COD 2 has 
 a very extensive campaign and great multiplayer. It has you wraped up in the action the whole way 
 through. You will get to first battle the Nazis with the Communist Soviets. Then the Brittish and 
 finally the Americans. The battles are rarely small and always intense. The Sound of bullets flying 
 past and sqad members yelling out to you is amazingly well put together. Controls are some of the 
 best i have ever played for a console. Graphics are not as brillant as they were a year ago but 
 they still glean with that new generation smell. The A. I. of your squadmates and enemy are very 
 impressive and don't just sit their let you pump them with bullets. They use group tactics and 
 even when shot try to crawl for their lives.
  
  PROS: Long and Exciting Campaign and great multiplayer, Pretty much everything else, is well done 
 and seemingly perfect as a WW2 game.
  
  CONS: Health issues when your facing a small amount of enemys somtimes takes away from the action. 
 Multiplayer restricted to only 8.
  
  OVERALL: Call of Duty 2 is overall undoubtably one of the best WW2 games ever made. So If you are 
 thinking about buying this for your 360 or renting; Buy it, buy it now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wawatkins21
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 12, 2007 8:21 am PT
Review:  What can I say?? The Call of Duty name speaks for itself. It is again setting the bar for the 1st 
 Person shooter again, and it does it with grace and finese. The graphics are top-notch and are 
 still some of the best on the 360, even though it was one of the launch titles. A lot of attention 
 went into every little detail in the game, which gives it a heightened sense of realism, while 
 still preserving the look and feel of the Call of Duty titles to date. The smoke effects in the 
 game are some of the best anywhere, and the smoke really helps in tight spots. Also, the character 
 models are top-notch and they clearly define what the 360 is capable of doing as a next-gen system. 
 The game looks great on a standard 4:3 TV, but it really shines and looks outstanding on a 16:9 
 HDTV.
  
  The musical score is wonderful, really setting the feel and tone of the game. Also, the sound effects 
 in the game were really done well. Each gun has its own destinct sound and even gives off a faint 
 echo where the sound has bounced off walls or any other type of structure. The experience is complete 
 with a 5.1 surround sound system. People and explosions behind and in front of you with bullets 
 wizzing by to your left and right really immerse you in the game. You really feel like you are 
 actually in combat.
  
  If I have pick something about the game to pick on, it would probably be the diffuculty of the 
 game. On the regular setting, the game was pretty challenging. If the diffuculty is upped a notch, 
 the game becomes nye-impossible. It doesn't detract from the in anyway, and the developers were 
 probably beefing up the difficulty to further enhance the realism of the game.
  
  Overall, the game was well done and polished. Call of Duty 3 has come out but I haven't played 
 it yet, so out of these that are out now Call of Duty 2 is my favorite. Do yourself a fav and pick 
 up a copy of the game and realive a little of WWII! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -PS360-
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 11, 2007 8:33 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty 2 still stands out as one fo the best with a very solid storyline, above average graphics, 
 fun gameplay, and an average multiplayer. All in all very well done especially for a launch title 
 and in my opinion is also better than call of duty 3. The visuals are war-like and give you a feeling 
 of world war 2 1944. The sound is top-notch with guns shots left from right, the gameplay will 
 make you feel like a soldier. In the longrun you will be glad to have bought it for a 20 dollar 
 price tag as it is a very solid title to own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fdlazarte
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 9, 2007 12:19 pm PT
Review:  this may sound clich&eacute; but i used to hate any FPS game... i hate to see guns sticking out 
 on my tv screen because they are destructing and unrealistic... Gears of War made a great job on 
 third-person shooting.
  
  i never thought i will be addictive to this game (i never played COD1) but after i started the 
 veteran level, it gives me the adrenaline to finish every missions and levels... unlocking achievements 
 is just a bonus, what's addicting is the storyline and how you fight with the Germans...
  
  the Russian levels are for your practice... you'll learn how to shoot and use frags and smoke grenades... 
 you'll notice that your opponent never run out of soldiers, but this is nothing when you reached 
 the Hill 400 and D-Day speaking of D-Day, this is the hardest mission of them all... i was stuck 
 in the Battle of Point du Hoc and also on Silo... look for forums on how to defeat those missions...
 
  
  after finishing the game last night, i feel very much relieved and the war is over (for COD2) ... 
 now i'm thinking of getting COD3 or GRAW2.
  
  now FPS games are getting on my nerves... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mingin444
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 4, 2007 8:09 pm PT
Review:  It is the game that jump started the 360. A game with white-knuckle, intense action.
  
  Gameplay
  
  *Excellent controls
  *Very good context sensitive parts
  *Intense fights
 
  - Nothing that really evolves the genre
  - Online limited to 8 people
  
  Graphics
  
  *Many enemies on screen
  *Sometimes the other people around yoy look very good
  - Dated, some 
 last gen games look better. Playing this after gears of war is very hurtful to the eyes
  - Some robotic animations
  
  Sound
  
  *As good as it gets
  * Very good voice acting, 
 and it's never quite, just like WWII
  
  Value
  
  *Very replayable campaign
  * Pretty good online
  - Short campaign
  
  It's a very fluid game. Controls work very well. 
 I suppose the main drawback is the games dated visuals but the action more than makes up for those 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Metron4
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 3, 2007 10:36 pm PT
Review:  A setting as epic and dramatic as World War II cultivates so many possible storylines that its 
 easy to understand why there are so many games, books, movies and television shows about the subject. 
 A recent trend in gaming takes the theme of brotherhood made popular by the film Saving Private 
 Ryan (1998) . No longer are you a faceless soldier in a first-person shooter. Thanks to games like 
 Call of Duty 2, you and your fellow soldiers have names, if not identities, developing the camaraderie 
 written in the most heart-felt war novels. Driven by a handful of narratives from the eyes of soldiers 
 serving Russia, Britain and the United States, every moment in the game is a cinematic experience.
 
  
  * Gameplay: The moment you step foot on the Russian battlefield to be rushed through training, 
 the game grips your focus and never lets go. The dialogue and banter between soldiers and officers 
 is quite realistic, more than I had expected. The two weapons you are allowed to carry let you 
 create your own style of attack. I tried to balance a long range rifle with a machine gun whenever 
 possible, but for those who wish to deal death close-up, you can always find two automatic rifles 
 to wield. The two grenades types you carry work well, although the enemy A. I. is so well crafted 
 its impossible to cluster bomb any group at a time. The smoke grenades are extremely handy, especially 
 against heavy artillery and tanks. Again, the A. I. reacts in unpredictable ways, making it not 
 uncommon to find yourself face-to-rifle-butt close with the enemy inside a smokescreen. One area 
 in which the enemy characters are unrealistic is the games tendency to focus their efforts on 
 you, the player. They dont necessarily converge on your position as if you have a giant KILL ME 
 balloon over your head, but it is a telling point of the design when all the bullets magically 
 start drifting your way when you stick your head out. Thankfully, this is not a one-shot kill 
 arena. If you take some hits, you can recover by staying out of sight for a few seconds, depending 
 on how close you were to death. Skirmishes are the meat of the gameplay. You will gain a foothold 
 in one area, and then battle it out in a myriad of possible settings until you complete the objective 
 and move forward. The harder missions require you to advance the point yourself, with the enemy 
 generating an infinite number of opposing forces until you get off your rear and push through. 
 Losing comrades can happen like flicking a card deck through your fingers, but that new recruit 
 is just around the corner, filling in for his fallen brother and having a new name every time. 
 A well designed strategy includes making a push when you have the maximum amount of supporting 
 troops as you can. Its an easy thing to forget, what with trying not to get shot yourself, but 
 remembering to wait makes all the difference in advancing to the next target. There are many campaigns, 
 all of them segmented into smaller levels and each one completing the larger mission. The objectives 
 and story unfold in a believable, linear fashion. Its impossible to miss anything important, although 
 some battles happen so fast you may be surprised when its over and youre wondering, okay, we 
 won, right?
  
  * Graphics: War may be ugly but the graphics will have you oo-ing and ah-ing. All missions are 
 derived from their real-world counterparts, taking place in diverse locations such as Russia, France, 
 Northern Egypt and Germany. The bombed-out cities are full of multi-storied buildings with faces 
 torn apart, concrete rubble and busted pipes jutting out. The winter war coats everything with 
 white powder, just waiting to be stained red. You can see the breath of your enemies hiding behind 
 crates and doorways. Dust and dirt fall down on you inside sheltered bunkers. Tall weeds on the 
 fields of France allow for the excitement of prone sniping. There is a distinct flattening of the 
 planes that highlights the telescoping effect of using a scope on rifles, plus that awesome moment 
 of anticipation at holding your breath for the steadiest shot. Explosions by hand grenade are quick 
 and dont feel spectacular, but a blast from a tank into the corner of a building sends clouds 
 of dust into the air. When you take damage, your vision blurs and things get exceedingly grayed-out, 
 until you die and everything becomes a grainy blur. Death animations are agonizing and sometimes 
 prolonged, depending on the accuracy of the shot. Watch out for that never-say-die last attempt! 
 The textures seem a little flat, especially in the desert missions in Africa, but so much else 
 is happening you dont have much time to stare at butterflies.
  
  * Sound: Although many times hard to understand, especially when they would talk over each other, 
 the rapid dialogue prevalent throughout the game is so realistic it becomes an entirely different 
 creature, where you dont even care whos screaming what, youre just awed by the feeling of being 
 in the thick of it. Bullets zing by your ears and ricochet off surfaces appropriately, with metal 
 and wood sounding distinct. The thunderous tread of tanks as they pass over you in a trench contribute 
 to the ominous dread they represent. I particularly enjoyed the enthusiastic banter of the British 
 soldiers, calling out the Jerrys. All in all the game does a spectacular job with voice acting, 
 sound effects and orchestral score.
  
  * Value: On the easier difficulty, the game will fly by, giving you a more cinematic experience. 
 On Veteran setting, be prepared to play out the same area over and over until you are sick of the 
 dialogue repeating. I had to turn off the sound so as not to ruin the experience by listening to 
 the same thing twenty times. The checkpoint system has no problem saving in a really bad spot. 
 I accidentally moved too far forward and triggered a boss fight shooting down planes without the 
 backup of my comrades. It almost cost me the progress I made and would have meant starting the 
 mission from way back. Online play was mildly exciting. You really have to know your weapons if 
 you plan to do more than die a lot playing against other people. Organized team matches are more 
 fun and realistic. It makes a difference when you act as a group rather than going solo.
  
  * Tilt: First war game Ive ever played! Now I know what all the fuss is about. And just in time 
 for Call of Duty 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeldafan00013
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 3, 2007 1:38 pm PT
Review:  I myself have never been interested in war games, I had family memebers in the war and never really 
 liked the idea of these games other then counter strike for the PC. Well i purchased my 360 and 
 saw a demo of COD2 and it just looked amazing it was mind blowing when it first came out, i could 
 not resist buying it. From the time i bought it till now i have had alot of fun with the game. 
 It has a very fun campaign and good multiplayer online. I loved all the different levels from being 
 with a group of men to having your whole team killed and having to find a new group. Very fun gameplay, 
 great graphics, overall my favorite war game of all time. All war games should be like Call of 
 Duty. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TCisGod
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 2, 2007 4:45 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 takes place during World War II and has you playing through three different campaigns 
 the Russian, British, and American campaigns. The game will have you driving tanks through the 
 desert, reliving D-Day, and other important battles in the war. After you finish the single player 
 campaign you can take the game online through Xbox Live. The multiplayer modes include deathmatch, 
 team deathmatch, Capture the Flag and many more.
  
  The game looks great. The guns and character models look good and the levels look good as well. 
 The sound is great. The guns and explosions sound great and the voice acting is also well done. 
 So if you like first person shooters you should get this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PC_JOE_9
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 1, 2007 3:58 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is a WW2 action game/ shooter from Activision. You play as a Russian (me!) , a Brit, 
 and a good ol' American. The graphics and environments are incredibly well portrayed. And I even 
 have standard def! Sound is simply amazing, because it certainly gives you a mood of what is happening. 
 Nothing goes well with a military shooter than intense opera - style music. You feel like you're 
 in a war. Gameplay could have been a little bettter, such as being able to knock down doors, throw 
 grenades back, and most importantly ---- TAKE COVER!! Weapons are actually historically correct. 
 Many say that this game is repetitive - I agree. You're basically running from one point, clearing 
 out everybody on the other point, and eventually getting there, defending an attack, and then killing 
 some more people. However, this style is extremely addicting and makes you want more. It makes 
 you feel like you're a soldier and also very patriotic. (But gameplay could have been better)
 
  
  I played the D - Day campaign in GameStop and it dazzled me, I knew I had to get this game, and 
 I DID!!
  
  I reccomend it to not only war buffs, but to fans of sleek 1 person shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LEGOslayer
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 12, 2007 8:11 pm PT
Review:  I'm surprised I haven't written a review until now. When I first got my 360, I only had Gun and 
 NBA Live, but once I found this game and popped it in, I built myself a miniature legacy on XBL. 
 Then, unfortunately, my disk broke and I went into a 40 day hiatus from the 360 until I got Gears 
 of War, but thats for another time. As for the game, what can I say, IT IS AWESOME! The gameplay 
 is top notch, the guns are great and I became an expert sniper. As for sound, the guns realism 
 is unprecedented, I actually think I'm firing a real gun sometimes. Graphics for its early 360 
 days are fantastic. As for replay value, I replayed it a lot. I would be playing it now if I had 
 the chance. My only issue for this game is that the sequel, Call of Duty 3, was a bucket of crap. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: musicalmac
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 28, 2007 7:08 am PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong, I love the atmosphere of the game. Running side by side with your comrades, 
 friends, or mates makes for a great gameplay experience. Graphically, it's quite a good show. Effects 
 look great, as do most textures. I truly enjoyed everything I saw. Sound was also quite good, as 
 it was constantly a battle around me. There isn't a whole lot I can tell you about this game that 
 you don't already know.
  
  Here's my beef. The game was a lot of the same. Some people would claim a lot of shooters ARE all 
 the same, although those people would be incorrect, of course. This game consists taking back buildings, 
 or advancing on enemy troops. Makes sense, it's a WWII era game! But after a while, I felt as though 
 it was dragging a little.
  
  My other beef, and it may be a silly one, centers around grenades. I wish they had a bigger blast 
 radius. I don't mean, fire and fancy-fake effects. When a grenade goes off in the corner of a small 
 room, but doesn't kill the enemies inside, I get annoyed. It's a dang grenade! Being on the other 
 side of the room may save you from the immediate blast- but it won't save you from the resulting 
 shrapnel.
  
  All and all, I'd recommend this game, regardless of how many negative things I had to say about 
 it. It's quite fun, and has some extremely impactful scenes (most notably, the beach scene) . Go 
 ahead and grab it if you like shooters. Controls are extremely responsive, and you really can't 
 go wrong with this one.
  
  RSB 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dementor317
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 28, 2007 12:10 am PT
Review:  I heard about Call of Duty 2 through a friend, who was describing to me some of the games that 
 him and his friends had been playing togeather, and that they were going to start a clan. I was 
 intrigued by this, and decided to pick up a copy of the game. I had never played Call of Duty 1, 
 but was still familiar to the FPS genre. The first thing I do with all my games I buy for the 360, 
 is try to play through it and get as many achievements as I can. This also gives me insight on 
 what the game might be like in XBOX LIVE mode. This time however that did not work out, and I was 
 treated to two very different styles of play.
  
  Gameplay (Single player)
  The single player campaign is one of the best I've seen in FPS games today, second only to that 
 of Halo and Half Life in my opinion. You play as the Americans, Russians, and the British, each 
 with there own unique set of weapons, except of course the Thompson which is shared by both the 
 Americans and the British. You are taken through some of the major points in history, where you 
 yourself take up a rifle agains the germans to show them who is boss. As the Russian you try and 
 take the city of Stalingrad back, and then hold it against the Germans. This is true for many of 
 the campaign missions, you take a point on the map, and then you defend agains the German counterattack. 
 As the Americans you start at D-Day and begin your push towards Berlin. Only this time your not 
 storming the beaches of Normandy, instead your scaling the cliffs of a much smaller beach called 
 Omaha. And as the British you try and take back strategic points in Africa, and foil Rammels plans 
 to take and control africa. Each set of missions seems very realistic, and you feel as if you are 
 takeing part in the historical events that played out durring World War 2.
  
  (Multyplayer)
  The guns didn't seem to act all that differently, the only diffrence seemed to 
 be that it was either a rifle, assualt rifle, or a machine gun. That holds true for all the allies 
 that you play as, and this takes away from the originality of each weapon. For instance the German 
 MP 44 fires exactly the same way as the Browning Assault Rifle or the BAR. These guns should be 
 completely different, but there exactly the same except for looks of course. The main weapon of 
 choice from everybody that I played against was the Sniper Rifle, and it absolutely made the game 
 no fun to enjoy. It takes the strategy out of the game, and the maps are way to small to be going 
 4 on 4 using just sniper rifles, and it makes for a very boreing game.
  
  Graphics
  The graphics could have definitely been improved on in this game. I have seen much better come 
 out of the XBOX-360 and this game should be no exception. The faces on characters look all to familiar, 
 and seem unchanging. Another costume or two for the German soldiers would have been nice to see, 
 instead of just the usual white outfits and the black outfits. Somehow I can't believe they wore 
 winter wear in Africa. The explosions from tanks and grenades could have been much improved on. 
 They look really choppy compared to some that I have seen on other games.
  
  Sound
  The only reason that I give the sound a low score is because it just appears that the makers became 
 lazy. They used some of the same sounds for some of the guns. For instance the MP 44 sounds exactly 
 like the BAR, and the German mounted machine gun sounds just like the Americans. All these are 
 very different guns that sound very different. The soldiers also did not have very differents sets 
 of speach. Instead you hear the same phrases repeated over and over.
  
  End Note
  I had high expectations for this game, as my friend is usually a really reliable source for such 
 games. Its not a bad game, it just dosn't match up to my high standards for an fps. This game as 
 some serious potential within it to be one of the great fps's of the day, but instead it falls 
 way short. I was really hopeing that this game would be better that what I found it to be. Sadly 
 what could of been great, isn't. The developers probably made great improvements on number 3, which 
 I have yet to play, but when I do, I hope it has a more realistic feel to it, as Call of Duty 2 
 is a little arcadey for my taste, and is more of a cheap rip off of Counter-Strike when it comes 
 to online play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wookie_Fodder
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 25, 2007 9:27 pm PT
Review:  Although Call of Duty 3 is out now, Call of Duty 2 is a must have purchase for people if they don't 
 fee like spending the $60 for COD3. When I think of WWII shooters (granted there's too many to 
 count) the COD series instantly comes to mind. COD2 has everything a person could want in a WWII 
 shooter. The battles are deep and intense, the environments are gorgeous, and the smoke grenades 
 display some of the best particle effects in video games today.
  
  I love that this game steers away from the health bar mentality or shooters. Gone are the days 
 of oh sh*t I need a med pack! Now it's oh sh*t! I need cover! Games like Gears of War have taken 
 this idea of not having health, but instead only allowing the player to take so much damage at 
 a time before they die.
  
  I personally like to play this game on Veteran because, 1) you unlock all the achievements, and 
 2) the game feels the most realistic. The Nazis seem to be never-ending, and you will die after 
 one or two shots at a time.
  
  This game is as difficult as you want it to be, and it's just beautiful. You can be stuck on a 
 level and die multiple times, but yet still never get frustrated.
  
  I cannot recommend this game enough.
  Jon 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slayervorge3000
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 25, 2007 12:06 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is a good game. It's a sort of a great way to learn history. You play as the Russians, 
 Americans and more. It's not as great as Call of Duty 3, but it is pretty good. COD2 is both easy 
 and difficult, it's graphics are good and the sound is the best. After all Call of Duty is the 
 best WWII game series!!! You use the WWII weapons like the Thomas, Kar98k and other really cool 
 weapons. COD2 ends with a suspense of what it was really like in the War of World War 2. Two Tager 
 or what ever they are called surrounded my team and I thought that game was over for me, but then -- wait 
 never mind, you need to play the game to see for yourself unless your a better gamer than I am. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Auroni
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 25, 2007 10:01 am PT
Review:  Activision and Infinity Ward have made a great launch title for the Xbox 360. Call of Duty 2 starts 
 off with a Training level that is a complete waste of time and highly picks up. So you guys all 
 know, I am a bit bias toward the game being a lot harder because I played the game on Veteran Mode. 
 The gameplay is pretty stellar. I never had problems with the storyline or the control scheme. 
 The storyline would begin with Russians battling in Russian and end with the Americans invading 
 Germany. The control scheme takes a bit to learn but once you have figured it out its pretty easy. 
 The graphics were simply amazing for a launch title game. Throughout the game I felt like I was 
 playing a 'next generation' game. The sound was very well done as well. From bullet noises coming 
 from your gun to grenades blowing up you felt like you were in the war. I came into this game thinking 
 I would beat the game in a matter of hours but I was wrong. This games single-player story takes 
 around 5-25 hours depending on the mode you are playing on. Easy mode probably takes 5 hours just 
 because its so damn easy but Veteran mode takes a solid 25 hours. This was the first World War 
 shooter I played and all around I was satisfied. One thing I really enjoyed in the game was the 
 voice acting. I learned alot of things while playing the game. I learned some World War II phrases 
 that soldiers would use. One thing that frusterated me the most were the 'respawning' of the enemies 
 unless you advanced. Its kind of ridiculous because it means that sniping people is pointless because 
 the enemy will just reappear seconds later. I never really got into the online mode since I played 
 this game after Call of Duty 3 came out but it felt kind of lame. I only played 5 matches but it 
 didn't feel complete to me. But maybe thats because I was playing Gears of War.
  
  Overall, Call of Duty 2 is a very satisfying game that you should buy cheap or pick it up as a 
 weekly rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mishaboy
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 25, 2007 6:46 am PT
Review:  Have you ever played a shooter that's so good that you feel like you're in the game? That has such 
 good graphics that it looks like real life? Sounds like life too? That is exactly what Call of Duty 
 2 does. If you are looking for a shooter in general, not just a WW2 shooter, Call of Duty 2 would 
 still most likely fit into what you are looking for. The sound in Call of Duty 2 is great. The 
 gunshots sound like you would think they sound. In the distance, you hear explosions, people yelling 
 and screaming, etc. The voice work is perfect. It is definitely not overdone, like it is occasionally 
 in Big Red One. If you are hearing Russian voices, they sound like Russian voices. If you are hearing 
 an English voice, it just gets annoying (but still sounds English) . Call of Duty 2 is too short 
 though. If I remember correctly, it only has ten levels. You can play as a Russian private named 
 Vasili, an English sergeant named Davis, and an American corporal named Taylor. In the Russian 
 campaign there is three levels. Each level is cut into sections, which helps because the levels 
 are decently long. In the British campaign there is 4 levels and in the American campaign there 
 is 3 levels. Unsurprisingly, the first level in the American campaign is D-Day. It is kinda cool 
 because you are climbing a cliff without any gear except a rope, which would be crazy even without 
 bullets and friends flying past you. The graphics are great. There is a lot of detail when you 
 are looking at just about anything. The explosions look very realistic. The guns look real. The 
 gun selection includes the BAR, the M1 Garand, the MP44, the MP40, and tons more. There is alot 
 of sniper rifles and, as a first, you can get a couple different pistols. For the first time, you 
 can use smoke grenades, and they actually do help a lot. What sucks is that the Germans use them 
 a lot too. It's annoying because Germans come out of nowhere and you can't control it. The gameplay 
 is fun, and you can memorize the controls in a matter of seconds. The game is an instant classic. 
 When you shoot people, they actually fall over, unlike Civil War where they don't even notice that 
 you are shooting them. The game was definitely worth what it cost. In my opinion, there is not a 
 better military shooter out today. Unlike other shooters, you can never have a shortage of ammo 
 because it is all over the place. What makes the game easy is the fact that you don't need medikits. 
 If you get shot too much, it tells you to take cover, and after about 3 seconds, you are fine again. 
 All in all, it is the best first person shooter I have played to date. - Misha Reinken 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zombieman666
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 24, 2007 8:21 pm PT
Review:  this is deffinitly worth your money and at some stores you can get the game of the year adition 
 for only 20 bucks. This is the best call of duty that they have made so far. plus there is a great 
 multiplayer. the only bonus of the 3rd call of duty is that you can run. so dont waste your money 
 on the 3rd one wait tell it becomes alot cheaper. there is way more levels and missions in this 
 than the in the third one and it spans over 3 campains. there is also an added bonus of killing 
 nazis for all the blacks out there 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedneckGamer87
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 22, 2007 7:06 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best World War Two first person shooters I have played, It's way better then 
 most of the Medal of Honor games out there so far.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is absolutly amazing, It improves from the first call of duty by improving 
 the macanics in the game. There are a bunch of new guns like the M-1 Carbine, the Greese gun, a 
 new PPSH and so on. You get to fight though the American, British and Russian campains which are 
 not that long but it depends on what level setting your at and how good your shooting and shooting 
 reaction is because It could effect if you live or die. You get to play though D-day and the battle 
 of stalingrad, fight thoug the north african desert and all thoughs famous battles which is quite 
 entertaining. There is no health bar and health packs in the game which makes it more realistic 
 so there is no rambo like action going on. After you are done with the single player you can go 
 on to play the multiplayer which is very accitive, there is no stoping me from playing this game 
 for an hour most days after a day of work and start shooting people. i have been coming back to 
 play the multiplay for months and not got board of it. Graphics: The graphics are outstanding, 
 they are very realistic the bullets would make life like impessions on the walls and the desighs 
 of the troops and guns are very well done. Also the color and 3-D graphics it really looks nice 
 and comparing it to the first call of duty it's really come along way and back then I though the 
 graphics we good. But graphics dose not always say a good game it's the gameplay but the graphics 
 do help the game at times.
  '
  Sound: This has great sound, From the crack of the rifle to the boom of the artilery it all sounds 
 very nice and crisp on my sound sound. It really helps to bring the expereince alive.
  
  Value: This game has great replay value, you can play this game on the three difficaly setters 
 easy, medium and hard which will keep you busy for a while and give you a challange. But the Multiplayer 
 part of the game is the part that keeps you coming back for more. So this game has great replay 
 value.
  
  All in all this is a great game to add to you collection of games and should not be looked over. 
 I give this game 9 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Laurence114
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 21, 2007 5:11 am PT
Review:  This game is much more intense and much less scripted. Also the overall feel of the game is smoother 
 and you dont feel as much like your just following a long path of fireworks which affect you in 
 no way whatsoever like in COD3. Another point i would like to make would be that the amount of 
 enemys on screen at once are much less but infinity ward have focused on quality (inteligence) 
 of the soldiers rather than quantity like treyarch did with COD3. After playing hardened and veteren 
 on COD3 I felt that the games toughness only came from the games glitches but in COD2 I really 
 enjoyed trying the higher 2 difficulty levels because they forced you to use cover and forcing 
 you to shot accurate shots to hold the enemy back unlike in COD3 were I found myself running around 
 like crazy and hoping that one of my stupid teamates doesnt run in front of me and I dont get stuck 
 in a part in the scenery. So after playing both of the call of duty game i have to say that the 
 change in developer has really made a difference and by this I mean for the worse. COD2 owns COD3 
 in every way from the weapons to the multiplayer also. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sethnrule
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 19, 2007 1:26 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is one of the best games for the X Box 360. When the X Box 360 1st came out this 
 was the best game! Here is my review:
  
  Graphics: The graphics look ficken real like you were actually fighting in World War II.
  
 
  Controls: The controls were hard to get used to at 1st because I was used to Halo and Halo 2, 
 but it came pretty easy when I got used to it.
  
  Sound: It sounded like World War II, it was awesome!
  
  Replay Value: Sometimes when I'm bored 
 I just pick up my X Box 360 controller and start over and just play it.
  
  Pros: Extremly good storyline.
  
  Cons: Me personally has no Cons.
  
  Overall: A Instant 
 Classic. I give it a 10 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abima
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 18, 2007 11:49 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 was my first foray into next gen WWII games, having played nothing of the sort since 
 the Medal of Honor: Allied Assault series four/five years ago. If you liked those games, you should 
 like CoD2, too. Expect better graphics, but pretty much more of the same uninspired plotlines and 
 mission types. The settings don't appear particularly novel, just more polished. If you like a 
 straight-forward WWII shooter, you should enjoy CoD2, even if it won't feed your desire for novel 
 gameplay, missions, or settings.
  
  BTW, I'm just beginning to play it on the Veteran difficultly setting for the first time, which 
 I'm finding makes it much more interesting, thanks to the added thought it requires you to put 
 into it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperSlideTail
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 17, 2007 12:53 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is another game in the crowded WW2 game franchise. But this one clearly stands out. 
 You play as four different soldiers in three campaigns. You will play as a Russian, British, and 
 American soldier, along with a British tank commander. The game has a single player and multiplayer 
 mode. And for this game thats all that is needed. Where do I start?
  
  The single player is fantastic and a blast to play. Playing it on a harder difficulty will allow 
 you to appreciate it more and it makes for more solid gameplay. This game has it all, street, house 
 to house, trench fighting and tank warfare. You will fight in the streets of Stalingrad, small 
 towns of Egypt, and all over France until the final fight in Germany. The weapons are real, numerous 
 and make you feel like you are really firing them. Pistols, rifles, assault rifles, sniper rifles, 
 RPG's, and grenades are all useable, including each nation's versions of the weapons. Your missions 
 will have you pushing Nazi forces out of Europe for the most part, but also doing different tasks 
 like, using explosives to take out artillery and tanks, going behind enemy lines to take out mortars, 
 and using a tank to take out German Panzers. What is also great is that your comrades who you are 
 fighting with actually do help you and are absolutely important to helping you survive as well. 
 I found the AI to be pretty smart and often too smart on higher difficulties. If you don't take 
 cover or stand straight up in a heated battle they will make you pay, because they don't miss often. 
 They shout commands to each other and if you throw a grenade at them, they will run out of the 
 way or may even throw it back at you.
  
  The graphics in COD2 are phenomenol, just take a look at the smoke effects and you will know what 
 I mean. Each one of your comrades look different and have a detailed face. The locales you fight 
 in are also great looking and you feel like you are really there. The sound is spectacular maybe 
 even the best part of the game. The sound of the weapons is awesome and it feels like you are really 
 firing it. Anything from an M1 Garand to the BAR sounds incredible. The yelling and background 
 weapon fodder add to the realism. The music only initiates at the end of battles when you are about 
 to trigger a major event or after youve won a battle, no distraction at all.
  
  Even with the great single player, it gets even better with the multiplayer. Gametypes range from 
 random, deathmatch, team deathmatch, CTF, heaadquarters, and search and destroy. COD2 offers one 
 of the best XBL experiences there is on the 360.
  
  If you love FPS you need to get this game and if you like war history especially WW2, like me you 
 will love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrisyman
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 13, 2007 7:55 pm PT
Review:  call of duty 2 was the best game on xbox 360. and i will agree with any one that says the same! 
 i played it over and over and over again because it was so good. most people think so too. this 
 is not better then halo series but its fun and kept me playing for quite some time. but still it 
 was the best on 360 and i could not say it better then that. i want call of duty 3 when it come 
 out so thats what i think i will do. the game was long and had many diffucultys. so thats my reveiw 
 manly i give it a 10 out of 10 score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dantebk
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 13, 2007 5:04 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 for Xbox 360 is a first-person shooter set during World War 2, one of thousands 
 it seems like, though COD2 is one of the good/popular ones. Consisting of 10 missions as four different 
 soldiers, a Russian, two Brits, and an American, COD2 is an intense journey. In fact, saying 10 
 missions is a bit misleading, since each mission consists of 3 or 4 sub-missions, each of which 
 consists of many many separate objectives.
  
  The Gameplay is fairly standard FPS fare. The best moments of the game are when it varies from 
 the usual, like when you command a tank, fire a gun out of the back of a truck, or man an anti-aircraft 
 gun. Missions heavy on sniping are fun as well, and I love how you press a special button to hold 
 your breath and steady your aim. On easier difficulties, you can generally just run and gun, but 
 on the harder difficulty settings, it's very much a one-step-at-a-time struggle from sandbag barrier 
 to half-shattered wall, checkpoint to checkpoint.
  
  The Graphics and Sound are both great. This game really draws you in until you start taking the 
 War personally. Especially the British missions, when the over-the-top personalities of your closest 
 comrades stand head-and-shoulders above the other, mostly anonymous, NPCs. Between the voice acting, 
 the explosions, the smoke effects, the rumble in the controller, the almost constant gunfire, even 
 the eery silences, you feel like a true veteran by the time it's all over.
  
  My biggest problem with the game stems from the Achievements. You get 200 points for playing all 
 the way through the game on Easy or Normal, then 60 points each for each mission you play on the 
 hardest difficulty level, then a bonus 200 if play all the missions on the hardest difficulty level. 
 I ended up with 500 total because I could only do 5 missions on the hardest difficulty, and they 
 were HARD. Like hours for a single mission HARD. It would be nice to have more variety in the achievements 
 then making 80% based strictly on playing on the hardest difficulty.
  
  In the end, especially if you rarely play FPSs like me, COD2 will stand out in your memory for 
 some time to come. Since finishing it, going to see a movie like Letters From Iwo Jima has felt 
 differently for me. I now want to yell things at the screen like MG42!! Get down!! No doubt about 
 it, War is Hell, but COD2 is almost heaven. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TommyD100
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 13, 2007 4:38 pm PT
Review:  World War II first person shooters are getting real old. However, it is not to say that they are 
 all bad. There are plenty of great ones out there, and Call of Duty was one of them. Call of Duty 
 2 will also go down as one of the better WWII games as well, and for good reason. It has all of 
 the great gameplay one would expect from a first person shooter, and incredible presentation. Top 
 that with fun multiplayer, and what you have here is a great game. Call of Duty 2 plays like any 
 other first person shooter. It features the same weapons used during the real war, which consists 
 of rifles, sub-machine guns, and grenades. It is not a shooter in the sense that you can just run 
 around and circle strafe everyone while shooting. Instead, you will be fighting alongside your 
 team of AI controlled soldiers, and take cover behind various objects while trying to get a good 
 angle on your enemy. This all makes proper sense, as the war was fought in this same style. You 
 will start off as a Russian soldier and take part in a few missions. Then you will play as a British 
 soldier, and finally an American soldier. In this manner, you can get a better sense of what each 
 group of the Allied forces had to go through in order to defeat the Germans in Word War II. The 
 game plays really well, but the presentation stood out for me the most. The sound quality of all 
 the explosions, guns, tanks, and mortars are sharp and authentic. The voices sound believable, 
 and since you change from Russians to British to Americans, you will hear different expressions 
 being used by your teammates, so the voices never get old. I highly recommend you use surround 
 sound or at least use headphone when playing this game. The change of scenery also changes with 
 your teams, thus leading to a refreshing color palette as you play through the game. Finally, the 
 music just works so well. Its not over used, but comes in at just the right time. It starts up 
 right as your mission is ending, and gives you that great sense of accomplishment. The graphics 
 are solid, but I would not say it is one of the best looking games for the 360. Maybe if you compare 
 it with only the launch titles, yes, but not one year after it has been released. During my play 
 through the campaign, I did come across some problems with the game. At first I was not sure, but 
 after playing it through twice, I realized that the German soldiers would continuously respawn 
 unless you got out of cover and moved forward to bring up the line. It does not happen in every 
 situation, but it does happen throughout the game, and it really hinders the games authenticity 
 and fun factor, especially if you are trying to be more patient and conservative on the harder 
 difficulties. Your teammates AI is not so great, but I would not expect them to. The problem I 
 had was with the enemy AI. The German soldiers are incredibly accurate grenade throwers. There 
 have been countless amounts of times where I would be forced out of cover because of a perfect 
 placed grenade. If you try to throw a grenade at them, they will most likely throw it back at you. 
 This would obviously imply that you can throw grenades back at the enemy, right? Wrong. You have 
 no choice but to run away from grenades thrown at you. Also, if you successfully manage to flank 
 the enemy, they somehow find out and wait for you to come at them. I like it when enemy AI is smart, 
 but I hate it when it is cheap.
  
  The multiplayer in Call of Duty 2 is what you will spend most of your time on, and with reason. 
 There are over 10 maps to play in, and even more that you can download. There are two weapons that 
 are not used in the single player, which is always nice to have more while maintaining a balance. 
 All of your standard multiplayer modes are available, as well as two objective based games modes 
 that will require more teamwork. Everything about the multiplayer is great, but the maximum amount 
 of players in one room can only be eight players. Thats pretty bad when you consider Halo 2 was 
 able to get 16, and that was a last generation game. Its not too big a deal, though, because the 
 multiplayer is good enough where playing with seven other friends can lead to many hours flying 
 by without notice.
  
  Call of Duty 2 is a great first person shooter, but if you are tired of World War II themed games, 
 I would suggest passing on this one. If you have not played one, then this would make for a good 
 play through. The achievements mostly ask you to play through the campaign on the hardest difficulty, 
 so that could squeeze some extra play time out of the campaign. Otherwise, its the multiplayer 
 that you will keep coming back to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GIJesse77
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 12, 2007 8:34 pm PT
Review:  I'm not new to the Call of duty series. I played all of the Pc ones ( Call of duty, Call of duty: 
 United Offensive) and have also played the console ones ( Finest Hour, Big Red One, Call of duty: 
 3) All of them are great, except for Finest Hour, but I have played Call of duty: 2 since it first 
 began on the Pc. This is just a great game and it is really better on the 360, i don't know why, 
 but it just is. One thing that just defines this game is its desighn. The thing about taking over 
 a place and then defending feels really cool and original. It sounds real basic, doing stuff like 
 assualt this hill or defend this area, but it just does it so good!. You get that feeling of swarms 
 of enemies coming at you from all directions and you are just loading tons of ammo on them. And 
 when you finnaly run out of ammo, you throw down your gun, grab one of theirs and commence to the 
 ass kicking. My favorite Level, or levels, is the point du Hoc campaighn. First, you take part 
 in this massive beach assualt in which people are dying, explosions are going off everywhere, and 
 tons of enemies swarm at you. And after you somehow completley take it over, you have to defend 
 it against an entire army of enemies. When defending,. you get pushed so far back, you get the 
 feeling that all hope is lost. Suddenly, airplanes appear in the sky and all the baddies blow up 
 and run away. As your buds come in to rescue you, it plays a speech from the president and hope 
 filling music starts to play. You get this sense of greatness and heroicy, it was done absoloutley 
 great.
  
  Buy this game now!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!1 
::::::

::::::
UserName: egomez3
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 12, 2007 12:29 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is a fun and amazing game overall. Graphics are great and really show a lot of detail 
 (especially the smoke grenades) . The solo campaign is very fun and challenging on the harder difficulties 
 and the cool thing is as you go on you fight in different parts of the allied army like the americans 
 british and so on. Multiplayer is very fun also on Xbox Live. This game is one of those games that 
 you can play over and over again and never lose the fun. You'll wanna keep coming back to this 
 one. I really enjoyed this game and I recommend it to players who haven't played it yet even if 
 it did come out at launch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tundrawarlord
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 11, 2007 4:00 pm PT
Review:  Personaly WWII games are my favorite and I buy almost every new one that comes out. But many developers 
 sneek away from the realisum and make very half assed games, but not in this case as infinity ward 
 has made a very good WWII shooter. Single Player: 8.7/10 The single player is very unique and well 
 well spread out between the campains, from british, to americans, to russians; there is alot of 
 fun to be had. Though a little short, it is still a very good sp experiance. Enemy A. I is encredable, 
 with lots of battle chatter with your allies and the enemy as well.
  
  Online: 8.5/10 The online is very fun and the weapons between the teams are very well balanced, 
 game modes are fun and the maps are very different and good.
  
  Weapons: 9.0/10
  The weapons are all the basic infantry weapons of the countrys in this game and they all look great 
 and reload right.
  
  Sound:6/10
  This was the only outstanding problem I faced with this game, Some of the weapons sound great but 
 most like the Sniper rifles, MP-40, Bolt noises, reloading noises, and other weapons just dont 
 sound way, way, way, off.
  
  Conclusion: A very good game and a defanate must have for any WWII fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whatrulookingat
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 9, 2007 2:52 pm PT
Review:  this is deffinitly worth your money and at some stores you can get the game of the year adition 
 for only 20 bucks. This is the best call of duty that they have made so far. plus there is a great 
 multiplayer. the only bonus of the 3rd call of duty is that you can run. so dont waste your money 
 on the 3rd one wait tell it becomes alot cheaper. there is way more levels and missions in this 
 than the in the third one and it spans over 3 campains. there is also an added bonus of killing 
 nazis for all the blacks out there 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the-ramone
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 17, 2007 12:05 pm PT
Review:  The basic gameplay is brilliant and never gets dull, no matter how many times you kill someone 
 it doesn't get boring and this a lot of value to the game. One of the best things about this game 
 is the intensity, you really feel like you are in a war with bullets, taunts and explosions happening 
 everywhere. Another thing about the game which adds to the intensity is the AI, especially on Hardened 
 and Veteran difficulties, enemies will take cover, move to different positions and try and lure 
 you out of cover by throwing grenades at you. The level design really keeps things fresh and also 
 helps to stop the game getting boring. You will play as a soldier in 3 armies Russian, British 
 and American and you will fight in Russia, Africa and France. The multiplayer although you can 
 only have 8 players in one match is very good fun, rewarding and in the port from the PC the game 
 has lost nothing gameplay wise. The game really gives people who don't play PCs because of the 
 awkward controls a chance to play the FPS giant.
  
  The graphics are truly amazing and have lost nothing in the transformation from PC to X360, infact 
 in some parts you will find the 360 runs better than PC. Character design and level design look 
 great and really do resemble places and people from WWII. The only thing that stops graphics from 
 scoring ten is how ugly and dull things can look when you get close up.
  
  The sound is perfect. The guns all sound great (especially SMGs) and the voices of some characters 
 are spot on and great to listen to but soundwise where this game exceles is the music. It is like 
 nothing you ever heard before and really adds to the feeling you get when you finish a level.
 
  
  The game is long enough and enjoyable the whole way through, great addictive multiplayer and has 
 great difficulty settings. This game would have got a 10 for value but for some reason it is dearer 
 than the PC version.
  
  It is a superb game that any fps fan will enjoy and it is one of the best games on the 360 at the 
 moment and will probably remain that way.
  9.1/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SR71halo
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 7, 2007 12:12 pm PT
Review:  I got this game with my 360 just the other day and it is incredible. The gameplay is just overrall 
 fun in both single and multiplayer. Single player is pretty fun, you start out as the Soviet Union 
 in the beginning of the war and then you do the British missions, then U. S. A. The level designs 
 are very well done but the graphics themselves aren't that great, although what else do you expect 
 from one of the 360's first games. The choice of weapons are great too, there are so many lying 
 around and they're very easy to use.
  
  Call of Duty 2 is probably the best war game to date, although I haven't played CoD3 yet. I would 
 recommend this game to anyone who likes a good shooter or war games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zexxo
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 4, 2007 11:19 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 was one of our first 360 games we got to chill out with. The game is a very good 
 title with the following pros n Cons.
  
  PROS
  
  + Fantastic Level Design
  + Great Weapon selection
  + Iron Sights
  + Very high quality Audio
  + Smooth Framerate
 
  
  CONS
  
  - Lacks a Cover system
  - Visuals not so next -- gen 
  - Veteran Mode is insanly difficult, tends to be a game of chance and tests your paticence.
  
 
  Overall I had alot of fun playing CoD2, but this is only the beginning of my journey in the world 
 of X360, and I hope to find a title that will blow me away. But this wasn't a bad start. Not a 
 bad start at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 5ilver5hadow
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 27, 2007 11:25 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 for the 360 has many different aspects which makes it very hard to review. Firstly, 
 this is quite an old game and because of that, the unlockable achievements are very simple, yet 
 hard to unlock.
  If you are thinking of buying this game and you DO mind about the gamer points then get ready for 
 some seriously long gameplay and feeling so frustrated that you want to smash in your 360 with 
 your controller. This is because nearly all of the points are unlocked via Veteran difficulty (extra 
 hard) in single player.
  
  The graphics are pretty good for a reasonably old game, especially the smoke particle effects which 
 are so sexy! The AI are pretty clever aswell; attacking while you're reloading, throwing back grenades 
 and laying down suppressing fire for each other are a few examples.
  The gameplay is awesome with a great variety of interchangeable weapons and at points in the game 
 you can get so sucked into it that you find yourself screaming and shouting at the enemy.
  During about 90% of the game you are with allies, which is a good thing because they do help you 
 alot, especially on Veteran difficulty.
  
  Like i said before, you might aswell go straight into this game on veteran difficulty, unless this 
 is the first first person shooter you have ever played. It is very hard and you do find yourself 
 dying and getting stuck on certain points, almost every 10 minutes, however there are a good number 
 of checkpoints and the loading time is almost negligible (about 5 seconds) and you get an insightful 
 quote by a famous person.
  But with enough effort and determination you will slowly but surely progress through the game and 
 after you complete every level and you get the gamer points, you feel so satisfied and it was so 
 worth it.
  
  The online multiplayer is ok, however you have extreme difficulty trying to get into the same game 
 as a friend. It is good, and quite hard and is something that you would maybe play once every now 
 and again but i can't see many people getting properly into it. Worth a go but not worth buying 
 xbox live for. So overall, if you're in for a challenge and you've got about 20 hours to spare 
 this game is great, and you get a load of points from this game aswell. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sharpie125
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 10:51 pm PT
Review:  Where can I begin? It certainly was the Xbox 360's first great shooter. I'll emphasize 'great shooter'. 
 It's addicting and can be finished up in ten hours or less, and after the single player campaigns, 
 a decent multiplayer mode waits. In Call of Duty 2, you play are three (four, if you'll count the 
 second British mission) different soldiers in their respective armies (Russian, British, American) . 
 
  
  The environments look pretty detailed and exotic, from the desert sands of El Alamein, past the 
 blood-soaked beaches of Pointe du Hoc, to the forest area of Hill 400. And like any good WW2 shooter, 
 there are tons of Germans (Fascists/Jerries/Krauts, whatever you prefer) , just waiting for you 
 to shoot up. The graphics are good for a 360 launch game, of course, trumped by Gears of War, but 
 still pleasing nonetheless. When you're frantically crawling in the pipes in Stalingrad, lobbing 
 grenades down at German MG positions, while the enemy is pouring fire onto your position, creating 
 beams of light streaming through the bullet holes, you have to admit, it's a little cool. 
  
  And I'll even argue some of the weapon models look nicer than those in Call of Duty 3. For 
 instance, the weapons look grainy, versus CoD 3's plastic-looking guns. And another thing... the 
 Lee Enfield doesn't change colours while you turn left and right. Though the characters don't look 
 as detailed as Gears of War in Call of Duty 2, the animation is still top-notch. For instance, 
 sniping a German too far up the helmet will result in the head-wear to fly off the man's head, 
 while he gazes around, shocked and relieved. That is, until you put another round into his brain. 
 Remind you of the medic in Saving Private Ryan? While it's not dramatic like the old school Medal 
 of Honors's (which, did I mention, I love?) death animations, but still cool nonetheless.
  
  The AI is also pretty okay. It's unlikely they'll come and flank you, like in Brothers in Arms: 
 Earned in Blood, but more hunker down in one position and take pot-shots at you and your crew. 
 My major gripe is when they decide to melee you. They speed at which they beat you rivals that 
 of... well, I'd say SPARTAN from Halo, but I'll just stick with "superhuman". Sometimes, you get 
 stuck in a dark hallway, and one'll just jump you before you can even see him, he's beating you 
 to a pulp. As for team AI, it's a lot better than Call of Duty 3's. Watching Keith and the Maquis 
 fight Germans in the trenches in CoD 3 is just pathetic, or even watching Keith and Marcel clear 
 the house (in which, they DON'T! They're practically useless) . In the Winter War, in CoD 2, your 
 comrades can, at least, hold their own. All they need was a smoke grenade, and they will all press 
 forward without my help. Which, I'll explain later, is a good thing.
  
  
  The sound is quite good, really. The score is pleasing, dramatic and very war-themed. However, 
 there isn't too much to praise, as each piece fits the situation nicely, but I have yet to recognize 
 an actual recurring Call of Duty theme song. Weapons sounds are well done, as well. Each rifle 
 has a fitting, powerful effect, and the sounds of the automatic weapons are nice.
  
  The only thing I have to complain about is mainly about the American weapons. All good as they 
 may look, the Garand rifle sounds underpowered. I'm not sure I can even call the sound effect that 
 of a gunshot. There's no distinctive "crack!" like every good rifle should have. The actual sound 
 of the Garand was used in Gearbox's Brothers in Arms games, as they recorded the firing at the 
 studio. While I'm not saying every game should be real, Medal of Honor Allied Assault uses a fantastic 
 "popping" sound that closely resembles that of the one used in Saving Private Ryan. It's just audibly 
 pleasing, unlike Call of Duty's.
  
  
  Call of Duty 2 is well worth your money. I'd recommend a play if you like World War 2 games and 
 movies or just enjoy a well-done shooter. It doesn't offer anything to revolutionize the genre 
 and won't change your mind about shooters like Call of Duty 3 won't, but it does everything as 
 good as any. Now, for the good part.
  
  
  For any "Achievement Hunter" on the lookout for easy points, you definitely won't find them here. 
 The entire game is worth 1000 points. A good 200 for completing the game. But for everything else, 
 the achievements are a **** to do. There's nothing easy like using German weapons for a whole level, 
 or lobbing grenades back five times, or even active reloading five times in a row. You have to 
 finish the whole game on Hardened or Veteran difficulty, or complete every "Act" on the Veteran 
 difficulty, netting you 60 points for each. The hardcore WW2/Call of Duty-ist will have no trouble. 
 But for those who want a quick easy play-through, hoping to pick up achievements on the way, you 
 would do well to turn away from the game.
  
  
  You will be able to finish the Russian mission "Winter War" almost easily (except, watch out for 
 huge clusters of Germans and stray grenades, and you'll be fine) . From there, it gets harder. You 
 can probably only take one shot from a rifle before you start bleeding and panting, or just two 
 to three hits from an MP40/MP44. This makes things difficult, due to the whole "One Man Army" act. 
 I'm going to tell you now, your teammates are mostly there for show. They'll take out enemies, 
 but they won't save your life. (One thing's for sure, they're a hell of a lot more helpful than 
 CoD 3's) . 
  
  They'll clear out a house, only if you're in there first. And the problem where you can only take 
 two to three hits from a German? They usually like to target the first guy through the door... 
 namely, you. And lucky for you, the rest of the game after Winter War is all about house-cleaning. 
 And if you're not house-cleaning, you're in the open with about a hundred bullets flying at you 
 from every direction. EVERY direction.
  
  
  Those Russian levels are a killer, with a lot of street combat. And don't even get me started on 
 the D-Day landing. But just for you, I'll go into detail. From the when the level actually starts 
 (on top of the cliffs. The beach sniping is all for show) , from when Braeburn tells Randall that 
 the guns are fake, the objective point is across the entire field, which crawling with Germans 
 in trenches, MG positions... This is no easy feat. Playing on Veteran, I do believe I heard Braeburn 
 and Randall more than twenty times because of the difficulty. 
  
  I'll point out now, how impressed I am with this level. You can get to the objective point by any 
 direction. You can take the trench-clearing path to the left, the bunker-clearing path to the far 
 right, or run into the fray screaming and firing through the middle, jumping over the trenches 
 and into the MG nests. I wouldn't recommend it. Unlike the Russian levels where there are stumps 
 or pieces of rubble lying about, Pointe du Hoc has nothing between defilade A and B. You can always 
 take the trenches, but be warned, some German will see you creeping down there, stand above you 
 and empty his gun into your body, laughing. Then presto! You're back to Braeburn and Randall! 
 
  
  Take the bunker path, now. Fine. About five or six American soldiers will accompany you into the 
 breach. It's all nice and easy, gunning the enemies popping out of the hole, jumping down into 
 the corridor, letting a grenade fly into the cluster of enemies. This is where it seriously starts 
 to suck. Your teammates won't clear out the rooms by themselves. You have to go into the doorway, 
 quickly throw a grenade or two. If you don't run out fast enough, you've got at least five stielhandgranates 
 flying at you. Even then, you need to be fast. Like I said before, four shots from the Germans 
 you don't even see around the corner, and you're down... And back to Randall. 
  
  That's enough of house clearing. Let's move on to the tanks. I'm tell you, whoever designed this 
 level clearly did not test it out on Veteran. Just charging at the Panzers without firing will 
 get you hit maybe once, but you'll shrug it off. Once you get in range, you're screwed. You can 
 probably take out the first few tanks, while your own Crusaders are being shot at. When the next 
 ones come out, it's bad news. As soon as you hear your crewmen screaming, "We're taking a beating!" 
 or "We can't take much more of this!", you know you're gone. Another shell will just fly out of 
 nowhere and blow you to bits. It's one thing, shooting at enemies when you're mostly evenly matched, 
 and you've got something to hide behind. 
  
  Now when you're playing with heavy firepower, poor visibility, and no cover... It's pretty self 
 explanatory. You think you're safe when you lag behind the other tanks, hoping you can snipe the 
 Panzers out with your binoculars and big gun. No such luck. They'll spot you, and they'll concentrate 
 all their fire on you. Then, you'll hear "We're taking a beating!". Then you die. They'll occasionally 
 say, "Sir, we should stick with the other tanks!" and "It'll be safer with the other tanks!" So, 
 I look around and see just one Crusader left, and the rest burning up with five Panzers still looking 
 healthy. I start laughing and quickly switch off my 360. 
  
  Obviously people have done it, and I salute you where ever you are. But if you're hoping to breeze 
 through Call of Duty 2 for some easy gamerscore points, go play Call of Duty 3 and Gears of War 
 or even Halo 3 on Legendary for that purpose. You need to work hard for these German-killing achievements. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tooshay17
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 2, 2007 7:54 am PT
Review:  Before I begin, I have to say that I'm not a fan of war games. I never have been and probably never 
 will be. I only bought Call of Duty 2 because I had no choice (It came free with the console) . 
 But, I must say that i was pleasantly surprised with this game. The graphics are nothing short 
 of stunning and the missions run smoothly and keep you interested the whole way through. There 
 are even small clips of WW2 from the history channel in between missions. It has a huge array of 
 guns from rifles to machine guns to sniper rifles and grenades. It also has smoke grenades which, 
 after being thrown begin to hiss out great plumes of smoke. The smoke looks so real that I felt 
 like I was choking as I walked through it. Gameplay is pretty amazing, it must be said. The player 
 moves smoothly and obeys your every command. The shooting system is good. If you pull the left 
 trigger you can look down the sight of the gun and get a more accurate shot. If you press down 
 the right analogue stick you can even his your enemies with the butt of your gun. With a sniper 
 rifle, if you click down the right analogue, the player will take a breath to steady the shot, 
 but if held too long, the players accuracy will become terrible for a few seconds. In one campaign 
 you can play as a tank squadron going through the desert. The controls need a bit of practice but 
 altogether it is well worked. You can play as three different nations, the russians, the british 
 and the americans all ofcourse fighting the germans. I have to say that it was a surprise to me 
 how good this game is and it is the one and only war game i have ever liked. If it can make a war-game 
 hater like me like this game, then I'm sure it will have no problem in making anybody else love 
 it too!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Final13
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 1, 2007 4:03 pm PT
Review:  In case you didn't see in the review deck, but this review comes from a veteran difficulty perspective. 
 Well call of duty: finest our comes out for the xbox and dosen't quite stand up to its computer 
 component. Then a year or two later CALL OF DUTY 2 comes out! The game that is game of the year 
 for 2005! The game that stand up and mabey even beyond its computer component. The gameplay for 
 this game is just another WWII first person shooter, but it feels as if you are in the actual fight 
 almost. The A. I. of the enemy atleast is amazing, the enemy will actually go and hide and try to 
 flank you in this game. As for your teammates A. I., still stupid. Also instead of healt packs all 
 around you actually have to go and hide. The graphics are some of the best ever. The sound is magnficent. If 
 you are looking for a challenging game and some well earned achiveiment points Call of Duty 2 is 
 a game for you. Please don't forget to leave feedback. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beloma
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 29, 2007 5:49 pm PT
Review:  The first best shooter for 360. The gameplay was simplay amazing. The multiplayer was even better. 
 The missions were very fun. You can play this for hours and not get bored even if you don't have 
 Xbox Live. It relived some of the biggest battles for America. The graphics were very good. The 
 backround sould was pretty good with the sound of constant war all around you. If you have online 
 it was fun to play for hours. Online it was very addicting. In the campaign there is almost always 
 constant action. Has a more realistic feel to it including the weapons. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: starsdestroy
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 29, 2007 12:46 am PT
Review:  Xbox 360 is selling units with this game and Burnout Revenge now. At least they are at Wal-mart 
 which is where I purchased my 360. Yes, I'm a 360 newb. This happens to be the first 360 game I 
 have ever played, and what a great first game to play. I've been playing it off an on for 9 days 
 and just finished it earlier. Gameplay: Great gameplay with very few complaints. First of all it 
 would be nice if you could throw grenades back at the enemy. Your enemy can, and so can your fellow 
 soldiers. You cannot. I guess they fixed this with Call Of Duty 3 though, so that rules. The only 
 other problem I had was that at times your own troops get in your way. At times an enemy grenade 
 would land by you, and when you try to get out of dodge one of your soldiers gets in your way and 
 you get blown up. These are very minor complaints though. It's not like it happened often, but 
 when it does happen it's irritating. Other than that everything was great.
  
  Graphics: Great graphics! Nothing more to say here.
  
  Sound: Grenades going off all around 
 you. Constant gun fire. Explosions. All sound awesome!
  
  Value: The game is on the short side, but I could see myself playing it again.
  I haven't played 
 it online yet, but I'm sure it would be a blast.
  
  If you enjoy FPS games this one won't disappoint. Pick it up. I know you can get it cheap used 
 now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaximumD
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 28, 2007 5:22 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is one of my favorite World War II shooter on the X-Box 360. The graphics is great, 
 especially for a launch title. The sound is incredible. When you play the game, it makes you feel 
 like you are really in the war. Bullets, planes, and bombs flying everywhere around you, it's really 
 intense. If you haven't bought this game for your X-Box 360, now is the chance because you can 
 buy it for $29.99. It had became platinum. The only shortfall about this game is that it is very 
 short. You might be able to finish the game with 10-12 hours if you are a Veteran of FPSers, but 
 it'll be an experience of your life.
  
  Excellent game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danmaxwell
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jan 27, 2007 10:28 am PT
Review:  There's a lot to like in the Call of Duty games but there are some things that just ruin it for 
 me.
  
  I don't know how many times I've killed a squadmate because he walked in front of me when I was 
 shooting. It's really annoying to be really far along in a checkpoint and have that happen and 
 have to restart. It's pretty simple, if my gun is pointing at the enemy and and I'm firing the 
 gun, don't walk in front of me or your going to die.
  
  That brings me to my other major gripe with CoD, the checkpoint system. I don't have a problem 
 with checkpoint systems per say, but I do have a problem with the way they are sometimes implemented. 
 My first big pet peeve with they way they are usually implemented is that the checkpoint should 
 be just before you enter a particularly difficult area with no long runups or cutscenes. It's really 
 frustrating when you get to an area that is hard and that you need to keep repeating and you have 
 20 seconds or so of just getting to the action. Why do I need to keep repeating the runup to action, 
 particularly when there is only one possible path?
  
  My other gripe with the checkpoint system is the dialog. It gets tiresome having the same guy repeat 
 the same dialog over and over again. There's one point in the British campaign where you need to 
 use the machine gun mounted in the window. The commander tells you to get your arse on the bloody 
 machine gun and that it's not a drill. This is one place where a long runup is not a problem and 
 it's pretty much 50-50 that you are going to be dead in a few seconds and have to restart. I don't 
 know how many times I had to repeat that checkpoint but I was very much ready to empty a full clip 
 into the commander. I mean damn dude, shut the *^$% up already!!!
  
  Oh, and one other note on the checkpoint system, the checkpoints at times seem a little random. 
 You'll get three in very quick succession with no action in any and they you'll have to kill half 
 of the German army before the next one. And there is no way to go back to a previous checkpoint. 
 Your options are to restart the current checkpoint or restart the level. On the USA level where 
 you need to capture several buildings and then climb to the top of the Silo and shoot the mortar 
 teams, I had it complete a checkpoint a half second before a mortar hit. The countdown timer was 
 at about 10 seconds before reinforcements arrived and the level ended. There was nothing I could 
 do but to restart the level and spend two hours getting back to the same place. I had the same 
 thing happen when I played it on the PC and when I played it on the XBOX 360, fortunately only 
 one time on each.
  
  Other than the AI and the checkpoint system, I loved this game. The look and sound are great. The 
 level design is well done. The selection of weapons is good. The action is good. Everything is 
 top notch except for those two things, but they were enough to take me out of the action and change 
 the game from a fun challenge to a frustration.
  
  Hey, but at least I was able to get 1000 gamer score out of it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wolfman1025
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 25, 2007 8:31 am PT
Review:  This was a fun and enjoyable FPS. I thought that the game was not all that short and it was fun 
 how you played as the Russians, British, and the Americans throughout the game. The graphics were 
 very good in my opinion and the best part is that you can now get this game for a fairly cheap 
 price. i got my for $25 ($24.99) to be exact. all in all i would have to say that this is one of 
 my favorite Call of Duty titles that is available for the next gen systems. some people will say 
 that it is just like all of the other WWII FPS out there. i have played the Medal of Honors and 
 the Brothers in Arms series and i would still have to say that this series (Call of Duty) is spectacular 
 and my favorite that is out there. i would also say that this game is better than the third one. 
 my one complaint that i have against it is that there is no online multiplayer for more than one 
 person. in COD 3 you can have up to four people on XBox live on one system while you can only have 
 one person online for this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: caseywokos
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 16, 2007 1:10 pm PT
Review:  When you play a Call of Duty game (except Finest Hour) , you just seem to know that it's going to 
 be good, at least if you're a big fan like me. Call of Duty 2 was one of the first major titles 
 to come out on the 360, and it is undoubtedly the best. It might not have been as good as other 
 games on other gaming devices, but it was more than a worthwhile title, and despite it's now outdated 
 graphics, it's still worth buying if you're a big fan of the series. However the game is not without 
 a problem or two. It seems to give you the feeling that none of the characters are important, but 
 that's basically it, and the graphics are quite outdated by todays standards. This is not exactly 
 a bad thing, it means that we're moving forward quickly and that we may have some great titles 
 to look forward to in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 777_Dragon_777
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 23, 2007 5:34 pm PT
Review:  Single Player: In the single player mission you will play as the Russians, British and Americans. 
 Each have their own feel with different weapons. In the SP the level design is pretty linear. but 
 it doesn't feel like it when your playing. In the single player you will have some awesome moments. 
 For example in the Russian level you will have to defend a position and Tons of Germans attack 
 you position after that you lead a counter attack against them. You... Oh i better no give it away 
 =) And also I would highly recommend playing on the hardest difficulty because the AI is way too 
 easy on easy. Multiplayer: This is were you put your skill to the test. In multiplayer you play 
 with up to 7 other players online. I know its not a lot but it means more communication between 
 you and your team-mates. The Maps on multiplayer are very well done and feel right. there are different 
 map for different tastes. If you like close quarters maps, there is Burgundy and for sniping, Tunisia. 
 you can also download content and maps from the Xlive marketplace. Its usually pretty easy to find 
 a game also.
  
  Lastly, COD2 for the Xbox360 simply is a great game. The graphics are still great. On Ebay you 
 can find it for about 20 dollars. Thanks for looking. I hope this helped. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DurhamNC
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 23, 2007 11:36 am PT
Review:  CoD2 is a pretty good game. The graphics are fine, the frame rate's pretty consistent, the game 
 play is smooth. If you're an achievement points addict, though -- I'm not, not really -- the game 
 will break your heart. The only way really to rack up the points is by playing the hardest difficulty 
 setting. And hard, dear friends, it certainly is. Hard to the point of frustration. Hard to the 
 point of wanting to cut your heart out with the dull edges of the 360 controlled. So hard that 
 I wouldn't wish it upon even my worst enemies. But that's only if you're addicted to points. If 
 you like FPS and if you like real-world, historical settings, this is a good game. Not great, mind 
 you. But definitely good. Considering that it's been out for a year and most places selling used 
 games are selling for about 30 bucks, it's definitely worth the investment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: runway98
Rating: 5.7
Date: Jan 23, 2007 11:34 am PT
Review:  The game is way too short and is on the same level as the first Call of Duty for the Xbox. I was 
 expecting it to be a step forward, but it was more like a step to the side compared to the first 
 one.
  
  The game is okay to play, however you can skip to the new Call of Duty 3 without missing a beat. 
 Due to the stainless and shortness of the game, I would suggestion to anyone how wanted to buy 
 it not pay the full price or more then $20. I was able to pick it up used for $24.99, which after 
 playing the game is too much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CamRonGlen
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 23, 2007 9:14 am PT
Review:  I got this game with my xbox as like a christmas special and it is great. I honsetly think the 
 way the story is done is better than CoD 1. The graphics are great but probably not as good as 
 they could be. I havent played CoD 3 yet but im pretty sure this is pretty close to if not better 
 than it. TheAi on the allies and enemys is amazing. How they yell out to you and give direction. 
 This game most of the time you can not just run out in the middle of the fray and kill everyone. 
 I also really liked the down system. I lo0ve this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HaloHunter202
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 21, 2007 8:13 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is a pretty good game, i got mine at Christmas, and now its been beat since the 
 first day i got it, that makes me a game freak!!! Anyways if you do not have it, like i say with 
 my other reviews, go out and get it. You can't beat the prices they have at the stores now. I would 
 rate this game a 9/10. The 360 version rules!!!!! You can't go wrong. I would say if you wanted 
 to buy this game, the cheapest store is Best Buy or Circuit City. Go and have yourself combat fun!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SkaterM80
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 16, 2007 5:25 pm PT
Review:  it is the best WW2 game i have ever played. the graphix are awesome. the single player is fantastic. 
 the sound is the best. It has lots of achievments and good xbox live to keep u playing. the only 
 thing that isn't great about it is that there is only 8 player multiplayer. i would have liked 
 maybe 10 or 12.
  
  Overall it is a really fun game. If you want better multiplayer then i recommend call of duty 3. 
 i recommend call of duty 2 it to all WW2 game fans and people who just want a good WW2/shooter 
 game! l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l 
 l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andyboiii
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 14, 2007 2:18 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the best games for the 360. There is no WWII game quite like this one. When 
 you start off playing single player you battle your way through the German defense as a Russian 
 soldier fighting alongside your comrades who actually do a decent job of helping you fight off 
 the German soldiers. After your done with the Russian missions you play as a British soldier in 
 Egypt and then as a American soldier on D Day climbing the cliffs of Point du Hoc, this gives you 
 a chance to see another perspective of D Day rather then replay what has been used over and over 
 in games which is the Normandy invasion. Sound: is great if you have a surround sound system youll 
 be hearing the snipers bullet whizzing past your ear as if you were in the battle yourself. Learning 
 Curve: about 15 minutes, this is one of the easiest games to pick up so you wont be frustrated 
 on the controls. Gameplay: is Top notch from both sides of the battlefield, The guns are very accurate 
 and easy to swap for on the ground. only con would be when sneaking up on the AI they always turn 
 around when your about to bash or shoot them but its nothing too bad. Multiplayer: One of the best 
 aspects of the game is the online play, playing 4v4 may seem small but its actually better to communicate 
 with teammates with a smaller number. There is also hardly any lag online and im playing with the 
 wireless adapter connected to my 360. Overall: A great game, a must buy for the 360 and one of 
 the best WWII shooters i've ever played 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Robbie8912
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 13, 2007 4:32 pm PT
Review:  I picked this up because it was cheaper than Call of duty 3. I love it! This was the first game 
 I ever played on live. I still do every day, 2 weeks after I bought it. I have only been a 360 
 owner for 2 weeks yesterday. I adore this game! The weapon choices are great, the graphics are 
 first rate, and the voice acting in realistic and enjoyable. I recommend this game to be the first 
 game a new 360 buyer picks up. It gives you a good mix of enjoyment and graphical genious to start 
 your collection with. You can then take a deep breath and dive at Lost Planet's graphics. This 
 is a first rate game. One of the best I have played since....... I can't even remember 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smerlus
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 13, 2007 9:27 am PT
Review:  Just finished Call of Duty 2. Yes it is an older game but I was just interested in seeing what 
 this whole World War II setting was all about. In the end I walked away from Europe with a mixed 
 feeling. At times the game was totally immersive and almost inspiring, unfortunately on veteran 
 difficulty, its also very cheap
  
  I might as well get my main gripe out of the way beforehand. The acronym AI does double duty in 
 this game. If its your allies you are talking about, then it stands for Artificial Incompetence. 
 While they arent totally useless, they will let you down a ton of times but letting foes just 
 walk past and shooting you in the back, to missing shots from 4 yards away. If theyre main purpose 
 is to suck up bullets then they do a terrific job.
  
  On the other side of the coin you have the enemy AI which stands for All-knowing Intelligence. 
 Call of Duty 2 had all my pet peeves in it. During the course of the game you will see your foes 
 do all sorts of things such as pistol whipping you while in a blinding dense fog, Turning around 
 and shooting you even though you sneak up on them, instantly getting a bead on you no matter where 
 you move when they cant see you. I guess developers still havent figured out a way to make a 
 game hard without making it extremely cheap.
  
  Whew! Now that that is over with, let me start mentioning the good things. The graphics are pretty 
 sharp though out. from environments right down to the smallest character detail. Shooting through 
 corners is sometimes an issue and may land you in restarting mode a few times though the missions 
 but overall the game does a good job of collision detection. Physics arent in the game so you 
 might see characters laying dead on thing air, and the grenades explosions look a little strange 
 when they send someone flying.
  
  All the voices acting is done superbly and the music is equally inspiring. Sound effects are dead 
 perfect but there was no little environmental sounds besides explosions. You would think in the 
 levels set in the countryside there would be at least birds but thats a small gripe.
  
  Storyline is pretty much non-existent. Main plot is you take orders, do your mission and Germany 
 loses. Thats not to say the feeling of accomplishment is missing form the game.
  
  The gameplay lacks variety for the majority of the game. Its all about going to a way point and 
 killing ever German on the way there. Occasionally youll get to handle mounted guns, snipe from 
 high vantage points, and do a few other tasks that dont involve firearms. There is a mission that 
 involves a tank squadron but that really didnt impress me much. The tanks handled well but it 
 was all run and gun the enemy tanks.
  
  In the end The game kept me somewhat entertained early on, during the end however I continued playing 
 as an act of defiance against the cheap AI. I finally got to dabble with a WWII shooter and I can 
 easily say Im not that impressed. Its a good type of game, just not one that Im into. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JsFrk217
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 12, 2007 2:05 pm PT
Review:  I thought that Call of Duty 2 was a great game. Its fun and can be very hard in some places. You 
 also can learn some history while you are killing people. The game looks great and you really get 
 the felling that you are there. I think that the controls in the game work pretty good and you 
 wouldn't run into to many problems. COD2 had great sound in the game, and the music was good. I 
 thought that the 2 player mode was great and it was a lot of fun to play. I would recommend this 
 game to any one who likes first person shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yoyo462001
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 12, 2007 1:57 pm PT
Review:  Im going to focus more on multiplayer, but the single player is still amazing.
  
  First quickly the single player, around 10 missions, 3 Russian, 4 British and 3 American. Not to 
 difficult and really exciting your never just wondering what do i do now you are always do something.
 
  
  Now the part i love the most, the multiplayer. It consists of 5 different types of games. The usual 
 Team Deathmatch, Deathmatch, Capture the Flag. In addition it has Headquarters, which conists of 
 any team getting to a box (headquarters) which is randomly put on the map and you need to hold 
 it for around 120 seconds in-order get 120 points, and usually this is upto 400. The last is 'Search 
 and Destroy' where a team will plant explosives and the other has to defuse on either A or B, this 
 is really just counter-strike type style.
  
  Lastly a few minor things, the graphics are great maybe not as good as Gears, Cod3 or R6 but are 
 still really good. If your thinking that it would be hard to get into an online game, then your 
 wrong because it still really easy to get onto a game and their are lots and lots of leagues for 
 CoD2 now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mackey12345
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jan 11, 2007 7:49 pm PT
Review:  This is the game I have been waiting for since the first one came out. This is the game that revolutionized 
 the genre, on every front.
  
  Singleplayer is the thing that keeps you back from any other game, its challeging, its fun, and 
 its authentic.
  
  Graphics are good for the 360, it doens't look all that nex gen, can't blame them though, and it 
 runs at a nice smooth Framerate as a bonus.
  
  Sound is what helped it make it more immersive, The thompson sounds alot better, bar sounds the 
 same, but its good, m1 garand sound a bit underpowered, can't say its bad, but needs a bit more 
 kick, sounds like a group of kids playing soldiers and firing little pea shooters at each other.
 
  
  Multiplayer is only 8 players, doens't mean its bad, its good in ways, lags from time to time, 
 but it doens't matter, and the maps are actually small enough for 8 players, would've been nice 
 to see 24 like call of duty 3, buts its good no matter who you are. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_Neccers
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 10, 2007 7:48 pm PT
Review:  I had never played a World War 2 game before this and after playing the demo that was on Xbox Live 
 i was hooked. The game has everything that a classsic needs; reat graphics, SFX, gameplay ( single 
 player and multi player) and of course is good value for money. The SFX are the most out standing 
 feature i think as they conpletely immerse you into the game with all of the exposions, shots, 
 orders from your squad members and all of the others. This makes you feel as though you are slogging 
 it away against the Nazi with the rest of the troops from the various countries that you play from. 
 the graphics are also brilliant, the only thing wrong is that the scenery doesn't get destroyed. 
 the multiplayer as well as the single-player story-line is really good, but unfortunately their 
 are no acheivements for multiplayer.
  
  Overall the game is brilliant and to anyone who has not got it already you should definately buy 
 it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xboxshenron
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 9, 2007 12:17 am PT
Review:  It is rare that a launch game is truely great. but Call of Duty 2 for Xbox 360 surpasses that rule. 
 Even now, a year after its launch, Call of Duty 2 is still the most fun ive had on Xbox Live. While 
 the story mode and graphics are very dissapointing, its hard to get tired of the Xbox Live. If 
 the game was a multiplayer experience alone, it would be worth the 60 dollars. If you have Xbox 
 Live, you must get this game. The story mode is minimaly fun so play it if you want but truely, 
 youd be wasting your time. Gamertag: TOTALDEFENSE0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: str3tch88
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 8, 2007 8:00 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 proves to be a very good shooter and shows that the next generation of gaming is 
 here. Just recently I decided to replay the game on hardened and found it very enjoyable. It made 
 the game much more realistic in that being shot actually hurts you and that if you just run around 
 without cover, you will die in seconds. My only frustration with the single player campaign was 
 that I always found that the A. I. attacked me first and didnt even bother attacking the rest of 
 the squad. Had the A. I. attacked a little more evenly, it would have been a much more realistic 
 experience. The multi-player was really fun except for the fact that only 8 people can play at 
 once which turned out to be a let down. Overall a very good game and should be looked into by any 
 shooter fan with a 360
  
  Not to bash on the PS3 but I felt that COD 2s graphics on the 360 were much smoother and even 
 clearer than COD 3s graphics on the PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: molinaps3
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 8, 2007 3:52 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is a kick ass game, has so many cool levels and guns. The sound was great and had 
 good music, and the sound was perfect. The story and the charecters were really good. One thing 
 I did not like was that on one of the british campagins it went to June 11 or 14 I forgot then 
 it went back all they way to June 6th, to me that really didnt make sense but i dont care the game 
 still kicked ass. For me my favorite levels were the D-Day one Point Du Hoc, and the level after 
 Point Du Hoc its the one where you have to retreat all the way back to the cliffs of the Du Hoc 
 then the P 51's come along with the boys from Omaha Beach. The other levels were great I loved 
 the british levels the most and american ones, the russian was ok but could have been better but 
 stil good. What also i didnt like was that they only had two tank levels but those levels were 
 really cool i liked them. And the multiplayer was awesome along with the Xbox live look me up on 
 it. (Cjmolina007 ill kick ur ass with my M1 Grande or my Tommy gun lol) The game had also good 
 graphics not bad for one of the first 360 games. So over all this game kicked ass story was great 
 and everything else along with it Call of Duty 3, well i guess your going to have to look me up 
 when i write a review for it very soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rdixie07
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 7, 2007 2:53 pm PT
Review:  Call Of Duty 2 is the reason why i wanted to get an Xbox 360 instead of waiting to get the PS3. 
 Being an Sony fan from the start i have never really took interest in Xbox but since i bought one 
 it has changed completely, i have witnessed online gaming for the first time and it is down to 
 this game. It got me hooked straight away and i have been playing this game ever since. The single 
 player game is like any other war game but graphics and gameplay is awesome. This game is my favorite 
 game in a while and probably one of the best games on the xbox. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Haeden_Boy6
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 6, 2007 8:45 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2, is the perfect game for the xBox 360. It includes the great game play that Call 
 of Duty offers, plus insane new graphics. Long game makes the feels even better, and the great 
 thing is, there is never any stop in the fun even with the longness. The game is up to Call of 
 Duty 3's standerds a year later.
  
  This game will be forever known as the xBox's first great shooter, and i belive that it will stay 
 as one of the best shooters for even anthor year to come. And look out for a sequal to Call of 
 Duty 3, looking forward to it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowXsora
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 6, 2007 12:22 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is the best WWII game to date in my opinion. This game turned me onto first person 
 shooters.
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  The gameplay in Call of Duty 2 is, for the most part, your standard FPS gameplay. Run around, shoot 
 some dudes, chuck a grenade. But Call of Duty 2's game play is different because it has you do 
 specific tasks that often require fast reflexes. Like planting a bomb on the side of a tank before 
 it blows your head off. You even get to commandeer a tank during one of the levels. Graphics: 10/10
 
  
  The graphics on Call of Duty 2 are very polished and very realistic looking and beautiful. This 
 game shows off what the 360 can do in terms of graphics. Sound: 10/10
  
  The sound in Call of Duty 2 is part of the reason that the game stands out so much. It has the 
 real sounds of a war, and delivers them very realistically. For example, you can hear the sound 
 of a grenade falling on the ground in front of you, and one of your comrades will say something 
 about it, whether it's Potato masher, RUN! (they really say that) or Grenade, get out of there! 
 they will always let you know that you are about to get blown up, so you'd better move or you'll 
 be another casualty of war.
  
  Overall: 9.6/10
  Call of Duty 2 is a great game for many reasons, and it should not be missed by any 360 owner. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mortalxxx4
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 5, 2007 1:19 pm PT
Review:  This call of duty game is the best of all of them up to cod 3 ... COD 3 was a total let down i 
 thought it was have been more firm. Cod 2 was firm and had good online play .. personally i like 
 it more.. very firm ,easy to learn great game for new comers to xbox 360. Also the graphics are 
 very clear and easy to see threw the scopes which makse it more elligable to use many weapons and 
 makes teams even soo that players online dont all choose the same team. This allows more team play 
 and people to stay longer and enjoy the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JParkes
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 5, 2007 9:55 am PT
Review:  COD2...... Best Game out for XBOX360 for multiple reasons, and deserves all the awards out there. 
 Lets see why.
  
  Gameplay
  Everything right here, you can look down the sight. When you shoot the krauts blood spurts out, 
 I'm not a psycho but just think it makes the weapons feel real, not like pee-shooters. Graphics
 
  Good, just really...... real.
  
  Sound
  Excellent, grenade dropping everywhere. Your footsteps, amazing.
  
  Value
  20 hours of kraut 
 killing gameplay isn't bad is it? With a American, British and Russian campaign.
  
  This game is the best shooter for 360 and will always be remembered for beautiful gameplay. It 
 will beats COD3 because it was designed for the 360 only, yeah maybe out for PS3, but was focused 
 on XBOX 360 as it was one of the first games out for it. Good way to kick of next-gen gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iTcaL
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 4, 2007 6:20 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 takes all the greatest moments from WWII scenarios to find its way into a video 
 game and compiles them into a piece wrapped in a very sexy looking new engine. The gameplay hasn't 
 evolved much, but it's one extremely flashy thrill ride from beginning to end if you're not physically 
 sick of World War II shooters by now. And that's Call of Duty 2's ultimate flaw Everything on screen 
 is absolutely beautiful, but at the end of the day this is yet another entry in what is perhaps 
 the most played out subgenre in all of gaming today. I originally asked for Call of Duty 3 for 
 xmas '07. My parents got me the 2nd one. So instead of being an a*hole i decided to play it. Yes, 
 Its not Rainbow Six Vegas or Gears of War, but its still a great competitor for being out a whole 
 year earlier. The campaign is the best campaign out there so far (besides Halo of course) and graphics 
 are still really great. Its still a must have after being put for a year 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sunvison
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 4, 2007 3:30 pm PT
Review:  I liked this game a lot. The graphics are amazing and the gameplay is well done. It's not too short 
 and the story flows very well. The AI is very impressive. Germans are smart enough to flank your 
 position, use cover, and their aim is spot on. This is definitely not a run-and-gun shooter. The 
 only downside I experienced was some frustration with the veteran setting. Some checkpoints and 
 objectives seemed almost impossible. Other than that the game is killer and I would recommend it 
 to everyone that enjoys a good shooter or WWII game. It is worth the current 40 bucks. I wasn't 
 to impressed with the bonus game of the year Dvd, so I wouldn't re-buy it if you own the original. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frysy
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 3, 2007 7:04 pm PT
Review:  If you dont have it make shore you put it on your wish list. When you start off its difficult 
 because you dont know what to do and how to do it but when you get the hang of it is a great game. 
 The weapons are really good because there is only 1 pistol and all the rest are machine guns, SMGs, 
 rifles, or snipers. The other really good thing is as you go on through the missions it gets harder 
 and hard and when you start you can put it on what ever level of difficulty you want. Thank you 
 for reading my review 
::::::

::::::
UserName: emeraldqueen
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 3, 2007 5:16 pm PT
Review:  Excellent, I can't wait to play Call of Duty 3 but for now this game is awesome the graphics ara 
 amazing and the story is very real. This game will let you play for many hours, days even months, 
 if you want to know how War World II feels check this out.
  
  Once again you can experience the WWII battlefield, in Call of Duty 2. This sequel adds a new game 
 engine, which provides improved visuals, AI, and weather effects. You can employ real squad tactics 
 as you make your way through four distinct campaigns, each following a single soldier as he battles 
 through historic conflicts. Call of Duty 2 also features maps that feature multiple paths to follow, 
 offering a variety of cover and opportunities to use team tactics. Multiplayer modes return as 
 well, allowing you to test your skills online against other players. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zfreak1
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 2, 2007 1:03 pm PT
Review:  Anyone looking for a good affordable fps need not look further. Lots of people are plagued with 
 the decision to buy this or COD3. This should be everyones first FPS choice. I dont play many fps 
 but this gave me a new light in the genre. The game thrusts you into 3 intense campaigns. Each 
 filled with new missions and objectives. The longest one is the british campaign which takes place 
 in the north african desert. You start of with the soviets which takes place in the frigid cold. 
 This one is more offensive when you will be talking control and attacking and doing raids. The 
 british do more defending but you will be doing more killing none the less. And the americans have 
 the most impressive of all. You get to fight on d-day and scale the cliffs of pointe du oc. The 
 game has a pretty good story length and the game uses millitary channel footage to turn into the 
 next mission or campaign. The graphics are impressive having nice lighting and character models. 
 A lot happens on screen so seeing this game run smoothly is impressive. The music is also nice 
 heating up during dramatic moments but for the most part you will hear your squad mates yelling 
 and the germans screaming. The sound is all over the place so it sounds chaotic and it lets you 
 know your in war. The game maintains value with multiplayer it may be limited to 8 players but 
 its still serves well. The gameplay is simple... to shoot you use the trigger and to throw grenades 
 you use the r button. smoke grenades are used w/ the L button. Strategy is key to avoid dying. 
 You must use the landscape strategically to be succesfull... whether it be a car or a dead cow... 
 Overall Call of Duty 2 is a very impressive shooter everyone should own at some point. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zero_75
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 2, 2007 10:56 am PT
Review:  Me and some of my friends played this game and I found out that I really liked it. So when Christmas 
 was rollin around I thought, I just might get this game. so on Christmas morning when we were opening 
 gifts I unwrapped it, a little while later I put it in our 360 and I didnt like this game anymore... I 
 loved it. I really didnt play any of the other games I got much until I beat this one, I just couldnt 
 seem to put it down. Everything about this game just seemed perfect.
  
  Everything from the graphics, and the detail, to the sounds of the war going on around you, everything 
 just fit in so well. There isnt really anything like fighting for your life in a game and really 
 feeling the urgency and intensity of the fight. Something that I feel many shooting games seem to 
 lose. They put you in the shoes of a super soldier and give you powers that make you nearly invincible 
 unless its on the highest difficulty. While thats fine and I have no problem with that, it is nice 
 to just have a basic kill or be killed game that you dont have any special powers and you're not 
 fighting aliens or anything like that.
  
  Another thing that I really liked about this game was the AI. Your comrades will actually talk to 
 you and each other and tell you where enemy forces are coming from, they also do a pretty good job 
 of covering you and taking care of themselves most of the time. There were a couple instances when 
 they wouldnt react and end up dead. But overall this is some of the most solid friendly NPC's I've 
 seen in a game. The enemy AI is also well done. They're aggressive and really want you dead, you'll 
 have plenty of close calls as you play through this game and you'll definitely want to watch your 
 back.
  
  Overall this game is just awesome, you really cant get much better than this. I highly recommend 
 this game for anyone looking for a solid FPS to put plenty of time into. And another great thing 
 about this game is that if anybody tells you that you're just frying your brain or to stop and 
 do your homework its a historical game, you're learning something. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KillerKirby89
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 1, 2007 11:11 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is by far, the most intense game I have ever played. The fantastic sound of screams, 
 explosions, and, of course, gunfire, completely immerse the player insiide the 1940s world of war. 
 Although the game is very linear, the mix of urban and rural combat lessens the restrictions felt 
 by the player. From the first Russian mission, to the last stand against the Germans, this game 
 is highly addicting. But the only problem I have with it is its lack of replay value, at least 
 for the single-player campaign. Once you have beaten it, there really is no reason to play it again. 
 The multiplayer, however, is well worth spending days of your life. in conclusion, this game is 
 definiately worth a buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sogsifu
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 1, 2007 10:47 pm PT
Review:  This is a must game. Amazing AI, graphics, sound, and story developments. You feel totally immersed 
 and wishing for more. FYI, you won't get it in Call of Duty 3. #2 is in my opinion, the best WWII 
 shooter out there so far. You will be flanking the enemy and they will be flanking you back. Only 
 immprovments I could suggest is allow for a more destructible environment ( ie windows breaking 
 etc) and get rid of the tank game play in the game and replace it with more of the intense infantryman 
 combat experience we desire. The only disappointment I felt was when I was finished. If you enjoy 
 shooting your way out of being completely surrounded by fairly smart enemy troops than you will 
 love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lost__Cause
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 1, 2007 3:46 pm PT
Review:  The last World War II game I played it wasn't that fun. But I decided to give another WWII game 
 a chance and I'm glad I did. This game may be repetitive (Blowing up tanks in missions) but for 
 some it seems fun. The sound is great it sounds how I assume it would, people screaming, distance 
 bombs and shooting etc. The graphics are good not the best but it does look quite good.
  As I said the gameplay seems repetitive but if you like shooters then you can't go wrong.
  If 
 you're a achievements whore then steer clear of this game because all of these achievements are 
 quite hard to get. Sorry.
  I can't comment on Xbox Live part.
  
  The good:
  The graphics.
  The sound.
  The simplisitc gameplay actually works.
  
  The bad:
  The enemies 
 reappear if you don't move forward which gets annoying.
  
  Overall: It's a great simple shooter, if you get bored of just shooting and running stay far away 
 from this. If you like shooters than at least try this you will get some enjoyment out of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jahnee
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 1, 2007 2:25 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty 2 is a world war 2 shooter and is the amazing, if not the best world war shooter out 
 there. from start to finish, the single player is really intense and breathtaking. While linear, 
 it does really give you this feeling of really being there, with topnotch sound effects, voice 
 acting and dialogue. This games is worth it for single player, but you'll get the most out of it 
 by having xbox live.
  
  gameplay: first of, the guns are really good. They are very realistic looking, and have very realistic 
 way of how they shoot and their accuracy is. Shooting the Nazi's itself can be done by shoot and 
 run, or by tactically move from point A to point B and take you enemy's out. It is not always different 
 since it's linear, and you'll see that some enemies are always on the same spots if you play the 
 game again, while on the other hand, they react really good of what you are doing against them 
 and they'll hunt you down on VETERAN setting. Gameplay stays fresh, but not revolutionary. It's 
 always from point A to point B fights and taking out the Nazi's. But it is fun, and that's what's 
 it all about. Multiplayer is also a blast and in my personal oppinion better than on PC. It is 
 8 player maybe, but you need to be smart and knowing where your enemy goes. Joining a clan is recommended 
 for this game though. It really makes the experience better. graphics: everything looks great. 
 from particles, shaders, textures and bump mapping and the realistic look of it. It also runs at 
 60 fps with intense battles going on with more than 40 men onscreen. While amazing, my pc ran it 
 better and nicer looking. I know this is a port, and know the xbox 360 can handle more by playing 
 gears of war. It also has a horrible sky and background. It is a very blurred 2-d bitmap picture. 
 But in the end, it is a nice looking game.
  
  sound: downstraight amazing. From sound effects from the guns, to the dialogue of the soldiers 
 and music.
  
  value: a long lasting single player that takes about 12 hours to beat on normal, and 16 hours to 
 beat on veteran. A nice multiplayer makes it even better.
  
  tilt: was fun, and still is.
  
  9 out of a 10
  
  tilt: 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phatmaster2k5
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 1, 2007 9:34 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is something special. I have never played a video game this immersive, this engaging. 
 You can get so caught up in the moment, running cover to cover escaping fire from the Nazi War 
 Machine that lies in front of you each and every mission. As you look around dozens of your own 
 soldiers doing the same thing, some of them getting shot, some shooting others. You then rise up 
 from your crouched position, charging, with your fellow man, through all the smoke and debris, 
 dodging grenades and gunfire towards your objective. It's exactly what I always wanted in a WWII 
 FPS. The reason Call of Duty 2 is so engaging is simply the way the game is presented in front 
 of you. Leading up to each mission you watch clips from The Military Channel about the actual battle 
 or mission your about to partake in, and then as the next level loads you can read cool little 
 diary entries from the solider you are playing as. The standard FPS gameplay is great, and the 
 controls are extremely responsive and even easier to pick up. But the way Infinity Ward was able 
 to capture the audio is what really knocks this game out of the park. Quite easily it's the best 
 part about COD2. The sound you hear during a level is amazing, from gunfire and explosion effects 
 to the very slick score that really kicks into high-gear during key moments it will get your blood 
 pumping and heart racing. And to top it off during battle the voice work is top-notch. There is 
 nothing like you and your squad mates yelling at each other, and then at your enemies to get you 
 all excited inside.
  
  Topping off with some outstanding graphics (for a launch game at that) , and a very well put together 
 multiplayer feature I couldn't be happier with this being my first Xbox 360 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoshX291
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 31, 2006 12:12 pm PT
Review:  Sure, the 360 has handfuls of ports and standard upgrades passing as launch titles, but make no 
 mistake, Call of Duty 2 is as fun and dare I say looks a little better than its PC counterpart. 
 I am not sure how I can explain it, but both the single player experience and multiplayer world 
 feel more at home on Microsofts new console. Forget Quake and Perfect Dark Zero, CoD 2 is the 
 shooter to pick up now.
  
  Call of Duty 2 tries to do what so many of its peers fail to. It tries to yet again make a World 
 War II story something worth playing. The first Duty provided more of an arcade-like thrill ride 
 versus some of its more authentic peers and its sequel stays the course. Call of Duty 2 is a great 
 rush, but leaves little reason to return to the battlefield.
  
  This time around we get to blast Nazi after Nazi through the eyes of three different nations. The 
 American, British and Russian campaign all feel a little different, as if you really are playing 
 three smaller games making their way to hill 400. Its those visceral instincts that Infinity Ward 
 designs so well for Call of Duty. You always feel like youre getting an authentic experience even 
 though the depth of gameplay is rather rudimentary.
  
  The scripted events youll encounter are nothing short of breathtaking. Seeing huge changes in 
 the immediate horizon develop right before your eyes delivers a rush few other World War II shooters 
 have. If Call of Dutys intensity went to nine, this one surely goes to eleven. If there is one 
 element that adds that extra dose of pop-strategy, its the smoke grenade. Persistent gunfire saturates 
 almost every mission, and the only way to sneak to a point of advantage is to blind the enemys 
 field of vision with a smoke grenade. The option works really well and does a significant job in 
 spicing up the interactive roller coaster.
  
  The enemy AI is rather impressive. Even on the lower difficulties, most enemies will not rest until 
 they see you gone from the spot where you were first identified. Theyll use grenades liberally 
 and if it wasnt for the grenade indicator, youd die a maddening amount of times. I didnt see 
 a lot of flank work, but I did see a lot of aggressive, yet intelligent advancement.
  
  Your comrades are a different story. They never seem to get out of your way when youre in a pinch. 
 When youre taking cover with your guys in a little shack and a Nazi grenade is thrown accurately, 
 your allies sometimes will not move, blocking any safe passage for you. Moral? Stay away from friendlies 
 in close quarters. I had hoped that the 360 version would have some of these kinks worked out, 
 but unfortunately not. Most of the levels are designed pretty well until you get to the North Africa 
 levels which include some brain-dead shooting in your tank. The pace of the game slows and starts 
 to get real boring before heading back to one of the European fronts.
  
  The graphics, while being a mixed bag on the PC (yes, with everything turned on high with a pimped 
 out rig) , are cleaner and more consistent on the 360. The character models and building models 
 earn the next-gen description and the ground textures and terrain textures are complemented greatly 
 by the specular lighting. The sheer amount of particle, lighting and smoke effects that blend together 
 in a pretty riveting package on almost each level. The music is still wonderfully relevant and 
 emotional. Add the grade A voice work and Spielberg quality surround sound and effects and Call 
 of Duty pack in a Hollywood caliber presentation. And again, it feels much more at home on the 
 big widescreen HD with home-theater surround.
  
  The multiplayer component shines on Xbox Live. It actually will only support up to 8 players online 
 at once, which isnt great, but its fun. 13 maps are included that seem to tie in effectively 
 with the expected sentiments and oh boy is it an unforgiving killing field. The standard CTF and 
 Deathmatch apply, but we also get two newcomers in HQ and Search and Destroy. S&amp; D is a straightforward 
 got-to-object-and-exterminate type of game. HQ is a fun variation of tug-of-war where you must 
 establish your HQ to keep the other team from respawning after they die. HQ objects can be destroyed 
 once established to restore the other teams respawning and the game ends once no one on a team 
 can respawn. All in all, the multiplayer mode will have a following, but the new modes may lose 
 their luster over time.
  
  While waiting to respawn, you get to see your instant replay of how you died from your killers 
 perspective. Its awesome.
  
  Like its predecessor, Call of Duty 2 is worth playing at least once to extract those great scripted 
 memorable moments and share with your fellow gamers. Not to be a broken record, but its the best 
 Xbox Live game for 360 right now and its an easy justification for your hard-earned dough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paradox823
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 31, 2006 10:05 am PT
Review:  WELL THIS GAME IS FUN GREAT STORY
  GREAT ONLINE AND GREAT GRAPICS
  THE ONLINE PLAY IS FUN AND FUNNY
  ITS FUNNY BECAUSE THE SO CALLED KILL CAM LETS YOU SEE WO KILLED 
 YOU AND HOW YOU DIE AND WHEN YOU WATCH YOUR SELF DIE YOU ARE GOING TO FEEL EMBRASED
  THE STORY LINE IS GOOD AND THE SOUND IS GOOD
  THE GAME WILL GET OLD IM NOT GOING TO LIE THERE 
 IS ONLY ONLINE PLAY MODES AND STORY SO THIS GAME MIGHT LAST ABOUT A MONTH GAME IS STILL FUN TOO 
 BAD THIS GAME DOES NOT HAVE SPLIT SCREEN MULITIPLAYER THAT WOULD HAVE BEEN FUN AND ALSO ONLINE 
 SO MATCHES BE A LITTLE SO HARD IT SOME TIMES CRAZY THE OVER USED GRENADE DAMN 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheOneMan
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 30, 2006 9:33 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2, like it's predecessor, takes the most famous battles and scenarios from WWII, and 
 sets you straight in the middle of the carnage and chaos of war. To be honest, before I played 
 Call of Duty 2, the only Call of Duty game I had ever played was CoD: Finest Hour. While Finest 
 Hour was average, it failed to show me what a true Call of Duty game could be, in which the honors 
 would be bestowed onto me by none other than Call of Duty 2 for the Xbox 360.
  
  -Gameplay
  Call of Duty 2, as previously mentioned, sets players down in famous battles of World 
 War 2. Call of Duty provides intense shootouts in a veriety of battlefields. The controls are tight 
 and responsive, and feel fluid. You have the ability to look down the sight of your guns which 
 adds depth and immersion to the gameplay. After using this ability in Call of Duty, it almost seems 
 mandatory for other shooters to have this feature. In some cases, you will almost ask you ever 
 got by without this feature. Though that's what makes Call of Duty 2 so unique and entertaining. 
 You cannot simply run, shoot, and strafe. The targeting reticule will grow smaller or bigger while 
 running or standing still; so you cannot simply move without loosing accuracy. That is what makes 
 the look-down-the-sight feature such a novelty.
  
  You have a decent amount of firearms at your disposal, and while they are nothing we haven't seen 
 before, they all provide their certain uses and flaws. You have your sniper rifles, pistols, machine 
 guns, grenades, and the traditional melee attack. All in all you can't really complain about the 
 choices of weapons you have, but one thing bothers me; where is the shotgun? The enemy AI provides 
 enough challenge in that you won't breeze through that game, but won't be frustrated, unless you 
 are playing on Veteran difficulty. The health system used in Call of Duty 2 is all Halo, in that 
 your health will regenerate over time when not taking damage. While this does seem a bit exagerated 
 and unrealistic, it also keeps the game moving at a smooth pace and with less frustration. Your 
 allies also seem to be nothing more than fodder in certain situations, yet more useful in others 
 which seemed a bit strange to me. Though they provide excellent visual support, as they will yell 
 out certain phrases when certain things are happening in the environment, such as a thrown grenade. 
 Listening to your teammates is crucial and will most likley help you stay alive longer.
  
  While all these attributes that were mentioned may have been done in other shooters, Call of Duty 
 2 does it 10x better than the competition. -Graphics
  Call of Duty 2 supports 480p, 720p, and 1080i, which furthers escalates the visual flury and bountiful 
 eye candy. Beautiful indoor and decently sized outdoor environments are rendered with unprecidented 
 aspects in most situations and points in the game. While some levels, mostly those in Egypt, leave 
 something to be desired with low-res textures; the rest of the game presents you with a visual 
 feast that will rest easy on the optic orbs. Weather and it's effects on the environment are also 
 presented in a wonderfully extravagent way. Smoke effects will sometimes make you squint and wonder, 
 Is that real? Complaints with the graphics are minor; some low-res textures in indoor environments 
 and outdoor (mostly Egypt, as previously mentioned) environments, certain low-res character models, 
 and rain effects could have been a bit better. Even with these small complaints, Call of Duty provides 
 excellect graphics, with lots of characters and action on screen, and here comes the sweet part, 
 all of this is played out at 60 frames per second with only minor slow downs frome time to time.
 
  
  -Sound
  Call of Duty 2 provides incredibly structured and absorbing sound that makes you feel like you 
 are in the heat of battle against the Axis power. Guns sound like what they are supposed to sound 
 like. Loud. Voice acting is great, and never feels over the top or under whelming. Both, your enemies 
 and allies talk almost incessantly, but it never gets repetitive. It's though hundreds of lines 
 of dialog have been recorded, and many are barely ever repeated twice during the entire campaign. 
 This aspect makes the game more immersive and gives your fellow soldiers more of a personality 
 and a reason to care about them. Explosions, guns, vehicles, voice acting; they all just sound 
 so real, and you make you feel as though you are in an actual battle. The game also features an 
 original score which fits the mood of the game perfectly, and doesn't feel out of place when in 
 the tides of war or the concord of victory. The sound is something that Call of Duty 2 nails perfectly. 
 -Replay
  Call of Duty 2 features the three traditional levels of difficulty; easy, normal, and hard (veteran) . 
 If you are not afraid of a challenge, then you will spend weeks trying to conquer the Veteran difficulty 
 mode. If you are looking for something a little bit more social, then you can go for the 8 player 
 online, or 4 player offline mode. Both online and offline multiplayer are average and somtimes 
 weak due to the lack of players and maps, but they're still nice features that give the game more 
 life before you finally put it up on the shelf. -Overall Call of Duty 2 doesn't really offer anything 
 groundbreaking or new (other than a new standard for cinematic WWII games) , but the shooting mechanics 
 are fun, the controlls are intuitive, the action is intense, and presents an engaging atmosphere 
 which is lacking in many games. A final note that makes this game a must-have is that it should 
 only be $30 at your local game store. There is a reason this is the best selling Xbox 360 game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Truth_Hurts_U
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 30, 2006 5:09 am PT
Review:  This is a great game. AI is really good. It will give you a challenge and make things difficult 
 on you.
  
  The best thing about this game is that you get to switch sides during the war. Each side has its 
 own challenges and difficulties. You get to fight with new guns and new people... Not to mention 
 new locations.
  
  When you think WWII games... You think been there, done that. But this is bin there and done that 
 in a good way. Nothing is poorly done. Everything is fun.
  
  This game should not be missed by the FPS fans. Its a great one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LOZFAN6537
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 1, 2007 5:18 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is an incredible WWII shooter and easily one of the if not the best if it's kind. 
 There are three campaigns to choose from the Russian, British, and Americans. Each campaign has 
 three or four levels and each level has several missions. There are ten levels in the game and 
 most of them aren't incredibly long but some are longer then others. The single player campaign 
 is somewhat short and may leave you hungry for more and the multiplayer will satisfy that hunger.
 
  
  The gameplay is awesome the campaign levels are very fun though they aren't very long. The controls 
 work great the R trigger is used for firing and the L trigger is used for enhanced aiming. That 
 system works great and really makes aiming easier. One good thing about Call of Duty 2 is its difficulty 
 on the lower difficultys its pretty easy but the two higher difficultys especially veteran are 
 insane and will take a lot of time and skill to beat. The multiplayer is fantastic especially on 
 XBL there are plenty of different modes and its just tons of fun.
  
  The graphics in Call of Duty 2 are incredible the guns look real the landscapes and water and the 
 backgrounds look awesome and the graphics totally immerse you in the game. The sound is even more 
 incredible the guns sound real you can hear your squadmates bark out orders to you and all of the 
 voice acting is fantastic plus there is an awesome musicall score. Its possible to get all 1,000 
 acheivment points with one play through of the game but to do that you'll have to beat the game 
 on veteran on your first play through there are no multiplayer achevments which is a bummer but 
 it will make you want to play the single player mode. Call of Duty 2 is an incredible game that 
 any 360 owner should have.
  
  ~LOZFAN6537 
::::::

::::::
UserName: edranyesul
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 20, 2007 6:43 am PT
Review:  When it comes to World War II first person shooters, it's become a bit of a habit to write reviews 
 with a been there, done that attitude. What was really kicked off by Saving Private Ryan's gruesome 
 opening scene (and later, Medal of Honor's foray onto the beach) , games of the WWII genre have 
 since flocked to Normandy and the surrounding area to tell essentially the same story.
  
  Luckily, Call of Duty 2 surpasses all of that.
  
  As a launch title for the XBox 360, this 
 game was among those played on kiosks at retailers across the world during the console's release. 
 To keep things fresh, the demo focused on the British offensive in Africa. On that HD Samsung monitor, 
 the sun shone on the butt of your gun as you looked down your scope... the soldier's facial expressions 
 were clear as day, and smoke rose from grenades as clearly as the smoke from my chimney. Needless 
 to say, I was sold on the system, then and there.
  
  The game focuses on squads from three Allied nations - Russia, Great Britain, and the United States. 
 The first tier of the game has you familiarizing yourself with the game's controls and enemy tactics, 
 and you'd be hard-pressed to keep yourself from staring in wonder at the snowy cityscapes of Russia 
 that surround you. While the action is intense, it remembers that it's a video game, and that it's 
 only fun if it's fair and nice to look at.
  
  That's what difficulty level settings are for, after all.
  
  After having routed the fascists 
 from the Motherland, you play as British forces in Africa. Again, it's nice to have a different 
 landscape than usual to fight on. This time, however, the gameplay throws a few more twists into 
 the mix. Driving and fighting in tanks, using mortar cannons and calling in aerial strikes helps 
 to stray from the norm of running and gunning.
  
  Finally, the final portion of the game does go back to Normandy as U. S. troops land on the beach... 
 thankfully, it once again changes the formula. Instead of a direct assault on the shoreline, the 
 Nazis have the advantage by defending from atop a sizeable wall of rock. Your job is to climb a 
 rope and hope the rain-soaked trenches provide enough cover when you get to the top.
  
  While the Single Player campaign of Call of Duty 2 is incredibly impressive, Multiplayer addicts 
 will be glad to know that there's a fair amount in store for them as well. Whether you want to 
 frag into the wee hours of the night on XBox Live or play a rousing match of capture the flag with 
 your buddies, CoD2's maps are sure to satisfy.
  
  One full year (and more) after its release, there has not been a more involving next gen experience 
 released on ANY system. There have been some great games, undoubtedly, but none of them felt like 
 we were being ushered into a new era while playing them. This game does that, and so much more... 
 it's been hard to say that about a World War II shooter these past few years, but it's the truth. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nightfire117
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 28, 2006 7:56 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2, is easily the best shooter based on the second world war ever made. The singleplayer 
 is divided into the usual American, British, and Russian campaigns, each of which is several levels 
 long. The ending was sudden, but left me satisfied and ready for multiplayer. Xbox Live is where 
 Call of Duty 2 really takes the cake. There are several gametypes includeing the usual capture 
 the flag and deathmatch. When you can get a full match going, its some of the most intense gameplay 
 I've ever experienced. This is where the games audio and sound really come into gameplay. Many 
 a time I have found myself sniping from a window high up someplace and heard footsteps, accordingly 
 I would rush to the door and aim my rifle towards the stairs and take out my incoming attacker 
 before he knew what hit him. The fact that the game has no vehicles, is not in the least disappointing. 
 In all honesty I think the game is better for it, because it forces players to get better, instead 
 of just hoping into a tank every chance they get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Coolracer2
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 17, 2007 3:56 pm PT
Review:  So on Christmas day, I rushed to open my presents. I found an Xbox 360 and this game. I quickly 
 set up the system, inserted the game, and got ready. What I got, though, I wasn't expecting... 
 Now, as many of you know, Call of Duty 2 is one of the bajillion WWII games made in the past, what, 
 6 years? Even so, this stands out... in a good way! Aside from other games of its ilk, which usually 
 only focus on the U. S.'s campaign, CoD2 spans across three, yes, 3, different campaigns. The first 
 leaves you playing as a Russian soldier, along with his division, helping protect Stalingrad and 
 Moscow from the German onslaught. The second places you in North Africa as a British soldier, fighting 
 back Rommel's famed Afrika Corp. The last, but nowhere near least, throws you in the middle of 
 D-Day as, yes, an American soldier (but there's a twist... I won't spoil it, just play the game) . 
 The controls are spot on, and respond with each prees of the button, meaning you're not going to 
 be fighting Nazis and the 360 controller at the same time. The only complaints I had with the controls 
 is that my character won't raise his gun fast enough, and the tank controls were confusing... but 
 that's generally minor. The games A. I. (for both sides, not just the enemy) is very well made, 
 and act realistically to whatever's going on (of course, ally A. I. can be stupid at times, but 
 they'll usually do what they have to) . The enemies, in particular, are brutal, and will do ANYTHING 
 to kill you. If you're close, they will charge at you, wildly swinging their weapon to bash your 
 unseen head in! If you're at cover, they'll keep you in it anyway they can, or will throw a grenade 
 to flush you out, and believe me, they throw A LOT of grenades! Thankfully, instead of a health 
 system (find a health pack when you're low and stuff like that) , you live by not getting hit... 
 ok, that was vague, but let me explain: when you get shot a certain amount of times, the borders 
 of the screen will be laced with what looks like blood, and you will be forced to take cover or 
 not get hit. Take a few more hits and you die, but if you avoid further damage, the screen will 
 turn back to normal, and you can continue the fight. This saved me so many times, especially when 
 I was in a situation where looking for health would've been suicide. Now the graphics... oh, the 
 graphics... this game can make a persons agonizing death... suprisingly beautiful (wow, that sounded 
 messed up) . Anyway, the environment are well designed and detailed, the guns look magnificent... 
 and shiny, very shiny, and the N. P. C. s don't look like the exact same generic model, repeatedly 
 showing up and dieing. The explosions are great looking, so much so that I stood close to a grenade, 
 just to see the explosion... and my profuse bleeding. Pretty much everything about the game just 
 looks great, end of story! The game sounds just as good. The sound of each gun is different, and 
 punds in your ears. The N. P. C. s will be yelling on both sides of the field, and are very well voice-acted 
 (I mean, who want to hear a German yell commands in a bored or unconvincing tone) , and ally screams 
 may actually give you a tip (they can tell you where certain enemies are or warn of a machine gun 
 nest) . Explosions sound like, well, explosions, and blood-curdling screams sound like, well, blood-curdling 
 screams... the sound is just great, ok? The replay value is something good to look into. After 
 finishing the game on a simpler difficulty, you can replay the game for achievements, so you can 
 brag about beating the game on Veteran (which under it says you won't survive ) ... which I can't 
 brag about, because I gave up on it for now... yes, its that hard. Anyway, you can also replay 
 it because in some missions, you have multiple objectives, so you can tackle them in a different 
 order, and find different advantages from doing each, and the enemy is so sophisticated, almost 
 every fight is guaranteed to be different. At the end of the day, Call of Duty 2 blew me away on 
 almost every level. Even after a year, it's still an awesome game! I recommend this game to anybody 
 who wants to enjoy a realistic war experience without actually enlisting! If you were actually 
 able to tolerate reading up to this point, thank you for bearing with me, soldiers. NOW MOVE OUT!!!!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: llTylerll
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 26, 2006 5:20 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 for Xbox 360 is a Great game, Because it does everything so great. The Sounds of 
 the machine guns and Rifles, The Explosions all around you the shouting of a near by Enemies is 
 all great, But most of all The gameplay even Though you may roll Your eyes because Of another ww2 ( 
 I thought that too) but before you do, Let me say this one is more expansive on the level designs, 
 one campaign your in snow/ torn up buildings, or in the desert Running through trench to Trench. 
 This truly Is A Great experience and for a first game its awesome! and intense.
  
  If your looking for a great fps, pick-up call of duty, you won't be let down! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jflores
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 25, 2006 10:31 am PT
Review:  This is the first Call of Duty game I have ever played, and the first game I picked up for the 
 Xbox 360. I am a fan of WWII shooters (or FPS in general) , but this one is extremely well done. 
 The graphics are good (won't disappoint) , but not quite as good as Call of Duty 3 (to be expected) . 
 The gameplay is perfect. Standing, kneeling, and laying down are taken of advantage of in this 
 game. Certain situations will call for each, and if not used, you will die (or make it very hard 
 to pass) . I've played countless other games where you could do all three, but it wasn't necessary 
 to do anything but run and gun, so it didn't matter. Enemies are smart, and you are constantly 
 facing streams of bullets and grenades from almost every direction. Running, walking and crawling 
 all have a good pace, you never feel like it takes forever to get somewhere, or that you get somewhere 
 more quickly than is possible.
  
  Weapons look , feel and sound authentic. Reloads are awesome, and each weapon is unique and historically 
 accurate. This is the one game where I really feel that I have a go to gun, but that each weapon 
 is useful. Even though my favorite gun is the M1 Garand, I was forced to used (by scenario only) 
 all the other weapons via scavenging off of dead enemies. You'll do everything from sniping to 
 clearing rooms, so you have to master bolt action rifles and fully automatic weapons. Grenades 
 have an appropriate feel, they throw like they should, and have just the right amount of killing 
 power. The sound in this game is excellent, it truly immerses you in the WWII environment. You 
 can hear grenades come in and land next to you (get out of the way) , and tracers are always zinging 
 around. The immersion level of this game is unmatched. You always feel you have a shot at survival 
 fighting infantry battles, but coming against a machine gun nest, a tank or mortar is always a 
 scary thought (as it should be) . The difficulty at normal is perfect, and the Veteran mode is appropriately 
 hard. Those who earn all 1000 achievement points will have gained alot of skill in this game. I 
 haven't played much multiplayer, but the map variety is good, although a few more game modes would 
 be welcome. This game has excellent replay value nonetheless, as the single player campaign is 
 just that fun and the multiplayer is too. This is one of my favorite 360 games and any fan of the 
 genre should pick this up. Its strong points are excellent immersion (sound and graphics, authenticity 
 of weapons and balance of infantry, armor, artillery) and fun gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shanemarshall
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 24, 2006 8:33 am PT
Review:  call of duty 2 is the best in the series because you can have more weapons than ever before which 
 means that there are many different ways to kill the german invaders. in call of duty 2 you can 
 play as british, american or even russian soldiers to fight off the german invaders which is good 
 because you dont get bored of using the same weapons all the time. i own this game and would reccomend 
 it to anybody who likes shooting games. this game is at the moment &pound;29.99 in stores like 
 game, hmv, gamestation and all good retailers. my final rating for c. o. d 2 is 9.8 because basically 
 anybody can pick up this game whether your interested in the army or just fancy a change. in my 
 opinion this game is absolutly supurb!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acklawhunt
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 24, 2006 7:46 am PT
Review:  I enjoyed playing Call of Duty 2. It gives you everything you need for a world war 2 game. I loved 
 the challenge and the great thing is even if you don't have a HD TV the graphics are still outstanding. 
 Here are the Good and the Bad of Call Of Duty 2.
  
  The Good: The graphics are extremely next gen. The gameplay is decent but a first person shooter 
 fan will love this game. The multiplayer is probably the best of 2005.
  
  The Bad: Yet another World War 2 shooter. There are too many of them and I am tired of playing 
 them. The environments are always the same thing.
  
  Otherwise I give Call Of Duty a 8.5 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sagacious_Tien
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 22, 2006 8:13 pm PT
Review:  Erasmus once said War is delightful to those who have not experienced it. Obviously, he didnt 
 much care for war when he lived back in the 1500s. Back then, war was ugly and hell, featuring 
 slapped together battle tactics and ugly men in tights. In todays entertainment, war is a spectacle 
 and enjoyed by gamers in droves. And if Erasmus were around today to see titles like Call of Duty 
 2, hed probably be scratching his beard and screaming about witchcraft. Whatever. Well play war, 
 and well be delighted.
  
  If Erasmus gave pause to play the game, he would be delighted too. The graphics would help there, 
 an easy starting point for this review. Put simply, theyre phenomenal, easily seating you in the 
 bleakest of war zones with full rag doll physics and fantastic particle effects and volumetric 
 smoke. Every clich&eacute; is adhered to, a chaotic action-packed atmosphere, with dramatic explosions 
 and gunfire and heroic soldiers being picked off in the line of duty.
  
  From bombers flying overhead and tanks running down totalled buildings and obstacles, the frighteningly 
 real atmosphere of the original title has been amped up with Hollywood production values. This 
 is war at its most blistering best.
  
  And sure, the grand scale of the action will not make you relate much to any of your squad, even 
 your own player (4 different characters stretching 3 different campaigns) , but youll thank god 
 that they are there and support you. When the private besides you gets a sniper bullet to the skull, 
 another man will take his place beside you on the front line, and youll be thankful that they 
 can draw fire away, as well as hold their own in battle.
  
  In short, just like the original, teamwork matters. Keeping your men alive can help make the difference 
 in a firefight, even if for only the selfish reason of them being used as human shields and diversions 
 for whatever your strategy. The feeling of war camaraderie bolstered by smart teammates who work 
 together, stick behind cover, use the environment to its advantage, give you orders and inform 
 you of whats ahead is even better than its already impressive original.
  
  But this smart AI comes at a setback. They know what is ahead because there is no other way ahead. 
 Like the original title, the game relies on pathing the character exactly as the game intended, 
 and there is almost nil exploration on the part of the player. You will play through every set 
 piece as the game intended, hear every bit of dialogue as the game intended, you will never miss 
 a piece of the action, or get lost in a back alley. The compass is almost not required, there is 
 always one very obvious way to go.
  
  The inaccuracy of actual WWII weapons are fully operational too. Using the left trigger will bring 
 up a more accurate crosshair, and the left and right bumpers fire smoke and explosive grenades 
 in that order. The right trigger is your main fire, and ammo is scarce, so holding it down wont 
 be in the gamers best interests. Finding ammo and guns off your corpses will replenish you with 
 limited ammunition though, and a wide variety of authentic weaponry will be made available. From 
 machine guns and sniper rifles, to firing from the hip to going for the up close shot, the games 
 large array of guns and mounted weapons are powerful and accurate to history.
  
  Grenades now play a larger role in your firefights too. Tapping the left bumper will throw a smoke 
 grenade, effectively acting as a shield that lets you get the rush on your enemies. Some are smart 
 and affix bayonets and come rushing, screams and all, but this method is almost always effective 
 on surprising inattentive enemy forces. Smartly, your teammates will follow your lead, and help 
 dispose of well fortified soldiers when you make it through the perfectly designed volumetric fog. 
 And if the enemies start throwing frags into the mist, a grenade indicator will pop up showing 
 you the direction of the frag and how close to its proximity you are. Occasionally, a teammate 
 may throw it back too.
  
  This realism is further heightened by the game abolishing health packs. Now when you are almost 
 down for the count, the screen turns a hazy red and you need to take cover to heal. Much like Halos 
 shield system, the gamer needs to remove themselves from combat in order to shake off their injuries 
 and get back into the fray. This alleviates running back for some hidden health pack which magically 
 instantly heals you and survives having an entire building fall upon it. It also keeps the action 
 flowing, and youre never out of the shooting for long.
  
  Four player single screen has been added to the multiplayer from the PC version, as well as full 
 LIVE functionality and fantastic online play. The game keeps up easily with the frantic shoot outs 
 online, keeping a steady 60fps even in the most heated of firefights. Unfortunately, while the 
 maps are superbly designed and offer a great variety in their presentation and hidden alcoves, 
 they are too small for anything but a full team. Eight on eight player matches are great fun, but 
 playing a two on two CTF will almost immediately lead to boredom as you search for one another. 
 System link is also available, and up to sixteen players can be supported, which makes up for the 
 lack of polish in small team online. Were hopeful some more maps are designed to be later available 
 which scale according to the amount of players. Its still one of the best online experiences out 
 there, but the low number of players allowed and the large size of the maps means youre some times 
 spending more time looking for enemies than actually targeting them.
  
  The sound is unmatched for almost any first person shooter. The constant shouting of battle hardened 
 teammates, the constant barrage of ammo littering the environment and the excellent explosion and 
 gun effects heighten the games gripping atmosphere. Gamers with Dolby 5.1 set ups will be particularly 
 pleased with the war zone battling it out all around you, but even those with regular set ups will 
 be engrossed in the wars formidable surroundings. The speech and the dialogue is also particularly 
 good, with characters playing right into the situation at hand and being voiced masterfully by 
 actors with real conviction. Even the enemies actually sound as if they hunger for your blood. 
 The sound effects play right into the excitement and tension that Call of Duty 2 is striking for.
 
  
  Inevitably, Call of Duty 2 will have its detractors, pointing to better graphics and not much 
 else. It doesnt insomuch do anything new with the series, but helps refine everything that made 
 the original great. If you scratch away the new graphical shine that the Xbox 360 version has received, 
 you will see a last generation game there. But as a launch title for the system, you cant expect 
 everything. What you need is a quality game. Call of Duty 2 is proof that an old game tarted up 
 too look better can actually benefit the game play. Whether that means more men on your side or 
 better set pieces, or even just more powerful explosions, this is as close to war Ive ever seen 
 in a video game. Erasmus might just be delighted. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fkholmes
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 22, 2006 6:12 pm PT
Review:  An amazing and immersive WWII shooter for the Xbox 360 (and PC) . This game really immerses you 
 into the intense action, for example you might feel some guilt when you shoot a Nazi and hes squirming 
 around on the ground in pain or you might feel sad when you see one of your fellow troops get shot 
 down by a mounted heavy machine gun (MG42) or when a tank shoots near you and all you can hear 
 is ringing and everything is in slow-motion and is in black and white. Well anyway I'll get to 
 analysing the gameplay and stuff.
  
  Gameplay: While it may not have a HUGE variety of weapons (grenades, sub machine guns, rifles and 
 pistols) these weapons work very well and help you decide if you firing speed over distance or 
 power over clip capacity. The four difficulties work very well (Easy, Regular, Hardened, Veteran 
 (Veteran being the hardest) ) . Easy is good if you are new to the series it will help you learn 
 all the moves and you will not get too hurt too quickly, Regular is good if you have played the 
 first one but don't want too much of a challenge or are somewhat skilled at FPSs, Hardened is good 
 if you good at the series and are skilled at FPSs and Veteran, well lets just say its crazy, its 
 the most realistic of the lot but obviously not REALLY realistic. If you get hurt in this game 
 you do not have to worry about scavenging around for health packs or anything because your health 
 will recharge if you leave it long enough. The combat is really fun and is quite varied.
  
  Graphics: They are still nice enough by todays standard but when it came out it was really nice. 
 The details on the map are very impressive, the character models are quite nice, the maps are always 
 nice and varied with snow, desert, rain etc. The smoke looks quite nice and really has the effect 
 of you feeling blinded and lost when a smoke grenade goes off. The explosions unfortunately dont 
 feel particularly epic which is a shame but its not to devastating.
  
  Sound: The sound in this game mmmm its just mmmm its amazing its perfect the voice acting is superb 
 the guns firing, the explosions, the rolling of the tanks over the dirt, it has some of the best 
 sound Ive heard in games for quite a while, admittedly there isnt all that much voice acting 
 actually in the game (because there arent really any cut-scenes) . But as I said it has some of 
 the best damn sound Ive heard in a game.
  
  Value: This probably where the game fails a little bit, the campaign is quite short (10-15) especially 
 if you are playing it on easy (8-10) but it can be fun once you beat it to replay it on Veteran 
 difficulty, also the achievements work well in encouraging you to replay itunless you play it 
 on Veteran the first time through then youll get all the achievements which is a whopping 1000 
 points.
  
  Tilt: I really, truly love this game its a classic. Im looking forward to playing Call of Duty 
 3.
  
  Well thanks for reading my longest review, hopefully its helped you decide if you want this amazing 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JNU13
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 21, 2006 7:17 pm PT
Review:  This is a must have game even if this isn't your type of game. I know because this wasn't my type 
 of game until I started playing it. And, with the recommendation from my buddy; GLOW, I made the 
 purchase. I don't regret it!
  The graphics are great. The action is superb. The special effects; like smoke , is impressive. 
 The controls are smooth.
  My only gripe; and it's a small one, is that after a while, the reaction from the AI, is repetitive. 
 You can almost predict most of the time where the AI is going. Overall, a very well made game and, 
 satisfying experience. You will love this more than COD3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robertoac
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 21, 2006 12:43 pm PT
Review:  Exactly what I said before. THis game was way greater when the Xbox 360 had just come out. THe 
 gameplay is still there, but frankly, after seeing Gears of War, it can't get a ten (or even a 
 nine) . Gameplay is still awesome, but the online just sucked. It was and still is one of the worst 
 onlines I've ever seen. The sound is good. Every gun makes a crisp sound which immerses you in 
 the game. I've never heard one of thode guns being fired, but I would imagine it sounds just like 
 that. Overall, I recommend it to anybody with an Xbox 360, especially since it now costs less. However, 
 if you have the money, I would go for Call of Duty 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingKiba
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 20, 2006 6:27 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is amazing, immersive, and intense. The gameplay is shiny like a polished shoe. 
 The graphics are indescribable. The online is simply GREATNESS. This game is something every 360 
 gamer should have. Simply if you do not like the genre or if you hate war games. Call of duty 3 
 just took out all the great things of the call of duty series and added more missions. Get Call 
 of duty 2 for sure, when i say for sure, i mean GO TO THE STORE AND GET IT NOW! and leave call 
 of duty 3 of your christmas list and instead get a 12 month trial of xbox live Gold. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tungsten88
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 20, 2006 12:35 am PT
Review:  I wasn't expecting much from COD. I had played MOH: Frontline and Rising Sun and thought they were 
 the best WWII shooters I've ever seen, but COD changed my mind
  
  Gameplay-Absolutely great. AI is pretty smart and throws 'nades a lot! They shoot accurately and 
 put up a good fight when you melee. The missions are incredible and memorable. You won't forget 
 the first time you shoot off a Nazi's helmet at close range then step in to melee them in the face. 
 The only problem is environmental damage: there is none; almost nothing is destructible in the 
 environment.
  
  Graphics-Epic. You need an HDTV for the full experience but its worth it. Smoke is volumous and 
 particle effects are right on.
  
  Sound-Explosions are great, guns sound crisp, and bullet impacts are cool.
  
  Value-Between 
 achievements, replaying missions, and the (sigh) ho hum multiplayer, you'll have your hands full.
 
  
  Closing Comments: A must buy for any action fan with a 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TBROOK1
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 18, 2006 3:24 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty 2 is a great game but it could use some fine tuning such as longer levels and over 
 all better physics i mean if you compare the reload in call of duty 2 to the one of call of duty 
 3 call of duty 2 looks like Nintendo 64 compared with the X-box 360. have you ever noticed that 
 the achievements are easy i beat my call of duty 2 the day i bought it (except for the veteran 
 achievement) . I think that the call of duty 2 creators wanted to cover too much of WWII in such 
 a short game. Some times your in a Russian city in the winter and the next level your facing the 
 difficulty of dessert warfare and then its 1941 and the next level its 1945. call of duty 2 is 
 a definite rent first!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Matt6233
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 15, 2006 8:59 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best shooting games available. I love this game. It's great, whether your playing 
 Xbox Live, against a friend, or the missions. The graphics are incredible and is very smooth to 
 play. I don't like many shooters but this is a great one. This is a must buy for the 360.
  
  GREAT, GREAT, GREAT, GREAT, GREAT, GREAT, GREAT, GREAT, GREAT, GREAT, GREAT, GREAT, GREAT, 
 GREAT, GREAT, GREAT, GREAT, GREAT, GREAT, GREAT, GREAT, GREAT, GREAT, GREAT, GREAT, GREAT, GREAT, 
 GREAT, GREAT, GREAT, GREAT, GREAT GREAT, GREAT, GREAT, GREAT, GREAT, GREAT, GREAT, GREAT, GREAT, 
 GREAT, GREAT, GREAT, GREAT, GREAT, GREAT, GREAT, GREAT, GREAT, GREAT, GREAT, GREAT, GREAT, GREAT, 
 GREAT, GREAT, GREAT, GREAT, GREAT, GREAT, GREAT, GREAT, GREAT, GREAT, GREAT, GREAT, GREAT, GREAT, 
 GREAT, GREAT, GREAT, GREAT, GREAT, GREAT, GREAT, GREAT, GREAT, GREAT, GREAT, GREAT, GREAT, GREAT, 
 GREAT, GREAT, GREAT, GREAT, GREAT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nyjrad
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 14, 2006 2:06 pm PT
Review:  Infinity Ward should be congratulated by its amazing shooter game. It's a fantastic shooter that 
 shows how brutal WW2 was. There's many moments that you cannot miss, at all. Like D-Day and Hill 
 400; those were intense moments. It could be a little short and the multiplayer isn't that great, 
 but it's a very worthwhile experience.
  
  Gameplay: Playing found a Nazi shoot the Nazi has never been better. The controls are smooth and 
 the momentum just keeps getting better. You're fingers will bleed and you'll enjoy it.
  
  Graphics: The first thing you'll say is WOW !!
  
  Sound: Explosions and voice-acting are top-notch 
 and are the best than any other FPS.
  
  Value: This is definitely a keeper.
  
  Tilt: The story is alright and is a little bit engaging. But what you want is to find the Nazi 
 and shoot the Nazi 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordmaster3823
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 7, 2006 12:39 pm PT
Review:  when i bought the 360 i didn't know if to buy Call of duty 2 or Perfect Dark and i chose perefect 
 dark because gamespot gave it a higher score, i'm not saying that perfect dark is not good but 
 not as good as Call of Duty 2. why you ask? because this game was a perfect way to finish 2005. 
 okey no about the game: Gameplay: outstanding, shooting at evil Natizis with your helpful brothers 
 in arms and kill many enemies (that's what makes the game feel like you are in a big war) . you 
 get plenty of nice and helpful wapons such as the MP40 which is the weapon that most of the enemies 
 have so that if you are out of ammo just take it and you will be fine, but if you want great weapons 
 then take the other weapons and enjoy because there are plenty of machineguns and rifles.
  
  Graphics: beatiful but not as good as No.3 but until the last month this was the one of the 
 best looking game and i think that this is still a breatty game but it doesn't show the power of 
 the 360 but still good looking game. Sound: Perfect, the people sound great and theres nice music 
 and the weapans sound good too. the game is just not as fun as it witout sound and i'm so sad that 
 my sorrund sound isn't working on games.
  
  At the end this game is fun and even that it is not as good looking as it was before this is still 
 the one of the top 10 FPS on the 360.
  
  and who said that there's nothing good about WWII ( this is a joke, i know that WWII is the worst 
 thin that ever happen in history) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eggroll360
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 6, 2006 2:53 pm PT
Review:  This game is just so incredible. The first time you play it, you might think Oh wow wtf is he saying... 
 this game is boring . But later, you might just change that opinion.
  
  Gameplay : 10/10 The gamplay is just amazing.. It took my breath away after my first multiplayer 
 match. But the single player could be worked on.
  The incredibleness of the multiplayer keeps the gameplay at a 10.
  
  Graphics: 9/10 These graphics 
 are great! They have some little glitches, but it is just great. Sound: 9/10 The sound is great 
 and the voices being used for the soldier's are top notch, it makes you feel like you are in the 
 war!.
  
  Get this game. That's all I really NEED to say.
  
  Overall: 9.6/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elementkid177
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 5, 2006 5:53 pm PT
Review:  This game overall is pretty awsome.
  Lets start with visuals.. Well one thign to say some pretty awsome visuals are protrayed in this 
 game. textures are great and overall environment looks amazing.
  Second the sound is awsome i have a 5.1 digital surround sound and wow did this game sound awsome 
 hearing explosions and the sound of ur gun firing is awsome the sound of that mp 40 is just so 
 satisfying.
  Game play is also good in this game the controls are so fluid its just an amazign game the feel 
 of the weapons is also great and level design is awsome the single player campaign kept me on the 
 edge of my seat for the entire game .. in other words buy this game its awsome! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tobiascra
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 5, 2006 11:49 am PT
Review:  This game is the best FPS on the 360 by miles, the graphics are perfect cant imagine them to be 
 any better that also goes for the game play, Whereas sound etc are perfect. The game overall i 
 believe is the best FPS i have ever seen the men on your team work with you well and actually kill 
 the enemy unlike half the games on the market where your team mates just stand there and shoot 
 at each other for 5 mins. The games a little short but if your a Call Of Duty fan then you should 
 just play it on veteran so it comes down to skill. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hgsmjsje
Rating: 3.3
Date: Dec 4, 2006 3:38 pm PT
Review:  i know call of duty was a great launch title for the xbox 360 but i think it needs a little work. the 
 graphics are perfect but the lines for your companions have lame dialouge and the guns dont take 
 that long to reload. they could have added better tank controls because the tank controls are awful 
 and frustrating and hard to control. but why dosent do killing japanese? the germans werent the only 
 enemies during world war II. but somehow the game is glitchy it erased all of my progress. so thats 
 why i dont bother to play it. so overall i would highly recommend you dont buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctorj11111
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 4, 2006 10:00 am PT
Review:  This is the most realistic World War II game I have ever played (haven't played COD 3 yet) . It 
 makes you feel as if you are in a complete warzone. The graphics are very good and the sound is 
 also amazing. There is a great variety in levels from snow, rain, and desert. The multiplayer is 
 a lot of fun, but it was not well developed to set up games with your friends. The higher difficulty 
 level provides quite a challenge, Also, provides a lengthy campaign. Overall, this is a must have 
 game. The multiplayer not as developed, but COD 3 is supposed to be much improved in this category. 
 Not a fan of the levels where you drive a tank or in a vehicle, but it does add variety. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hotchicken324
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 3, 2006 8:46 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 was the first Xbox 360 game I have ever played. When I played it at a GameStop, 
 I thought it was going to be boring; was I wrong, in fact, it was so fun and great, I immediately 
 bought a 360 and got this game. This game is a masterpiece. For a launch title for the next generation 
 console, It was worth the wait for the 360. Even though I beat the game, you will still find me 
 killing Nazis and Fascists until I find out what's wrong with my 360 and then go buy Call of Duty 
 3. This is hotchicken324 for Gamespot, reviewing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShapeBanger
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 2, 2006 7:01 pm PT
Review:  Let's face it. Perfect Dark Zero looked okay but played averagely. How it got 9.0 is a mystery 
 but there are several games out there that people seem to be blown away with just coz of the showy 
 visuals. For crying out loud! GAMEPLAY! GAMEPLAY! GAMEPLAY! It is THE most important thing... Anyhoo... 
 on to COD2...
  
  Gameplay - Brilliant. This game plays so well. The weapons feels great, the controller feels intuitive 
 AND it has a perfect southpaw config for us lefties. If you like intense shooters they don't come 
 much better. And the Veteran setting is very tough so it's a real challenge for even the most hardened 
 gamer. Minor complaints - it's heavily scripted so expect the same thing each time you play through 
 but this is compensated by being able to complete some objectives in whichever order you wish. 
 Also your NPCs occasionally walk in front of you whilst unloading bullets which results in a game 
 over. But apart from that it is an outstanding experience. And you get online battles too even 
 though the numbers are a bit limited.
  
  Graphics - looks great and has a real authenticity to it. It is a bit jaggy and the character models 
 are a little puppet like and the animation a tad stiff with no ragdoll but the overall look is 
 really good and immersive, and the smoke effects are the best to date.
  
  Sound - Phenomenal. It'll give you shell shock! :)
  
  Value - I played through the single player 
 3 times and did some online fighting so definitely good value although there probably won't be 
 much online now as COD3 is on the shelves.
  
  Overall - A brilliant and intense single player experience makes this a must, especially if you 
 can pick it up cheap. Go slay some Nazis! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kiddoom93
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 1, 2006 2:01 pm PT
Review:  (this game was played by kiddoom in standard def) call of duty or cod2 for short is a ww2 based 
 first person set during ww2 and you start with a choice to go straight to multiplayer via xbox 
 live or start the campaign who you play the russian in starlingrad then the british in africa/egypt 
 and finally the americans at normandy. the gameplay is what you would you expect from a good solid 
 ww2 first person shooter fast sharp and intense thats all i wanted when i bought my 360 with this 
 game. the graohics are great but not perfect because you notice jaggies all over like the edge of 
 buildings but that doesnt matter when you are caught in between a big fire fight. the multiplayer 
 via xbox plays up to 8 players and they have the usual fps multiplayer like capture the flag, team 
 deathmatch so if your looking for a shooter or are wanting to try a shooter then by all means get 
 cod2 because after that youll never look back 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterpinky2000
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 1, 2006 1:54 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is an excellent, immersive shooter that puts you in the combat boots of 4 different 
 playable characters in an engaging single-player campaign spanning from 1942-1945.
  
  Single-Player
  
  Story - The plotline here isn't terribly clear for any one individual soldier, 
 and isn't helped much by the diary entries that are provided before each mission. Moreover, the 
 different episodes feel fairly disconnected from each other. Nonetheless, the backdrop to each 
 of the missions does provide a logical reason why you are doing what you're doing.
  
  Controls - Standard FPS controls for consoles, so nothing much that's different here. The need 
 to aim down the sights isn't a radically new thing but is definitely a unique part of the controls. 
 It's not that hard to hit people without doing it, but you still need to do it to be successful. 
 The only complaint is that the melee attack is somewhat awkward. Clicking down on the right thumbstick 
 doesn't feel natural, and so I didn't use it much in the game.
  
  Mechanics - This is where the game really shines. The shooting is well-balanced with the need to 
 be tactical, and none of the guns are overpowered. Each also has unique advantages and disadvantages 
 (well, some weapons just suck, but leaving those aside...) . The use of all your resources is essential. 
 It's much tougher to beat MG-42s if you don't use your smoke grenades, along with flanking tactics. 
 Overall, the way this game plays makes you feel like you're really in the middle of a hectic fight -- explosions 
 all over the place, shots ringing out, smoke clouding your vision, hazy shapes appearing out of 
 the mist who may be friend or foe...
  
  Weapons - A nice assortment, but nothing outstanding or particularly cool. Each side has 1-2 rifles, 
 a sniper, 1-2 machine guns, pistols that never get used. Among the weapons, it's hard to tell what's 
 good until you've used everything, and the pick-up option doesn't always make it easy to see what 
 you're getting (no text, only outline of the weapon's shape) .
  
  Multiplayer - There isn't much to say about this. You have a decent assortment of maps, a small 
 selection of modes, and that's about it. Standard fare, nothing special. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chad_revolution
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 30, 2006 3:22 am PT
Review:  call of duty 2 is the first next-gen game i played and it is awesome the pretty graphics the intense 
 atmosphere.. when you play the game it feels like your really in the war. this is the perfect excuse 
 of getting a 5.1 surround sound system. The audio is awesome and the voice work is also awesome. The 
 campaign is good and the multiplayer will suck you in nice.. but graphics dont always impress. if 
 you like shooters you cant go wrong with call of duty 2.. because this one of the most next-gen 
 game out there but only dissapointing thing is that multiplayer is up to eight only but still it's 
 an absolutely must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZachBdude
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 29, 2006 9:12 am PT
Review:  I suggest getting this game if you have xboxlive, if not get it if you like games that are easy 
 and not fun. Online blew me away, it was absolutly amazing and addictive. I would have got more 
 360 games but this one kept me satisfied for a year. overall i think this game was rated just right. 
 the only thing is that there are no online achievements. so if you have the money and you want 
 to stick with a game for a while, get this. i think it was worth the sixty dollars. the xboxlive 
 is the s@!%. well worht it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheMuffin_man
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 27, 2006 12:48 pm PT
Review:  Gamelpay- This is what a war game should feel like.. Its intense fun and fast paced. There 3 different 
 campaigns were you will be in the snow in winter , the desert and of course d day as an american... 
 All these are a whole bunch of fun.
  
  graphics- After a while now the graphics are still really sharp. if you have a hdtv its looks a 
 ton better. sound- excellent sound. It makes you feel like you are in a war. The gernades exploding 
 , the firing of the guns ... or the screams from nazis is great.
  
  value... You have your single player campaign . And you might want to play it on veteran. Its challening 
 ... And very rewarding. And the online mode is just as good as the single player.
  
  tilt- It comes down to this . If you like fps get this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: topher78714
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 27, 2006 11:08 am PT
Review:  If you have ever played call of duty when it was first released you could say that it was a ground 
 breaking game. Well, Call of Duty 2 is just as remarkable. The graphics and sound quality are amazing. 
 Team members from your squad all have saying to where they are in the field wether it is behind 
 a wall or in a bunker tha AI in this same is amazing!. It can be a little frustrating at first 
 to figure out what people you are trying to kill, but that is easily overcome by just playing the 
 game. Also being able to play as the Russians and English as well as the Americans is great because 
 it's not just following the same one timeline over and over again (I mean face it WW2 isn't going 
 to change anymore so it's nice that games can add alittle too it without playing D-Day over and 
 over again) . This game makes the same battles we have all seen in other WW2 games different and 
 interesting. A must buy for the Xbox 360! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dbzultimate3134
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 25, 2006 10:39 pm PT
Review:  One of the games of the year, if youre looking for a first person shooter, get call of duty 2, 
 really nothing beats running up a hill with explosions everywhere, planes flying over head hundreds 
 of people fights shooting and throwing grenades. This really is the most intense game i have ever 
 played and probably will play for years to come. The replayibility of the game is awesome aswell 
 expecally if you play on the hardest difficulty. The visuals are really good but i thought could 
 be better and the gameplay is awesome aswell. The sound of the guns and the explosions is second 
 to none, in this game you really feel a part of the war and feel this youre really in one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cloud9210
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 25, 2006 7:07 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is an addicting game. I like the way the story mode is set up. I like that you go 
 through the game as Russian, English and Americans. The graphics for this game are pretty good, 
 but they don't seem next gen to me. The only thing that really disappoints me with this game is 
 that some of the levels seem repetetive and boring. Some levels are great and you want to keep 
 playing, but others are just plain sucky and should've been replaced with cooler levels. This is 
 a great game for any fan of first person shoooters, but I'm not sure how long you will be wanting 
 to play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcmike1942
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 24, 2006 10:54 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 has average graphics. Not bad, just nothing special. The thing that makes this COD 
 really stand out is how is was made. Its, simple, fun, and well thought out. The game is the easiest 
 to play of all COD's. It seems the developers got all the bugs worked out. The gameplay was very 
 captivating and will get your heart pumping. One of the only games that I actually felt like I 
 was in the game. Very fun. Good assortment of weapons and you could use most of the weapons in 
 each level. Its hard to really put it into words how well this game played. It was done so well 
 you can't really notice. Everything in the game flows. --- Now the problems the guns' sound effects 
 were weak as in many newer games. As with most call of duty games, except the original on computer, 
 it was kinda short. As with every COD game that has the Brit campaign, I found that part, boring 
 and useless. Those are really the only problems with the game. --- Very fun multiplayer, buy it, 
 now only 20 dollars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rockapotomus
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 23, 2006 4:18 pm PT
Review:  I borrowed Call of Duty 2 from a buddy as an interim game until Gears of War came out. Never did 
 I expect that it would quickly become my favorite game for the console and delay my purchase of 
 Gears of War until I finish it. I recommend playing this game through on veteran, not for the achievement 
 points but for the gratification. Every level is a pulse pounding adventure and you learn a surprising 
 amount about the battles you fight in. You play through the Russian, British, and American campaigns 
 and fight in Battles as prestigious as El Alamein, D-Day, and the Battle for Hill-400.
  As far as multiplayer goes, it's amazing. It feels like a Tom Clancy game on speed. You fins yourself 
 rushing for cover, and peeking between two barrels for that headshot. The satisfaction of kills 
 in this game is far greater than that of Halo as well.
  All in All, an excellent game. It's easy to say that it didn't win Game of the Year for no good 
 reason. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: r4v3gl0ry
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 23, 2006 11:34 am PT
Review:  This game is revolutional even when it's been put in WWII. The weapons were strong and had plenty 
 of them coming. Missions were very compelling following bombing tanks, holding off a german counter 
 attack, or retaking control of a city by military power. But what I didn't like were the enemies' 
 character designs. They were either fat with moustaches, skinny in hats with goggles, or just skinny 
 and weak. The graphics, I noticed, still weren't as good as next-gen standards. Don't get me wrong 
 here, but I found some glitches too. But that shouldn't stop you from playing. The missions seemed.... classic. 
 Teachers should use this game for history lessons. Real events that happened were perfectly linked 
 with the gameplay. It seemed like I was really part of the war, and when my russian teammates yelled 
 a warcry, my soul came accross what seemed to be a cool rushing sensation. No, it's not sick, people. 
 It feels good. That is the true meaning of next-gen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonofares
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 20, 2006 6:44 pm PT
Review:  This is the definitive World War II experience in video games. When this game came out there had 
 been plenty of WWII games but COD2 had more onscreen action and a better gameplay than any other 
 WWII shooter I had ever played. I enjoyed Medal of Honor and some of the other war shooters but 
 something about COD and COD2 really set them apart. COD2 was XBOX360's first WWII baby and it looked 
 glorious on the new console! The graphics are so realistic.... it put's you in the game. For giving 
 you the feel of the battle field and the feel of you being in the action, there's no other game 
 like it. The weapons are authentic, the gameplay is nonstop action. From grenades to pistols to 
 bolt action rifles to submachine-guns and assault rifles this shooter delivers on all fronts. An 
 abosolute must have for any Xbox 360 owner. I'm only referring to the 360 version when I'm reviewing 
 this game. Play the first one, then play this one, then get COD3 for the trilogy of fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackthegame
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 20, 2006 6:13 pm PT
Review:  Ok people, I dont even know where to start, oh ye the graphics, actually thats perfect, so I don't 
 even have to talk about that . OH! Heres something we can talk about, the sound, NO! thats also 
 perfect, actually its more than perfect. Ok, I finally found a mistake, it only has twenty seven 
 levels which is a little for me, but if twenty seven levels is good enough for you, go ahead and 
 buy this game. Trust me, you won't regret it. Even if it only has twenty seven levels go ahead 
 buy it. I paid twenty dollars on my copy, and up to now that is the best deal I ever made in video 
 games. And one more thing, if you don't like this game TOO BAD, you don't know what you are missing 
 my friend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elementskate14
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 19, 2006 11:40 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is a huge leap from other WWII games and nails the feel and intensity of WWII right 
 on the head and makes you feel as though you were part of WWII right in your own room! The gameplay 
 is very similar to other cod games but the gameplay definately stands out in this game with the 
 spectacular storyline and graphics. The story is very immersive and true to history and gives you 
 the feel of what WWII was really like. The Graphics are great but definatley dont touch what the 
 xbox 360 and really do. There are a few things that are missing from the game that would have been 
 nice and things that dont impress me. First off, is the fact that you cannot throw grenades that 
 are thrown at you back at the enemy. Another thing is the fact that you are mostly on foot the 
 whole game besides tank missions. Lastly, is the multiplayer only allows you to play with only 
 8 people in a single match at 1 time. Overall Cod2 is the best WWII game to come out so far and 
 from the bullets wizzing by your head to the awesome cinematic moments, Cod2 keeps you on the edge 
 of you seat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chaos_Daro
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 10, 2007 8:13 am PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY: You play as one soldier in 3 very different campaigns during WW2. You and your allies 
 will fight the Germans in many different environments ranging from snow-covered ruined cities to 
 vast open deserts using a good variety of authentic weapons in a first-person perspective.
  
  The actual gameplay itself boils down to you completing various objectives such as taking out 
 Flak 88 crews and planting sticky bombs on enemy tanks. To do this you will have to slowly carve 
 your way through groups of enemy soldiers using whatever weapons and grenades you can get your 
 hands on.
  
  But be warned, you are limited to carrying just two weapons at a time. This adds quite a bit of 
 decision making into the mix and feels more realistic then carrying 5 or 6 weapons at a time. The 
 best choice in weapons is sometimes decided by the type of environment you are fighting in, but 
 you will likely find yourself using a machine gun/ rifle combo most of the time.
  
  Grenades play a big part in this game. At the beginning of a level, you will have two types of 
 grenade: frag and smoke grenades. Frag grenades are good for drawing enemies out of cover and are 
 deadly in confined spaces, making them excellent for clearing out rooms.
  
  Smoke grenades are hard to find but are extremely useful in some situations. After throwing one, 
 you will have to wait a few seconds for the smoke to rise. The smoke acts like cover from enemy 
 fire, allowing you to run past areas with unharmed. It's useful for open areas with little cover, 
 approaching tanks undetected (so that you can plant bombs on them) and it helps cover your flanks 
 if you are attacked from more than one direction. But like I said before, they are pretty rare. 
 You will normally start with just 3-4 of them so it's improtant to only use them when you definitely 
 need to.
  
  Cover plays a huge role in this game. Running around with a machine gun and blasting everyone is 
 rarely a wise decision. So it's a good thing that the level design includes plenty of realistic 
 objects to hide behind such as wrecked cars and broken fences. Cover is made even more important 
 because of the health system. Your health regenerates if you remain unharmed for a few seconds 
 so you'll often find yourself scrambling for cover when you get hurt.
  
  The AI in this game is excellent for both your enemies and you comrades. Soldiers are excellent 
 at finding cover and it really makes them seem very aware of thier surroundings. Your enemies will 
 duck in and out of cover, throw grenades at the right moment, run away from YOUR grenades and try 
 to bludgeon you with the butt of their gun if you get too close.
  
  Your allies are also very dangerous in this game. They will also throw grenades in the right places 
 to draw enemies out of cover and will definitely do their fair share of killing. They also do a 
 good job of distracting the enemy allowing you to get into a good position and catch your foes 
 by surprise.
  
  I would also like to point out the fact that I found the 360 controller to work very well with 
 this game. I allows you to be surprisingly accurate, even shooting really small or precise targets 
 is relatively easy so it's a real pleasure to play through (which I really wasn't expecting from 
 a joypad!) .
  
  I do have a few minor issues with the gameplay, however. The enemy soldiers can sometimes seem 
 really accurate - a little too accurate at times. it's pretty frustrating at times but there are 
 ways to work around it. First of all, your allies provide a very good distraction if the enemy 
 finds them the most convenient target. If you stay BEHIND your soldiers then they will likely be 
 shot at, giving you a few free shots to fire at the enemy. Another way is to keep moving from cover 
 to cover. Your opponents will start firing at you constantly if they manage to spot you. If you 
 keep on moving to different peices of cover you can sometimes catch them off guard, giving you 
 a few free shots before they fire back.
  
  The other small problems are that your allies will sometimes get in your way in small spaces and 
 they will also run directly into your line of fire. It would have been nice to have the option 
 to turn friendly fire off because killing your own soldiers usually means you have start from the 
 last checkpoint. But these issues rarely get in the way of the action so they're easily forgivable.
 
  
  GRAPHICS: This game is filled with realistic-looking environments and the character models look 
 nice as do the weapons. Textures are quite detailed for the most part but some objects here and 
 there look a little plain. But that is a small price to pay for gorgeous looking smoke effects 
 and having tons of things going on at once without any noticeable framerate drops. The atmosphere 
 is really helped by things like bullets firing in the background and explosions occurring all over 
 the place. The character models look ok but lack some of the finer details up close; but the great 
 animations more than make up for this
  
  SOUND: Excellent! Everything from the music to the voice acting is done well. The sound effects 
 of guns firing in the distance and grenades going off are all beneficial to the game's atmosphere 
 and really immerse you in the experience. I really can't find any major flaws in the sound department.
 
  
  VALUE: I haven't really played much of the mulitiplayer but i hear it can be pretty good at times 
 (it's often spoilt by large amounts of snipers) . The single player mode is great! With 27 well 
 designed missions and 4 different difficulty settings you're likely to be playing this games for 
 hours and hours. You can also play against your friends in slit screen or via system link.
  
  The main problem I have with this game is the fact that there are no bots to play against and 
 no co-op! These would have added way more replay value for me and I really with they spent more 
 time trying to incorperate these things into the game.
  
  TILT: I really loved the single player aspect of the game but as I can't play online at the moment, 
 I'm pretty much stuck doing the same campaign over and over again. Still, if you're looking for 
 a great single player experience this is difinitely worth checking out. I'm not entirely sure about 
 multiplayer so it wouldn't be fair for me to comment on it but I presume it would add a good few 
 extra hours of fun to an already good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reven240
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 18, 2006 5:44 pm PT
Review:  By far, the best and most realistic World War II game to date. Everything down to the smallest 
 AI expressions is supurbly created. Even the multiplayer is great as it brings the realism from 
 single-player to multi-player. The control layout though, is perfect as far as simplicity and meuverability. 
 I feel that this game brings the war to life and puts you in the center of it, making it feel real 
 as your allies try to surive just as you do. The most impressive feature is the AI, they react 
 on their own accord and fight realtivly as you do... thinking, dodging, throwing grenades, taking 
 cover... By far one of the best games on the system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mafia_Hitman2
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 17, 2006 11:24 am PT
Review:  To start off, you must know that this is the game that made me fall in love with my Xbox 360. I 
 originally bought the system back in September especially for Madden 07, which I am still a huge 
 fan but after playing this game you can see how much better of a game it is. I rated Madden 07 
 higher than most but a lot of that is that I am a huge NFL and Steelers fan and love being able 
 to control my favorite players. Why I am bringing up Madden is for comparison purposes and to highlight 
 some of the great aspects of Call of Duty 2.
  
  Since these are the first (2) games that I have played on the Xbox 360 platform, they will probably 
 be my benchmarks on which all other games will be judged. Both games have great visuals with some 
 stunning moments in each. COD2 really excels at the details of structures such as buildings, bunkers, 
 towers and such. The varied locations of the Russian front, African desert and French coast/towns 
 really add to the atmosphere of the game. It is a great journey to go on and you really do feel 
 like you learned something about World War II history along the way. The cut scenes in between 
 play like an A&amp; E special on the great war. It is very informative and I especially liked the 
 notes at the beginning of each mission, taking the time to read the entire note before hitting 
 the start button. Video score: 9, this could have easily have been a 10 but I after seeing the 
 ending credit sequence you could really see how good the game could look.
  
  HD comment: You will really benefit playing this game in hi-definition. It brings out all the little 
 details esp. when sniping and using your binoculars.
  I did not however do a comparison of this game in 480i vs. 720p. Maybe if I get time in the future 
 I will go back and take a look at all my games and see which ones are exceptional in HD.
  
  Where this game truly excels is the Sound. I gave is a 10 as I feel that there is almost no improvement 
 that could have been made to make the sound effects or score any better. This game is the one that 
 I will compare all others to as far as sound goes. It is such a part of the game experience that 
 I feel it is a must-have to play this game with your 360 console connected to a 5.1 or better surround 
 sound system. Make sure that you are hearing the digital sound with your console connected via 
 the optical cable to your receiver. If you do not have an optical cable then please quit reading 
 and go out and get one long enough to bridge the gap between your components.
  
  As far as multi-player goes, I have not as of yet gotten the chance to play this game on Xbox Live 
 but I do play to in the future, once I have at least opened my other games in my collection. I 
 have heard &amp; read that this is a top notch multi-player game and one that I hope to play on-line 
 at some point.
  
  All in all this is a premiere game and the best FSP that I have ever seen or heard. If you have 
 any interest in this title then do yourself a favor and go get it. It is well worth the $ and since 
 I came on board a little late, I got this game at around 1/2 price and also I highly recommend 
 the Game of the Year edition, which is another added bonus to having waited. This game is a welcome 
 edition to anyones collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xenobia1981
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 16, 2006 11:50 am PT
Review:  I loved playing this game. I have played a lot of war shooters before, but none were like this. 
 I thought the graphics were excellent, with amazing detail in everything. The sound and music were 
 great and fit in perfectly with the situations. Game play was intense yet easy to get used to. 
 The allied and enemy AI was really intelligent, with the enemy always trying to get something between 
 themselves and your bullets. I do have to admit, there were times when I think the AI takes a vacation. 
 What I mean is, I have seen the enemy and allies run right right into an exploding grenade or stop 
 in front of a moving tank. But other than that, this game was an amazing shooter and I recommend 
 this game to anyone who likes shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wal0026
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 16, 2006 2:47 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is a WW2 FPS that puts you in the roll as 3 different soldiers in the British, Russian 
 and American Armies, fighting in different locations and basically re acting many of the intense 
 fire fights that are dipicted in WW2 history.
  
  The thing that makes Call of Duty 2 so good is the battle intensity, there is always something 
 going on, bullets fly through the air grenades being tossed, bombers flying over head, it's chaotic. 
 But that not to say it's unmanagable in some points, it instead really immerses players in the 
 intensity of WW2.
  
  Another thing that really brings Call of Duty 2 it's spark are it's weapon models, the act of shooting 
 a german with a simple rifle is so satisfying. The actual models are astounding with excelent reload 
 animations.
  
  Graphically Call of duty 2 is an incredible achievement, the textures here and there can be a bit 
 gritty, but all up the game runs smoothly with all around exxcelent visuals.
  
  The multiplayer is astounding with support for 8 players. This does seem a bit restricting for 
 a next gen 360 game and it kind of is, but the multiplayer makes up for it with it's beautiful 
 level design and a handful of modes that will keep you ocupied for hours.
  
  All in all Call of duty 2 is a good rounded game, the multiplayer couldve done a bit better with 
 it's player support and the visuals could've used a bit more polishing, but in the end Call of 
 Duty 2 is a must have for any FPS fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxx_photo
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 15, 2006 10:09 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 provides a breath of fresh air from the futuristic-dominated genre of first person 
 shooters. Set in WWII, players get to fight under three different flags against the Axis powers.
 
  
  Without the futuristic weapons with unlimited plasma ammo, tiny robots to spy ahead for you or 
 guns with X-Ray scopes to see through walls, this game takes combat back to an even battleground. 
 While leaning more toward realism, it's not so insanely hard (current game publisher's opinion 
 of realistic) that you can't have fun with it on higher difficulty levels.
  
  With frequent checkpoints that double as save points, if you mess up, you don't have to replay 
 the entire level over and over because of one tiny part you can't seem to figure out. The graphics 
 are great, the sound is great, the gameplay is great. Great components accumulate to make a great 
 game. This is one of them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grvdggr272
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 14, 2007 3:56 pm PT
Review:  I can't get enough of the sound of an evaded bullet wizzing by my head. There's something about 
 WW2 that gets me all.. ohh what's the word I'm looking for... happy! What's not to say about this 
 awesome game. Of course it doesn't have graphics like Gears of War or GRAW, but it does has some 
 of the most amazing explosions ever. The satisfaction of blowing of the building in the first part 
 of the campaign was great! The sound (I have a Panasonic surround sound system) is amazing. The 
 guns' load sounds are amazing! And the firing sounds are all uniquely done. I love the way you 
 can hear gunshots in the distance also. The fact is, everything sounds the way it should. I've 
 played this games multiplayer and it is very good and very simple.
  
  This is a must buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: numba13700
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 14, 2006 2:36 pm PT
Review:  COD 2's singleplayer campaign revolves around the European Campaign of WW2. It generally allows 
 you to play as 3 factions, Russians, British, and Americans. And within these three factions you 
 fight off German Nazis. You fight in a Russian Campaign, British Campaign, and American Campaign. 
 The Xbox 360 achievements feature allows many oppurtunities to receive points, and also to receive 
 a better rep. The game also has amazing sound quality and great graphics.
  The multiplayer campaign is fun, and even allows noobs some headway. So dont worry if you find 
 yourself getting your rear end handed to youl, it happens to everyone. The game allows a maximum 
 of 8 players, which given the maps is a good number, but luckily the next installment offers 12 
 on 12. The game has no frame rate problems, nor does it glitch. It is very fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sisitki
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 13, 2006 2:41 pm PT
Review:  I enjoyed this game the first time I played it through on moderate difficulty, but it felt very 
 linear and and pretty predictable. The graphics are actually pretty good and the sound is fantastic. 
 When I really started to respect this game was my second time playing on the hardest difficulty; 
 it felt like a different game, I guess more of what I was expecting the first time. With the difficulty 
 cranked up, the game requires a lot more strategy, timing, and luck to get through. A path that 
 seems relatively clear on the lower difficulty becomes absolutely unpassable on the harder levels 
 and many times you have to rethink your approach. This makes the game a lot more fun. Additionally, 
 the game takes on a higher level of realism when you realize, just like in a real battle, whether 
 you live or die has a lot to do with where you happened to be standing or whether you let your 
 guard down for a second. Makes you ponder the reality and harshness of actually being in a war 
 and how not special you are, i. e. you can die too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockinaway
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 13, 2006 12:20 pm PT
Review:  This game is my favourite in my collection. The historical facts and parts are put together so 
 well with fantastic gameplay and realism. The only thing that I found was not real was the fact 
 if you got shot 3 times, then took cover and waited, you can carry on doing it without dying! Getting 
 to death was hard in the earlier stages. However that was good in a way as later on it got harder 
 and that factor came handy. The graphics are not all that good, but the it still shows everything 
 in a realistic way. Great game, should get it if you haven't already got it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: quagmire75
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 13, 2006 11:05 am PT
Review:  the reviews this game recieved are a little low if you ask me. the graphics in call of duty 2 are 
 not the best out there, but they are very nice... very close to the best. the sound in this game 
 is pretty sweet with surround sound, and will have you ducking for cover behind your couch. the 
 campaign mode is a decent length, and is quite fun. i find the game somewhat easy overall. only 
 when i play on veteran do i feel truly challenged. the enemies are pretty smart sometimes. you 
 often decide to throw a grenade and as you release it, you will see one coming right back at you! 
 some of the animations look pretty nice, and overall the game feels pretty authentic. this game 
 definately lived up to the call of duty name. the multiplayer after being patched is quite fun, 
 although i do like it on pc better. the game runs at a smooth framerate, and runs pretty nice online 
 as well. the maps for the multiplayer are designed quite well, and are similar to what you see 
 in the campaign. overall this game is just a kick butt thrill ride through world war 2 from start 
 to finish. i loved the game, and still play it today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ErikWaters
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 12, 2006 9:14 pm PT
Review:  While there definitely appears to be an abundance of FPS (or first person shooter) World War II 
 games on the market today, the games typically review well and prove popular with gamers. The more 
 popular World War II games include the Medal of Honor and Brothers in Arms series; however 
 Activisions Call of Duty franchise is quickly becoming synonymous with the fast-paced realism 
 that wars have to offer.
  
  Although most war games tend to focus on one side of the war as they continue to fight their enemy, 
 Call of Duty 2 is unique in its choice to show the war against the Axis from three different 
 allied perspectives: Soviet, British, and American. These different perspectives show how that 
 ally dealt individually with their circumstances when fighting the Germans during the war.
  
  The game is broken into ten different distinguishable sections of the war, with each of those 
 sections featuring smaller missions to complete for a total or 27 various levels to play. As Call 
 of Duty 2 begins, players will be taught the basics of the game as they take control of a Soviet 
 soldier being readied for a German invasion on their snow littered turf. As gamers fight through 
 and complete the Soviet campaign, the British campaign will become unlocked and gamers will then 
 be able to take the fight to their enemies in the deserts of Northern Africa as the Desert Fox 
 continues to control battles with his tactical tank assaults. This introduces players to tank warfare 
 as they are able to drive British tanks across the desert in an effort to repel the German counterattack. 
 Finally the last campaign unlocked features the American army as they begin D-Day with the Normandy 
 invasion. While the other missions are quite intense in themselves, gamers will find the American 
 mission most difficult as it is not only at the end of the game, but rather as this campaign feels 
 more like the viscerally raw warfare that the allies were likely to have encountered when invading 
 the beach.
  
  As previously mentioned, these three campaigns help keep the gameplay fresh as the game continues 
 to change the scenery and circumstances on gamers. Missions such as liberating small towns from 
 German control may require more of a strategic wait and watch approach, other missions such as 
 disarming enemies with mortars will test the players abilities under pressure.
  
  There is some major fun to be had anyway the gamers choose to play Call of Duty 2. The game looks 
 and sounds amazing on the X-Box 360, the controls are tight, and the artificial intelligence for 
 both the Germans and the allied squadmates are surprisingly smart and quick to adjust to any situation. 
 Tossing grenades at enemies or having them tossed at allies will sometimes result in warning screams 
 to their brothers in arms, picking up the grenade and tossing it back quickly, or even occasionally 
 jumping on top of the grenade in order to smother the explosion and hopefully save their own squad. 
 If those arent good enough examples, squadmates also know when to give cover fire, toss smoke 
 grenades to conceal positions, and can all around keep themselves from becoming bullet fodder.
 
  
  Unlike many of the Medal of Honor games, the 27 single player missions of Call of Duty 2 will 
 easily keep a gamer busy for days. These missions may vary in length, but the majority will last 
 for over 15 minutes of continuous action. On top of an excellent single player mode, the game features 
 online multiplayer with various game types that will keep the X-Box 360 on for hours at a time.
 
  
  Despite World War II video games becoming increasingly prevalent in the industry, there is no reason 
 why gamers and fans of war games shouldnt go straight out and get their hands on a copy of Call 
 of Duty 2. The game is not only fast, fun and intense, but its solid gameplay and admirably long 
 length will make gamers appreciate their hard-earned money spent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xbox1397
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 12, 2006 6:52 am PT
Review:  This is the first game that I got on the Xbox 360 and it is a good one. What part of this game 
 isn't great. The graphics are sweet, and it has great first-person action. The storyline is short 
 and could use a better theme than just all out war. But I love this game it is one of my favorite 
 games of all time, not only because I love war games, and first-person shooters, but because of 
 the great gameplay. If you have never played a game in the call of duty series you would still 
 love this game. I have all the other call of duty games and to me, this is the best one. In Call 
 of Duty: Finest Hour you could barely find a checkpoint, not in this game you can always find a 
 checkpoint. So I think you could actually beat this game if you try. I have and I can't wait until 
 Call of Duty 3!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thagodfather69
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 11, 2006 1:34 pm PT
Review:  I purchased this game in the summer of 2006 and was exccited to play it, despite the dissapointment 
 in the previous version for the X-box console. I played it and wasa happy to see everything was 
 built from the ground up.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is beautiful. Your enemy's are suprisingly challenging, throwing grenades 
 in correct situations and use the right weapon at the right time. Your teammates, are stupid however, 
 serving more as dummies and getting shot other than killing Germans. Also the variety of missions 
 is exciting, which makes the controller hard to put down. Although the X-box Live on this game 
 is very exciting, I have encountered many problems. Also the only matches that are worthwhile on 
 Xbox Live is the Deathmatch and Team Deathmatch. After all these problems, the attribute of Gamepplay 
 is a definite thumbs up.
  
  Graphics: I play this game on a non-HD television and the graphics still look great. All the building's 
 interiors look geat and are completely different from other buildings.
  
  Sound: All the guns and explosions sound perfect and the allie and enemy voices and responses are 
 full of enthusiasm.
  
  Value: Tons of replay value and X box live will keep you hooked.
  
  Reviewers Tilt: I love WW2 games and this is the best one I have ever played.
  
  I advice 
 all of you to buy this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Army_Veteran
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 11, 2006 8:58 am PT
Review:  I didnt get this game when it first came out and I didnt get the 360 when it first came out, 
 but if youre somebody who just bought the 360 or is going too recently I would highly recommend 
 this game. It is cheap now so when your spend $400 for the console you can pick this game up for 
 cheap.
  The game play is good for this game, I enjoyed it very much and it felt good with the controls. 
 The story mode is good and somewhat lengthy; I know that most shooter games are very short on single 
 player and better for multiplayer. I have jumped on live a couple times with this game, ad it was 
 pretty fun.
  The graphics are great, I know they can be better, but once you put this bad boy in on an HDTV 
 with 1080i, man I cant sat anymore how great it is. I bought this game for $34.99 and I fell that 
 it was worth every penny, I still have to go back through and play it on hard, but playing it with 
 normal setting I finished the game in about 10 hours of game play, so its worth it for single player 
 alone, I know that multi player has much more playing time, I recommend this for any new 360 owner. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elite29
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 9, 2006 9:54 pm PT
Review:  Like almost everyone else in the gaming community, I am sick of WWII first-person shooters. And 
 I wasn't all that excited when I first heard this game was coming to the 360. The Xbox's versions 
 of the original Call Of Duty were average and didn't excite most people whatsoever. Of course, 
 those games weren't developed by Infinity Ward. Infinity Ward is the develpment company that made 
 the first &amp; original Call Of Duty for the PC. And to be honest, it's not like this game takes 
 the WWII shooter in a totally new direction or adds anything original. What it does do is do everything 
 so much better than any WWII shooter before it, that it really stands out from the crowd.
  
  Pros: The game does an amazing job at making you feel like you are actually in the game; frantic 
 gameplay is really fun and almost wears you out after a few levels; excellent visuals &amp; presentation 
 really that feeling of immersion and show off the 'next-gen' power of the Xbox 360; the voice acting 
 and the audio overall is outstanding; I think the game is a perfect length; a very nice selection 
 of weapons; since there is no storyline &amp; you are basically only running around killing Germans 
 the whole game, it's nice that the developers thought up a nice variety of mission types; the AI 
 of the German soldiers is great, especially on the higher difficulties; while not being incredibly 
 deep, playing the game over Xbox Live is a blast; the audio banter between your fellow troops always 
 feels very authentic; there are just so many little touches that Infinty Ward nailed in this game, 
 it's impossible to list them all here.
  
  Cons: The checkpoint system is spotty (sometimes saving every couple minutes, and sometimes not 
 saving for FAR too long) ; achievement points are too hard to get for the casual gamer (which could 
 be a 'Pro', depending on your tastes) ; virtually no storyline at all, which makes it hard to keep 
 going after awhile; towards the end of the game, I was getting bored of just killing Germans over 
 &amp; over; sometimes it does have that, been here, done that feel to it; like in most every other 
 WWII shooter, due to the bland looking real-life enviroments that these battles took place in, 
 the game's enviroments get repetitive after awhile; the AI of your fellow allied troops is very 
 uneven and will even have you yelling at your screen at times; there are quite a few missions where 
 you have to take over and do everything yourself; it really doesn't bring anything new to the genre, 
 but it just does everything WWII shooters do better than anyone else.
  
  Maybe from the section above, you would think my score would be a bit lower than a nine. But I 
 want to assure you that this game is a must buy for any 360 owner. It's just that no matter how 
 good this game is, I could never completely shake that feeling like I have done all of this stuff 
 before. Sure it's a lot prettier now that it's on a more powerful console, but has the gameplay 
 really evolved here? That would be a 'No'. However, for a launch title this is an excellent game 
 and I am eagerly awaiting Call Of Duty 3. If you are going to get a WWII game in the near future, 
 I would highly recommend picking this up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dawookie
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 7, 2006 5:45 pm PT
Review:  So, finally, the COD series comes out with the sequel to the game of the year. The question on 
 so many people's mind is if it's any good. The anwser is a YES! Call of Duty 2 was one of my first 
 games for the 360, and if you haven't played it, what the hell are you waiting for!!!!
  
  The gameplay is rock solid. You'll be experiencing the same, intense combat from the other series 
 and the game has a pretty large span of things to do. The single=player has around 25 missions 
 and multiple levels of difficulty. The 360 version will also give you 60 gamerscore for completing 
 a set of missions on Veteran, the hardest difficulty. The game features the Russians, Americans, 
 and the Brits as usual, and they feature the same old wepons. The British Sten, Lee-Enfield, Thompson, 
 The American M1 Garand, BAR, Colt. 45, and the Russian Mosin-Nagant, SVT. 40, PPSh, PPS42, as well 
 as plenty of other weapons. The game also does not feature a health meter, but its pretty clear 
 when your gonna die. When too much damage is taken, the border of the screen goes all red and you 
 start breathing heavy. When this happens, keep your head low for a few seconds to survive.
  
  The graphics and sound are very crisp, seeing as its on the 360, and with the pc, you'll need 
 pretty top spec stuff to get all the goodies out of the game. The accents made by all the soldiers 
 are superb, and the Russians will occansionally speak russian. The rifles and landscapes are all 
 great.
  
  The multiplayer is also good. You've got a wide variety of maps, and if you're using the 360, you 
 can download almost twice the maps you already have from the marketplace. You can be the Germans 
 or whatever faction goes with the map. There is no lag due to map size, and you can have up to 
 8 people in a match which perfectly fits the map sizes.
  
  The only great flaw here is that the single-player features no co-op, and the missions become very 
 repetetive. There are only 2 tank missions, and the shooting action will become bland after the 
 while.
  
  So, there you have it! In conclusion, this is a great buy and you'll definetaly enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bradman984
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 7, 2006 10:31 am PT
Review:  since the first time i saw and played Call of duty 2 in my local GAME while making my weekly circle 
 round my local supermarket i thought that technology could not get a game this good in grapghical 
 areas (the xbox 360 was just released in UK so i am not a 48 year old virgin) the lines were far 
 to long for someone my age to give a damn about but my chance arrived for me to play it lone gun 
 without a 8 year old telling my to reload and have outstanding pressure on me to do it right for 
 the hundreds of people lined up behind me.
  
  After 2 months of anxious wait my best pal bought a xbox 360 yes some might call me an idiot about 
 writing a review of a game without actually purchasing a game, but i felt the sheer joy of playing 
 without the thinking part and yes i think call of duty 2 is somewhat of a classic 
::::::

::::::
UserName: worshyr
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 6, 2006 12:29 pm PT
Review:  Call Of Duty 2, yet another WW2 game that has come out over the years. I have played so many WW2 
 games that I feel I should be compensated at the local VA for shell shock (joking of course, I 
 have full respect for the boys who fought against the third reich.)
  
  Call of duty was a diamond in the rough, It was as good as Medal of honor and yet more intense 
 by a hundred fold. In the game you play through three different campaigns; The Russian, British, 
 and American battles through Africa and Europe respectively. The gameplay is extremely fun in my 
 opinion. For the best game experience I would suggest playing on veteran, even though I think I 
 had several minor heart attacks and strokes due to dying so many times. There were many aspects 
 of this game that I loved, the enemy AI for one, the germans definitely give you a run for your 
 money and will often work in teams to rush your lines, keeping you pinned down, or raining grenades 
 down on your position preventing you from moving. The aiming system of COD2 is a little tricky 
 if you never played the original. You literally use the scope, and or look down the barrel of the 
 gun and through the sight. It feels really realistc, sometimes that reality can lead to some pretty 
 frustrating parts of the game. If you get shot, your aim is thrown off and your shots go wide. 
 If you are aiming to intensely enemies will often sneak up from the side or behind. From there 
 they will either shoot you to death, or, beat your skull in with the butt of their rifles. One 
 of the more important aspects of the gameplay in my opinion is the use of grenades. Smoke grenades 
 proved to be an advantage in several instances because it covered the advance of friendly NPC's. 
 However, it also had its downsides when you could not tell who you were shooting at until they 
 got to close, often getting killed by the enemy, or accidentally killing one of my own. Frag grenades 
 were extremely useful for clearing out rooms and machine gun nests. Again, reality can suck. If 
 you don't cook the grenades long enough, or keep the enemy down by using covering fire, the enemy 
 can and will pick up your grenade and throw it back to your position. I lost count how many times 
 I was fragged by my own frag. However, your friendly NPC's will pick up enemy grenades and throw 
 them back. The environments of the game can also work to your advantage, pay special attention 
 to red fuel barrels, they are usually ironically placed near large enemy choke points or heavily 
 guarded enemy positions. You blown those things up, and it'll usually take alot of enemies with 
 them. Even though they flame up for a few seconds, sadly giving enemies time to run away.
  
  There are a ton of weapons in this game. From the classic Thompson machine gun, or the Gewher 
 43 german assault rifle. There are to many to list here, but there are guns for everyone. If you 
 are an in your face combat kind of person, there are usually enough assault rifles and machine 
 guns to go around. If you are a sniper, you are a snot nosed coward and I hate your guts (seriously) . 
 And last but not least we'll move on to the actual visuals of the game. This game pulled out all 
 the stops when it came to the look of the game. You really feel like your fighting through Algerian 
 towns and the deserts of north africa, or to the bombed out villages and cities of France and Russia.
 
  
  My reviews usually suck and jump around the page a little. But I have so much praise for this game 
 that It just seems like I can't make any sense. If you like WW2 shooters then I highly recommend 
 this game, whatever the cost. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StandybyRacer
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 4, 2006 10:50 pm PT
Review:  This was the first gaming experience with the Xbox 360 and I was very pleased. Even though I wasnt 
 fortunate enough to play the game in HD, the graphics were notably better. The gameplay is strong 
 and stands up against other first-person shooters. I really enjoyed the campain mode. I was kinda 
 disappointed that there wasnt a cooperative mode though. Hopefully, the few flaws that were present 
 in this version, are corrected. If I had to give any advise or constructive criticism to the creators, 
 it would be to beef up the multiplayer and xbox live content. With that be said, I highly recommend 
 this game. My hat is off to the creators. I'm looking forward to the next installment to the series. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acekall
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 4, 2006 5:27 am PT
Review:  I was looking for an FPS and my friend recommended me this game. So thats when I bought COD 2. 
 It was a bit difficult to adapt to the game because I was used to shooting with a crossfire. In 
 this game the crossfire will not always be present so get used to it, it'll sometimes disappear, 
 but comes back while moving your character. The gameplay of COD 2 is absolutely fabulous. There 
 are a lot of weapons to choose of and they are all balanced. The AI is smart and will react realistically. 
 Sometimes it can be a bit dumb, just like when a frag grenade is thrown and your allies will run 
 into the frag killing them instantly. A case when the AI is smart is when you are flanked or when 
 your allies only advance if a smoke grenade is thrown. You can actually hear your enemies communicating 
 in german, and if you can understand german it might help you a bit in the game.
  
  The sound of the game is perfect. You will always hear guns rattling and men screaming for help. 
 COD 2 is best to be experienced with Dolby 5.1 sound. It is almost never silent in COD 2.
  
  The graphics are good, but not superb. The textures are muddy sometimes. Especially if you 
 look in the Russian campaign what snow is supposed to be like. You will encounter the best graphics 
 in the American campaign. The smoke effects on the other hand are fabulous, so are the character 
 models. You''ll also notice the jaggies and it would've been good if there was some anti-aliasing, 
 that would've made the graphics better. Call of Duty 2 has a lot of replayability left. When completing 
 the campaign on regular should you try Veteran, the hardest difficulty. It is very challenging 
 and realistic, you can die in 2 or 3 bullets. Whats great in COD 2 is that when playing a higher 
 difficulty your enemies don't become 2 or 3 times more powerful that you. They are just as vulnerable 
 as you as you can kill them with one shot with certain weapons. You'll find yourself using other 
 weapons than when playing on regular. Rifles are more important on veteran since you can't run 
 and gun everyone, since you'll be shot at sight. Veteran also requires you to use your mind, to 
 use different strategies in different situations. Playing through veteran takes a lot of time, 
 but you'll improve your skills. I was always used playing with a crossfire. But halfway playing 
 on regular I decided to disable the crossfire and all of the auto aim. I liked it better that way. 
 But veteran can bring it frustrations too, there will be times where you'll be killed very often 
 and after that you just don't seem to be in the mood to play anymore.
  
  After you've played the offline part there is till the online part. COD 2 support 8 players max. 
 The matchmaking is very good, just like Halo 2 and there is not lag anymore (there used to be lag, 
 but that was patched a time ago) . Playing online requires you to use strategies and the play as 
 a team. Thats the best way to win. Playing online is fun and there are a lot of maps and some downloadable 
 maps to which very a lot in environment.
  
  All by all Call of Duty 2 is an awesome game which is a must have for every 360 owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IBLEEDBLUE33
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 2, 2009 9:50 am PT
Review:  This game surprised me on how good and realistic war games can be. The graphics are good for a 
 launch title on a next gen system and the sound and atmoshere are excellent. Never in any war game 
 have I felt so much into the action. At the start of the game you play as the Russians, then the 
 English, and finally as the Americans. I really enjoyed this aspect of the game and it breaks up 
 the monotony that so many war games fall into. The controls and frame rate are both top notch and 
 sniping has never been so gratifying. The single player game is very good and any WW fan will love 
 it. The multiplayer however misses the mark on a few opportunites. Don't get me wrong multiplayer 
 is loads of fun but at the time I was playing it you could not get your friends in the game with 
 you. There is also no ranked play, it says there is but there is no rank. Multiplayer good have 
 been as good as Halo if they would have just set it up correctly. Hopefully Call of Duty 3 will 
 fix these minor flaws and produce a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: racerx737
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 3, 2006 1:20 pm PT
Review:  This game is Amazing, I don't know how else to put it. The graphics are extremely realistic, the 
 sounds make you feel like you're right there in the battle (if you have surround sound you'll probably 
 start looking around after a while to make sure there aren't Nazis hiding around the corner) , this 
 game is insanely fun and addictive although the veteran difficulty is ridiculously difficult. I 
 definitely suggest playing through the game on a lower difficulty first so that you can experience 
 the fun of the game and then go back and play on veteran so that you don't get so frustrated with 
 the game that you write it off as a bad game. The multiplayer is pretty intense too, although I 
 haven't had much experience with it. Definitely a must-buy if you own an Xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingobaid
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 3, 2006 9:09 am PT
Review:  the only problem i had with the game is that it is short, but that does not mean it is great. just 
 like its predecessor, this game delivers on the action and story nonstop. Giving you a taste of 
 how life was during World War two.
  the beginning involves you in a Soviet training camp learning how to play. the action instantly 
 starts then. And from that point on, you are shot through a rollercoaster ride through three different 
 countries, with nonstop action and fighting! The learning curve is very easy, and the difficulty 
 depending your experience with games is a breeze. the real gold comes with online gameplay. it 
 is another ride that is full of excitement! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HyperMetaDragon
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 31, 2006 10:42 pm PT
Review:  You are sitting in a boat, your guts virtually flying out of your stomach. It is a matter of minutes 
 before you hit the shore to Omaha Beach and attempt to destroy the 155mm Artillery Cannons the 
 Germans have set up. Shortly before you hit the beach, 5 of your comrades fall to the grasp of 
 the Nazis. Your boat hits shore; your heart pumping, your adrenaline rushing, and then you're hit. 
 All hope seems lost.
  
  This is but a wee example of the type of gunplay and realism you'll be playing through with Call 
 of Duty 2. The beloved Call of Duty series has always won gamers' votes over the Medal of Honor 
 series for focusing on quality instead of quantity, and the 2 year-indifference between the date 
 of Call of Duty 1 and 2 was well worth the wait.
  
  Like many other WWII shooters, CoD 2 focuses on using tactics to take out the Nazi War Machine, 
 but now, CoD 2 allows you to play as the Russians, the British, and the Americans throughout the 
 Campaign, and allows you to play as the Russians, the British, the Americans, and the Germans in 
 Multiplayer. This title entry in the Call of Duty series focuses more on the events of D-Day, but 
 unlike before, CoD 2 immerses you into a world of chaos with a new gameplay engine that allows 
 dozens of soldiers and AI bots to react and act at the same time, all intelligently.
  
  The gameplay is extremely addicting in Call of Duty 2. The weapons are identical to the ones actually 
 used in WWII, and this titleallows you to use flaks, artillery canons, etc. CoD 2 also has 2 missions 
 where you must control tanks in order to advance. The game involves objectives to capture and somewhat 
 tactical orders you must take. The first 3 difficulty levels will become quite easy to the Call 
 of Duty 2 master, but Veteran difficulty will challenge your skills and strain yourself in order 
 to prevail battles. In other words, difficulty is friendly (and challenging) to noobs and veterans, 
 all alike.
  
  Graphics are simply amazing. Considering the fact that this had been the first title to launch 
 on the 360, the new graphics engine is spectacular, and the presentation of the game runs entirely 
 at 60 fps. Environments are always changing, and online Multiplayer should satisfy those with a 
 hunger for deserts, rainy nights, little towns, cold snowy places, etc. In addition, the shading 
 engine is fantastic, and details such as fog and smoke are notably visible and better than before.
 
  
  Sound is, again, good. Hooking your Xbox 360 up ro Surround Sound Speakers gives you the full benefits 
 of gameplay, and even without it, the sound is simply stunning; the new gameplay engine allows 
 characters, allies, and enemies to all react, depending on areas, objectives, shortcuts, enemies, 
 etc, and sound effects such as bullets flying near your head are very impressive.
  
  In conclusion, Call of Duty 2 is THE quintessential launch game for the Xbox 360, and it is one 
 ride that series fans and FPS fans won't want to miss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: forte90
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 31, 2006 7:02 pm PT
Review:  I like the game in the online mode, but the single player mode is lacking in plot and storyline. 
 In the online mode I like the capture the flag, but love the team deathmatch game. In a patch they 
 should fix that you can pick a primary weapon and a secondary weapon, then having a set package 
 of weapons. Xbox live does a great job of matchmaking for this game. Overall it is a great game 
 and you should all buy it, it the best first person shooter right now. Final thought BUY IT AND 
 GET CALL OF DUTY 3
  -Italiano40 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shibby360
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 31, 2006 12:47 pm PT
Review:  The story mode is a classic world war 2 scenario.... kill the nazis or axis powers... and you are 
 the well... i cant excactly remember at the moment. lol. so you play in different scenery around 
 europe and it will literally give u chills at times in campaign mode. the online play is quite 
 frankly the best part of the game since u can play deathmatch and team deathmatch all day long... (lord 
 knows i have) but its a definite game worth buying and i suggest you get it.... well mostly get 
 Call of Duty 3 seeing as its coming in a week or so.... (happy halloween) shibby360 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HappyInvader101
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 30, 2006 6:15 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is one of many World War II shooters. You would thenk that they would get repetitive 
 after a while right? After all, its only a matter of time until all of World War 2 is covered. 
 Well desptie it being WW2 shooter, it stands out from all of those shooters and goes up with the 
 best of them (like Medal of Honor: Frontline. Now, lets get on with the review.
  
  Call of Duty 2 plays like most shooters. You go around, and well, kill people, planting a few bombs 
 here and there. The conrtols are very simple but hard o get used to, especially if you have played 
 other FPS's. Instead of having the usual B as a melee attack, B is used to crouch and crawl, pressing 
 it down to crouch and holding it to crawl. Than where does the Melee attack go? Well right on R2 
 or by pressing down the right D-pad. Sure it gets some getting used to, but once you've gotten 
 the hang of it, you'll feel right at home. There is (obviosly) a single player mode and multi-player 
 mode, single player where you actually go through and play through the war, multi-player where 
 you just kill people. The single-player is pretty long, and comes in a variety of difficulties 
 (hence the just right difficultys) . The difficulties also determine how you play, on easy mode 
 you can just run through and shoot everyone you see, but on hard mode, it takes a bit more stradegy. 
 Single player is played through different campaigns, the russian campiagn, the british campaign 
 and the American campiagn, there are about three missions for each, and each mission is about 1-3 
 hours long, do the math, the single player mode is about 9-27 hours long. Thats a pretty long game. 
 The multiplayer is just fun, thats really the only word that can describe it. There are the usual 
 gametypes, Deathmatch, CTF, Team Deathmatch, etc. and playing with friends is, well, fun as f*ck. 
 But it can get pretty agravating, seeing that the best stradegys in COD2 is using the sniper and 
 the trench gun ( shot gun ) . The sniper is really a 1 hit kill gun, as is the trench gun, and the 
 trench gun has a very unrealistic range. In fact, its range is so long and wide that it is possible 
 to snipe with it ( to a degree) . And then you and your friends can get in arguements about this 
 and its just not fun then, which is the only real downside. Playing online is the same, except 
 without most of the agravation, you can complain to your friends about being cheap but online, 
 no one cares.
  
  The graphics in this game are a bit disapointing, when i play this i dont look at it and say WOW 
 THIS IS NEXT-GEN, i go, oh, the graphics are cool, there pretty good. It really only seems like 
 the textures changed, which isnt bad, its just i was expecting something a whole lot more.
  
  The games sound is just breathtaking, when i play this game it actually sounds like i am in 
 a war, sometimes music plays, not all the time. Which is good. Heavy Metal music in a world war 
 2 game just doesnt work. The voice actors also sound very into it.
  
  This game is pretty long, and really fun. So if you have some friends and a couple of 360 controllers, 
 pick it up, and start playing with your friends. COD2 may be a WW2 shooter, but it stands out from 
 all the others, with its amazing gameplay, fun multiplayer, decent graphcis and its realistic sounds. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Abandon
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 29, 2006 10:14 pm PT
Review:  This game has a sweet single player story and has tons of reply value. The graphis are great in 
 this game and it sounds great and it sounds even better on soround sound. Great voices and realixtic 
 sound effects and it all backed up with a great mutiplay game to. If u r a far of WW2 games or 
 1st shooter look no father than Call of Duty 2. This is probley one of the best 1st shooter i have 
 every played. The single player isnt that long but it has replay value. check this game out wheather 
 ur a WW2 fan or 1st shooter fan, or just wanna kill some nazi's. I highly recamend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rappermile
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 29, 2006 7:51 am PT
Review:  Call Of Duty 2 is a great game where you take the role of a soldier in each set of missions to 
 fight the battle of World War 2. Call Of Duty 2 is a great impovment over the first call of duty 
 because they have added two things. First local multiplayer, and second xbox live multiplayer. 
 The graphics on this game are top knoch on the xbox 360 however sometimes it can get a little boring. 
 Occasionaly it seems like the levels look sort of the same. Also it seems like you battle the same 
 enemy for to long. It changes after every mini campaign but it takes way to long to battle a different 
 enemy. The multiplayer on the other hand is really good. The graphics are great and the gameplay 
 is lag free. It feaatures lots of different gametypes and you will almost never have a laggy game. 
 So over all this is a must play game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yungabowser
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 29, 2006 6:06 am PT
Review:  This game was one of da 1st games out 4 da 360 so it wos one of da mosted played ( in all shops 
 4 peps 2 test) .
  I rememba wen i 1st played it in Virgin Mega Store, 2 test out, it wos on veteren level, so naturally 
 i died b4 i cud aim n kill. That wud turn some customers awy, but not dis one.
  This game wos like da 2nd game i got on da 360 and i wos dertermind 2 cloak it on da hardest level 
 (veteren) n' ofcourse i did.
  I liked evryfing about da game, da fact dat u can get shot by stray bullets n snipers from newere. 
 Its also realistic dat u can only carry 2 weapons.
  One of da best things in da game are da enemys.
  Wen they get shot in da head its an instant 
 kill, but shoot dem in da leg or arm, n' they crawl around or limp 4 cover which wud hapen in real 
 life.
  Ive seen sum vids from call of duty 3, n it looks amazing, da fact dat da grass sways in da wind 
 and foot prints crush grass is a great factor, 360 is numba 1, n dis is one o its leading games. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stewpock1
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 28, 2006 9:34 pm PT
Review:  would like to start off by saying that Call of Duty 2 is a great first person shooter and is a 
 welcomed edition to the series. Call of Duty 2 is the sequel to Call of Duty and it's long string 
 of patches and expansions. Right of the bat I can say this game is great. Even if you are sick 
 of World War 2 shooters this is just too good to pass up. The development team infinity ward did 
 a great job. The sound in this game is incredible. I haven't heard anything like this. An example 
 of this game's exemplary sound is the way you here the bullets pass by to close like that sounds 
 like a quick zip passed your ear. Infinity ward also took the time to record each gun sound and 
 relay the recordings into the game. This gives each gun a distinctly different sound. By the end 
 of the game you should be able to name each gun by there unique sound. This make for a very realistic 
 and some time frighting game. The difficulty setting are similar to many other shooting games because 
 it has a Easy, Medium, and, hard setting but it also has veteran mode. Which would be like a realistic 
 mode. The enemy's on veteran mode are incredible smart and and while flank you and throw many, 
 many grenades. The AI is so good that each time you play a level it feels and is completely different. 
 This make the game easer to come back to time and time again. The graphics are great. There is 
 no slowdown in single player and is very smooth nice to look at. The smoke effects are gorgeous 
 and the character models are very nice. There is no physics in the game which is expected by most 
 know a days, but isn't needed and it really doesn't effect the gameplay much at all. The game is 
 also online meaning that you can play against friend and family and random strangers all over the 
 globe. The online is very fun but is fundamentally flawed. It's missing some much needed things 
 like split-screen on line, which allow a friend and family member to play along with you when online. 
 It also only supports 8 players which is the worst of all it's online issues. Online aside this 
 game has a superb single player campaign and a fun online component. Add great graphics and amazing 
 sound and AI you have game that is enjoyable on all levels. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: apwc
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 26, 2006 6:29 pm PT
Review:  The Call of Duty series is as quick as they come in the WWII genre. The sequel brings the same 
 fast-paced action that keeps you on your toes while managing to immerse you in the battlefield. 
 Not content to handle just a single mission or campaign like other games in the genre, Call of 
 Duty 2 sends you through the war in three different armies. Youll start out with the Russians, 
 battling through snow-covered war-torn cities, then switch to the British in the African deserts, 
 and finally take control of the Yankees as they storm Normandy. Though the gameplay is the same 
 for all three countries, the game does an admirable job of making each army feel different from 
 the other. Your brothers in arms scream in appropriate accents and dialects, and the weapons and 
 architecture are authentic to each campaign. The large battles, constant noise, and hectic environments 
 do a terrific job to make you feel like a small piece in a big war. As for the war itself, dont 
 expect to have time to stop and strategize. For the most part, this is a straight run and gun game. 
 Your computer-controlled allies are helpful for the most part, though there are times youll wish 
 there were some kind of basic commands you could issue, like when they rush into heavy machine 
 gun fire, or jump in front of your line of fire causing you to kill them (and end your game) . Still, 
 they prove helpful when it comes to clearing houses of Germans or tossing back enemy grenades. 
 On the harder difficulties, relying on your comrades is the ticket to survival.
  
  The single player portion should take around 12 hours to complete on the default difficulty, though 
 switching to the hardest mode makes for a much longer and challenging experience. The basic FPS 
 levels are all hereheavy infantry combat, sniper roosting, rail shooting sequences, and even a 
 couple of tank levels. Youve seen it all before, but the controls are tight, and things like the 
 excellent smoke grenades and aggressive enemy AI keep the combat tense and interesting. Beating 
 the game doesnt net you any unlockables, but the achievements offer a bit of replay value.
  
  The multiplayer, though sadly restricted to eight players, is in time with the single player 
 tempo. Most of the maps are the right size for the number of participants, with plenty of bonus 
 packs available for download. Hopping into games is easy, and there are always plenty of people 
 playing.
  
  As a launch title, CoD2 looks great. The guns, uniforms, and indoor environments feature an appreciable 
 amount of detail. The character models and facial animations may be the best in the genre, and 
 they animate fluidly. The guns discharge with satisfying sounds that pack a punch. Orchestral music 
 swells in and out at times, but its mostly overshadowed by the chaotic sounds of the battlefield.
 
  
  Overall
  It sticks close to the FPS basics, but the hectic action, beautiful graphics, and unique perspective 
 on the war make it worth playing through.
  
  Purchase?
  Long after its release, CoD2 still stands strong as one of the 360s best. If youre looking for 
 some visceral run and gun gameplay in an immersive environment, you cant go wrong with Call of 
 Duty. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: syorks
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 26, 2006 6:10 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty 2 is probaly one of the best WWIIs shooters ever. It is awsome and a great game. I 
 would say it might be the best in the series. This is a strange Call of duty game because the Russian 
 campaign is the worst campaign while the american campaign was the best. This game was great with 
 tons of fun lvls. it has pretty good graphics and good sound. The only problem is it could be short 
 if u play it on easy and u are a fan of the series or genre. There are tons of replayability though 
 and u can have tons of fun with this game monthes after u beat it. the point du Hoc mission was 
 especially fun and so is The rangers lead the Way mission. Those 2 missions I've played dozens 
 of times. this game is awsome and should definitely be bought by anyone that is a fan of the genre 
 or series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sphinx-shadow
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 25, 2006 7:41 pm PT
Review:  I would like to start off by saying that Call of Duty 2 is a great first person shooter and is 
 a welcomed edition to the series. Call of Duty 2 is the sequel to Call of Duty and it's long string 
 of patches and expansions. Right of the bat I can say this game is great. Even if you are sick 
 of World War 2 shooters this is just too good to pass up. The development team infinity ward did 
 a great job. The sound in this game is incredible. I haven't heard anything like this. An example 
 of this game's exemplary sound is the way you here the bullets pass by to close like that sounds 
 like a quick zip passed your ear. Infinity ward also took the time to record each gun sound and 
 relay the recordings into the game. This gives each gun a distinctly different sound. By the end 
 of the game you should be able to name each gun by there unique sound. This make for a very realistic 
 and some time frighting game. The difficulty setting are similar to many other shooting games because 
 it has a Easy, Medium, and, hard setting but it also has veteran mode. Which would be like a realistic 
 mode. The enemy's on veteran mode are incredible smart and and while flank you and throw many, 
 many grenades. The AI is so good that each time you play a level it feels and is completely different. 
 This make the game easer to come back to time and time again. The graphics are great. There is 
 no slowdown in single player and is very smooth nice to look at. The smoke effects are gorgeous 
 and the character models are very nice. There is no physics in the game which is expected by most 
 know a days, but isn't needed and it really doesn't effect the gameplay much at all. The game is 
 also online meaning that you can play against friend and family and random strangers all over the 
 globe. The online is very fun but is fundamentally flawed. It's missing some much needed things 
 like split-screen on line, which allow a friend and family member to play along with you when online. 
 It also only supports 8 players which is the worst of all it's online issues. Online aside this 
 game has a superb single player campaign and a fun online component. Add great graphics and amazing 
 sound and AI you have game that is enjoyable on all levels. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chazaman125
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 23, 2006 4:27 pm PT
Review:  So people here is the summary of the game!
  
  GRAPHICS: Visually stunning, i own a standard tv set and still it felt like a home theatre system 
 in my room! i mean the kills, the quality of movement, explosion and blood effects make it literally 
 feel like you are lobbing that frag grenade at a nazi tank and standing back as pieces of shrapnel 
 come flying off the smouldering wreck! so basically it is visually mind-blowing!
  
  GAMEPLAY: Is set in world war 2 and i have to say, fells like it too, there are famous levels from 
 the actual events of WW2, and not just the same places! The same guns, famous generals/leaders 
 and events. Missions do not dull as there is plenty of variety and exitement to enjoy through this 
 masterpiece of a game. Many WW2 based games have tryed their best and nearly suceeded to replicate 
 the actual war, but call of duty comes closest by a mile and a half! truely a stunning game.
  
  SOUND: Well do i really have to get into that, first of all you can hear everthing, and i mean 
 every thing! For example explosions, gunfire, nazi shouting, orders from you team and even Your 
 mate groaning and breathing heavily near you as he is shot in the chest. The lip syncing is by 
 far some of the best i have ever encountered and is precise to the very tounges of soldiers.
  
  Well there you have it, that is reason enough to get this game!
  
  A REVIEW BY DANNY KAYE 
 AND CHARLES ASHBY 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Redertainment
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 23, 2006 8:05 am PT
Review:  I bought this game because everyone else who bought a Xbox 360, it seems, bought this game. Usually 
 this is because of limited choice because it's a launch title. However, even if this game wasn't 
 a launch title, it would be a must buy, it's that great. It's just unfortunate that I kept on running 
 into a glitch when playing it. When playing the single player campaign, I would play for hours, 
 save, and turn off the system. when I returned to the game, I would finish the mission that I was 
 playing, and then get kicked back to the beginning. It's frustrating. The multi-player makes up 
 for this, it's nearly as good as Halo 2's multi-player. I would recommend this game to anyone who 
 owns a Xbox 360, wants to own a Xbox 360, or is not yet annoyed with the sound of my voice.
  Thank You For Your Time
  Hunter Red 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gadget-Man
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 23, 2006 3:12 am PT
Review:  COD2 is the best WW2 game that you can play and is definately a very good FPS game.
  
  In the single player aspect of the game, there are a variety of levels spreading accross 3 different 
 campaigns. The Soviet Union, British, and American. There is a choice of 4 difficulty settings, 
 the hardest difficulty, Veteran, is challenging but can be beaten if you are skilled enough. The 
 different campaigns have different environments, from snowing environments for the russians, to 
 hot desert environments for the british.
  
  Now for the weapons, there are many to chose from, all of them authentic. They are easy to use 
 and the aiming is brilliant. There are two different types of grenades, frag and smoke grenades. 
 The graphics in this game is great and is one of the best looking FPS you can find at the moment. 
 The amount of enemies is amazing, sometimes you think that they will just keep coming. The AI is 
 also very good and the enemies are challenging. The sound is just as good as the graphics, the 
 weapons sound real and the battle noise in the distance makes the gaming experiance much more real.
 
  
  As for the multiplayer, it will keep this game spinning in your 360 for quite some time. You can 
 find matches almost instantly and the community in this game is great. There are a nice number 
 of maps to chose from and modes you would expect such as, Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, Capture 
 The Flag etc.
  
  Overall COD2 is an intense WW2 action game. I would reccomend it to FPS or WW2 fans!! ^_^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meshymack
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 22, 2006 1:44 pm PT
Review:  Ive just win the war through Regular mode. I think its a great game. I really enjoying myself playing 
 through it. COD2 is one of the game I do enjoy playing! The graphics are nice, Sound is superb, 
 Gameplay is a little too fast due to rushing pace, i didnt really get to see the surrounding area 
 of the game.
  
  Good thing is that Ive got my infinity mates to cover me n i really could felt the impact of rushing 
 through the fields with bullets n bombs flying here n there. Mates shouting to you of what to watch 
 out for! Jerries as they shouted! You get to played through the Allies with single mode. Playing 
 for countries like Russia, British and the Americans fighting over Axis, the Jerries!
  
  Gameplay is rather easy! Get to the checkpoint as fast as you could, of cos shooting, running for 
 cover at the same time, throwing genrades or smoke genrades before the Jerries kept re-spawning 
 at the same area, where you have to waste more bullets shooting them down! By the way, you could 
 easily picl up Jerries weapon as they dropped to the ground so not much worry on this part of the 
 game. And your battle mates are someone who you need a lot to help you through the killing field. 
 The unrealistic area is when you get shot, you hide and you will get recover through resting. No 
 health packs around which would really help make the game rather more difficult n more realistic. 
 People dont just heal themselves when they got shot or bombard! But then, look on the other side 
 is that its a fast pace game, if you needa look for health pack or medic, you would might have 
 died for .... countless times before you could even heal yourself! So i will still stick to the 
 no health packs for more plain fun!
  
  I find the sound is superbly done! Shouted, screaming, shots fired, bombs, tanks, aircrafts, language... 
 all very well done! The music is great too! I havent tried the multi-player yet... But Ive seen 
 how people played so i think its a good multi-player as well. No lagging and get to play in different 
 kinda maps. Allies or Axies, you still get to co-op and shoot arse! COD3 is coming up soon... So 
 you might not needa own it but I suppose if you havent play this game, you should rent it and really 
 give it a shot! You would love it running through the killing fields. Do enjoy this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ToetNL
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 21, 2006 1:33 pm PT
Review:  Die Die Die!!! All you m*therf*ckers Die!!
  
  Okay the came makes me a little bit agressive but what do you want after playing it for a couple 
 of hours straight?
  
  The enviremont makes you play on even when you are tired and the levels are build up beautifully.
 
  
  I like the way you can play different levels of different army's and the way the game saves at 
 random locations is also a way to keep you playing.
  
  The sounds and graphigs are great when viewed at a HD television.
  
  The game has only one 
 - point and that's the difficulty at veteran but that can't let the game down in generally the 
 game is great to play alone or with friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Quitris
Rating: 5.8
Date: Oct 21, 2006 6:20 am PT
Review:  Great graphics no wait amazing graphics any way this boy was playing it he was so damn crap he 
 threw a granade it bounce off the wall bang killed himself then guess what he did it again and 
 again then after her threw it out hte window then jumpped out after the blodoy thing i was like 
 what the hell felt like strangeling this kid. The graphics once he hit the floor and got blown up 
 again was cool he was on the floor out of the building he kept blowing himself up in the graphics 
 off the clothes and people were great but ONE HUGE DOWN FALL WHAT THEY SHOULD FIX MULTIPLAYER WHERE 
 IS IT????? I WOULD BUY IT IF IT HAD SOME SORT OF CO-OP EVEN IF IT WAS THE CAMPAIGN JUST WITH ANOTHER 
 PLAYER BY MY SIDE WOULD MAKE IT THAT MUCH BETTER.
  
  good game but no co-op that lets it down
  Its just another shooter not much more than that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darker9999
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 20, 2006 4:57 pm PT
Review:  CoD2 has arguably the best story mode online, it uses sound, graphics, and authenticity to create 
 the perfect gaming sensation.
  It seems to only have a few missions but each mission is broken up into huge parts which can taker 
 longer to complete than certain other games. You will play as the Russians first then the English 
 and you finish the war as the Americans. My favourite part of CoD2 is looking down the barrel of 
 the gun to snipe the Nazi on the mounted gun, no other feeling can amount to it. CoD2 introduces 
 a new system to the franchise were health packs are gotten rid of and you get injured , the screen 
 goes red and 1 more hit will kill you, this means you will have to quickly take cover. this only 
 becomes extremely difficult to master on veteran as 2 sots and your dead. i found that trying to 
 beat CoD2 on veteran was extremely fun as it challenges you alot and when you finally complete 
 a level and unlock that achievement you feel youve earned and really fulfilled.
  The multiplayer is actually really good when you get into it and actually plays a bit like halo 
 as you cant do any acrobatic movement except jump. for a great game of CoD2 you want to play 4v4 
 the level size and map allows space for players to move and get into great advantage pionts. It 
 also allows you to choose your gun and change which is good way to counter an opponent.
  overall CoD2 is a fantastic game and you should buy it even if you plan on getting CoD3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PVT_WARD
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 20, 2006 5:30 pm PT
Review:  CALL OF DUTY 2
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  
  -SINGLE-PLAYER: Call of duty 2 gives you an amazing look at the life of the soldiers in ww11.
 
  Moving from Russian soldiers in the eastern front to British soldiers in the east and finally 
 to the American soldiers in France. -MULTI-PLAYER:
  
  Multi-player has alot to offer in terms of the pace of matches and the types of matches. in multi-player 
 you can choose from: deathmatch, team deathmatch, capture the flag, search and destroy and headquaters.
 
  
  -weapons/ teams:
  
  Call Of Duty 2 also suplys you with a wide variety of classic ww11 guns. Machine guns , bolt action 
 rifles , sniper rifles and the newly added shotgun. GRAPHICS : -Singleplayer:
  
  singleplayer features very impressive graphics indeed. one of the best looking games not just for 
 the xbox360 but for the gaming community on a whole. The first glimpse i had at the game was when 
 my brother played it for the first time. At first i wasn't much bothered untill i progressed into 
 the game! after such i trully admired what infinity ward had done for this game.
  
  -multiplayer:
  
  Multi-player on a whole has some good points and sorry to say, some bad points 
 too. Call of duty2 was, is and allways will be a very impressive result of perfectionist game programers. 
 there are some faults in this game however sadly. Glitches play a large role in this although some 
 have been fixed there are still alot of spoilers.
  
  SOUND : To say this game had bad sound would be a lie. The sound placed into this game is yet again 
 very impressive and is a big step from the original call of duty. Voices and accents are spot on 
 and adds to the gaming experience, also explosions and gun fire in the background make it a very 
 real enviroment to be in.
  
  LIFELINE: This game has been one of the only games to succesfuly make me ENJOY the achievements. 
 Overall i played this game for around 5 months ( singleplayer and multiplayer ) . This is also one 
 of the only games to make me go back and replay the single-player for the third time .
  
  OVERALL : Finally i come to my last words about infinity wards Call of duty 2 for the xbox360 and 
 i am looking foward to writing another review for treyarchs call of duty 3 . But for now i will 
 end by saying if you do not have this game you must get it ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brendandick
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 20, 2006 3:23 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: The gameplay well it's obvious as it is a first person shooter, but the single-player 
 mode features much better AI, as the computer will actually duck if you fire at them, and not run 
 into walls if they are trying to get to you. It still features the same old grenades and what-not 
 that the others have had.
  
  Graphics: XBOX 360 has always amazed me with graphics, and these graphics amazed me aswell, the 
 muzzle flash and such are added details that make the game what it is. The snow and weather is 
 an added touch to this game that makes it look crisp and fresh.
  
  Sound and Music: It always has this sort of warish/spyish tone to the music that will most likely 
 keep you on your toes on most levels, it actually scared me once with the music building up and 
 I ran right into my friend. The sound effects of the guns and all else are great too.
  
  Tid-Bits: Great levels, guns and multiplayer.
  
  Conclusion: In conclusion if you happen to 
 own an X360 you may want to rent this game or I suggest buy it. This late in the year however, 
 I suggest you wait for number 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hcsif
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 20, 2006 11:14 am PT
Review:  This game graphic and game play wise is the best game for the 360 to date. I would def get this 
 game its worth the 60 dollars. ITs fun not to easy and has a good muilt player. Now im waiting 
 for battle feild to come out. This game graphic and game play wise is the best game for the 360 
 to date. I would def get this game its worth the 60 dollars. ITs fun not to easy and has a good 
 muilt player. Now im waiting for battle feild to come out. This game graphic and game play wise 
 is the best game for the 360 to date. I would def get this game its worth the 60 dollars. ITs fun 
 not to easy and has a good muilt player. Now im waiting for battle feild to come out. This game 
 graphic and game play wise is the best game for the 360 to date. I would def get this game its 
 worth the 60 dollars. ITs fun not to easy and has a good muilt player. Now im waiting for battle 
 feild to come out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Michael5076
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 19, 2006 11:13 pm PT
Review:  Well its deff the best of series. The campsign is awesome they have alot of work to do if they 
 want call of duty 3 to be better than two. The campaign is so action packed you cant afford to 
 blink. if you do when you open your eyes you might find yourself in a casket. The online play for 
 this game was even better than the campaign, when i first played the campaign i thought theirs 
 no way the multiplayer can be any good cuz the campaign was terrific. well i was deff wrong about 
 that online play came with great maps and extra maps to downlad.. which i deff recomend downlaoding 
 as soon as you get the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: filmfreak1138
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 18, 2006 12:38 pm PT
Review:  This game was the first game i bought when I bought my 360 last November 27th. I could not stop 
 playing the game... then I hooked it up to Xbox LIVE and the hours and hours of game play. To me... 
 this game is what Return to Castle Wolfenstein: tides of war was to the Xbox. FUN!!
  
  My friend that was in another state... we would play that game cause it was FUN!... and to me... 
 COD2 is alot of FUN.
  
  The sound... amazing... 5.1 surround sound... you hear the footsteps of people sneaking up to you 
 or walk next to you... it is great!
  
  The graphics is what you would expect coming from a next gen game
  
  To me though... the most 
 important part of a game is ... fun factor... and this game... is alot of fun
  
  Took me almost a hole YEAR to write about this game... but by now... everyone who has a 360... 
 should have this game... if not... well... then why have a 360 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paperbagman04
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 16, 2006 12:58 pm PT
Review:  When everybody first got there 360. Call of duty 2 was the one fps that screamed next gen in graphics 
 and gameplay. Call of duty 2 has ben out for about a year and its still great. The single is just 
 dropping.... Its fun and intense in the game you get to play as 3 different campaings.... One in 
 the winter.... One in the desert .... And one in germany normal weather..... The game as spectacular 
 ai.... And when your fighting .... It feels like a real war with all the hell breaking loose..... Once 
 your done wtih single player.... If you like a challenge you can try veteran mode wich is very 
 tough but also very fun. Once your done with single player... you can go online wich is just as 
 much fun as single player... Its to play and learn game... If you want a good fps... this is the 
 one to get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SwordsmanBeta10
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 13, 2006 5:40 am PT
Review:  Aaah. Call of Duty 2. This game is great. The reinactment of so many World War II battles. Gameplay-It 
 is so much fun! You think there is actually explosions and bullets flying all around you! Graphics-This 
 is a strong point to this game. The character models are okay though. Bodies just sinking into 
 the ground are kind of boring though. Graphics are still great though. Story-It is taking place 
 during WWII. That kind of story never gets old to me. The greatest battles have been recreated 
 from that timeline. My personal favroite is the D-Day assault. Three diffrent factions to play 
 as during the game, the Soviet Union, the British, and the Americans. Each faction has there own 
 weapons and color battle dress. That is an advantage during multiplayer. One time a green american 
 was hiding in a bush, and I walked right past him! He shot me in the back. All in all, get COD2! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cypher543
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 12, 2006 5:01 am PT
Review:  I played CoD2 as a demo from Xbox Magazine, and I immediately wanted to play the full game. So, 
 I rented it from Movie Gallery (who now rents out 360 games) . The game is amazing. It's so immersive 
 and detailed! It wasn't so tough that it's impossible to win, and it wasn't so easy that it was 
 boring. There was a perfect balance of difficulty throughout the game. I have to admit, the campaign 
 was pretty short, as it only took about 10 hours to complete. But, it was fun while it lasted.
 
  
  The graphics were great. Lots of special effects, such as the most realistic smoke I had ever seen, 
 explosions, and even small details such as seeing a soldier's breath during the cold levels.
  
  The sound was nice. There was a lot of variation, so it wasn't the same gunshot sound over 
 and over. The game also had a lot of ambient sounds, such as explosions in the distance, etc.
 
  
  Jumping from one soldier to the next was a good touch, since it gave a little more variation to 
 the game. It was nice to experience the war as someone other than an American, which is what most 
 games I know of do.
  
  Overall, this game is definitely something to purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robertruchotzke
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 10, 2006 5:09 pm PT
Review:  This game comes at you with so much intensity its crazy. The firefights you go through will leave 
 you wanting more and almost dead. The game gets difficult in the two higher settings but I really 
 think thats the only way to play. Achievements are well placed. You need to beat the game on the 
 hardest difficulty to get them all. I think the checkpoint system is great well placed and doesn't 
 really hurt you that much if you die. The multiplayer is also very fun I love the intensity of 
 this game it is so hardcore get this game now because it is priced down go now get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sproke
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 10, 2006 2:11 pm PT
Review:  This game is great. It has guns, british people, and jerries .
  
  Single Player
  Single Player is great. It brings you through some truly amazing and fun levels, and it lets you 
 kill your teammates. Contrary to some people's thought on the game, this is not a typical run-and-gun 
 game. The campaign contains much more than a Terminator-style murder run. The game requires strategy, 
 that's right people, strategy. You can't just run through an area, you need to use such tools as 
 the smoke grenade, and more importantly, your brain!
  
  For example, if you are in an area with tons of enemies, running into the middle and picking them 
 off won't work, oh no it won't, Mr. Commando. You will be made into a swiss-cheese soldier. Instead, 
 using cover and teamwork is the name of the game.
  
  A. I is more than stupid. It's actually good. Your teammates will lead you along the path of good 
 cover and from my experience never get stuck up against a wall.
  
  Multiplayer
  Ahh, perhaps this is the best aspect of this game. Online multiplayer is absolutely superb. Lag 
 is rare, and more often than not, it is player induced. When I say player induced, I mean smoke 
 grenades. Some small maps get major lag when people start throwing about 2 smoke grenades each, 
 and as you can imagine, this is very popular.
  
  As always, the language online is not always the cleanest, but how can you expect it to? The game 
 has no control over it.
  
  Final
  I rate this game 9.3. It's fun, it's awesome, but some of the graphics could be better. During 
 one-console multiplayer, I like to defy gravity. I crawl into other players' dead bodies and can 
 see most of the player. I mean his disembodied eyes. face. and stubble.
  Despite that, I love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _-Scorpion-_
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 9, 2006 1:05 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is one of those games that only comes along every once in a while. Its graphics 
 are stunning, the sounds are excellent, and the atmosphere is inversive. To not play it would be 
 to miss one of the best shooters to grace the 360.
  
  The graphics in the game are quite easily some of the best the 360 has to offer. The details of 
 the places you're fighting in are very realistic, and the way things look in the game really add 
 to the experience. From the smoke off in the distance, to the soldier right in front of you, everything 
 feels just right.
  
  Sound on this game is excellent. The sound of firing guns is realistic, right down to the distinctive 
 Chink when the Garand's clip runs out. The constant shelling of the area really lends to the tension 
 that you will feel while playing. The soundtrack on the opening menu is stellar. When you hear 
 music in the game, it is very uplifting because you know that you have beaten the odds and completed 
 you're mission.
  
  The replay value of this game is very good, due mostly to the excellent online features. There 
 are several different modes to play, each helping the variety of the game, but chances are you'll 
 have the most fun in death matches, be it team or single. There are several maps you have the option 
 of downloading. None of them are forced upon you, although they are good to have if you want something 
 new.
  
  The gameplay itself is easy to get into, and quite straight forward. There are 4 different dificulty 
 levels you can choose from. While the first one is incredibly easy, the forth one had me kick a 
 hole into my wall. (No Joke)
  
  In the end, this is an excellent game, and if you haven't played it, do yourself a favor and buy 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phil709
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 6, 2006 4:51 pm PT
Review:  This game is just plain fun. Veteran mode is very challenging and it is one of the best WWII games 
 out there.
  You play campaigns in 3 different nations: Soviet Union, England, and the United States. As you 
 play through the game you fight in historical battles and should have lots of fun along the way. 
 The game could get frustrating when you have to stay in the same area to protect from enemy soldiers 
 but nothing beats the explosives and story of this game. The funnest campaign is the American campaign, 
 as you fight D-Day. The first cutscene to D-Day is very similar to that of Saving Peivate Ryan 
 and is one of the most challenging parts of the game.
  I strongly recommend that you at least rent this game first. It is very good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamerdude27
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 4, 2006 12:52 pm PT
Review:  The Call of Duty series has been the king of WWII shooters ever since the original first came out. 
 It's authentic presentation, hard-hitting FPS gameplay, and an overall incredible experience trumped 
 over its competiton with ease. Call of Duty was fortunate enough to hit the sweet spot between 
 the arcade-ish Medal of Honor and the bloody realistic Brothers in Arms series. This sweet spot 
 was the cause of its huge success. Now Call of Duty 2 comes along, and while it sticks to the same 
 basic formula as its predecessor, it is still an incredible game and a truly authentic WWII experience.
 
  
  Call of Duty 2 throws you into the middle of WWII chaos like no other game has done before. It 
 sends you through three different campaigns of the allied forces by letting you play as a soldier 
 in the Russian's Red Army, the British army, and finally throws you into the American army. These 
 three unique and highly diversified campaigns let you see the war from completely differnet perspectives. 
 This type of presentation is what lends the game to being such a unique experience.
  
  The core gameplay of COD2 certainly isn't anything revolutionary, but it is still some of the best 
 FPS action around. There are some obvious improvements over the original, with the most obvious 
 being the larger and more open-ended level design. Each level will provide you with quite a few 
 different tactical routes that you can take to flank the enemy, which will pretty much be required 
 in order to survive on some of the harder difficulties. Another key feature to the gameplay are 
 the use of smoke grenades. In a situation where you must cross the path of a machine gun nest, 
 sniper, or simply a building swarmed with Germans, smoke grenades are a key strategy to passing 
 by under cover, making infantry charges much more practical and useful. While the levels still 
 follow a basic linear path, the maps still feel, look, and play very expansively. The A. I. has 
 some definite quirks, such as allies getting stuck behind barriers and not moving forward with 
 you, but as a whole, the A. I. works pretty well. You'll always see allies open fire on enemies 
 when they come into sight and they'll yell out enemy positions. You'll see enemies taking tactical 
 positions, moving around as a unit, opening fire when they're under fire, etc. But then on the 
 otherhand, you'll see them doing stupid things like running straight towards your position across 
 the battlefield or walking straight into your line of sight. Like I said, the A. I. has its quirks, 
 but it works extremely well for the most part.
  
  Another noticeable change is the health meter. Instead of having a traditional health bar and health 
 packs scattered over a map, COD2 implemented a new system that works surprisingly well. As you 
 take fire, blood will start to appear on the outside of the screen. As you take heavier fire, that 
 blood will start to flash inwards on the screen and your soldier will start to breath heavier. 
 In order to restore your health, you've got to take cover for a few seconds and let yourself heal 
 up. It sounds like it would be pathetically easy (which it is on the easy difficulty) but on hardened 
 or veteran, the game is a great challenge.
  
  The controls work flawlessly; this game is perfect to demonstrate the capabilities and comfort 
 of the 360 controller. Everything is set up perfectly and the controls will become second nature 
 to you. It is pathetic in a game when you have to take your mind out of the experience just to 
 remember the controls. COD2 combined with the 360 controller eliminate that. This is the advantage 
 that makes the 360 version better than the PC version in my mind, even despite the tweaking that 
 can be done on the PC to make it run better. The great controls contribute to my 9 gameplay rating.
 
  
  The graphics are certainly no slouch and were some of the best on the 360 at launch, but now as 
 the 360 has grown over these past few months, many games have trumped COD2 in the visual department. 
 Even still, COD2 is easily the best looking WWII game to date. Despite some low resolution textures 
 at times, the game as a whole looks great. Environments are meticulously detailed to recreate a 
 1940's atmosphere and character models are incredibly sharp. Facial detail helps to give each soldier 
 a unique look and personality. Great weather effects are added to put a mood to each mission, with 
 an example being the Russian campaign and the incredibly cold weather; you'll see soldiers rubbing 
 their hands together to keep warm and you can see smoke puffing out of their mouths in the cold. 
 Also, the smoke effects are some of the best I have ever seen. It is so dense and thick and detailed 
 that it actually feels like you're running through smoke. The game looks pretty good running in 
 standard definition, but it looks great running in its native high definition. The frame-rate is 
 also top-notch, running a buttery smooth 60 FPS at all times without any noticeable slowdown. Easily 
 the best part of the game, the sound in Call of Duty 2 can be summed up with one word: incredible. 
 Those playing on their standard TV speakers won't be able to appreciate it, but those with a full 
 surround sound setup are in for an out of this world experience. Everything from explosions to 
 machine guns to the dramatic Call of Duty music all contribute to immerse you in the experience. 
 It's actually hard to describe what it feels like; it's just something you must hear to believe. 
 In the middle of the battlefield, you'll hear squadmates yelling out enemy positions and communicating 
 with you to help you out like true soldiers. Voice-overs are done well and add a nice touch to 
 each character, but the unique sound of each gun and the sound of an explosion trembling in surround 
 sound speakers truly make it feel like you're in the midst of WWII.
  
  The presentation is another high-point for COD2. The Military Channel provides some excellent intro 
 footage prior to missions and adds a nice touch of realism. Some historical documentary style narration 
 before missions also helps to set the mood and fill the player in on what their upcoming mission 
 will involve.
  
  The single player game holds up its replayability and you'll definitely feel motivated to go through 
 it again, especially for the extra challenge on the Veteran difficulty. The single player length 
 varies on your skill and the difficulty level. For example, a somewhat experienced player should 
 be able to go through the single player on the normal difficulty in around 10 hours, but on the 
 veteran difficulty, it could take anywhere from 10 - 14 hours. The Xbox Live portion delivers for 
 the most part, but the heart of the game is in the single player. Online multiplayer gives you 
 five different modes to choose from; standard deathmatch, team deathmatch, capture-the-flag modes, 
 search-and-destroy mode, and headquarters. The biggest disappointment is that it is limited to 
 only eight players online, but it's still a blast to play with your friends. Split-screen multiplayer 
 is also available for up to four people, but system link is available for up to four 360's and 
 up to 16 people. The multiplayer maps are well designed and work well for what they do, but the 
 single player maps feel, play, and look better. Even still, split-screen multiplayer is a lot of 
 fun; it runs buttery smooth with absolutely no slow-down on the hardware.
  
  With the combination of the excellent single player, great split-screen multiplayer, and good online 
 multiplayer, Call of Duty 2 is a worthy investment. Even almost a year after it's release now, 
 this game is still one of the best playing titles on the 360. Call of Duty 2's hard-hitting, authenitc 
 WWII action and presentation should appeal to anybody looking for one of the best FPS experiences 
 around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reinehc
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 4, 2006 1:00 am PT
Review:  COD2 is a wicked game. Although the single player mission leaves you wanting more (it's too short 
 and you can't do co-op) , it's the multi player modes that make this game one of the best. You can 
 spend endless hours playing with you friends via the 4 player split screen mode, and you can also 
 spend a whole lot more time playing online through xbox live (but prepare to be ass raped by an 
 arsenal of 12 year old sniper **** The game also has amazing replay value. It's easy to start out, 
 but you can spend a lifetime perfecting your play it seems. I've owned this game for nearly a year 
 now, and it's the only game that I've never grown tired of, well other than Oblivion but that more 
 of a second life than a game. My advice, go pick up a used copy and give it a try, you'll love 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dynamonic
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 2, 2006 3:00 am PT
Review:  The Call of Duty series is well known for being 'as close to war as you'd ever want to get,' and 
 this is no exception. In fact, the way these games are going, they will actually be 'closer to 
 war than you'd want to get.'
  The Call of Duty series is the most historically accurate series in the gaming industry, and Call 
 of Duty 2 is the best one of the lot.
  When you first play the game, you are thrown head-first into the defence of Moscow as a Russian 
 Soldier! The training mission at the beginning of the Russian Campaign is unlike any other in any 
 game. Normally in a first -person shooter, you are given a huge arsenal of weapons to try out in 
 your training mission. However, in Call of Duty 2, even the training mission is accurate; There 
 isn't a rifle for you due to the weapons shortage and you are sent off to look for one. You then 
 have to use the rifle to shoot empty bottles and German helmets. Not only that, you are then told 
 to practice throwing grenades, except due to the Russion weaponry shortage, you wind up throwing 
 potatoes. This game truly is historically accurate.
  Your training mission is cut short when Germans attack the facility, abrubtly ending your training 
 session and throwing you straight into the conflict. The game spans numerous campaigns from 1941 
 to 1945 and puts you in the boots of two British soldiers, an American and a Russian soldier. Each 
 country has its own squad who due to the long length of the game, you become aware of their weaknesses, 
 strengths and their personal life. There really is a sense of emotion.
  Now to the gameplay. Your squad usually consists of a large number of soldiers who basically assist 
 you in completing the game's different objectives. Standing in your way however, is the games very 
 intelligent German AI. The enemy can flank you, chuck grenades to drive you into their line of 
 fire and runaway to get reinforcements. This game literally forces you behind cover and make you 
 use the smoke grenades in your arsenal. Being as accurate as this game is, you don't charge up 
 a hill carrying 207 different weapons and 8 tons of body armour. You are limited to two weapons, 
 three frag grenades and three smoke grenades. And three shots will be sufficient to finish you 
 off. You WILL die very quickly in the missions, but as terrible as this sounds, the games many 
 checkpoints will keep you playing until you complete the mission. The sound effects are very accurate 
 and really do, make you believe you're actually storming the beaches of Pointe-du-Hoc, especially 
 with a decent surround sound setup. The graphics are good as well. Glass and metal has proper reflections, 
 as do clothing textures, puddles and weaponry, even while keeping a solid and unbroken frame-rate. 
 The difficulty ranges from a nice perfectly manageable difficulty to nail-biting impossibility.
 
  This game is a must-have for the Xbox 360 first-person shooter person. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coolgamer48
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 1, 2006 4:36 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is one of the best games I've ever played. It has an addictive campaign that you 
 keep coming back to and great multiplayer, especially with Xbox LIve. The four difficulties give 
 it a great replay value - but even if they weren't there, you'd dtill enjoy playing the three campaigns 
 (Russian, British, American) over and over again. Graphics are great, but not exactly amazing. 
 The sound's great too.
  
  Gameplay - I don't what it is about this game's campaign, but you just want to keep playing it 
 over and over again. Is it careful level design? Is it intense combat? Who cares - this game is 
 damn fun. If you beat the game on normal, you'll go back and try to beat it on hardened and veteran 
 (or at least you should, if for nothing more than the achievment points) . The levels are really 
 addictive, and just plain fun. IF you ever get bored of the campaign (which you might if you play 
 non-stop without any breaks from other games) , you HAVE to try Xbox Live. If you ask me, it's THE 
 online game for the 360. Although there is no ranking system (well, there is, but I don't know 
 how to check what your rating actually is, I think it's all behind the scenes) , it's just tons 
 of fun like the campaign. With these two things combined, gameplay is practically perfect (I say 
 practicaly because I don't think anything is perfect - in fact I think the concept of perfect is 
 ilogical) .
  
  Graphics &amp; Sound: The graphics in this game are pretty good. But not that good. Players looks 
 realistic, but they could look a little better. Sound nice, but as long as it's realistic, you 
 don't pay it to much attention to it (not that that's bad) . A lot of the game doesn't have music, 
 but when it does, it gives the game a much more intense feeling. Voicesare done nicely.
  
  Value: Even for the full $60, every penny's worth it for this game. It'll keep you entertained 
 for a good, long time. And if you're ever feeling down cuz the game yo just bought isn't all that 
 good and you start to think the 360 suks, you just pop this baby in and you'll remember how fun 
 the 360 is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigC43
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 1, 2006 11:25 am PT
Review:  The Good: Amazing graphics and sound, environments are superb, multiplayer is outstanding, it will 
 give you a challenge, killcam.
  
  The Bad: No multiplayer achievements, Veteran difficulty is very hard, lots of campers online.
 
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  WWII has been a topic of games for quite some time, spawning series such as Metal of Honor, Brothers 
 In Arms and Call of Duty. All three of these series have put out some fantastic first person shooters, 
 but Call of Duty is one of the most authentic WWII experiences out there. Call of Duty 2 for the 
 Xbox 360 may have been a launch title, but it's still one of the top 5 best games out for the platform. 
 The first thing that you'll notise about CoD2 is the amazing graphics that the 360 can handle. 
 This game was one of the first to really show off what it can do, and it does very well. The sound 
 effects also sound fantastic in 5.1 surround sound, which add to the next gen experience. The single-player 
 campaign spans across different fronts of the war, begining with the Russians repelling the Germans 
 from taking over. the NPC squadmates are intellegent, and can help you out often, even if you can't 
 issue them commands. As far as achievements go, this game is a little stingy, but you can get a 
 bundle of achievements by beating the single player story mode on Veteran difficulty, which is 
 not an easy task. Pretty much, if you get hit once or twice directly, you die and have to start 
 from your last checkpoint. This can get irritating, but beating each level of Veteran gives you 
 an achievement, which is nice and it rewards you for your hard work. These achievements are worth 
 a lot of gamerscore each, which means that there are no achievements to be earned by playing multiplayer 
 online, which stinks, but it is a minor annoyance for a superb game. The multiplayer game features 
 standard deathmatch, team deathmatch, capture the flag, and territories, but because of the tactical 
 importance and very well done maps, these basic modes don't get old. The coolest thing about the 
 multiplayer game is killcam, which basically gives you the view of the person who killed you after 
 you die. This is very useful to discovering how and why you died and can help you plan more tactically 
 next time. There are a lot of campers with sniper rifles online, so you need to pick the weapon 
 that is right for you before jumping into battle, or else you'll constantly be sniped and loose 
 intrest in the superb multiplayer. Overall, Call of Duty 2 is a must buy on all accounts and remains 
 one of the best games the Xbox 360 has to offer.
  
  Gameplay: WWII style shooting with a tactical twist keeps CoD2 from being a run of the mill shooter. 
 It's an expereince.
  
  Graphics: Superb, some of the best visuals the Xbox 360 has to offer.
  
  Sound: War sounds 
 realistic in 5.1 surround sound.
  
  Value: Because Call of Duty 3 comes out in November, the price keeps dropping, so this game is 
 a great pick up while it's cheep.
  
  Final Thoughts: War was never this much fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaddyDeath
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 28, 2006 12:30 am PT
Review:  Frist person is an ewe inspiring journey through hell. It is nerve racking, it makes you worried 
 about the next near miss might be a little closer. That maybe you won't be alright. That this is 
 so intense it must of went down like that. You feel a sense of pride as if you just did something. 
 Yes my friends only one in a while does something so solid come a long. It is a true diamond. Okay 
 there is this one thing and it drives me insane. What the Hell happened to the online rankings?????????? 
 You don't know who your playing with, have no idea who your talking to. Okay thats it, the game 
 is to awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kevin360
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 24, 2006 5:02 pm PT
Review:  this game is freakin awesome... Its has a very fun campaign with lots of cool explosions.. It also 
 has fun online play.. The replay value is very good especially because of the single player.... If 
 you like lots of action and feel like terring up some germans this is the game for you. get this 
 game get this game get this game get this game get this game get this gameget this game get this 
 game get this game get this game get this game get this gameget this game get this game get this 
 game get this game get this game get this gameget this game get this game get this game get this 
 game get this game get this gameget this game get this game get this game get this game get this 
 game get this gameget this game get this game get this game get this game get this game get this 
 gameget this game get this game get this game get this game get this game get this gameget this 
 game get this game get this game get this game get this game get this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: b_blakeney
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 20, 2006 4:52 pm PT
Review:  Wow. What to say about a game that's already blown people's minds for damn near a year now...? 
 I just decided to play this through at a friend's house after an all-night event that Infinity 
 Ward hosted at Arena Lounge in Los Angeles. I had played it only once for about ten minutes previously, 
 but I was surprised to find that I took two of six matches with the IW testers. That's probably 
 why I decided to check it out.
  
  You'll start out in the trenches of an embattled Moscow as a Russian troop. The tutorial level 
 is well-integrated with the storyline (s) , and a journal entry in the corresponding character's 
 war diary makes the quick load times pass by in a flash. The entries are worth reading, as well, 
 as they give you some insight into the gist of your mission. Once you battle your way through the 
 Russian proving grounds, you'll slide over to the British Campaign, dropped in the midst of a night-time 
 firefight in North Africa. Once you earn your stripes on foreign soil, you'll be brought back to 
 bring the battle home to Europe, this time around taking control of an American GI in Normandy. 
 For the game's finale, you fight your way through a brutal D-Day conflict to take over German artillery. 
 The whole way through, you're captivated by the realism of the combat. IW eliminates the need for 
 a HUD; ironsights and a quickening pulse take its place. You'll feel every bullet that hits, and 
 rush to cover as though it's your own ass that's on the line. And speaking of cover, the game uses 
 a unique bit of coding which enables you to take cover behind the smoke provided by your secondary 
 grenades. It's not a breathtaking upgrade, but it adds a nice layer of strategy to a genre that 
 could do with some revamping.
  
  Giving the NPCs names was another brilliant move, especially since the replay value of CoD: 2 is 
 so immensely high. You'll find yourself yelling, Davies, no! Get back! as the digital manifestation 
 of a doomed soldier is torn to pieces in a Kraut ambush. Musically, the game's score is breathtaking, 
 featuring beautifully orchestrated tracks by Graeme Revell, of Hollywood fame. The mix of bullets 
 whizzing by and violin crescendos alone makes this game worth playing. Graphically, the game will 
 blow your mind; it's a true travesty to play this game on anything other than a 50-inch HDTV. Normal 
 maps are used expertly, blood is used sparingly, and the combat is so intense; so visceral. The 
 animations make you feel near-sympathetic to the German troop you just clubbed in the head with 
 your Tommy Gun. It's truly an amazing sight to behold, and you'll feel content just watching a 
 friend play.
  
  Throw all of these elements in and You've got Call of Duty 2.
  
  Thanks for Reading,
  
  --B 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1234killa4571
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 20, 2006 2:42 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty 2 is one of the game that you blow the poop out of every one u see! Call of duty had 
 different Teams. like Russian or Germon.
  i like the russian people the guns are like the best thogh the dang game.
  But Hey thats just 
 me and all You Probably want to try this the Story Modes Awsome!!!!! But there is still Online play 
 its pritty good and all but the swearing is really bad but if a game is clean your'l have a really 
 Fun time.
  You could probably play it for like 24 Hours or maybe even longer and longer. If your Super good 
 this shouldent be a problem. If your getting bored of Online play u should beat all the diffent 
 hardnesses. Must of the people who play this give Call of duty a thumb Up!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LedZeppGuy32
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 16, 2006 5:27 pm PT
Review:  FPS have the ability to do 2 things, Suck terribly, or Be Amazing, COD2 fits into option 2. The 
 gameplay is AWESOME, AI is smart, and wont let you plow them all down, Graphics arent great, but 
 really arent any flaws, The sound is Incredible the closer the bullet is, the more different it 
 sounds, Joyful joyful joyful sounds of death, Grenades sound oh so real, and the battle field sounds 
 like you were right there! The awesome style, gameplay, and sound, and Online play, makes you wanna 
 keep playing and playing, the game is different from other WW2 shooters, buy it play it, eat it..... i 
 mean love it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cedbrooks
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 15, 2006 4:02 pm PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying the Call of Duty 2 is easily the best WWII game I have played. I have 
 had the game since launch and it still has not gotten boring to me yet. The Campaign mode is somewhat 
 of a challenge on normal settings but when you turn the difficulty up to Veteran, it becomes the 
 most one of the most intense games I have ever played before. There are plenty of missions in the 
 game. It should take you about 6-11 hours to complete all of the missions. At first, the online 
 play was screwed up, but the patch fixed the online play greatly. It is clearly now the best feature 
 of the entire game. Although the online play is still not perfect, it is still playable and enjoyable. 
 With the new maps on the market it made the online feature even more enjoyable. This is a great 
 game overall and it is a must buy. I cannot wait until Call of Duty 3 comes out in a couple of 
 months. I know the online play on the upcoming Call of Duty 3 will great from the start. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mleach26
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 15, 2006 8:02 am PT
Review:  I was surprised by this game. I bought it on a whim from my local woolworths and have found it 
 to be the most challenging WWII shooter I have played to date. The intense action and seat of 
 your pants shooting really keeps you on the edge. The sounds of bombs dropping all around you 
 and German soldiers shouting at you and each other makes the atmosphere just right. The HD graphics 
 give this game a real edge over the last gen WWII titles. The campaigns are solid and the presentation 
 is excellent. I recommend this to anyone who is interested in the WWII shooter genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 121212121211121
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 13, 2006 4:52 pm PT
Review:  When I first got the 360 already in my mind I had one game that I had to get, and that game was 
 Call of Duty 2!! When I finally started playing it I was instently glued to my tv. Call of Duty 
 2 for the 360 takes all the fun from the first game and lets you play it all over again this time 
 in high def. graphics!! Just like in the first one you get to play as 3 different countries fro 
 the allies, only it's reversed in this game. You start off as the Soviet Union defending Stralinan 
 and reclaiming parts of Russia. Then you play as the British defending Africa. Then finally you 
 play as the good old U. S. A. This game is asomome and an instant classic for the 360. With massive 
 online play Xbox Live this game is a must not miss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Old_Gooseberry
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 13, 2006 9:32 am PT
Review:  Great graphics, runs almost perfect, and the controls are extremely well done when you compare 
 them to other console FPS games. The melee attack seemed fairly weak though.
  
  The fact that there isn't any health points in this game is brilliant. You can take a few amount 
 of hits (depending on the difficulty level you are playing at) . Screen goes red, you hide. Its 
 great not worry about finding medkits. A idea borrowed from Halo 2 it looks like.
  
  X360 achievements take a while to get, I doubt I'll ever finish the game on veteran, but who knows? 
 I liked how the storyline followed different sides of the allies... maybe one day they'll let you 
 play as germans.
  
  There is no chance to walk around and explore, all the levels are lined out to guide you quickly 
 through the storyline keeping the pace up and you involved in it. Which is too bad, because some 
 of the more open levels were very fun.
  
  I still haven't played this online so I'm not sure what its like. But the X360 version requires 
 xbox live.
  
  So far this is the best WW2 FPS game i've played. Only small complainents was I wanted to destroy 
 more objects, and I wanted bullet holes to show on bodies when I shot them. However, they don't 
 need to go to the "Soldier of Fortune" extreme level of violence... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameFreak5577
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 12, 2006 5:26 pm PT
Review:  Alright, if you like old war games, well this one is just for you! I do not have this game yet 
 but i will within a couple weeks, plus i need to get my 360 to. So i will have to get both of these! 
 I played this game at my cousins house, and trust me, it is the best war game out there. 10 out 
 of 10, no problem! I really want you guys to get it and even get a chance to see how real it is. 
 Trust me its, WORTH IT! Get it. You will not regret it, i promise you that, the only way you can 
 regret it is if you do not like war games so get it and ENJOY IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darth_brett
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 4, 2006 10:05 pm PT
Review:  Even though Call of Duty 2 is almost a year old now, it still is an excellent FPS that delivers 
 all the action and adrenaline-pumping moments you'd expect from a WWII era shooter. The game looks 
 amazing and sounds just as good. The level layouts and design are incredibly long and well thought 
 out. The game also offers a challenge to novices on the easiest setting and will test the will 
 of even the most hardened gamers on it's Veteran setting. Even after beating the game you will 
 find yourself trying to score all 1000 achievement points because it is such an enjoyable experience. 
 Addicting and a blast, I highly recommend COD2 to any FPS fans! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TerminalEcho
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 11, 2006 8:24 pm PT
Review:  What can we say about COD2? Other than the fact that it was one of the only (and probably the best) 
 FPS on the market for the 360 for the first few months of the 360's short career, people were asking, 
 "why buy COD2?" Well lets look at this logically for one moment:
  Graphically, it was maybe the best game for the 360 at launch. And all that extra hardware in the 
 360 that the previous system didn't have, was put to good use for this game. Between the eerie 
 feeling of small towns that are inhabited only by German forces that want you dead, to the dusty 
 and loud beach landing of Normandy, and the ever memorable Hill 400 attack, this game puts you 
 in the war like no other WWII game has. Activision did a great job putting together the soldiers 
 of both the allied, and the German front, both with their own little touches that make them look 
 as life-like as ever. The environments are big, and the sounds really submerse you in a gaming 
 experience that you won't soon forget.
  One of the most impressive points of the game for me, was the weapons. Between the Thompson, the 
 MP-40, and my personal favorite, the "potato-masher" grenade, this game has just about every weapon 
 from the era that was heavily used by either the allied forces or the axis. The sounds, rate-of-fire, 
 differentiating accuracy, and look of these weapons really make it feel like you're the one pulling 
 the trigger. And there's nothing sweeter than actually being able to see your enemy drop, while 
 looking down the sight, after a well place bullet has just left the barrel.
  As for the enemy AI, expect a fierce fight from your foes, as they will not only shoot back with 
 great accuracy, but they'll also hide behind cover, attempt to flank you, and toss back that greatly 
 thrown grenade you just lobbed. As for your guys, they have the same technology in them that the 
 enemies do. They'll hide themselves, call for cover while they reload, and even toss an enemy grenade 
 back at the thrower if drops close to them.
  With all those great things aside, don't get me wrong, the game does have it's flaws. While the 
 designers made sure that you have allies fighting with you at all times, the enemy always seems 
 to throw a little extra firepower your way, regardless. And the AI does show it wear late in the 
 game, as your guys become a bit dumbfounded by the enemy fire, and don't hesitate to walk right 
 out in the path of oncoming bullets. Other than that, my only real complaint is the reoccurring 
 level design during the British campaign. Fighting in the desert becomes a bit old after about 
 10-12 segments straight. There's only so much you can do with dust and sand.
  Now that that's all been said, if you put all of the pluses on side of the scale, and all of the 
 negatives on the other, the plus side will hit the ground hard, propelling any complaints I have 
 straight into the air. This game is a fantastic shooter, and activision did about everything right 
 while putting this one together. My hats off to them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mysterrockstar
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 10, 2006 12:24 pm PT
Review:  I don't like first person shooters, or at least I just thought I didn't. COD 2 changed everything. 
 When the game first started out with the training segment I was quite impressed with the graphics 
 (this was the first 360 game I ever played) , actually I was blown away, almost literally. The sound 
 was phenomenal, and that is when I realized i would never survive a real war. I wanted to cower 
 in the corner and ask for my mom, but the reality that this was only a video game set in.
  
  Shooting was dead on. Where I shot, that is where the bullet hit. AI was incredible. I loved 
 and hated that the enemy would throw grenades, with good aim, and not miss any opportunity to shoot 
 me.
  
  Being that this was really the first fps that I finished, I did start on the medium difficulty, 
 now I am going back to prove that I can and will be a veteran. The story (what there was of one) , 
 was awesome and helped me to immerse myself into this incredible game.
  
  If you don't like first-person shooters, play this game. Aiming is relatively easy and you get 
 support from your comrades (or whatever the case may be) , just don't rely on them. You will also 
 get ordered to do some seemingly impossible single mission, but they are great. The checkpoint 
 saves come at just the right time.
  
  After getting mobbed by tons of Germans, one of the best feelings will wash over you. Satisfaction, 
 that somehow you turned the tide in the war. I may not be old enough to have been in WWII but, 
 damn they had balls back then, and what you experience in this game may only be the tip of the 
 iceberg of what the real-life troops experienced, but I can tell you one thing, you will respect 
 the men that fought in the war. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: honkyjoe
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 10, 2006 12:10 pm PT
Review:  COD 2 couldnt get any better when it comes to multiplayer and an amzing campaign. The strong poit 
 of this game is the online play that has no lag and plenty of online gamemodes and options. The 
 campaign is also absolutly brilliant and any begginers of the genre will not find it overly diffucult 
 to pick up and control. The voiceacting is superb and the graphics are the best ive ever seen. The 
 AI is sometimes overly depentdent on what you do and sometimes they can just leave you in the face 
 of battle. BUt besides that extremely small problem COD 2 is a very impressive game that anyone 
 who wants a good ww2 shooter should pick up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stryking_Fyre
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 11, 2006 7:22 pm PT
Review:  Easily one of the best games to grace the 360's launch titles, Call of Duty 2 delivers in every 
 way possible. The gameplay, story, and controls are blended into one perfect package that is rarely 
 seen in the video game industry now. Taking one of the first leaps into the next generation, Infinity 
 Ward shines with COD 2. 
  
  For a launch title, Call of Duty's graphics are absolutely top-notch. From the subtle effects of 
 weather conditions, to the particle effects from grenade and tank explosions. Everything is well-rounded 
 and done amazingly well. Character models and textures on some objects are not the best you'll 
 ever see, but the textures and models easily fit into that 'next-gen' mold quite comfortably.
 
  
  From the sound of your mounted M160, to that of a grenade explosion, a WWII fighter swooping in 
 from above you, or even the constant chatter of the enemy and allies.. COD2 nails the sounds right 
 down the very smallest detail. With a nice 5.1 surround sound system, the sounds will immerse you 
 even more so into the historical battle.
  
  The control scheme seems perfectly suited for the Xbox 360's controller. In COD 2 you play through 
 3 different epic campaigns, the missions included in each will put you through different scenarios 
 ranging from defending a town from a controlled point while an onslaught of enemies comes at you 
 from every direction, immersing yourself in tank battles, escape missions, taking over enemy strong 
 points and buildings, and so on. The variation of gameplay in COD2 is varied very nicely, you'll 
 also have the option of approaching different mission objectives in your own unique ways. 
  
  I myself, have racked up close to 40 hours on Call of Duty 2 during the single player campaign 
 alone (Veteran difficulty is tough) , if you add in the multiplayer game mode, and the ridiculously 
 hard achievements, the re-playability of COD2 is upwards of 50+ hours. Well worth the retail price, 
 don't look to go zooming through this game in a 3 day period... definitely buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hajrudin01
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 9, 2006 10:14 am PT
Review:  Ok, 360 games are 60 bucks right? Yeah well this game was EASILY worth it. You get it and start 
 to play it and think this is an "ok" game, but then next thing you know your yelling "Come on guys 
 take him out" or "SNIPER GET DOWN." Any way my point is you really get into the game and it gets 
 really fun. The thing I really liked was you could change the difficulty to something that was 
 right for you. I thought that was pretty cool. The learning curve wasn't that long, I mean there 
 isn't much to learn cause it's a straight up gunning game with the occasional tank that you use. 
 So it's not that hard to learn. The sound was amazing you could here every shot fired and your 
 men yelling "Get down" and telling you where the enemy where coming from witch also show's amazing 
 AI. I mean they would actually help you. I know what your thinking come on Hajrudin there has to 
 be something wrong with this game and sadly there is. This game was ALMOST perfect but it got glitchy 
 every now and then, and let me tell you how. Ok well I was playing on veteran (The hardest difficulty) 
 and I was hiding behind a wall for cover. Here's where the glitch came in... The enemy's gun glitched 
 though the wall and shoot me, I was like wtf?? This was not the first time it had happened. But 
 thats about it for the cons. But there could be some glitch's that I missed so it could be worst.. 
 All and all it's a good game and worht playing so for all you 360 owners go out and get it!!!!!
 
  
  Thanks for reading!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigblued89
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 6, 2006 11:51 pm PT
Review:  This was the first game that I played on the 360. This game is the best WWII game I've ever played. 
 First off, the graphics are amazing. The character models look great and the environments are awesome. 
 The AI is insane, especially on Veteran. The sound is just as good, the guns sound great and the 
 music is good...... when it's there. The controls are really good, very responsive. The action is 
 fast-paced and intense. One of the most intense games I've ever played. I have one complaint about 
 this game, and it is a big one. In one of the levels, you are in a tank that you can't control. 
 It is very hard to control it. I got through the level, but it is almost impossible on veteran. 
 Other than that, great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lkoz91
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 6, 2006 11:12 am PT
Review:  This is one of the most addicting online games for the Xbox 360. But to my belief, it has many 
 flaws that can occur very often such as shooting a gun. It can seem like you've shot your enemy 
 first and in the head but he will kill you. Also when you have your crosshairs aimed at his head 
 and you should it will completely miss him. Vise Versa, when you miss him it will actually kill 
 him. Little things like this can make some gamers very aggovated at themselves and the game causing 
 tantrums and throwing of controllers. On the plus side, if you don't mind spending 4 extra bucks 
 once in a while, they are always coming out with new maps for it on the marketplace. The singleplayer 
 uses some of the multiplayer maps in the storyline and it is very exciting but a bit short. In 
 the end, I still suggest you buy this game because of the great gameplay!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ubiquityxx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 6, 2006 12:17 am PT
Review:  What a great game. I rented this alongside Farcry Predator Instincts - and I'm glad I did. This 
 is the second FPS game I've played on my 360 and had a great time doing it. The control mechanism 
 is on-point.
  
  This is the first Call of Duty I've played through and I couldn't appreciate the progression through 
 missions and campaigns more. What a joy to be able to focus on the story and your impact on events 
 without having to be concerned about reloads and replaying parts of a mission. That was put to 
 a minimum with this title - and my understanding and immersion into the COD2 world was deep.
  
  About 3/4 way through the game though I started to get anxious and wanted the game to end. 
 I honestly couldn't kill anymore. I felt like that's all I was doing - and though I understand 
 death in the context of the time line and genre of game I was playing I was simply overwhelmed. 
 I put the controller down and came back the next day. Not fun.
  
  My thoughts on that reaction are one of wishing the developer took the time to break up the action 
 a bit by throwing in some support or passive missions not requiring the player to don a weapon 
 and kill.
  
  Beautiful game, seamless save system, balanced and a killer multiplayer to boot. Unless Call of 
 Duty 3 scores in the 9's I won't be picking it up - If this is any indication I already know what 
 to expect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phillipo2934
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 5, 2006 4:58 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome. It has to be the best one in the call of duty series. The missions are great. 
 They have great camera angles. I also like when you aim there is no cross hair. You have to use 
 the guns target. The background sound is amazing hearing the guns and cannons in the background 
 gets you really immersed. The graphics are amazing. The blood spewing out when you shoot the guys 
 is sweet. The multiplayer is fun also. You pick the weapons and your country. With many levels 
 for multiplayer. This is a great starter game. The best graphics in the game is when you are in 
 North Africa with the British. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mecheye
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 5, 2006 9:44 am PT
Review:  This was the game that Microsoft fronted as their posterchild for the 360. It was this game that 
 you could play at Best Buy before the 360 even came out, and it was this game that made me a believer. 
 When I got my 360 a month after the launch, I received four games (I have reviewed them all if 
 your interested) and this was the first disc i threw into the 360. Minus the fact that my 360 was 
 broken when i first opened it, this game was all i needed to be convinced. The characters talked, 
 and moved their mouths at the same time! The gunfire sounds matched when they flew by, and the 
 realism of the background, and how quickly you died was all believable. The game simply came together 
 well. I think that this still should be the first shooter you get for the 360 if you buy the system 
 (then Perfect Dark Zero and then Ghost Recon) because this game is just fun. It can be very hard 
 if you want it to be, but you know it is not impossible. I must have died a 1000 times in the hardcore 
 mode, but i got all the way thru, and that felt awesome. It is still one fo the few games i have 
 played until completion. That says a lot for me, because i had three other great games in the my 
 collection, and i finished this one before i really ever dove into the others. As a serious gamer, 
 that comes as some high praise to a game. Are the graphics perfect? No. Ghost recon has better 
 graphics and better sound for that matter, and many more guns. But i would still say to get this 
 game first, because it is honestly a crazy action game that never lets up, and constantly keeps 
 you moving. There are so many things happening on the screen at once, and if you have an HD tv 
 and surround sound, you will duck when planes go bombing overhead. It is that intense, and that 
 intensity is what makes this game. It feels crazy and rushed, and that is how war was back then, 
 so this game has acheived it goal. Can't wait until Call of Duty 3 comes out, I am sure it will 
 be more of the same. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StrangeMeeting
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 4, 2006 1:48 pm PT
Review:  Good game. Can't complain. I don't love first person shooters but I like this one. Best 360 launch 
 title.
  
  I mainly play this in multiplayer mode which makes it have some serious replay value. The one player 
 game is really good as well, but some of them do get a little repetitive. It would be nice to have 
 a little more freedom in the level design. Call of Duty 3 could only get better.
  
  The sound is spot on for a war game. The gun blasts are very real and in your face. The sound actually 
 is one of my favorite aspects of the gamel.
  
  On live the game used to be quite mediocre but has started to kick up due to the new patches, that 
 help eliminate lag, and the new downloadable multiplayer levels. Good stuff indeed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamespoting
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 24, 2007 9:51 pm PT
Review:  The Good: incredibly smooth, and intuitive controls; extremely intense and frantic shooting in 
 both the single and multiplayer modes; great selection of real WWII weapons; well designed achievements 
 encourage you to tune your skills to beat the veteran difficulty; a simple, yet highly addictive 
 multiplayer component will keep you playing for months;
  
  The Bad: the graphics could use a little tuning in some places to sharpen some ugly textures;
 
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Call of Duty 2 was a launch title for the Xbox 360 and aguabally the best one. It has some of the 
 most intense, frantic gameplay you'll find on any console or computer. The controls are so intuitive 
 and responsive you will think you are playing on a PC. The multiplayer is great and is still the 
 most played online game for the 360. You will lose hours in it. The campaign is amazing and packs 
 some challenge from the veteran difficulty. The graphics are solid and run without any framerate 
 problems even in the most intense battles. The sound is top notch with great gun effects and explosions. 
 You will almost feel like you are in the actual fight. If you are a proud Xbox 360 owner, you need 
 this game. This and Oblivion could last you for months. Buy it. Play it. Love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deathwillcome
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 4, 2006 12:56 pm PT
Review:  Whoever played Call of Duty and loved it will adore Call of Duty 2.
  
  Single Player story line is awesome, you get to play Russian, British and American, as usual and 
 see great shooting action and game play. Some missions are purely sniping, some of them are tactical 
 and some of them are purelly rampage. Best action in the game, driving a tank and busting everything 
 in your sight.
  
  Multiplayer is always extreme. The fact that you have options such has capture the flag, headquarters, 
 deathmatch... are impossible to beat. One thing for sure, some maps don't challenge some people. 
 Some maps are so open that you have no other option then to grab a sniper and aim, which unfortunatly 
 offers no challenge.
  
  But this game, is still number one. Best multiplayer game ever! Its unfortunate that they have 
 no Xbox live achievements for online action. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigCat2K20
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 4, 2006 1:09 am PT
Review:  I've rented the game on my birthday last month and it was fun! It took me a week to beat it. The 
 gameplay is very smooth, graphics look great, sound is off the charts, Infinity Ward does an excellent 
 job having some scenes from Military Channel and enemy A. I. gives me a challenge. Those are my 
 pros. My cons are the game will freeze up when I advance to the next mission, people online are 
 jerks and the missions are short. If you're an Call of Duty fan, this is a must buy. If not, you'll 
 be missing out something special. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D3ADLUS
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 3, 2006 7:05 pm PT
Review:  COD2 definetly doesn't dissappoint. This is one of those games that pulls you in and make you feel 
 like you are part of the War. The action never stops in this game. There's always something happening 
 in the background. I also like how you can set the difficulty settings, which is great for newbies 
 on FPSers. I'm not a good FPS gamer myself so this setting is perfect. The graphics are really 
 good, especially the smokes and the snow. The character models looks very close to real life. However, 
 in some areas, you will see jaggies, but that's fine because so many things are happening in the 
 game, you won't really have a chance to look at jaggies.
  
  The sound quality is never heard of. I have this game hooked up to my receiver and it sounds like 
 it's so real that you actually dodge for bullets during gameplay. This game's sound is perfect.
 
  
  All in all, this game is a great one. If you have a XBox 360, you definitely have to get this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tarnell
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 2, 2006 2:09 pm PT
Review:  I think that COD2 is the best war game there is right now. Graphics and gameplay are amazing and 
 controls are easy. I love it. It's the best. Call of Duty is the best series. Playing the game 
 makes you actually feel that you are in WWII. Infinity Ward should be proud to have been able to 
 work on this game. There is not one bad thing about it. And the online play is spectacular. I give 
 it 2 thumbs way up. When you play online i love how you get to create your own name, design your 
 own server, choose your team and pick your weapon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Almighty-mints
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 2, 2006 8:30 am PT
Review:  Call of duty is a the best WW2 series ever made. I used to think the first COD was the best but 
 now that COD2 is out, it has quickly taken the throne of best WW2 game ever!
  
  Difficulty: I gave this section Just Right because there is a diffulculty for all levels of gamers. 
 The only problem I have with the difficulty is how the acheivements all have to do with that diffulculty 
 and it can be quite hard. I must have broken atleast 3 controllers playing it on veteran!
  
  Learning curve: Because I'm a big fan of shooters learning how to play this game was so easy. 
 Just about any console shooter uses the same exact controls. Having a basic knowledge of WW2 guns 
 helped me know right off the bat what guns suck and what guns are noobish, but a newcomer at WW2 
 games may have trouble figuring this out!
  
  Time spent playing: Because this is one of the best online shooters i've played since Halo 2 i've 
 atleast played this for more than 100 hours, but I could be wrong as this game does not have a 
 clock. Graphics: When I first bought this game at the launch my jaw dropped at the sight of just 
 seeing the opening cut-scene. But now that i've seen graphics like oblivion and G. R. A. W. I must 
 say that Cod2 is not nearlly as impressive. Another down to the graphics is that if you do not 
 own a HD TV the graphics are only a half step up from regular Xbox!!
  
  Sound: Well because my Dad set it up on my living room TV we also connceted the 360 to surround 
 sound and I must say OMFG IT'S ONE OF THE BEST SOUNDING GAME EVER! The guns sound very close to 
 the real thing, explosions need some work but they still sound prety good, and my favorite part... 
 when you kill someone and there in game person starts screaming! Now I have played this game on 
 a regular TV and the sound is just average.
  
  Gameplay: Easy to use, even my 48 year old Dad can play it pretty smoothly, and absoulutly no problems 
 with it. Even a noobie to shooting games can pick it up and learn how to play in a matter of 5 
 minutes. Another thing, the guns all have their own type of firing system so they all shoot very 
 differently, meaning some more acurate and some less. Value: The single player to me is not replayable 
 so there's not much value or replayability for someone who does not own Xbox Live. But for someone 
 who does this game can last months more than it's supposed to. There are still 1000s of people 
 playing online so it"s guaranteed to get a game.
  
  There is one minor flaw in this game. No vehicles what kind of crap is that!?! The only time you 
 get to use a vehicle is when you get to do the single player level with the tanks and thats it!
 
  
  So overall this game is a must have for any 360 owner! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shawn7324
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 30, 2006 7:42 am PT
Review:  What you want out of a war game?? Pretty much, this game has everything. The visuals are just amazing, 
 look just flat out awesome on HD. Loaded and detailed in every aspect, only lacking one feature 
 that I know of. I think every game in this genre should always have offline CO-OP. The lacking 
 of mission to mission CO-OP keeps this game from getting a 10, but with all the other near perfect 
 aspects that it does include in a superb manner the lack of CO-OP alone doesn't really put as much 
 of a blow on the game itself as that of say Socom on PS2. One thing I really love about this game, 
 is when playing it with the surround sound system. I got the speakers all wrapped around the room, 
 and it sounds damn near like being at war for real, freaks you out sometimes. I was kind of iffy 
 on buying this game, because I just got the 360 and I knew Call Of Duty 3 was not far from releasing, 
 but I would have really missed out if I hadn't. So, after playing this game, Call Of Duty 3 now 
 becomes a definite Pre-Order, making me really dig in my pockets deep since I've already Pre-Ordered 
 Gears Of War and Rainbow Six Vegas. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: regiman
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 27, 2006 7:32 am PT
Review:  I started my Call of Duty days back a couple years ago when I have my cousin Call of Duty: Finest 
 Hour for his birthday. A year or so later I got bored of all my Gamecube games so I went and bought 
 Call of Duty 2: Big Red One. It was pretty good, but not of what I tought of a excellent WW2 game. 
 So i get this nice new Xbox360 for my birthday and decide to give Call of Duty another chance. 
 Within the first level of Campaign, I knew that it was the best WW2 game ever.
  
  Now my review of the game.
  
  Gameplay: Call of Duty 2 has an amazing Campaign. Ranging from 
 the dark Egyptian deserts to the bloodbath that is D-Day, Call of Duty 2 has a level for everyone. 
 The multiplayer is great. The only problem with it is it sometimes lags and some of the maps are 
 the same just with little changes.
  
  Graphics: I have to say, for a launch title, Call of Duty 2 has great graphics. It really feels 
 like you're fighting in WW2.
  
  Sound: Call of Duty 2 is a great simulater of WW2. The graphics, gameplay and especially its sound 
 really makes a fun game.
  
  The Bad: I have only 3 problems with Call of Duty 2. The first is that the Campaign is great, but 
 just a bit short. The second is on the level Road to Hill 400 (or whatever) , sometimes the dead 
 bodies sink into the ground. And last, is that there are no item physics whatsoever. My friend 
 shot a lantern with a pansershreck (or whatever) and it didn't have a scratch.
  
  All around Call of Duty 2 for the Xbox360 is a great game for all WW2 first-person shooter fans. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: airboyk2
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 26, 2006 1:15 pm PT
Review:  this is by far my favorite game on the xbox 30 so far i have completed the game on vetren farly 
 easy. But multiplayer has it all get in a clan then truly it developes a botherhood within the 
 clan! I would pay up to 100 for this game and im sure if you bought it and had my experiences you 
 would too. I just cant wait now to see were call of duty 3 will take us and if it can live up to 
 the expectations of this game. You can be the judge of that! The only problem is that there is 
 too many noobs online using the over powered trench gun so if you get this game and do no want 
 people screeming at you"F***ING NOOB" i would suggest not using the trench gun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alo_revolution
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 25, 2006 2:50 pm PT
Review:  I love Call of Duty 2! The game is breathtaking from the time you pick up the controller to the 
 time you put it down. If you want an in depth shooting experience this games for you. Intense firefights, 
 Amazing graphics, and out of this world game play. Your partners in this game have phenomenal A. I 
 and they can take care of them selves. They duck behind cover; they help you and reload when they 
 have to. Call of Duty 2 starts were Call of Duty leaves off. You have three campaigns you can go 
 through: The British, American (off course) , and Russian. In the British campaign you fight the 
 Nazis in South Africa, In American campaign you fight through Dooms Day and in the Russian campaign 
 you fight through Europe. Lets turn to online play you can play all the essentials: Capture the 
 Flag, and Death match and its very good considering its the best Xbox 360 WW2 shooter to date. 
 I love this game very much and I recommend it to anyone who doesnt have it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaddDogg05
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 22, 2006 12:27 pm PT
Review:  I have recently played C. O. D II and it's really fun (especially online) this game has a really 
 solid story also, but I really play it just for online. If you have a 360 and you have online I 
 really recommend you buy this game. But even if you don't have online it's still pretty fun just 
 to play with your friends. Also the maps are pretty good too. Also in the story mode the stone 
 line is really good, the A. I. is fair, and your people don't just run out in the open like some 
 games. Overall this game is fun no matter what. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Meteor7
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 22, 2006 1:30 am PT
Review:  A great WW2 Game is sometimes hard to come by, but some of them teaches you that war is hell and 
 this game shows you the lives that were lost and the heroes of the war.
  
  The Game is easy to learn and really really really addictive you can play for hours and not stop. 
 The Graphics are great looking it's feels like your in the battles and it shows more emotion than 
 most other games, The Story is so cool that it made me play the game 10 times in a row (True fact) 
 I played on hard and it really wasnt that hard at all it is easy to stay alive at certain times 
 of the game. Probably my favorite mission type was USA or Soviets.
  
  The game also has great Multiplayer, so that the fun wont stop right when you finish the missions 
 for the 1000th time in a row. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tblack7073
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 21, 2006 3:34 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty: Finest Hour won game of the year years back and since then, there has ben 100's of 
 ww2 games, but all failed. Even before that, there has ben bad ww2 games. The Medal of Honer series 
 has fun ww2 games, but not as good as Call of Duty. In 2005, the XBOX 360 came out, with it Call 
 of Duty 2. Yes, there has ben Call of Duty 2 for PC, but I never played it. The story line is nice. 
 So is the graphics and gameplay. The game has some of the best AI I have ever seen is a game. What 
 most won me over was the online play. I play COD2 online almost every day. Fans of first person 
 shooters will love this game. My XBOX gametag is blackkat7073 if you want to play Call of Duty 
 2 with me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Champ721
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 21, 2006 1:27 pm PT
Review:  WW2 games seem to have a genre of their own nowadays. There are so many WW2 games out there now 
 that you might have not have even bothered to pick this game up. But if you've played games from 
 the Medal of Honor series, Brothers in Arms, or other Call of Duty games, or just any First Person 
 Shooter, then chances are that you'll enjoy this game.
  
  We've all been gunning down virtual Nazis for years, but this game makes it a unique experience. 
 The action is very polished. You can tell the developers worked hard to give this game an authentic 
 WW2 feel to it. The single player is a truly epic journey, allowing you to play as Russia, Great 
 Britain, and the United States. 
  
  One of the best parts of single player is that you actually have people helping you. In Medal of 
 Honor, for example, I was always forced to fight solo. It made it look like one soldier single-handedly 
 won the war. Call of Duty 2 doesn't make this common mistake.
  
  The graphics are great. Look around and you can see detailed and lifelike environments and faces. 
 Another good thing is that the graphics aren't so overly shiny to the point you get sick, like 
 in Perfect Dark Zero. There are explosions, Nazis, and bullets all over the place and I haven't 
 encountered any framerate issues.
  
  The sound is fantastic as well. The explosions and gun fire sound very real. The voice overs are 
 very professional, if not a bit over-used, however. Your teammates talk just a little too much; 
 they seem to congratulate themselves after every kill.
  
  One thing you'll notice after a while is that there are only a few types of weapons. Weapons fall 
 into these categories: automatic rifles, semi-automatic rifles, light machine guns, heavy machine 
 guns, and a sniper rifle (and a shotgun in multiplayer) . There are just different versions of each 
 one for each country.
  
  Aiming is very well implemented in this game, too. It's easy to navigate between targets, although 
 it doesn't always lock onto the guy you want it to. There could be a guy running away and another 
 shooting and about to kill you, and it occasionally aims for the fleeing guy. Although, this is 
 controllable if you know what you're doing, but new players may have this problem.
  
  Another thing I don't like about the close-up combat is that it is difficult to move backwards. 
 I don't really know why, but whenever I try to back out of a room, I always hit something on the 
 floor that prevents me from moving or I hit the wall. That happens a lot outdoors, too. This is 
 especially annoying on Veteran, the hardest difficulty.
  
  Veteran mode is essential if you're trying to rack up the achievements. Some levels, its manageable 
 and a fun challenge, but on others, it's just stupid hard. Some guy will always just pop out of 
 nowhere right when you think you're going to make it to the next checkpoint and snipes you in one 
 shot. I've managed to complete the first half of the game on Veteran so far.
  
  The multiplayer is enjoyable, but leaves a lot to be desired. It's just the bone on a big, juicy 
 slab of steak (the single player being the meat) . When you spawn, you pick what weapon you want 
 to spawn with. Of course, sniper rifles are one of them, and there are way too many people who 
 pick snipers. Overall, the multiplayer is your typical fragfest or Capture-the-Flag. It's fun, 
 but nothing special.
  
  This game is definitely the definitive Xbox 360 launch title, and is in many ways superior to Perfect 
 Dark Zero, the 360's other FPS launch title. You absolutely must pick up this game if you are getting 
 an Xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mehsdomi
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 20, 2006 9:43 pm PT
Review:  Good:
  
  Call of Duty 2 is actually a pretty solid game. It is fun to play single player and the number 
 of levels are acceptable. The checkpoints are also frequent so you don't have to do the same thing 
 all over again. Graphics are actually really good for being First Gen Graphics. It is still one 
 of the best games for 360.
  
  Bad:
  
  Multi player lacks a lot. It gets very boring. I am personally sick and tired of WWII games. They 
 just keep beating a dead horse. Also playing single player missions feel like a chore some how. 
 Veteran is really, really hard.
  
  Summary:
  
  Rent the game first to see if you like it. Good game, good graphics, but another WWII Game (Been 
 there done that) .
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LegendofYaslint
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 20, 2006 8:02 pm PT
Review:  Everyone loved CoD b/c it was like Saving Private Ryan made into a game. This sequal does that 
 and them some with amazing graphics, intense sound and voice acting, and thrilling battles that 
 always seem on the verge of breaking out into complete chaos. 
  
  The genius of CoD2 is how it makes many linear levels still feel open and unpredictable due to 
 the wonderful job done in simulating the feeling of battle. Bullets are flying everywhere and you 
 better keep your head down or you won't last long. It's no run and gun shooter, you need to use 
 teamwork and pick your shots carefully. 
  
  The level variety is great, from desert tank battles to fighting in war-torn cities of old, the 
 atmosphere created in CoD2 is intense and beautiful. Great job with all the little details.
  
  The controls are tight and perfect for a console shooter. The life gauge works just like in 
 Halo 2 and does a good job of keeping you looking for cover instead of looking for life packs. 
 The guns feel and sound real and the voice acting is almost movie qaulity. If you like WW2 and/or 
 great shooters, CoD2 is one of the best games you can play. 
  
  Oh yeah, did I mention the online MP is addictive and never grows old? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Carmelo15j
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 20, 2006 6:05 pm PT
Review:  The Best First-Person Shooter game in the 360 ERA, so far. Online play is excellent. I spend most 
 of my time playing online, but the Campaign isn't bad at all. Its not much of a challenge, and 
 it does not take long at all. It also takes very little time to learn. The graphics are truly phenomenal, 
 and the game is so historically accurate. Those of you who decide to buy this game, will be satisfied. 
 One of the best games of the year by far. I recommend this game to any one who loves online play, 
 and really loves War. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sunrire
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 19, 2006 11:48 pm PT
Review:  A World War II Shooter has been done time and time again. Some are good most are bad untill Call 
 of Duty 2. This game is almost perfect. The looks, the sound, the feel is tuned right that it is 
 one of the best first person shooter currently on the Xbox 360.
  
  Gameplay: Intense. That is the best word to describe COD 2. Wave after Wave of enermies keeps any 
 gamer at bay. The online is less intense due to the less number of soldiers on the field but more 
 hard since humans are smart then the games AI which could beat your normal hillbilly. 
  Graphics: Wonderfull. The faces on the soldiers are rich in detail such as dirt and snow. But the 
 soldiers skin are re-used alot which is okay because the sheer numbers of soldiers on the field 
 is mindblowing 
  Sound: Now l have not play all COD game but the few l played miss something. Yelling. The war people 
 yell alot and this was missing from passed COD but now it has made it's debut makes it more realistic. 
 Also the guns sound good and clear as well
  
  Value: After the 20 or so mission and the packs and packs of maps you get from muliplayer will 
 keep you on your feet for about 6 monthes and that's a long time
  
  Overall: Your first Game should be this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackdog144
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 19, 2006 9:06 am PT
Review:  i just recently bought this game knowing that it would be fun, and awesome. And was i wrong. This 
 game is more then awesome, its fun and gives alittle historic background of the war (alot of WWII 
 games do.) You start out in the russian campain, which is very fun, but you have a limit on guns 
 which more guns would be nice, but i can understand why theres less, because russia didnt have 
 that many. 
  
  other then that, i havent betten the russian campain yet, but im very close to. Theres three campains, 
 russian, english and of course American. I cant wait to get to the next two. 
  
  The graphics ROCK. They are so crisp even on an sdtv which i am currently playing on. It has xbox 
 live, and your regular split screen and lan play. Xbox live is 24 player i think and lan is 1-8..... i 
 dont know but its just fun.
  
  great game, and i recommend a buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mdmnymrph
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 19, 2006 8:07 am PT
Review:  If forced to live on a desert island with only a handful of games, COD2 is making the trip. This 
 game ranks among the best first person shooters on any console ever made. Period. It's just that 
 good.
  
  No one will ever know what those incredible people really went through for the greater good, but 
 the ability of the COD2 experience to completely immerse you that time and place is truly a remarkable 
 accomplishment.
  
  The graphics are incredible, and the surround sound mechanic will have your head on a swivel as 
 the bullets fly to and from every direction.
  
  As others have suggested, I too would recommend cranking up the difficulty level to hardened as 
 normal is a bit too easy for an experienced gamer. For die-hards, Veteran skill level lives up 
 to its tag line  You will not survive.
  
  Other time period shooters should pin this up and the wall as the gold standard of excellence in 
 the class for which to strive. The game play is instinctive, the graphics are near flawless, and 
 the sound is full and rich. COD3 makers have their work cut out for them as COD2 has set the bar 
 very, very high.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chipmunk00
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 18, 2006 3:05 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is arguably the best first person shooter for the Xbox 360 to this date. Call of 
 Duty 2 runs very smoothly, and will put you in the shoes of a World War II soldier. If you have 
 played the PC version of Call of Duty 2 do not expect something completely different. The only 
 downside to the Xbox 360 version is that the online play seems to have been stripped down do an 
 inadequate lobby and, only eight players per map. Even with eight players online play still remains 
 surprisingly fun.
  
  The thing that sets Call of Duty 2 apart from other World War II shooters is that Call of Duty 
 2 makes you feel as if you are right there amidst all of the action. You get a rush of adrenaline 
 at some points of the game, which sets this game apart from other shooters.
  
  I recommend that everyone starts the game on regular difficulty, and then play through it once 
 more on veteran. Veteran is almost a whole new game which requires you to use tactical moves, and 
 if you manage to beat it on Veteran you should truly be proud of yourself.
  
  The first thing you may notice about Call of Duty 2 when you first begin playing is that you have 
 no health bar. Call of Duty 2 implements a health system that is different then most other first 
 person shooters. The outer border on your screen will begin to glow red, your character will begin 
 to pant and sometimes you may even become dazed or dizzy, and all of the sounds will sound muffled, 
 but if you can get to cover and lay low for a few seconds your health will regenerate over a period 
 of about 5 seconds. This health system works surprisingly well. It may sound that the health system 
 makes the game to easy but you actually die fairly quickly, and on veteran difficulty if you are 
 getting shot at you will most probably die before you will get to any decent cover.
  
  The sound in Call of Duty 2 is truly amazing. All of the gun sounds great, and if you have surround 
 sound you will really feel like you are in an actual war. You will hear bombs and gunfire in the 
 distance while all is quiet where you are. When you are in the middle of a firefight it sounds 
 as if hundreds of people are firing their guns at once, comrades will yell orders to you. Call 
 of Duty 2 nailed the sound in this game.
  
  The graphics are also excellent in Call of Duty 2. Bodies will go flying high up in the air when 
 killed by a grenade, and the game also runs at a crisp 60 frames per second with no noticeable 
 slow down. The only qualms I have with the graphics is that all of the death animations are the 
 same, the grab their neck and fall over, it would have been nice if they grabbed different body 
 parts instead of always their neck. It's kind of humorous when you shoot someone in the leg and 
 they drop their gun and grab their neck in agony. Another downside to the graphics is that some 
 textures look a bit sloppy. If you walk up close to a wall and look at it, you will notice that 
 the textures look kind of sloppy almost pixalized, or at a to low of a resolution, but from a bit 
 further away it looks great, especially if you have an HDTV. 
  
  In Call of Duty 2 you will be playing in the Russian, British, and American armies, each containing 
 their own set of missions. On regular difficulty you should be able to beat all of the missions 
 in about 10-12 hours, but playing on veteran is a different story. On veteran difficulty you can 
 sustain a maximum of 2 maybe 3 consecutive shots before you die. I recommend playing on veteran 
 at least once because that is how the game was intended to be played, and it really puts you in 
 moments were you are literally clinging for your life as dozens of Germans are shooting at you.
 
  
  Each campaign has its memorable moments from scaling the cliffs of Pointe du Hoc in the American 
 campaign, to making your way through a narrow pipe across a map with bullets streaking through 
 the pipe from the hostile Germans below. You even gain the privilege of driving a tank in one of 
 the British campaigns.
  
  The game has been designed so that you never have a moment to rest, you are almost always engaging 
 in desperate firefights, clearing buildings and bunkers infested with Germans, planting explosives 
 on deadly tiger tanks, or sniping mortar crews atop grain silos. You will find your self in situations 
 on veteran clinging for your very life, as you wait for reinforcements to come in.
  
  Of course no soldier can take part in a war by himself. You are always surrounded by friendly soldiers, 
 which aid you in battle. The AI for the most part is very good. Unlike other war games, your comrades 
 are very effective at taking out other enemies, and helping you complete your objectives. At some 
 points you will find your self trying to survive in a hiding spot and letting your comrades do 
 the dirty work.
  
  I very good feature which I like in Call of duty 2 is how simple it is to throw frag grenades and 
 smoke grenades. There is no switching weapons, equipping, or un-equipping. Left bumper is smoke 
 grenade and the right bumper is frag grenade, the longer you hold the bumper the further you throw 
 it. Its that simple. Another nifty feature is the grenade danger indicator. If you are in the 
 vicinity of a grenade a little arrow pops up on the screen, which shows the direction of the grenade, 
 you then want to move away from the arrow until it disappears, therefore you know you will be safe.
 
  
  Call of Duty 2 will keep you busy for a long time, especially if you decide to play through it 
 on veteran, which I highly recommend. Most people will be able to beat regular difficulty in about 
 10 hours; veteran can take you as long as 25-40 hours depending on how good you are at the game. 
 After you beat veteran online will keep you busy for quite a long time, but single player will 
 not be quite as fun as it used to be as most of the events that occur in single player are scripted.
 
  
  The online portion of Call of Duty to is probably the only thing that seems rushed or could have 
 been improved. The actual online gameplay is great and is a ton of fun, but the interface and presentation 
 is lacking. You can play ranked games but there is absolutely no point to it as there is no way 
 to check your stats, rank or anything of that sorts. The online modes are: deathmatch, team deathmatch, 
 capture-the-flag, headquarters, and search & destroy. Out of all of these modes capture the flag 
 is by far the most fun and tactical. 
  
  As for the weapons all of the weapons are balanced except for the sniper rifle and trench gun. 
 Almost all of the newbies use these two guns, as it is so easy to get kills with them, although 
 it seems like the best gun to master is the bolt action rifle. The BAR is hard to master but once 
 you are good with it you can kill anyone.
  
  Even with lacking presentation online mode is still very fun, although leader boards, stats, and 
 a more expansive lobby would have been nice.
  
  You can play Call of Duty 2 with four players on the same console using split-screen. The only 
 problem with this feature is that the maps are to large for only four players. What they should 
 have done is made different maps for split-screen, which are smaller, then the online ones.
  
  Overall Call of Duty 2 is a great first person shooter, which runs very smoothly and shows 
 almost no slowdown. It really sets the bar higher for all first person shooters to come. I think 
 that Call of Duty 2 should be in everyones collection, as it is a top-notch game for the Xbox 
 360. I recommend buying this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mjhink3
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 18, 2006 10:34 am PT
Review:  This game redefines what first-person shooters should be on the next-gen consoles, the graphics 
 are unforgettable and the gameplay is just ridiculously awesome. When your playing the campaign 
 you actually sometimes feel like your actually in the war. The A. I. are smart and use cover wisely 
 and on harder modes their aim is precise. I loved that you can play the game on regular and get 
 a totally different feeling than when you play it on veteran, which is the hardest mode to beat 
 it on. The online play is great because you can play an array of different games including capture 
 the flag, deathmatch, team deathmatch, and more. The online mode can be pretty obsessive as I myself 
 have had many sleepless nights playing the game. If you're thinking about buying a new game for 
 your 360 then this is your game. I think anyone can enjoy it because of the intensity and reality 
 of the game when playing it by yourself, online, or with friends and family. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: curlyq101
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 18, 2006 8:31 am PT
Review:  this game is great. it has all the components of a good game. Good graphics, sound, and violence. 
 It has great online play and has alot of great downloadables. It has that wow factor to it. Most 
 WWII games are unoriganal and bland. Not this fun and addictive shooter. If theres a game all X360 
 and PC owners need to have it has to be COD2. I met most of my online friends on COD2. I give thise 
 game 10 out of 10. Thats the word from curlyq101. U can all so check out my profile. also join 
 the world wrestling and all union. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timbo0827
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 17, 2006 5:16 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 was a hit for the PC and is the same here for 360. One game that no one should miss. 
 This game is fun on a keyboard and mouse but with a controller you cannot have better gameplay.
 
  
  GAMEPLAY: Not very complex but that doesn't really mean this game is bad. The whole game has you 
 destroying enemy armor or artillery, going from point a to b, very basic stuff like that. What 
 really makes this game fun though is the fact that the action never really slows down. Whether 
 it is fighting three Germans or a dozen the action is great. Very impressive AI as well. Some of 
 the greatest ever in a video game.
  
  GRAPHICS: Impressive visual effects with very nice looking characters. What you hear is true about 
 Call of Duty 2, the smoke and explosions look very real. Characters also are impressive for as 
 many soldiers there is on screen at once. Enviorments are nice too but still in ways lack detail. 
 Very nice looking though.
  
  SOUND: Simply fantastic. Whether it be the shouting of your soldiers yelling enemy positions to 
 the weapons firing to the music, Call of Duty 2 is just plain great in the sound category.
  
  VALUE: Whether you get this game for the single player campaign or the multiplayer warfare 
 online you will be playing this game for a long time. $60 is pushing it but $50 is a good deal 
 for the high replay value Call of Duty 2 offers you.
  
  TILT: Not much of a difference between this and the first Call of Duty, sadly this is the only 
 downside about Call of Duty 2. Only major difference is the health bar changed to where you take 
 cover after taking to many hits. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tyuzfuny
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 16, 2006 4:26 pm PT
Review:  A few days ago I purchased my Xbox 360. I was given PGR 3 with my Xbox and I purchased Rockstar's 
 Table Tennis. PGR wasn't exactly what I expected, so all I had was Table Tennis. If you keep playing 
 the same game over and over, it gets old, so I went and got this game.
  
  Yay.
  
  Seriously, this game is fantastic. It's all very polished and refined. It has plenty of depth and 
 just has a ton of depth. As far as WWII FPS' go, it doesn't really stand out as being very original, 
 but it executes everything to near perfection.
  
  Gameplay: This game is just tons of fun. The campaigns are very fun, offering a lot of enemies 
 to takedown. The A. I. is genius, offering up some difficulty, while the game never goes insane 
 in difficulty. All of the weapons have a great feel and have tons of power.
  
  Graphics: Again, I have a standard T. V. It isn't HD. This is still the best looking game I've ever 
 seen. There is such a high level of detail and the animations are very smooth. The framerate is 
 constantly running smooth, which is a real treat. There was just the occasional graphical hiccup.
 
  
  Sound: Wow, this game is seriously intense in the sound effect department. Each area has it's own 
 distinct sound and the guns sound amazing. The score is also very top-notch.
  
  Value: The online of this game is the best part. There are many levels and even more available 
 via the marketplace. There was a little lag here and there, which was frustrating, as well as the 
 fact that only 8 can play together. Other than that, the online is such a treat. The single player 
 is also quite lengthy, which I'm still trying to finish. 
  
  This game isn't going to be going on my shelf to collect dust for a long time. WIth an exciting 
 single player and probably the most solid online multiplayer I've ever experienced. Go out and 
 buy this game... now!
  
  Positives:
  + Intense and exciting single player
  + The best multiplayer
  + The most fantastic visuals and framerate
  + Great sounding game
 
  
  Negatives:
  - Occasional lag online
  - Only 8 allowed online at once
  - Occasional graphical hiccup 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hot_and_Spicy
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 16, 2006 2:12 pm PT
Review:  Wow, another World War II shooter...... This is probably what you are saying to yourself. With this 
 in mind, you are bound to change your mind about WWII shooters because this one delivers.
  
  The best launch title for the 360, and also the best selling one also. The online experience 
 catches you most. I have put many hours into this game just because of the online play.
  
  The single player mode should not be over shadowed either. It is easily one of the best Call of 
 Duty games to date. Any 360 owner, WWII fan, or shooter lover should definatly by this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asdffdsaasdffds
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 16, 2006 10:00 am PT
Review:  This is the greatest experience I have ever had in any game. There are some really neat things, 
 and i cant really find that many bad things. Overall, I'd rate this game a 9.9
  
  Lets start with the gameplay. The designers are sheer geinius. The AI is brilliant on veteran. 
 Aiming down the sight makes you more accurate and you move slower (pull LT) makes the single player 
 addictive. The Xbox Live play is so fun. It hardly ever lags, the best experience comes from there.
 
  
  The graphics are perfect. The guns look realsitic and the players look awsome. Why is that a 9? 
 In Xbox Live, if you go to spectator mode and you are on free look, try going outside the level. 
 You will find you can and it looks terrible. Not cool.
  
  The game sounds realisic, and the guns really give you the bark or the deep chop you are looking 
 for. Need I say more?
  
  This is probably the first game you should get for your 360. Thank you for reading my review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluebusrider
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 15, 2006 6:43 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty 2 is in my opinion by far the best game to come out this launch. It has great gameplay, great, visuals, amazing 
 sound, and on top of all that the ai is amazing you will be very surprised what you see from your 
 enemies. they will flank you if you are just sitting there camping. The amount of enemies on screen 
 is also very impressive hundreds of enemies can be on screen at once with out any frame rate issue 
 and there is no frame rate issues through out the whole game, on the pc version there was defiantly 
 some moments of choppiness in the car rides and in intense car rides. THe game also looks a bit 
 better than the pc version, the game really shows off the xbox 360 power, the game also supports 
 great audio every thing sounds extremely realistic and every gun feels good when you fire it.
 
  
  I am very suprised that this was my favorite game on launch because I am so sick of world war 2 
 shooters and was not that excited to play this, but when I got my hands on it I was amazed on how 
 good the game was and to this day I play it every single day and I have started to get very good 
 at it, if you want to play online sometime my gamercard is mf666. Ok back to the review, there is 
 some downsides to the game, the pc version supported 16 players online and the xbox 360 verson 
 only has 8, but xbox live is much better than the pc online so that makes up for it, pretty mcuh 
 everything about this game is good, probably the only other thing I would say is lets come up with 
 something new, I know that call of duty 3 is coming out this year, but come on it is getting old. If 
 you have a xbox 360 you should check out call of d uty 2 it is one of the best games for the system 
 and you will not be dissapointed. peace 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamecubefan2000
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 14, 2006 6:48 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is hands-down one of the best shooters I've played since Halo. It has some of the 
 most impressive graphics as one of the launch titles for the 360 and just blows me away with the 
 sound. The weapons are truly great. I was surprised with some exclusive guns to the multiplayer, 
 which only supports 8 players online. This seems low, but with Call of Duty 3 coming out, it's 
 safe to say COD3 will be supporting 24 players online. The single-player is pretty long, around 
 14 or 15 hours. Once that's over, go on Xbox Live and start playing multiplayer, since split-screen 
 is really not all that great. A system link is also a good idea, but you would want another Xbox 
 360 and buddies to play against each other. Headquarters is one of my favorite modes in the game, 
 since it involves a lot of good strategy. And you also have Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, Search 
 And Destroy, and Capture the Flag. I'd recommend the multiplayer mode more than the single-player 
 if it had more than 8 players online. The single-player consists of 3 campaigns, a Russian one, 
 a British one, and an American one that includes the D-Day invasion. So all in all, COD2 is one 
 of the best WWII games I've played, but Medal of Honor is still another I've enjoyed for a long 
 time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guitarking1313
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 14, 2006 3:19 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 has it all: Amazing graphics (especially in HD) , a single-player campaign that never 
 gets old, and simple, yet addicting online play. The online play is probably the best part, because 
 you can only play the single-player campaign so many times before it gets old. Online however, 
 is a new experience every time. The online game modes available are death match, team death match, 
 capture the flag, search and destroy, and headquarters. They are all fun in their own way and there 
 is at least one mode for everyone. This is a great game, and I can guarantee that almost anyone 
 would love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: duflont
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 14, 2006 2:12 pm PT
Review:  Good game, i like the multiplayer, campaigne is great really varied, nice settings. The sound is 
 amazing it feels just like you are at a big massive battlefield, just as it should be. Otherwise 
 it dosnt have anything innovating feels like it have been done befor, to many times. The singleplayer 
 campaigne has a good amount of play hours around 10-12 h if you can play a fps on a console and 
 chooses a challanging difficult
  
  Good buy if you like a great and actionpacked campaigen and a fastpaced multiplayer, to bad it 
 just suports 8 players and that it easily lags :/ But when it works, IT WORKS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spartan-117-13
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 14, 2006 10:09 am PT
Review:  Call of duty 2
  Genre: WWII shooter
  Publisher: Activision
  Platform: Xbox 360
  Door: Niek
  
  De zoveelste WOII shooter alweer, het lijkt maar niet op te houden er zijn al 
 heel veel meuk games over de WOII gemaakt, maar ik vind de Call of duty reeks er met kop en schouders 
 bovenuit staan. 
  
  Het verhaal speelt zich af in Stalingrad, Egypte, Tunesie en Frankrijk, uiteraard zit Omaha beach 
 er weer in (verassend) , de wapens zijn hetzelfde, het blijft toch altijd de Axis tegen de geallieerden, 
 hoe kan een spel nu beter worden als er al zo vaak een game over is gemaakt en je kunt je fantasie 
 er ook niet in kwijt, omdat het anders niet meer klopt. In de kleine details merk je elke keer 
 weer dat het gewoon een super goed spel is, alles klopt gewoon.
  
  De wapens voelen allemaal heel natuurlijk aan, dat vind ik ook n van de grootste redenen waardoor 
 COD2 boven de rest uitsteekt, het moet gewoon kloppen met de wapens, het geluid, het uiterlijk 
 en natuurlijk het gevoel dat je krijgt als je een Jerry naar het hiernamaals schiet.
  
  COD2 is gelukkig nog steeds zo hectisch dat je er soms moedeloos van al die vijanden wordt, zoveel 
 en ze komen van alle kanten. Het spel is wel erg makkelijk dat is zonde, al is de veteran mode 
 aardig pittig. Het is ook leuk opgebouwd, de levels worden steeds moeilijker. 
  
  Er zitten weinig/geen voertuigen in het spel waarmee je, je kunt vervoeren dit in tegenstelling 
 tot CODBRO je hebt wel een tank-missie maar die is dan ook bijna van MOH niveau zo bedroevend is 
 die, nee voor voertuigen moet je gewoon bij Battlefield blijven. Je rijdt soms mee met een half-track 
 of iets dergelijks en dan moet je doelloos Jerrys afschieten het zijn dan ook niet echt de sterkste 
 punten van het spel.
  
  Het is een next-gen game maar dat zou je aan de graphics eerst niet zien, dit is zonde want het 
 kon zo mooi zijn, misschien brengt COD3 de verlichting. Het spel vind ik heel goed speelbaar n 
 van de betere games van de x-doos 360 op dit moment.
  
  +
  Realistische wapens
  Chaos op het slagveld
  
  -
  Sommige grassprietjes zijn te krom 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xboxgamer07
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 13, 2006 2:36 pm PT
Review:  i usually dont like world war 2 games because there old. but this one was fantastic it loved every 
 second of this game. the games graphics look amazing you love every second of the game. also the 
 gameplay is really cool and it can be challenging on some parts especally if you choose the high 
 difficulty which is really hard but on easy its a good old time also the levels are really cool 
 to so you will like everything. also the multiplayer is really fun so if your board of halo 2 muti 
 play then play call of duty especally with the new maps that just came out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GSpike360
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 12, 2006 8:46 pm PT
Review:  I got this at near Feburary, and from the moment I completed the first mission, it instantly became 
 one of my favorites. I quickly completed the game on veteran (the hardest difficulty) and with 
 that got all 1,000 Gamerscore from it.
  
  It's graphics were superb. Each soldier had it's own face and name. You played the roll of four 
 different soldiers from three different countries. You'll play through D-Day, Hill 400 and the 
 battle of Stalingrad. Achievements come at a moderate level throughout the game.
  
  Sound is amazing, especially with surround sound. Fire effects are very realistic and scratched 
 the trigger-finger itch.
  
  Online multiplayer is very fun. Only problems are that each map feels the same and only eight people 
 can play at a time.
  
  However, this is still a marvelous game worth getting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lukasz_erecinsk
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 12, 2006 5:51 pm PT
Review:  This game is a must if you just bought the new system. The SP is great and the MP is even better. 
 It will take you some 40 hrs to get all the 1000 points, which you earn by playing through the 
 SP campaign, and you will spend more them few hundered playing it on live. The game recently got 
 new MP maps, this resulted in 20 great MP maps. 
  
  The graphics must be the best graphics seen on the new box yet (in a FPS) . Everything looks crisp 
 and top notch. In fact the game looks better on the box then on a high end PC. 
  
  The sound is good. If you are playing with a Dolby 5.1 you can actually hear some1 creaping up 
 on you, which is mighty cool. And the sound effects are very good and crisp.
  
  The gameplay is sweet. The SP is interesting and the MP is simply outstanding. 
  
  The only 
 thing I can say is, get this game ..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sgtGizmo92
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 12, 2006 2:54 pm PT
Review:  The amount of WWII shooters today is overwhelming. But Call of Duty 2 stands out with amazing gameplay 
 and presentation. The gameplay of COD2 is a good challenge first of all. It uses a Halo-style health 
 system where when you take shots your screen starts to turn red. This means if you get hit a few 
 more times you will die. Other than this, Call of Duty 2 doesn't really do much different from 
 other shooters, but it does everything else so amazingly its hard not to like it. The graphics 
 are truly next-gen and the sound is even better than the graphics. All the weapons sound very authentic 
 and the background explosions and battle chatter all make you feel like you are back in WWII. The 
 online is very basic, but extremely fun. All this adds up to a game that is truly incredible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deagler_
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 12, 2006 2:48 pm PT
Review:  
  The Call Of Duty franchise has not really come from a long way. Mainly because its a fairly new 
 franchise that was brought to you by Infinity Ward. The creators new what they were doing since 
 the first Call Of Duty which had a huge impact on cinematic game play and cutting edge sound effects.
 
  
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Game play: The game play is still the same formula that the original Call of Duty is. Its pretty 
 much your standard shooter... but the the catch is that it draws you into this battlefields and 
 this wars. The hardest difficulty will in-fact drive you insane, by being frustrated and how bad 
 the A. I. is you for some reason don't mind it after you complete each mission. It makes you actually 
 feel like you won this very tough battle. The did not add much new elements in the game but why 
 would you need too when its not broken. They basically brought it up to par and made it into Next 
 gen
  
  Graphics: The graphics have hugely improved since the last Call Of Duty. The greatest thing about 
 the graphics it looks way sharper on a HD setup. There was very very rare slow down that I noticed 
 that only really happened about three times when I was playing the game. 
  
  Sound: The sound effects right away if you have a 5.1 surround sound setup that you will noticed 
 just by how clear and good it is. They have all the originally sounds on the guns and explosions 
 from the old game but tweaked to be perfect for a good sound system, Its like music to my ears.
 
  
  Value: The overall value in this game is good but now that good. Playing the amazing single player 
 was just breath taking enough and made it worth the money. The multi-player is another great experience 
 but it hinders by the fact that you can have such a small amount in one game. I hope they come 
 out with a patch to at least compete against its PC counter part.
  
  This is an amazing single player experience that should not be forgotten. For all Shooter and WW2 
 fans out there they should check this game out and prepare for a breathtaking and incredible WW2. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: knights435
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 12, 2006 11:16 am PT
Review:  the game is almost perfect its graphics details and sounds all create an experience better than 
 anyother action game out there for the 360. personally better than the new ghost recon which i 
 thought sucked. this game has it all from good ai from your teammates and the enemy to fun and 
 replayable action that never gets old to the realistic echoes of the weapons that are so loud you 
 can hear them across the map. the mutliplayer could have been better with bigger maps and more 
 players but at least there is no lag or anything like glitches. i do wish the characters moved 
 a little less awkwardly but its fine. i would reccomend this game to anyone who likes action and 
 fps's the game is awesome 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tombradybaby
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 12, 2006 10:01 am PT
Review:  I love FPS , you name them ive played em but this game has gone to the top of my favourite FPS 
 to date. If you are lucky enough to have HDTV and Surround Sound speaker system make sure you hook 
 this game up. This game is so intense, the graphics, the sound, the music it really sucks you in. 
 Ive never played a game where my palms are constantly clammy and have to stop after 30 mins because 
 my head hurts. (Its still amzing if you dont have HDTV or Dolby) . I Love it!!!
  
  Ive just finished russian levels and now playing in the deserts and completed first few missions. 
 It is worth buying just for the desert missions totally amazing!!! Cant wait to see what lies in 
 wait next.
  
  Basically if you like FPS and you own a 360 you must own this game! it really is that simple. Its 
 hard to say anything bad about this game. The AI is great, sometimes if you dont kill off a bad 
 guy he crawls,. grabs a gun from the floor and can take fatal shots at you. So many little things 
 like this and such a variety of missions makes this a total winner.
  
  To wrap up - NEXT GEN FPS GAMING AT ITS BEST!!! Cant wait for call of duty 3 this november.
  
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rome_212
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 12, 2006 9:18 am PT
Review:  This is just one of those war games that truly depicts war and gives you a great and fun feel to 
 it. The weapons are authentic and awesome, and the best part is the obviously the shooting!!!
 
  
  The graphics: Brilliant!! Simply brilliant!!! Those graphics are soooo realistic looking!!! The 
 character models, the explosions, everything to keep it easy on the eyes!!
  
  The sound is just breath-taking!!! Everything just sounds so realistic and it makes me feel that 
 I'm actually in the game!!!!
  
  For fans of war games, this game should be in your collection of war games!!!!! Beautiful in almost 
 every way you could think of, BUY NOW!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stixes14
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 10, 2006 10:53 pm PT
Review:  This game is so fun online and off online. So if you like war games and FPS games and you have 
 a xbox 360 then this is a game for YOU!!!. I would recommend this game. The online play is some 
 fun and addicting but you need to watch out for **** on the game and little 5 year olds too, but 
 i say its still fun. And the offlline play is great too its so real and cool to see what the poeple 
 have gone to protect this country and to see one real person talk to these poeple to make the Call 
 of Duty 2 game but the AI is good its right and they tell you where the guys are at and what they 
 called them too. So i give this game a    
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rebel108
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 9, 2006 10:54 am PT
Review:  The game COD2 has rocking graphics (probably some of the best on the 360) and great gameplay. The 
 campaign missions alone are awesome, but the multiplayer is amazing. There are a plethora of multiplayer 
 maps that are all made extremely well. The gameplay can't be any better, except it would have been 
 nice if multiplayer could support more players. The health system is very realistic; if you get 
 shot anywhere once except in the head your body will go into shock where if you are shot anymore 
 times, you die. If you get shot in the head, you automatically die. This health system is very 
 realistic and simply great. THIS GAME IS A MUST HAVE. Definetly one of the best games on the 360. 
 It does a great and authentic job at showing what WW2 warfare was about. Simply amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: icedfirestunna
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 9, 2006 10:00 am PT
Review:  I'll admit. I just wanted to play this game to get the achievements. Unfortunately, you only get 
 200 points for beating the whole game on normal or easy difficulty. you get another 200 if you 
 beat it on hard or veteran. the remainder of the points are achieved by beating any mission on 
 veteran. for each one, you get 60 points. After playing it, i didn't mind going through the campaign 
 but would've enjoyed it more if the missions were shorter. That's just how i am tho. The multiplayer 
 was tough to adjust to, and i still can't be as precise as i'd like. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bob_saget_832
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 8, 2006 11:36 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is one of the best Historic War based games ive ever played. With All the story 
 levels, to its multiplayer. 
  In the story mode, you take on 3 russian missions, 4 british missions, and 3 american missions. 
 Involving 3 to 4 days in each mission. Kinda a long game. Unless you are one of those people that 
 play it night and day. 
  Multiplayer can be split screen or online. Split screen is ok, but the online mode is so awesome. 
 Its simple and easy to learn. nJoining rooms could never be more simpler. Choose what game you 
 want to join, deathmatch, t-deathmatch, capture the flag, headquarters, and search and destroy. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aurelien48
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 8, 2006 11:07 pm PT
Review:  I thought this game is going to suck so i didnt buy it!! i went to my friends house and had so 
 much fun in multiplayer!! multiplayer is way better htan the campaing!!! almost beated in veaterent, 
 hard stuff!! this game is to rent or buy!!! the graphic are ok, the gamplaye is awsome, the sound 
 is good, the value are ok!!! could of beeen better!! from wat is see, call of duty 3 look no diffetent 
 from the 2 one... except maybe the graphic, a little ang the gamply too!!! i dint buy it cos i 
 didnt need to cause my friend and neighbor have it and i play it time to time!! it the beat game 
 war out there!! not the shotting or mltiplayer!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: codyw32
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 8, 2006 5:18 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 lets you play as Russia, Britain, and America. The campaign does not have a repetitive 
 level in it. Every level is as immersive as the one before. The weapons are very well-done, along 
 with the other graphics. Some of the graphics could have been touched up. The game is linear because 
 you play mission after mission, even though they are awesome!. The multiplayer is very good also. 
 It is almost as good as Halo 2. This game will definitely be a contender for game of the year o 
 h h e l l y e a b a b y 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fixer293
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 7, 2006 11:57 am PT
Review:  Yeah I know I made the title up, but all I have to say is this game is awsome ,multiplayer is nice 
 and balanced and not so fast paced like other games. I like to pace myself and watch my enemies 
 flee in terror as I sacrifice them to the almihgty Khan. I instantly thought of the original medal 
 of honor for PS1 when playing this, and how much fun I had hearing the germans with their bad accents. 
 I loved every moment of this game. The only problem I have are 11 year olds yelling over the head 
 set "CAN YOU HEAR ME.......... HELLO!" (caps) . But I look past that by blowing them up and making 
 them cry (hahahahahaahahah) . Yes I am a evil man and this game brings out the best in me and my 
 two friends. I cant wait for the 3rd one. Graphics are outstanding by the way and it has great 
 sound and easy to paly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nunamaker
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 7, 2006 11:21 am PT
Review:  Call of duty 2 on the xbox 360 is a quality historic first person shooter based off of World War 
 2. The game has both single player and multiplayer game modes and is very fun on both. The single 
 player of the game is really good with accurate representations of the war that occur for each 
 side whether the allies or axis. The multiplayer is also fun with a max of 8 players and game modes 
 that include Capture the Flag, Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, Headquarters, and Search & Destroy. 
 These mods really diversify the game and make it stay fun for a long time. 
  
  The graphics of the game are smooth and flawless. With some light reflections it is definitely 
 one of the best playing games on the 360. Online battles in this game are very intense and alot 
 of times the score will be only a few points from each team.
  
  The only real negatives that i can find in this game is that you can only have 8 players 16 or 
 higher would be nice but 8 works very nicely so its hard dislike this game for that.
  
  Overall, This game is a perfect FPS on the 360 and i would definitely recommend it to anyone who 
 likes history or just likes to shoot people.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gokurocks2442
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 7, 2006 6:55 am PT
Review:  When you first start this game and go to the single player option you will see 
  
  Russia Campaighns
  British campaighns 
  American Campaighns
  
  You will have to play the 
 game through starting from the beginning, The first level will train you so you know how the game 
 works. As you go through you will be fighting the germans with russia, British and american weapons. 
 These campaighns should only take 5-10 hours to complete each depending on the difficulty, It would 
 only take you 1-2 days to complete unless your playing on veteran wich can take 5-10 days to complete. 
 After you beat the game you will recieve your achievments and you can go mix it up on multiplayer.
 
  
  Multi player has Ranked matches wich does absoulitily nothing and player matches. Multiplayer is 
 one of the best parts of the game.
  
  This game is worth every penny so go and buy it!!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: METALgearJES
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 8, 2006 2:09 pm PT
Review:  As an Xbox 360 launch title, this is a great game. Call of Duty 2 truly makes the battle experience 
 come alive with great sound and action.
  The single player takes you through three campaigns, the British, Russian and American. Besides 
 the change in scenery and weapons, it really does not feel too much different.
  The single player campaigns are scripted yet they feel very engrossing. COD 2 creates a true sense 
 of chaos on the battlefields of WW2.
  The graphics are good but not "next-gen" good like Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter. Its more like 
 a Xbox title in HD.
  The A. I. is pretty good in this game. The game is not easy nor is it too hard on normal. This is 
 not a tactical FPS but you won't succeed in the game by going all out Rambo style. 
  The sound is great with all the yelling and explosions going off. If you have a 5.1 surround sound 
 system, it truly kicks some major arse. 
  The multi-player only supports up to 8 players on-line. Its not the best experience on Xbox Live 
 but it gets the job done. There is also split-screen multi-player which is a plus. 
  Overall this game is definitely worth a look. Even though it is an Xbox 360 launch title that may 
 not look good as its more recent games, it still an awesome FPS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Torgue21
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 5, 2006 7:36 am PT
Review:  The Call of Duty series has turned into a horror film series. Which is the first one was great 
 but then dozens of sequels come out which are the same movie just with different actors and poorer 
 quality. Along with Friday the 13th, Halloween, and A Nightmare On Elm Street sequels, Call of 
 Duty 2 is predicable and boring.
  
  If you have played any other previous Call of Duty game then you already have a pretty good idea 
 what Call of Duty 2 will be like. I can not stress how repetitive the game is. In the game you 
 play as a American, British, and Russian soldier (surprised?) . In the Russian campaign you must 
 battle your way through (you guessed it) Stalingrad. In the American campaign you play in (you 
 guessed it again) Normandy during D-day. Although there is a short campaign during Crossing the 
 Rhine River. Finally you play as a British solder and tank commander in... Africa and Normandy. 
 Are the people who make this game lazy or are they just stupid?
  
  The graphics are awesome and that is really the only thing that separates it from the other Call 
 of Duties. The sound it also top notch and does not fail to make you think your in Saving Private 
 Ryan 2 or something. There is a wide range of orchestra music to tell you when you killed enough 
 of those evil Germans.
  
  The game play is how one would expect a Call of Duty game to play out: Throw smoke grenade, kill 
 waves upon waves of Godless evil Nazis who have no soul, find cover, reload, repeat. That is it, 
 I am not joking that is the game play at its core.
  
  I would recommend that you rent it. It is a short game anyway which takes less than ten hours to 
 bet. Also don't try and beat it on Veteran. IT IS IMPOSSIBLE! Anyone who says they have beaten 
 the whole game on Veteran is ether lying or has absolutely no personal life. Trust me the game 
 is not worth more than twenty dollars if you intend to buy it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bscool1978
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 5, 2006 1:07 am PT
Review:  Now I have played many shoot em ups on various consoles, and I have to say that COD 2 is the best 
 so far. Outstanding graphics and brilliant environments and situations make this a masterpiece in 
 it's time. So far the best title to make it on the Xbox 360. At the time all everyone spoke about 
 was Perfect Dark Zero, and I will admit I was creaming over it .But it was a massive disappointment, 
 so much for the 360 release title. Then COD 2 came out along side it and completely wiped the floor 
 with it, far more superior shooter.
  Now as far as achievements go I will try to complete as many as possible, but it was a pleasure 
 to complete all achievements on COD 2, not a chore like so many titles on the 360.
  Now in my rating score you will notice that I gave it 9 out of ten, a great score you will agree 
 im sure. One slight problem was the poor multi-player on LIVE , whilst this was down to poor server 
 problems never actually got corrected and it was a massive blow to the game. Shame as the multi-player 
 mode was fantastic , realistic also as one or two shots will kill the opponent rather then a whole 
 clip which some titles continue to do... PDZ ?
  Cod 3 is now on its way soon ... can it be possible to be even better then the sequel ? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OHNOOHNOOHYEAH
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 4, 2006 3:58 pm PT
Review:  After some short training you go right in to battle with your comrades. You can hear the bullets 
 flying by, an assortment of firearms going off, grenades exploding, enemies and allies screaming, 
 all of which sounds incredible in surround sound. Not only does this game sound great but it is 
 visually impressive as well especially in 1080i.
  
  The campaign which has you assume the role of soldiers from the Russian, British, and American 
 armies gives a great feeling of immersion as you and your comrades fight against the Nazis in several 
 different countries. No two missions feel the same in this intense shooter, and the tank mission 
 is a blast! The difficulty settings are done well as each advance is noticeably more difficult.
 
  
  Multiplayer is extremely addictive. The game supports split-screen, system link, and Xbox Live 
 multiplayer. In multiplayer you can choose to be either Axis or Allies. Though you are always German 
 for the Axis, the allied army changes depending on where you are fighting. While playing over Xbox 
 Live you can not choose a session from a list, instead you are automatically put in to a session 
 when you search for a game. There is also the option of private match which allows you to host 
 a session entirely for friends or open to at most four other players. As host you can invite friends 
 easier by pressing Y to bring up your friends list, change the setting to the way you like them, 
 and boot players (my favorite feature) . The matches usually run very smoothly even with a full 
 session of 8 players. Ranked matches can improve your True-skill ranking although you are not shown 
 it. Here you will usually find more competive players.
  
  Overall Call of Duty 2 shows to be very impressive with a solid campaign, semi-easy achievements 
 (all achievements are offline) , and great multiplayer. However like with many shooters there are 
 many who will camp with a sniper rifle. Other than that unavoidable annoyance Call of Duty 2 makes 
 a must have for any 360 owner that is in to the shooter genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timmygal3
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 4, 2006 2:23 pm PT
Review:  I got this game right when it came out and haven't stoped playing it since.
  the graphics are amazing the gameplay is great and online is great too!
  
  Let me start with 
 single player: this game offline is crazy fun it has fun levels and interesting places, great graphics 
 and the game dosen't slow down when there is loads of enemy's. its also great too watch bodies 
 fall when a grenade blows out near by them.
  
  Next there's online which great but the best thing in the world because it can only hold up to 
 eight people in one game which is sad because it would be so much better with more people. On online 
 theres 5 types of games: 1: deathmatch: just your regular free for all game
  2: team deathmatch: you and 3 other guys against 4 other guys
  3: capture the flag : get the 
 flag and return it too your flag
  thoses first 3 game types are all regular but the next two are more 
  original
  4: headquaters: 
 you have to stand by this thing until it becomes your headquaters and then you have too defend 
 it from the other team
  5: search and destory: there are two different objectives and the germans have too defend them while 
 the allies have the destory them
  
  my conclusion to this review is that this one the better games for xbox 360 and maybe one of the 
 best world war 2 fbs ever 
::::::

::::::
UserName: superkoolstud
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 4, 2006 1:34 pm PT
Review:  This game rocks, it has superb HD graphics and smooth gameplay. This game uses the "30 Seconds 
 of fun" technique that Halo employs. You can never have the same experience twice, as enemy AI 
 is top notch and doesn't stand still like over games. They throw grenades, take cover, charge, 
 or own you. In the Single Player Campaign you play as the Russians, Britons, and Americans against 
 the evil Nazi Germany. The game is Set in WWII and takes place in different parts of the war. 
 
  
  Multiplayer is awesome with game modes like death match and CTF. Just be prepared to be owned hard 
 as many people have been playing for a long time. New maps were recently released to add some freshness 
 to the game.
  
  Overall this is a must have in the 360 Library. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hg199
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 7, 2007 6:19 pm PT
Review:  Call Of Duty 2 is so disappointing!
  
  I love World War shoot 'em up.. but this is sadly nothing new. It's the same old wave after wave 
 of bad guys, you shoot them, press 'e' to plant a bomb, move to the next objective.
  
  I looked at the game play videos and the screen grabs - I thought this was going to be something 
 new, something more exciting. Call of duty 2 just seems extra level to the very original call of 
 duty or medal of honor. Such a shame!
  
  The game play/graphics are good, but nothing we have seen before.
  
  I compare this to the 
 400th repeat of Seinfield.. Awesome in it's day.. you get the odd laugh.. but it's the same of 
 repeat of everything you've already seen.
  
  Don't buy this game - maybe wait for call of duty 3? (Just played 3. Not too bad!)
  
  If you 
 really want to play it - RENT IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: playforpride372
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 3, 2006 10:10 pm PT
Review:  This game is excellent!!!! It is by far the best WWII game i have ever played. the medal of honors 
 are good, but this one is way better. It has amazing graphics, sound, and game play. You go all 
 around the world from Africa to Europe to Russia fighting Germans. It is makes me feel like i am 
 actually there. It is really good and i recommend anyone who has a good pc to buy this game. GREAT 
 GAME........ gets a 9.5 out of 10 and a game of the year award in my heart and hopefully yours too!!! 
 BUY THIS GAME NOW!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Inapprope
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 3, 2006 8:44 am PT
Review:  Being relatively new to the Xbox 360 this was the first game I picked up and it didn't disappoint. 
 The graphics were not mind blowing by any means but they were still pretty great. I liked the single 
 player campaign as well as the multiplayer option. The game is pretty easy to beat on the default 
 setting and it's a relatively short game if you're good, but I could easily spend hours playing 
 on XBL getting owned by people who camp and snipe, or setting up matches with my friends and messing 
 around. Overall great gameplay, great graphics, for an early 360 title it gives me high hopes for 
 the future of this game and this console. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kwijiibo
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 2, 2006 12:36 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty: Finest Hour: okay. Call of Duty 2: Big Red One on Original XBOX: better. Call of 
 Duty 2 for 360: Best. The Call Of Duty series was ment for 1 thing: beating Medal Of Honor at it's 
 own game. It had completed it's quest barley beating MOH right at the beginning with Call Of Duty: 
 Finest Hour. But now with Call Of Duty 2 for the 360 it dominates over every game in the WWII catagory. 
 Simply put, must buy this game if you are a 360 owner.
  
  + Terrific Sound design & effects
  + Awesome voice-overs
  + 3 Campaigns
  + Loads of weapons
 
  + Beautiful graphics
  + Incredably smart enemy A. I.
  
  - Only 8 people can play online multiplayer
  - Teammate A. I. in campaign mode is not as smart 
 as enemy A. I. (they runright in front of an MG42.)
  - Can only drive tanks in only 2 missions 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bigmacfreeman
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 1, 2006 11:25 pm PT
Review:  Call Of Duty 2 has a strong single player campain that lets you change the difficulty if it is 
 too easy. Trust me on this one, if you set it on veteran, it will be a challenge for any gamer. 
 
  
  Mutiplayer is very, very strong. I play Call Of Duty 2 online pretty much everday. Its easy to 
 find a game lobby and start playing fast. Also it teaches team work because you have to work together 
 to beat the other team, unlike singleplayer, where you are the only one shooting. Also if you get 
 bored of the same old maps you can download new map packs on the Xbox 360 dashboard!
  
  I highly recommend Call Of Duty 2, espesially if you have Xbox Live. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkChaoMan75
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 31, 2006 10:17 am PT
Review:  Well, apperently lots of things were done right but to some needed to be fixed.
  
  Gameplay:
  Well, this is Call of Duty (CoD) What do you expect? The gameplay is good. There are 
 some parts that they may have gotten zeales on and messed up. There are some outstanding action 
 sequnses. For really good example: On the first mission in the USA campaine, is D-Day. They did 
 an outstanding job of recreating it. As you come ashore you get hit my a morter round and get knocked 
 over and not killed. Then you see another whole boat load of people getting slaughtered by the 
 Germans. Finally when you get up you have to make your way to a rope. When you make it half way 
 a body come falling and hits the guys climbing in front of you. When you get to the top all hell 
 breaks loose. Now for an example of a not so good action sequence, the tank mission, 88 Ridge was 
 the hardest for me 'cause the tanks didn't control well. You had to use the left stick to drive 
 and turn and the right stick to control the tank gun. These are the normal tank controls for most 
 games but it would be nice to see a auto center feature were you can center up you tank gun to 
 be going foward. 
  The controlls are really well put together for a Xbox 360 shooter. Other than the tank problem, 
 everything is percise and acurate. You use the Right Triger to fire and the left triger to aim 
 down the sights. You can use the left bumper for smoke grenades and the right bumper for frag grenades. 
 You use the Y button to switch weapons and the B button can crouch you. Hold it to go prone and 
 tap it go back up to standing. The A button is jump and now you can use it to to vault over things 
 like sand walls and other stuff. Great feature that needed some more deavelpoment and usefulness. 
 In ou are just felling angry you can press down on the Right Stick and you'll do a melee bash. 
 You can switch these controls and make them into other CoD games, well just one. CoD Finest Hour. 
 
  The AI in this game leaves a little to be disiered. They're main tactic is to come out and kill 
 you. Maybe find a MG-42 but they really are idiodic morons. When you walk up to one you can wait 
 for 5 seconds to shoot cause' they won't shoot in that time frame. Only once or twice did they 
 ever get the brains to use snake grenades to cover thier advance. When they do it works but they 
 still manage to screw it up by not using cover. Also, maybe the German's would have been alot more 
 sucessful if they didn't spend so much time in apartment buildings. A couple of grenages and you 
 just finished off 5 Germans.
  Also, say goodbye to health pick ups. Now you don't even have a health bar! What you do have is 
 vision, and when the screen goes red that means you are being a bullet shield, for someone else. 
 Get to cover and wait 10-15 seconds and you're back in it!
  
  Graphics:
  There are a unprecidented amount of detail and enviroment colors in this game. They look as lush 
 and real as they would have been if you were there shooting the crap out of the Natzis. The detail 
 they put into the textures and enviroments looks amazing and it shows. If you looks closly they 
 still look fuzzy and not every pixel is perfect but this is a video game. Can't be perfect. Lots 
 of blood has been added to liven up the expeience and it works well. To bad it doesn't stick to 
 the wall like in other games. 
  Towards the end of the British Campaine and the start of the American Campaine, it really starts 
 to looks like the earlier bits of Call of Duty for the PC released in 2001 or so. I think in the 
 last mission of the British Campaine you do get to make a surprise stop to Dawnville. Those who 
 played CoD the oridingal know what I'm talking about. For me the most fun and oridginal level were 
 the Russian ones. Most fun to play and had some of the most outstanding action sequences in the 
 game.
  There are 2 versions of this game but the 360 version runs a little more steady and well. Also 
 it is in HD and I believe that is something the computer version doesn't have. One more thing, 
 the PC version has 6 disks you have to use to install it, if you get the CD-Rom version. But we're 
 talking about the Xbox 360 version here!
  The character modling is well done but looks a little cheesy at some points. When a character moves 
 his face his motions are over exedgerated but the most important thing is that they work well and 
 mesh with the rest of the game. 
  
  Sound:
  Sound, it play a massive part In making this game so immersive and good. IF you can get you 5.1 
 surround sound and HD speakers you can be in WWII without every having to pick up a Colt .45! 
 
  Tere is little music to enjoy but what there is makes it sound epic and amazing. It is done by 
 a full chamber Orchastra and beautifly composed by the best of the best the world has to offer. 
 Activision really played it well and made the music an outstanding part of this game. It will change 
 from happy you won to sad, your two best friends in your squad were gunned down by a MG-42. The 
 sound package really helps deliver the fact, war is hell. 
  
  Value:
  The single player is good but will fail to hold your attention. the only missions you'll find youself 
 playing over a few times are: D-Day and a few of the Russian snow ones. Particularly the Sniper 
 Comrade one. If you are into achivement points you'll have a reason to play it again. The first 
 time you complete all 3-4 missions in one little thing on Veteran you will get 100 achivement points. 
 Not bad but gaming should be about more than that. 
  There is a nice Multiplayer function to be had. There is nice online with 16 people but there is 
 only a few basic modes. My personaly favorite is deathmatch. If you can get three other friends 
 to play with you and play online you'll have a good time. That'll keep you interested for a while. 
 
  There is about 5-7 hours of enjoyment in the Single Player and 10 hours of enjoyment in the multiplayer. 
 In the end you'll get 15+ hours of gameplay for your $60.00. Not really worth it. Especially with 
 Oblivion with nearly 500 hours of gameplay. 
  
  Tilt:
  I really enjoyed this becuase I know so much about WWII and it really faithfully reacreated it. 
 I really didn't think that the multiplayer was that special. For me, it was just another shooter. 
 I always ask myself this question when I sit down to play my Xbox 360. How many more are we really 
 going to have to invade Normandy? 
  
  Result:
  8.5- Great 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aguirrem2
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 30, 2006 7:20 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the best games for the 360. The Graphics are Very Good (all my games are played 
 in High Def when possible) . Actually they are Great for a release day game (first games to come 
 out for a new console) . The Framerate is Great, the storyline is well developed. This game will 
 keep you occupied for a while since it is a full game (not like GTA LCS) . Sound, well it is quite 
 good and rich it does lack some background noise (wind, far away shooting etc) . It is well worth 
 getting if you have a 360.
  
  I rate the difficulty of games based on Normal difficulty level. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jc444
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 30, 2006 5:47 pm PT
Review:  When a game is announced for both the PC and consoles, the question always arises about what's 
 different between the two versions. Did any compromises have to be made on one platform or the 
 other? Did something get lost in translation? As it turns out, the recent release of Call of Duty 
 2 on the PC turned out to be a very accurate preview of what Xbox 360 owners could expect to get 
 from next-generation shooters. Almost everything that makes the PC version one of the year's best 
 shooters remains intact on the Xbox 360 version of the game, which looks just as good and actually 
 runs smoother than all but the most beastly of gaming PCs. If not for the online multiplayer that's 
 limited to eight players, the Xbox 360 version probably would have been hands-down better overall. 
 But as it is, Call of Duty 2 still sets a high standard for any shooters following in its footsteps 
 on Microsoft's new console, and it's considerably faster, prettier, and more exciting than most 
 any other shooter available on consoles. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pRiVaTeRyAn92
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 30, 2006 4:41 pm PT
Review:   Flat out AWESOME. I don't care how many WWII games are out there, 
 this one definately takes the cake. Or mortar shell (yeah, that's not funny; don't laugh, please.) 
 Anyway, the graphics are nice, if that even matters, the combat system is flawless (except in multiplayer, 
 when the enemy fires behind you and, it hits you?) , and the campaign is a MASTERPIECE. Xbox Live 
 is wicked, but many people tend to, um, *cough* trench gun* cough*. Yeah. That. Well, this is definately 
 a reccommended buy, if you like run-n'-gun kind of games, but if you're leaning towards a squad-based 
 game, go for Brothers in Arms. But don't think that as a bad thing! COD2 is still cool! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 0oJuStiFyo0
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 30, 2006 7:43 am PT
Review:  this was the first game i bought when i got my 360.. and it was def. worth it. The gaem si great 
 switching from different countries playing there perspective of world war 2. it's a great game 
 with great visuals, and gameplay. The online multiplayer is great and nice, the latest patch made 
 it better with new maps coming out every once in awhile. the replay value is good becasue you need 
 to beat it on veteran to get the gamerpoints. Overall, this is a great game and probably one of 
 the best on the 360 to date and it's the top seller. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigshot305
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 29, 2006 7:20 pm PT
Review:  Over the years we have had countless war-based games. We have seen WWII countless of times and 
 Vietnam games were also being made a lot in the past couple of years, but this game convinced me 
 that there are still many battles that have not been told yet or seen. Call of Duty 2 puts you 
 in the shoes of three different characters going to Europe to, of course, fight for there countries 
 and get rid of the Nazis. With these three characters come their different campaigns, the English, 
 the American, and the Russian. These campaigns take you to places like Egypt, Germany, different 
 parts of Russia and many more. 
  
  The graphics in this game are amazing. The look and feel of everything is very impressive. Shoot 
 at the walls fragments start to come off, grenades go off and dust goes into the air. Character 
 models are also pretty good. The characters make faces when shot or hit with an explosion and die 
 in different ways. The A. I. is excellent. The enemies, especially in harder levels like hard or 
 veteran, are smart they will see you and find cover. They will wait and find the right time to 
 fire at you. In easier modes you can just run and gun past most of these people, but be warned 
 you can barely or never do this in hard or veteran. That will basically kill you in an instant. 
 
  
  The sound in this game is the selling point along with the graphics. Your partners are firing bullets 
 and can hear them wiz by your head, .88 guns, explosions are heard from grenades and that is what 
 this game is all about. The voice acting is very well done. When there are enemies around you your 
 partners will scream out the direction they are in. 
  
  All around this is a Phenomenal game and is a MUST BUY game for anyone who has an Xbox 360 or 
 Hi-End PC. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MoonROBOT
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 29, 2006 5:27 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 takes place in World War II, and takes you to three campaigns of the Russian, British 
 and American. This is the 5th game of the series. This game is made by Activision for the XBox 
 360.
  
  The gameplay for this game is awesome no doubt and keeps the experience going. This game can be 
 hard or easy depending on your skill level but this isn't just a run and gun game it is like you 
 are a soldier and you are running around looking for cover or destroying tanks. Online is awesome 
 because you can run around with people killing other people and is very fun.
  
  The game takes place in World War II. You go to American, British, and Russian campaigns trying 
 to stop the German army from taking over. Your first mission is a training mission which is predictble 
 and also teaches you the world of Call of Duty. The story also gives you a lot of history and you 
 learn alot of things that you wouldn't in a normal history lesson. Also these people that you play 
 as have been recognized war heros which adds authenticity. The story is just following the events 
 of WWII. 
  
  The graphics are totally next gen and are awesome. It feels like you are in a real battlefield 
 with bullets flying by. The soldiers look good and so does the guns. The people at activision have 
 done an awesome job on all the graphics on the game. The sounds are also awesome as well compared 
 to other war games. 
  
  This game has 4 difficult levels, Recruit, Veteran, Hard, and Normal. These add lots of replayability 
 time. There is also Online play which you can spend hours on. You will definitely be playing this 
 game for hours on end because this game is awesome. Try veteran mode if your a hotshot or just 
 really good.
  
  I recommend that you buy this game to the shooter fan in the house but like I always say you should 
 rent it before you buy it unless its a birthday present. This game is sold at around $60 which 
 is alot but this game is definitely worth it as I have stated above.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ihateyou_right
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 29, 2006 12:49 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty 2. When I saw that this was coming out the first thing that poped into my mind was 
 'oh no not another FPS war game' then when I finally came to play on it I realise how wrong I was. 
 You see this is no ordinary war game. This is a war game that makes you feel that you where there 
 it lets you see the horific side of war it lets you feel small and insignificant and it does it 
 all with style. For too long now war games have glorified war and COD2 breaks this mold by making 
 war seem like a horrible place where you kill or get killed. The single player game takes you through 
 three campaigns Russian, British and American. The single player game is best played on a veteran 
 difficulty as it allows you to play the game how it was supposed to be played. In veterian you 
 constantly dive for cover take aim shoot and pray for your life. The campaign mode never makes 
 you fell like you won the war single handedly like so many war games past have done no it makes 
 you feel like if it wasn't for the other soldiers you would surely be dead by now. The multiplayer 
 mode is pure fun it lets you fight it out on against each other and is just one of the best 360 
 online game around, although the game does have way too many snipers online. The graphics are fairly 
 good they can look a little rough around the edges but on a whole they look amazingly good, with 
 hundreds of men crowding the screen at one time. The sound on the game is amazing instaed of putting 
 epic music in the background, the sounds of guns and bombs make up evry sound in the game making 
 you really feel like you are in the war. The game will last a long time on veterain difficulty 
 and tthe multiplayer will keep you interrested for a long time. 
  
  Gameplay: Outstandng and physically demanding you may need to take frequent breaks from it all.
 
  
  Graphics: good but they can llok a little rough around the edges.
  
  Sound: Plays a big part in making the war seem real.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Miles_Pierre
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 2, 2006 11:09 pm PT
Review:  The WW genre of FPS shooters have been dying ever so slighty with each rendition, and sadly they 
 are a blur to even the hardcore gamer. Call of Duty 2 for the Xbox360 changes all of that. With 
 intense action and beautiful graphics, Call of Duty 2 almost redefines the WW genre and sets the 
 bar substantially high. 
  
  The campaign mode is excellent and puts you right there in the action. You feel the rumble on your 
 controller as a grenade explodes right next to you. You hear your heart beating uncontrollably. 
 
  
  Though I must admit my time was spent mostly in mulitplayer and this mode is where the game really 
 shines. Its not the usual run and gun type game - ala Halo. But it is intense, nerve racking and 
 infinitely fun. Its not your usual run and gun because many of the guns are either one hit kills 
 or VERY effective, meaning an encounter between two people will always result in certain, quick 
 death for either of them. The key to winning in multiplayer is to lay low and watch your back. 
 This works especially well with the sniper.
  
  There are so many pros to this game but I can only think of TWO cons. The hardest setting in campaign 
 mode is excruciatingly hard. The computer will not allow you to live. Most of the time when your 
 in a building at least 10 grenades are thrown at you.... thats some scary stuff. 
  
  The other would be the exclusion of splitscreen multiplayer ONLINE. That would have been a nice 
 addition to the game and would put it, in my mind, Halo 2 worthy. That being said its a great game. 
 Pick it up today!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DivineTears
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 27, 2006 10:00 pm PT
Review:  Alright call of duty 2 is good and should be bought now that thats said let me explain why I wasnt 
 to excited to play it. I loved the game because it made me feel as if I was in an actual war but 
 the different objectives they give you get repetitive and obviously war is repetitive it's survive 
 and kill but if its a rescue mission they should give it a feel that it is, But a rescue mission 
 blah you dont even feel it you'll just be shooting until you realise you've saved some one. But 
 the action and graphics of course it is where it shines, Graphics are nicely done but not so next-gen, 
 Action is intense and full of suspense that it'll make you're mouth drop and breath heavy as you 
 hide to survive from the intense bullets coming at you. The sound is amazing you'll see when you 
 get it, The value got me angry since only thirteen achievments were available which you can probably 
 get quickly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: odamkevin
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 27, 2006 9:27 pm PT
Review:  COD2 is a very good fps. campaign is solid, but i wish it wasnt just like the computer version, 
 wich i have beat numerous times. multiplayer offline and online are both great experiences. could 
 use a bigger selection of guns and the grenades could use a little shorter of a fuse but other 
 than that this title is a blast to play. controls are smooth and you truly get the feel like you 
 are in the middle of a war. the sound is very good and im sure would be truly amazing for you gamers 
 with surround sound. definitely would recommend for any 360 owner who enjoys a solid shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: injuredclown92
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 27, 2006 6:15 pm PT
Review:  This game is definitely the best game I have played on the Xbox 360. It has a great single player 
 and multiplayer. 
  
  The single player is better than any other FPS ( First Person Shooter) out there. You can easily 
 spend over 20 or 30 hours by playing on the Veteran difficulty alone, which is the hardest difficulty. 
 Although Veteran difficulty can be frustrating, it makes you feel like you really accomplished 
 something. I played through the difficulties easy, hardened, and veteran and I easily spend 40 
 doing all three of those difficulties. There is no co-op though and that is a disappointment. But 
 the great gameplay, graphics, sound, and the feeling of being emerged in real time war makes up 
 for the lack of a cooperative mode. 
  
  The multiplayer is definately where this game excels. I have already spent over 500 hours playing 
 this game on Xbox Live. And don't call me a game freak or anything because I play 3 hours a day, 
 almost every day, and I have had this game since January. That is about 7 months I have had this 
 game and played online. That's 210 days. I probably played my 3 hours on 170 of those days. Thats 
 510 hours. If you want to play this game to the fullest, you have to get Xbox Live. You can pick 
 any gun you want when you start, and each one comes with a certain amount of grenades. You can 
 switch weapons and pick up more grenades after you respawn. There are 5 game modes. Deathmatch, 
 Team Deathmatch, Capture the Flag, Headquarters (like King of the Hill) , and Search and Destroy. 
 In Search and Destroy you start out on two teams, and Allies have to plant bombs on strong points, 
 while Axis defends. This game's online doesn't get boring. There are some people that are cheap, 
 and use dirty tactics, but you don't find them often and they aren't too hard to kill. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jtnhl11
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 26, 2006 2:22 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty 2 for the xbox 360 is an overall amazing game that anyone could enjoy. I had a lot 
 of fun playing this game but it is way to short. On hard it only takes a few hours and is very 
 short. The graphics are good enough to play but not super good. Dolby digital 5.1 makes the sound 
 amazing and you will love that. I personally would rent this game unless you have xbox live because 
 its way too short. But the xbox live for call of duty 2 is one of the best of all the xbox 360 
 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoHn-CeNa346
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 26, 2006 1:24 pm PT
Review:  There is a lot to say about COD2. First off, the graphics are amazing. Not as good as the could 
 have been but still pretty tight. The gameplay is great but i wish you could just jump into tanks 
 in story and Multiplayer. The sound is awesome. When you are in story, all you hear is gun fire 
 and soliders yelling which really is what war is supose to sound like. The feature that really 
 puts this game over the top is Xbox Live. There is more than 20 maps to play on and 5 game modes 
 to play on including Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, CTF, Search and Destroy and Headquaters. If you 
 love War or FPSs' then you will definatly love COD 2 for sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paulthespartan
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 26, 2006 2:04 pm PT
Review:  alright, where should I start? okay, I kinda like War games, especially WW2 games like this one, 
 and when I firsat tried it at Best Buy, I liked it, I really, really liked it.
  
  this game is obviously a 360 launch title, along with Perfect Dark Zero, King Kong, and Kameo, 
 and I must really say, this one is probably the best of them all.
  
  the gameplay is solid, it's an FPS game, and you can switch different guns if you like, and you 
 can work with your fellow teammates to destroy your enemies.
  
  the graphics are good for a next gen consol, the clothing looks realistic, and the action is also 
 realistic.
  
  the sound affects are very well done, it sounds like the gunshots are right near you, and the explosions 
 of mines and grenades are great, and the music totally sounds like WW2 music, it's epic and sentimental.
 
  
  this game is a great game, and if you own a 360 or a PC, then this is a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gaaravsrocklee
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 26, 2006 10:41 am PT
Review:  call of duty is a fun first person shjooter for the xbox 360. it will last you a bit if u try to 
 unlock every achievement. in this game you play as the allies and fight against the germans. on 
 the allies u play as either america, britian, or russia. each country features its own weapons 
 but some but each contry has the same trench gun. the multiplayer is really fun and never gets 
 boring. there are multiple options 2 play in lik deathmatch, team deathmatch, headquaters just 
 2 name a few. with its capabilities online this game defeintly has a spot in anyones collection 
 for xbox 360 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spartan29
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 25, 2006 5:41 pm PT
Review:  If you want a great first-person shooter to hold you till other ones come out for your xbox 360, 
 this is the game. The graphics are awesome and game play is superb. Each missions really brings 
 out the intensity of a war with explosions everywhere and gunfire can be heard in the distance 
 where ever you are located. The A. I. is better than most other games and your comrades can really 
 help you in instances. The weapons may be limited in numbers, but each gun can differ in the numbers 
 of shots it can fire compared to one just like it or the range of one may also differ to one just 
 like it. If you like shooters and WWII games then get this one most definitely or if you just like 
 shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterdilh
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 25, 2006 9:22 am PT
Review:  As you can see, Call of Duty 2, yeah.. hoha.. wee. Anyway Call of Duty 2 is a great game. The gameplay 
 feels just right, with a satisfying feeling and sound pumping out of the gun you are about to shoot 
 hitting the head of an opponent. The graphics are sharp, with minor jaggies shown in the game, 
 and the game in nowhere near as good looking as the PC game. Withg that said the sound is really 
 good, they nabbed it with the creative weapon sounds, and the screaming of the germans in the background. 
 Though, finally, my favorite aspect of the game is the multiplayer. The online is really fun, all 
 the reason to give this game a higher score, it is just really satisfying to shoot a preson, or 
 gun down a person wth a rofle, or machine gun. THe game does have some flaws online though, the 
 draw distance on opponents is off, mean that you can shoot at nothing when intended to kill your 
 opponent and actually have gotten a shot off on him, also Lag is still arounf in this game, SO 
 WATCH OUT.
  
  To be safe, I would saay rent before you buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hellfire05
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 24, 2006 3:48 pm PT
Review:  This is easily the best WWII game I have ever played, It is hard to find any flaws. I think this 
 game sets the bar for any future WWII game, and if it gets any better than COD2 I will be amazed. 
 However, there is one thing missing in the game, and that is the ability to throw back your enemy's 
 grenades. It surprised me that they didnt have this ability, for how advanced everything else is 
 in the game. I was really surprised by the difficulty settings, I completed the game on regular 
 pretty easily with only a few deaths (Hill 400) , then I went through the game on Hardened which 
 took a bit longer. But on veteran is a different story, it is really hard and I have only done 
 a few campaigns with it. This was my first game for the 360 and now I really know why it is next 
 gen gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheCritic9392
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 24, 2006 2:58 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is the sequel to the classic World War II PC shooter Call of Duty. Normally, the 
 developers would port a watered-down mediocre version of the game to consoles (e. g., Finest Hour) 
 but with the launch of the Xbox 360 they finally did the right thing by porting it to M'Soft's 
 new system. Here's everything you need to know:
  
  Gameplay: COD 2 gets the gritty WWII feeling down perfectly, the controls are intuitive, and it 
 all flows smoothly. Smoke grenades are now one of your best weapons, as they can really confuse 
 your enemies. The new health system (similar to Halo 2's single shield) is one of my favorite aspects 
 of the game. It's simple: your character can take so much damage before the screen begins to pulsate 
 and stuff. If you can get to cover without taking to much more damage, you will return to normal. 
 No meters, no first aid kits, just simple. My only real gripes for the gameplay were the fact that 
 almost every objective was: "Quick! Find some sticky bombs and blow up that Panzer!". The objectives 
 for each mission are incredibly repetitive and we've seen it all before. There's also an extreme 
 lack of weapons variety, as all you basically have are machine guns, rifles, and a pistol, which 
 is genuinely useless. It is pretty fun though, so I give it a 9/10.
  
  Graphics: The game is possibly one of the best looking launch games for the 360. The games full 
 featured character models are all very varied and look great. There enviornments are poor however, 
 as they are the same old piles of rubble with twisted metal rods sticking out of them as we've 
 seen since the dawn of Medal of Honor. We've seen it all before, which is why I give it an 8/10.
 
  
  Sound: The sound is great in this game, as it captures the feel and ambiance of WWII by combining 
 echoing booms of bombs and the sounds of machine guns. The voice acting is once again great, and 
 is what's expected from a COD game. However, your comerades are very overly-chattery and talk way 
 too much. They seem to really like yelling: "THERE ARE THE FACISTS! GERMANS OVER THERE! GERMANS! 
 TAKE THAT YOU FACISTS! GERMANS!!!" The repetitive dialogue and overly-chatty soldiers keep the 
 sound from being great so I give it an 8/10.
  
  Value: The extremely lengthy campaign will keep you busy for a while, and the multiplayer is incredible. 
 The robust Xbox Live support is in full force here and will allow the Xbox Live community to play 
 a nice WWII shooter (for better or worse) . There's lots of fun to be had here, which is why I give 
 value a 10/10.
  
  Bottom Line: If you like shooters, COD2 doesn't dissapoint. However, it's a clear sign that WWII 
 shooters need to die now. It's a dead genre, and COD 3 will most likely be the same. I just don't 
 see how many times people can storm that beach. I just don't. Honor your WWII veterans and just 
 stop making WWII shooters. Any other war will do!!!! I think COD 4 should be set in Vietnam, but 
 I'm drifting here. COD 2 is simply put a competent shooter that's worth a rental. If your a multiplayer 
 game nut, it's a good game. No Xbox Live? Just rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: presureone911
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 23, 2006 6:18 pm PT
Review:  This game is great. It does what matters most in a shooter, ets the feel of firing a weapon perfect. 
 The single player portion is about 12-18 hours long dependin on the difficulty you choose. The higher 
 difficulties will ive even the most seasoned shooter fan a good challene. This ensures that anyone 
 with all the achievement points are usualluy very good due to a lack of a god mode, unlike another 
 game i know of. However toward the end of the ame a laring problem arises, shooting Nazis is all 
 you do. Dont get me wrong there are some varients in the gameplay wich make for a nice break in 
 the action but they are few and far between. You'll still finish the game and maybe o back on a 
 higher difficulty for points but it sadly gan get boring. This is mainly because the AI becomes 
 predictable to a degree. The real mmeat of the game is in the multyplayer. Its fast, fun and has 
 a degree of stratagy. The game only supports 8 players online but after some time with it you find 
 out 8 is just fine. Whats frustrating about multiplayer is that there is no drivable vehicles like 
 there is in the single player. Also dont believe anyone about the lag online, if you have a broadband 
 connection you will be fine. The sound in the game is top notch, weapons or impactfall and the wizz 
 of bullets flying by your head really puts you in the moment. The graphics are second to none on 
 the 360 especially an HDTV.
  In simpler terms buy this game if you have a 360. If you dont theres know rush. Like Halo it will 
 more than likly have a strong following for many months maybe even years to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: glanserunar
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 23, 2006 2:41 pm PT
Review:  Many people have said that it's just another WW2 shooter, Call of Duty 2 is more intense than any 
 other WW2 shooter I've played, and I have played a lot. I had a great time with it. From the start 
 of the Russian missions to the end of the American missions. The graphics are in my opinion great, 
 the AI gives you a good fight at the Veteran setting and the sound is fantastic. The best thing 
 about the campaign is that you never fight alone. Always you have someone fighting with you to 
 kill the enemy. 
  
  After finishing the campaign I went to the multiplayer. The online bit of it is quite fun. The 
 downside is that it's limited to 8 people. We want 16, 24 or even 32. 
  
  Call of duty 2 is worth buying for both the pc and xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: parow
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 23, 2006 8:28 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is by far the best game ive ever played. and the replay value is great i finished 
 the game on easy first to get used to it and now i am playing it on veteran just because i was 
 bored and needed some gamer points and some entertainment and let me tell you its on tough strategical 
 game on veteran and i love it. Smoke grenades work great and the scope from the sniper you have 
 to press the left analog stick to hold your breathe not to move the scope. the graphics are simply 
 stunning and from the gunshots to the chatter around you to the command calls everything feels 
 so real all around great game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SabotFox
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 22, 2006 4:53 am PT
Review:  Im not a big fan of war-time shooters, but Call of Duty 2 certainly grabbed my attention. From 
 detailed cinematics to a fast-paced storyline, this game grabs you from the beginning and doesnt 
 let go. The story unfolds across three sets of campaigns: a rather short Russian campaign as the 
 Nazis march on Stalingrad; a two-part British campaign that begins in the African theater; and 
 the American campaign, which begins at the obligatory Normandy invasion mission. In all three campaigns, 
 you play the role of a common soldier and work as part of a team to bring down Nazi Germany. While 
 there are a few occasions where youll be out on your own, flanking the enemy or providing artillery 
 or sniper support, for the most part youll be one amongst many fighting for dominance on the battlefield. 
 This is a pretty neat approach to World War II games, a far cry from other games where it seemed 
 you were the only person fighting the war. Call of Duty 2 goes to great lengths to make you feel 
 like youre only a small part of the war effort. Often your position will be overrun by Nazis, 
 and your squad is holding onto ground by the skin of teeth waiting for reinforcements. Other times 
 youll have to scramble through enemy territory searching for weapons to use against their mechanized 
 armor.
  
  The sounds in this game really stand out, because it makes it seem like youre really on the battlefield. 
 Youll constantly hear the scream of incoming artillery, the battle cries of your fellow soldiers, 
 and shouted commands from all around. The constant noise keeps you always on the alert, and adds 
 to the frenzied pace of the game. Theres very little music, and youll only hear brief themes 
 after youve completed a mission. In between the battles, youll catch a glimpse of war-time footage 
 as you see the other pieces of the campaign fall into place.
  
  The campaign will take a good 20 hours or so to complete, longer if youre playing on the tougher 
 levels of difficulty, the highest of which claims You will not survive. While the learning curve 
 in this game is fairly shallow, the difficulty is pretty extreme. Call of Duty 2 makes use a mostly 
 clutter-free HUD, and theres no health meter to keep track of. Instead, after youve taken a few 
 rounds to the gut, the screen will take on a red tinge. If you duck and cover, the screen returns 
 to normal and you can return to fighting. If you dont find cover, however, then youre dead. On 
 the higher difficulties, you obviously can only take one or two rounds before falling; on the lower, 
 you may survive five rounds. If that werent enough to worry about, grenades can end your life 
 instantly, and theres constantly a threat of panzers showing up to decimate you and your squad. 
 Life is short in Call of Duty 2, so you have to be quick to survive, and realize that you cant 
 survive out in the open. 
  
  Call of Duty 2 is an exceptional war-time game, and a lot of fun to play.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheCrazyGuy1
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 19, 2006 9:33 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is a game that you will remember for a long timel. Its not its so-so multiplayer, 
 or its amazing sound. Its the great A. I. The German A. I in the game is really amazing. Soldiers 
 make great use of cover, and when a man dies near the MG42 nest, another one, immediately takes 
 its place. Genius
  
  Since its really just the same as the PC version, which i also have, there are a few differences. 
 Such as the multiplayer. Its split-screen battles are normal for a fps game, but the online play 
 only supports 8 people, which is obviously not very great, since most games allows up to 16. Second, 
 the graphics are top-notch, but it just doesnt look next-gen, like Ghost Recon or Dead or Alive 
 4.
  
  Other then these cons, Call of Duty 2 is one of the best games availble for the 360, and if youre 
 a fan of fps games and you own a 360 and trying to figure out what gane to get, you should definetly 
 buy this game to test out what the 360 can do 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joslop500
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 19, 2006 9:18 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is one of the most intense FPS games ever. Not to mention the best selling game 
 on the Xbox 360. You start of in the Russian campaign and work your way in to the British campaign 
 and you finish in the American campaign. All of them with their unique taste and style. The AI 
 is really smart in this game, specially in the hardened and veteran difficulty levels. It won't 
 just stand there and le you shut them, it will actually try to flank you and shut you if you're 
 just running around without taking cover. With its captivating gameplay, astonishing beautiful 
 graphics and even better sound, Call of Duty 2 is the whole package. If that wasn't enough, the 
 multiplayer will give hours of entertainment way after your're done with the single player campaign. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spartan3669
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 19, 2006 8:35 pm PT
Review:  This game is quite amazing when it was made for the PC a couple years ago. They did not change 
 anything about the game which is what first disappionted me. However this is a solid shooter that 
 is lots of fun. The problem is that there is not replay value and once you beat it, it gets boring. 
 The game does have the best graphics to date when it came out and the sounds were very real. The 
 online was terrible at first and that was a big turn down for me. The russian campaign was the 
 only fun levels, because they seemed the most grand and suspensful all the rest seemed to copy 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daveku27
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 19, 2006 7:24 am PT
Review:  I was a little unsure about buying this game for the 360 because my earlier trials with the ps2 
 versions where not so hot to say the least. However, this is a much different experience! First 
 off, the graphics in this game are outstandingly crisp and clear. The effects of mortars going 
 off in your face and bullets flying by your head make you feel like you are actually there. Also, 
 the gun effects are spot on in my opinion. the kick back is different for all of the guns, making 
 some of them very difficult to use. I also liked the variety in this game. You play as the Russians, 
 British, and US soldiers in your assult on the Germans. This is a nice change of pace because just 
 as being a Russian solider is getting a bit boring, you switch to the Brits. Also, this changing 
 of nations means a nice change of scenery. Fights happen in towns, deserts, in armored cars, tanks, 
 and on the famous Hill. Another pro is the AI in this game. The enemy trys to flank you, they throw 
 your grenades back at you, and they take cover when being shot at. Your allies are none too shaby 
 either. Unlike many other WW2 shooters, your allies actually help you kill the enemy. They throw 
 smoke grenades for cover, they cover you with covering fire, and they arent worthless like so many 
 other games! My only cmplaint about this game (and every other first person shooter) is that you 
 get stuck on stuff a lot which causes you to die a lot. Overall this was a great experience best 
 played with the volume all the way up!!! I cant wait for Call of Duty 3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GENERALPUG
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 19, 2006 6:57 am PT
Review:  Ok to get to the bottom line, there is nothing to dislike about this game. The multyplayer is awsome 
 but you should probally try campain first so you dont get demolished in it. There are many maps 
 that you can play on. Big selection of weapons.
  The campain is good. Long, but the downside of it is that to get acheivments you have to play it 
 on veteran wich is the the hardest mode you can play it on. The campain has three countrys you can 
 play, Russian, Brittin, And the U. S. of A. So if your wondering if you should buy it and you like 
 shooters than you should get this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: battlemen
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 21, 2006 2:10 pm PT
Review:  This is a really great game no doubt about that, but i thought it was a bit short...
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is really awsome, its like a regular fps but better cause it likes to show 
 u that it is the best.. idk what else to say but its good
  
  Graphics: This is were this game shines, the graphics are really amazing, the guns look great, 
 the smoke is amazing, the explosions are a real looker and the people's clothing looked great, 
 BUT the peoples faces arent the best... they kinda look bad. only let down, otherwise awsome, BTW 
 i have a standard panasonic 38' tv.
  
  Sound: OMG the sound is so amazing i love it, i love how the people scream when they rush, it makes 
 me wanna scream when i rush also :D i like how they talk, good voice acting, they are good in deep 
 situations, wait for my go... GOOGOGOGOGO AHHHHHHH" lol i loved that. great sound. nothing bad 
 here
  
  Value: I thought this was a preety short game, it took me 9 hours... but i was having so much fun, 
 when it finished i thought it went by so fast.. this game is fun for Xbox live, Rent it ONLY if 
 ur just gonna play single player, OTHERWISE buy it cause xbox live is amazing.. OMG its fun
  
  idk about tilt
  
  Overall this game made me real happy, and there are lots of achievements 
 to go also, dont forget live :D
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: colegallop
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 18, 2006 3:49 pm PT
Review:  One of the best FPS to be played, a true next-gen game. Xbox360's first great shooter.
  
  The Good: Realistic graphics, great sound, fun gameplay, some of the best online gameplay ever, 
 and a good single player story all wrapped into one.
  
  The Bad: Possibly a little rushed, single player doesn't end well, despite awesome live, a horrible 
 multiplayer, with no bots or co-op, and annoying A. I for higher difficulties ( the only thing different 
 is that they have un-human accuracy and twice your health) .
  
  The game starts you off as Private Vasili Koslov, a recruit in the Russian Red Army. The first 
 level is an excellently planned training level, where you learn the basics of the game. 
  After two missions ( four levels) you unlock the British Campaign, which are mostly centered around 
 the British 7th Armored Division's Sargeant John Davis, including one mission following Tank Commander 
 David Welsh going up against much better equiped tanks of the German Afrika Korps. Most of the 
 British Campaign is located in North Africa, except the last mission: The Battle for Caen. 
  After playing through the first three British Missions, you unlock the American Campaign, which 
 is easily the best graphical wise, gameplay, and story starts off on D-day, but not the way you'd 
 think. There isn't the famous Normandy beach storming, but instead, there is a very important landing 
 at Pointe du Hoche, where it was critical to destroy the Artilary guns to ensure a safe arrival 
 at Normandy. Although the American Campaign was very good, it lacks a significant ending, the last 
 mission is comprised of only one, dissapointing level.
  
  The replay value of this game is great on Live, it seems to never get old. I would recomend this 
 game to any online gamer. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: marc002
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 18, 2006 11:57 am PT
Review:  Simply put, Call of Duty 2 is an awsome game. Stop reading and just go buy it right now. Trust 
 me. If you're looking for a fast-paced, action-packed shooter, you won't regret it.
  
  While the game has beautiful graphics, where I think it shines through the most is its gameplay. 
 The game has shed the traditional FPS convention of having a life gauge that steadily depletes 
 as you take damage, killing you when it reaches zero. Instead, the player will die if hit a consecutive 
 amount of times in a row, and regenerate to full health if he takes cover and avoids being hit 
 for a short while. This means that you never really need to leave a battle zone. If things start 
 getting a litlte too hot, all you need to do is duck behind rubble for 3 seconds and you'll be 
 fine. In other words, the action never lets up because you never need to run away from it. This 
 makes the game more arcade-like and fast-paced than other shooters. Instead of playing through 
 intense fire fights that only last a few minutes because then you die, you can find yourself fighting 
 through crazy battles an hour straight.
  
  In keeping with the fast-paced feel of the game, the campaign is broken up into several small missions 
 that are not linked in any strong or cohesive way, other than all taking part within WWII. You 
 won't be following your character through a progressive story line. Rather, he'll be jumping from 
 mission to mission, year to year, place to place, from one fire fight to the next, accomplishing 
 whatever it is you need to win that battle. Every mission seems to be self-contained, with its 
 own beginning, middle, and end.
  
  If the fast-paced, action-packed, arcade formula isn't enough for you, the game also sports great 
 visuals. The textures are smooth and detailed, and your fellow soldiers around you look unique 
 one from the other, with different faces and the like. The environment is also well detailed, from 
 smoke to explosions to weather effects like blowing snow. So the game definitely looks good.
  
  All in all, this is a game I am completely satisfied with -- and YOU will, too -- Uncle Sam 
 needs you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: terry_tate
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 18, 2006 1:15 am PT
Review:  I love this game. The online multiplayer is probably the most fun I have had on my 360 so far. 
 Veteran difficulty on the offline single player campaign can be very, VERY hard. Sound is extremely 
 realistic. Gameplay over-all is just fantastic. A. I. can be very smart (and very stupid) but is 
 a huge leap from previous A. I. efforts on other games *COUGH halo 2 COUGH*. This is easily the 
 game I have spent my most time on for my 360, second only to Oblivion (this is because Oblivion 
 is so massive and addicting that you can't really blame me) . Also just the sheer realism of the 
 dramatic points in the campaign is amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Money-Mo
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 18, 2006 12:32 am PT
Review:  This game has it all. A smooth, semi-difficult campaign (pretty tough on Veteran) , great multiplayer, 
 and lots of fun to have at a land party. I'll begin with the campaign. It has a total of 10 missions, 
 which are broken down into two levels within each one. You play as a soldier in the Soviet Union, 
 a British soldier in Africa, a British tank driver in Africa, and an American Army Ranger. The 
 story is pretty nice, and it's tied into real events through the use of real-life film footage. 
 The real reason to play the story, though, is to unlock all of the achievements and prepare for 
 multiplayer warfare. The multiplayer is where this game really shines. There is little to no lag 
 in most matches, and there is always a game going on. Almost all of the maps are well-balanced, 
 and almost anyone could learn the layout of them after playing them all once or twice. It really 
 is the best World War II game out there, so don't miss it! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Delta_BITR
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 17, 2006 5:28 pm PT
Review:  This game has it all. A smooth, semi-difficult campaign (pretty tough on Veteran) , great multiplayer, 
 and lots of fun to have at a land party. I'll begin with the campaign. It has a total of 10 missions, 
 which are broken down into two levels within each one. You play as a soldier in the Soviet Union, 
 a British soldier in Africa, a British tank driver in Africa, and an American Army Ranger. The 
 story is pretty nice, and it's tied into real events through the use of real-life film footage. 
 The real reason to play the story, though, is to unlock all of the achievements and prepare for 
 multiplayer warfare. The multiplayer is where this game really shines. There is little to no lag 
 in most matches, and there is always a game going on. Almost all of the maps are well-balanced, 
 and almost anyone could learn the layout of them after playing them all once or twice. It really 
 is the best World War II game out there, so don't miss it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beiisgei
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 16, 2006 1:32 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Much of the same sort of gameplay through the entire game. Working from check point to 
 check point. But Call of Duty throws in 3 points of view (Russian, British, and American) again 
 so the game stays interesting. One of the best gameplay features is the fact that there is no health 
 bar. You no longer have to worry about health packs. Instead your screen gets red as you get hit, 
 so you move out of the line of fire until your screen is clear again, this keeps the game moving.
 
  
  Graphics: Decent quality, but nothing over the top.
  
  Sound: Immersive sound.
  
  Value: Decent multiplayer, replaying missions is still fun after many times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: themtman
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 16, 2006 1:02 pm PT
Review:  Okay this game and GRAW are the games to own on the 360 right now. The game is very great. Amazing 
 graphics and unbelievable sound. The gameplay is fun. The single player is just right and the muliplayer 
 is really fun. The amazing scripted moments in the game i think are what show the 360's power. 
 The game has really fun multiplayer which has exactly the same graphics which is hard for me to 
 believe because a lot of games out their differ from multiplayer and single player graphic wise 
 like GRAW for instance. This game is a buy just buy and love it. The achievements are really hard 
 so the people who have a total of 1000 for this game i solute you because you have the patience 
 which i dont have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: surid
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 16, 2006 12:23 pm PT
Review:  This game is just truly amazing and blows away all WWII shooters... the intense battles that ull 
 have to play with dozens of soilders by your side just makes the whole experience life like... 
 The graphics are Average-good for a next gen game... amazing at times but i was sligltly disapointed... 
 but this game scores a perfect 10/10 where it counts the most in my opinioni... the gameplay... 
 
  
  my fav part of the game has to be the soviet campaign... the snow effects are just plain jaw dropping 
 although the rest of the game looks pretty meh... One downside of the game that i could think of 
 would be the pop-ups that you encounter when your playing the game.... these are the same types 
 of popups that we encountered in the cutscenes in Halo 2.... its not as bad as it was in halo 2 
 but its worth mentioning....
  
  ANYWAYS THE GAME ROCKS ... GO BUY IT NOW !!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SurvivalGamer
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 16, 2006 10:10 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is of course a WWII shooter placing you in the shoe's of various allied force'sspanning 
 from Russian's to Cheerfull o'l Britt's "chip.. chip.. cheeri-O". But anyway Call of Duty 2 lives 
 up to its pre-quell and definetivly is some of the best the xbox 360 has to offer with multiplayer 
 limited onlyto 8 player's on the xbox 360 the game dose'feel that way it has exeptionlly great 
 map's leting youplay out your Nazi or American Bloodbattle'sagaisnt friends, family, or random nerd's! 
 Thesound is of course all WWII'y i know thats not a real word but who's checking? Themusic is ok.... for 
 about the 19'th timeand then you might want to keepyou'recustomsountdtrack's rolling!! But beside's 
 that the gamegive's you and ok amount of gamerscore if you invest the long hour's and replay the 
 game 4 time's! Ifyou have an XBOX 360 and thinkit suck's pick upthis game and oblivion and that 
 should keep you ocupied! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Air-Hendrix
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 15, 2006 7:19 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2, the sequel to the biggest acclaimed series on the face of the earth is something 
 I didn't expect to be as great as the PC version on the Xbox 360.
  In fact, I was having doubts from all the features they've taken out like Vehicles and Satchel 
 Bombs like in the first game.
  I was wrong however because this shooter shows what potential a console has left. 
  With outstanding 
 visuals and captivating gameplay, Call of Duty 2 suprised me. I was left with awe on even the demo 
 where you have to take plight through the desert full o' Nazis and more destruction. Like other 
 WW2 shooters, it has the usual weapons of scenery such as the classic Tommy gun and MP-40's. It 
 also features Carbines, Snipers, and Machines guns as well just to name a few.
  
  Anyway, I already reviewed this game but I give it a Thumbs-Up for anyone on the borderline of 
 getting it: It really is an awesome game.
  
  But don't be fooled, some of the modes are VERY challenging and are such a b! tch to go through 
 even like Hardened : (. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: z-man12345678
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 14, 2006 2:58 pm PT
Review:  The #1 WWII shooter development team returns with an amazing new experience: Developed by Infinity 
 Ward, creators of the award-winning Call of Duty. All-new, unprecedented enhancements from stunningly 
 realistic graphics to seamless gameplay, thanks to the revolutionary COD2 engine, groundbreaking 
 AI, and choice-based gameplay innovations. Beautifully rendered snow, rain, fog, and smoke, combined 
 with dynamic lighting and shadows, make this the most intense WWII shooter yet. 
  
  * New conflicts and enemies to face: Call of Duty 2 brings you bigger battles, with more tanks, 
 troops, and explosions on-screen, and bigger scope, with a wide range of locales and environments 
 across the European Theater. Fight "The Desert Fox" across the scorching sands of North Africa 
 as wave upon wave of tanks clash in the desert. 
  
  * Use rocket-propelled grappling hooks alongside your Army Ranger squad to storm and scale the 
 cliffs of Pointe du Hoc against a relentless German counterassault, and slogthrough urban chaos 
 as a tank hunter in war-torn Russia. 
  
  * Rely on your squad as never before: The dozens of Allied soldiers surrounding you are fully aware 
 of the changing situations around them, and will let you know using an all-new, context-sensitive 
 battle chatter system. They will draw enemy fire, lay down cover for you, use foxholes and moving 
 tanks for cover, and warn you of incoming enemy troops and hostile fire. 
  
  * Choice-based gameplay: Play through missions in the order you see fit. Will you decide to play 
 first as a sniper or as a tank commander? Its your call. Open-ended battlefields allow you to 
 individualize your tactics and choose the order in which you complete your objectives. 
  
  * Multiplayer Mayhem: Go online for intense Axis vs. Allies team-based multiplayer action, building 
 on the hugely popular Call of Duty multiplayer modes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SouthPark_Fan13
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 14, 2006 9:11 am PT
Review:  where cani start w/ this game??? first off it's amazing, definetly the best WWII shooter made on 
 any console and it's also the best sounding too. the sound quality in this game is superb. when 
 you storm the beaches of normandy all you can here are bullets fling everywhere greanades expodling, 
 the sound of bullets piercing your men's skin, but best of all hearing those nazis scream in pain. 
 let me tell you there is no better feeling than having a nazi in your sight then pulling the trigger. 
 the graphics in CoD2 are ok, they're better than ps2 , but not fully capable of the 360. this game 
 is definetly worth your time and the money you pay for it, but let me tell you one last thing Don't 
 let those Nazis win!!!!
  
  Pvt 
  SouthPark_Fan13
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ocgz
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 14, 2006 1:31 am PT
Review:  first game i bought for 360. well worth the $40 i paid for a used copy. single player is amazing, 
 got me hooked in for a while. average/expiernced gamers could go through the entire singleplayer 
 campaign in a weekend or so. only thing the game lack is the 8 player max restriction on the multiplayer 
 side. graphix are what u could expect from a next-gen game. anyone that just bought a 360 and has 
 trouble deciding on what game to purchase this title should be on your list. finding an inexpensive 
 copy shouldnt be a problem by now. one of the most solid first person shooters to come out this 
 year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dmg051793
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 13, 2006 11:10 pm PT
Review:  This is my favorite World War 2 game. It is my second favorite game overall. It is my favorite 
 Xbox 360 game. Once you throw a smoke grenade, it will be enough to say that it has definately 
 eye exploding graphics. If you have surround sound, that will make great sound effects from the 
 gun fire and stick grenades too. I reccommend it to any World War 2 or shooter lover. I also suggest 
 for you to get the other games too. Then it will make an experience that you will never forget. 
 You need to buy it. I love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raymin4
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 13, 2006 5:53 pm PT
Review:  I have owned this game since I got my 360 back in the beginning of February... actually I'm on my 
 second copy, since the first one got all scratched.... stupid cousin... well enough of that... lets 
 get on with the review.
  
  You may wonder why It took me soooo long to write this review... well, I wanted to master the game 
 first.
  
  The Graphics are awesome.... almost as good as GRAW... the sound is second to NONE, and the gameplay 
 is flat out awesome.
  
  The Campaign mode is long enough to keep you happy... and it should take you darn near forever to 
 beat the game on VETERAN.... its a rediculous setting.... makes you feel like you're taking on the 
 entire german army in waves....
  
  The multi-player is also darn near perfect! My friends and I have been playing this for months 
 now.... there are about 12 maps in the game, but there are more available through LIVE. 
  
  All I can say is that this is an awesome game.... if you don't own it and you do own a 360.... you 
 better buy it.... and get in on what everyone is talking about.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trolley98
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 13, 2006 10:06 am PT
Review:  Before COD2, I never really thought much of WW2 shooters. I grew up playing the Medal of Honor 
 series and I was just not impressed with it. So I decided to try a WW2 game made by a different 
 company. Man is this one better! Call Of Duty 2 has got to be one of the best next-gen games for 
 the Xbox 360. Not only can you play as the Americans, but also as the Red army and the British 
 which gives you a total of about 30 levels you can play.
  
  The graphics for Call of Duty 2 are mostly what you would expect from a Next-Gen game. The graphics 
 are sharp and crisp and the scenery in the background is just amazing. And it just doesn't seem 
 like the backround is just a Picture.
  
  Call of Duty 2 features online play through Xbox live. This is where we hit a snag. While the online 
 gameplay is very fun, and gives you numerous game modes and levels to play, There is only 8 players 
 permitted per game. And sometimes (mostly) the game will lag. It will lag if a player leaves the 
 game which can be very frustrating.
  
  All in all, Call of Duty 2 for the Xbox 360 is all its craced up to be with its next-gen graphics 
 and fun gameplay, this is definitely a game you should get! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mangawee
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 13, 2006 7:54 am PT
Review:  If you want to know how it feels to be in a real war except you wont be bleeding if you got shot 
 or something just don't stay for along time playing it.
  
  You will fight with the Russian against the Germans or with the British against the french as you 
 advance through the game your army will follow you as you make the first move like throwing smoke 
 grenade to make some cover for you and the soldiers or trying to locate the enemy sniper with you 
 sniper weapon the missions are very realistic.
  
  About the graphics the it's very good with explosion or smoke spreading in the area the surrondings 
 are well made buildings looks so reall i really like the graphics in this game.
  
  The sound is one of the most thing that i like you get hear the bullet as it passes near you or 
 explosions blowing every where around you every aspect in COD2 is awesome & well made.
  
  peace 
::::::

::::::
UserName: staticvoorhees
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 12, 2006 9:48 pm PT
Review:  This game is unbelievable. The graphics are amazing, the gameplay is awesome, multiplayer is fun and 
 addicting! I havent really seen any flaws to this game except for one thing. The shooting is a little 
 off on multiplayer. Now that could be the game engine or the lag in internet connection. But I have 
 died from a one hit shot in the leg. Now that is possible in real life if it was a missile maybe. I 
 think they need to tweak that a little. As far as single player, I have a hard time putting down 
 my controller. I seriously feel like I am in the middle of WW II in the military, killing krauts, dodging 
 grenades, and so on. This is defiantly a game to pick up for the 360 regardless if you have never 
 played any of the others on the xbox. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: regret
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 12, 2006 11:30 am PT
Review:  This game is amazing!!! The graphics are great so is everything else, sound, game play, value. 
 Each campaing is well done, American, British, and Russin. Each level is filled with objectives 
 and multiple ways of doing so. If your caught up in gun fire just flank them and your team mates 
 will follow you. 
  
  The voices are well done and the battles are intense in the Veteran level which i am currently 
 working on. over all the game is perfect and there are many acheivements to unlock, like beating 
 the game on veteran and earning points for completing each chapter. I really recommend this game!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: USSJAndrew
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 12, 2006 11:29 am PT
Review:  One of the best FPS to be played, a true next-gen game. Xbox360's first great shooter.
  
  The Good: Realistic graphics, great sound, fun gameplay, some of the best online gameplay ever, 
 and a good single player story all wrapped into one.
  
  The Bad: Possibly a little rushed, single player doesn't end well, despite awesome live, a horrible 
 multiplayer, with no bots or co-op, and annoying A. I for higher difficulties ( the only thing different 
 is that they have un-human accuracy and twice your health) .
  
  
  The game starts you off as Private Vasili Koslov, a recruit in the Russian Red Army. The first 
 level is an excellently planned training level, where you learn the basics of the game. 
  After two missions ( four levels) you unlock the British Campaign, which are mostly centered around 
 the British 7th Armored Division's Sargeant John Davis, including one mission following Tank Commander 
 David Welsh going up against much better equiped tanks of the German Afrika Korps. Most of the 
 British Campaign is located in North Africa, except the last mission: The Battle for Caen. 
  After playing through the first three British Missions, you unlock the American Campaign, which 
 is easily the best graphical wise, gameplay, and story starts off on D-day, but not the way you'd 
 think. There isn't the famous Normandy beach storming, but instead, there is a very important landing 
 at Pointe du Hoche, where it was critical to destroy the Artilary guns to ensure a safe arrival 
 at Normandy. Although the American Campaign was very good, it lacks a significant ending, the last 
 mission is comprised of only one, dissapointing level.
  
  The replay value of this game is great on Live, it seems to never get old. I would recomend this 
 game to any online gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tinkertown
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 12, 2006 7:31 am PT
Review:  Since the amazing start of the 360 we have had some magnificent games. 
  Elder Scrolls Oblivion
  Perfect Dark Zero
  G. R. A. W. 
  now to top off some of these instant 
 classics Activision have brought along their heavy artillery to do some serious damage to compete 
 with the PS3...
  Call of duty 2. Call of duty 2 really does put you in the three different outfits which you will 
 be playing as in this game. The first opening training sequence shows you what your dealing with 
 and how to deal with it. Though if your a gun-nut... maybe you should brush up on your tactical 
 skills as this wont be easy. You dont have a health bar, and you are warned to take cover if extremely 
 hurt now you have to take this warning seriously. The Grenade pointer warns you if a grenade is 
 about to blow in your face and that you should run like hell! There is a huge arsenal of weapons, 
 some handy some not sufficient for the mission you are in. The features in the game are not much 
 different from its previous one's and its pretty easy to get a hand of. There are plenty of objects 
 around that will proide you with cover, plenty of enemy stashes to salvage if in need of that extra 
 bit of ammo. Though what is good about COD 2 is the fact you have Smoke Grenades.... Throwing it 
 correctly blocks your enemys line of sight if you need to get to some desperate cover! The visuals 
 are stunning as you watch the snow explode around you as you watch for your fallen team mate/soldier/comrade.
 
  
  Overall the game is astonishing and a damn fine 1st person shooter to hit the 360!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowFiend90
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 10, 2006 7:56 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2, one of the hottest Xbox 360 launch titles, offers three action packed campaigns 
 from the scorching desert of Egypt to the muddy hills of Germany to the frigid Motherland, all 
 campaigns are exciting and very immersive. Multiplayer, not as big as the single player portion 
 of the game, but still keeps you going back for more. Multiplayer starts out with you choosing 
 your side which is either Russia, Britain, or America, but there will be only one country to choose 
 from because allies don't fight against each other. Or you can choose the Bastard side... Oh I mean, 
 the Nazi side. Each side offers a load of great weapons that are all different and all fun to shoot.
 
  Multiplayer is what you will be playing the most, if you are like me. Now to the whole game in 
 general, Gameplay, the gameplay gets better and better as you raise the difficulty. When you play 
 the game on Veteran, the Artificial Intelegence is amazing, some of the best I have ever seen. 
 Graphics, the graphics in Call of Duty 2 are not as impresive as they should be, but they are still 
 good. Sound, best part of the game. Every sound is crisp and clean just like they should be. Value, 
 the game offers a very big single player and a great multiplayer experience, but still feels like 
 it should be around 50 big
  ones. Tilt, I kept coming back for more because I wanted those
  Gamer points which I don't know if that is O. K. I denfinity recomend this game if you are willing 
 to spend 60 Washingtons. Call of Duty 2 should be on everybodys wish list when it hits 50 bucks. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThaConArtist
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 10, 2006 1:55 pm PT
Review:  This game literally makes you feel like you are part of the war. When I got this game I knew what 
 to expect because I had played all of the Call Of Duty games. However, this one suprised me a lot 
 by how much they had updated the graphics and the sound. If you ever get this game be sure to have 
 an HD and surround sound as well. The campaign is thrilling and so much stuff happens while playing 
 it. The AI is unbelievable and they are very challenging as well. 
  
  Example: You are crawling in a burrow in the ground, your teamates tell you to duck because infantry 
 tanks are riding right on top of you. You also get ambushed and etc.
  
  Before I even beat this game (I still do this whenever I play campaign) I would always read the 
 pages of journals that you are given whenever you beat the level. 
  
  The multiplayer is good, but I really only play the game on campaign to understand the character's 
 and their backgrounds.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Estearns
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 10, 2006 12:24 pm PT
Review:  What can Isay I havn't writen a revew on this game because I usually wait till I finish before 
 I can write a review on them. Well It has been six months and I havn't stoped. I play this game 
 every day and if I don't I think about it and read about it online. I never got into Halo, for 
 the sle reason that I was a ps2 man. I never picked up an XBOX and played it. By the time I did 
 everyone was so good at this game that was sort of different for me that I never found me footing. 
 
  So I say that this game was an online first for me because I have never had a FPS take me in like 
 this. I mean Golden Eye was one thing. I bunch of us sitting around in my living room playing each 
 other, but never online. I also messed around with Perfect dark online, didn't like it too much. 
 I don't like the fact that it is so smooth. I like a little bounce to me shoots, some difficulty. 
 
  But COD2 is everything I want in a game. I wish sometimes when I show my friends what I spend my 
 life doing, that the grafix kicked it up jsut a little more. Granted this has unbelievable tecture 
 and atmospheric tone to it. I just can't wait to see waht COD3 will have in store grafically. Overall 
 I have to say this is my favorite game on the 360 so far. I know that because as I get new game 
 in and play them I find myself slipping them out when they frusterate me, and slipping this in. 
 Telling myself, Just for a little, maybe one game". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rumstocker
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 10, 2006 8:30 am PT
Review:  CoD2 is awesome. "Boo ya grandma... Boo ya (Crash Bandicot) !" This game is worth the money. Hands 
 down, buy this game. CoD2 is the best FPS the Xbox 360 currently has to offer. Take a note of the 
 date of this review too, July 10, 2006, Cod2 is the BEST FPS ON 360. This was the best launch title 
 and probably the most played demo in every Target and Gamestop around the country. The gameplay 
 is awesome and XBL is top notch. This is a must have for all 360 owners.
  
  GAMEPLAY: The single player is long and will keep everyone entertained. XBL is just awesome. The 
 only problem I have with XBL is there is really no level system. This may not be a big deal to 
 a lot of people, but with no level to play for, it feels like every game just isn't that important. 
 This a reason why I have disliked tons of FPS's, but this is one where the gameplay is so good, 
 level don't matter.
  
  GRAPHICS: Very nice. Easily one of the best launch titles; definitely not a G. R. A. W. or Oblivion 
 though.
  
  SOUND: Best Sound I have ever heard. Buy a surround sound system for this game. I have shown my 
 system and this game off plenty because of CoD's sound.
  
  VALUE: It's worth 60. It's now 50. Buy it used for 45. Take an extra 15 and download every map 
 on XBL. You have game plus every map for 60 and hours of fun ahead.
  
  TILT: Buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stick35
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 10, 2006 2:17 am PT
Review:  I have played through this game on all difficulty settings and veteran I can tell you was a good 
 challenge. Challenging mentally to sit there and die 30 times to get past one of the "hard" parts 
 of the mission. The game is just right, if you have played it allot on the hardened mode for the 
 campaign it still gives you that sense of keeping your head down, but a run and gun, chaotic game. 
 The graphics are good for it's time and that have improved vastly from the original Call of Duty 
 for the xbox and the PC. Multiplayer a very fun especially if you can get a couple of friends you 
 know from a realife and will work together to complete objectives and have no "Rambo" ambition 
 all the time. The game multiplayer types range from just a normal deathmatch doing teams or not, 
 to a game type called headquarters and the good ol' CTF gametype. When you are a playing CTF for 
 example, if you can get a good group of people together the game really shines in a multiplayer 
 experience. Since the updates for CoD2, you can host your own server and even have private slots 
 for friends you want to invite and they will have a place secured for them even if all the public 
 spots are taken already. One thing I disliked about multiplayer for a while is the fact a very 
 large amount of players used sniper rifles every single match on every single map. It got kind 
 of lame for a while there, but then people seem to be getting back into the OTHER guns and using 
 them more often then sniper rifles. The sound is very good, especially on a 5.1-7.1 Dolby Digital 
 Surround Sound ( Or other surround sound brand ) . The explosions such as mortors, grenades, and 
 artillery sound very good and give you a good "shaking" feeling as if you were there, if you cranked 
 up the sound a good ear blowing decibel range. The value of this game is very good espcially being 
 a good close to launch game, and a fun multiplayer experience as a FPS genre. All in all I would 
 definitely consider this a good recommendation to people that are looking for some FPS action based 
 in the times of WWII. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arab_prince
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 9, 2006 8:49 pm PT
Review:  I've never been much for war games, they usually end up too complicated, or too realistic that 
 its just not fun. This game, on the other hand, is Amazing.
  
  All of the sounds really make you feel like your in a war. The sounds ofa grenade exploding, or 
 shots being fired, soldiers yelling out commands, or if they spot an enemy. It is really realistic, 
 in a good way. It makes you feel like your there, which is what I was looking for.
  
  Graphics are great. The environments are very well done. The only poor thing might eb the character 
 models, but in all honesty, you wont be checking out the face of the enemy when hes shooting at 
 you. So I wouldnt put too much focus in that department.
  
  It has a multiplayer function. Unfortunately, offline multiplayer is just you and a friend (s) . 
 It would be soo much better if you could put bots in the game to play in multiplayer, unfortunately, 
 you cant. It does have online multiplayer which is arguably the best online game for teh 360. Really 
 fun and enjoyable, really a good aspect of it.
  
  It is a challenging game, some levels are very tough some are not as tough. They alla re tough 
 when put on the highest difficulty. And whats bad is that you need to beat almost all the levels 
 on the hardest difficulty to get all of your achievements, if thats what your into.
  
  All in all, a must-buy for any FPS gamer. At least a rent for people new to FPS games. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pm_mac555
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 9, 2006 2:35 am PT
Review:  This game and Ghost Recon are the best FPS on the 360 to date. Great controls, visuals, and game 
 play. Call of Duty 2 sports great A. I. the enemy will try to flank you and throw grenades at you 
 if you camp. The difficulty level seems just right and is extremely challenging on the harder difficulty 
 settings. You will get around 10-15 of game play in the single player missions. If your looking 
 for an immersive WWII experience look no further then Call of Duty 2.
  
  Good: Great visuals, Agro A. I., impressive quality sound, immersive
  
  Bad: Only 8 player multiplayer
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ElBarto111393
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 8, 2006 7:07 pm PT
Review:  Those words that I just said definently live up to their names. Call of Duty 2 is the historic-fps 
 that just makes my day every time I play it. You have ten campaigns with a total of 27 missions 
 that are hard, even on easy, but nowhere close to hard if you play on Veteran made. You play as 
 3 soldiers, one from Russia (Pvt. Vasili) , one from England (Sgt. Davis) , and one from America 
 (Cpl. Taylor) .
  
  Pros: Amazing looking smoke; awesome firefights; one of the most realistic war games out there; 
 all difficulties give you a challenge; 27 missions; great sound
  
  Cons: Veteran mode is very time-consuming, still playing it myself; nothing else to drive except 
 tanks, what about jeeps?; Germans spawn way too much; they also have an unlimited amount of grenades
 
  
  Overall, Call of Duty 2 offers a great single-player mode. I don't have Live yet, so I don't know 
 about multi-player. People are getting sick and tired of WWII games, but Call of Duty 2 will get 
 you back up and running. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supergamer1289
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 18, 2006 11:42 am PT
Review:  This game is a must have for any 360 owner and with good reason. The graphics are amazing. The 
 sound is great as we as the playability. But those are all side notes compared to the great fun 
 that you have when playing. The battles are intence. There are several levels that are insanly 
 fun. One of them is where you are in afrika and you are in the trench. The intencity is nail biting. 
 You turn the corner and there are 3 guys waiting for you. They fire. You retreat and drop a smoke 
 gernade. THe smoke gernades are the best ever. They totaly increase the realisem as well are the 
 fun of a batte. You can charge through the smoke only to find, in the middle, the charging germans 
 and you have to shoot it out only being able to see just a few feet infront. The AI is great. This 
 is one game you have to have in your colection. Unfortunatly, you do feel like you are doing the 
 same thing over and over again. Apart from that its the best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: defogger
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 27, 2006 11:39 am PT
Review:  I remember Christmas when I got Call of Duty for the PC a couple years ago. Before I played it, 
 it had always looked stupid to me. But when I got it up and running and onto my computer, and began 
 to play it, I wondered why I didn't already have it. COD introduced me to the best action I have 
 ever seen in a game, along with games like Halo and Max Payne. I then got COD: United Offensive 
 expansion and loved that too. The COD games instantly became some of my favorites of all time. 
 Then COD 2 rolls along. It requires a very powerful PC, my is not powerful enough. So when I got 
 my 360, I bought COD 2 on that, and realized I was getting an even more polished and improved sequel 
 to the best WW2 game of all time. Increased visuals and an even more intense experience was what 
 I got. To add, great A. I and fantastic gameplay was also kept intact, only now the game is next-gen. 
 I prefer the 360 version of this game because it works much better and is MUCH more easy to get 
 running. You can get right to play instead of fussing with installation and downloads. Plus, it 
 looks just as good as the PC version and plays smoother ( that is unless you are willing to upgrade 
 or buy a PC for more than the 360 and the game even cost combined) . If you liked the origional 
 COD and United Offensive then you will definitly love this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigpeternelson
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 8, 2006 12:55 am PT
Review:  So when I first downloaded COD2 demo over xbl I was really excited and it hooked me instantly. 
 The thing I noticed was the gameplay was phenomenal. Graphics stunning and sound blew me away. 
 After I blew through the demo I picked the game up the next day and got to work. 
  
  A few things to be noted the game lasts for about 10hours on normal and much longer on higher difficulties. 
 The difficulties are also very very well done, you will notice a lot more headshots on vet then 
 on easy. But that is really all they change - the accuracy of the AI so don't expect more troops 
 or different strategys. 
  
  The gameplay is that tried and true FPS style. You will get two weapons, and a fair amount of ammo 
 that can be picked up off any body, good or bad. You cant duck and go prone, jump, climb, and do 
 a simple melee weapon hit. All of which work very well. 
  
  Where the game really shines though is it's health system. There is no health bar and number, you 
 basically can take 1 headshot, or 2-3 body/arm shots before the perimeter of your screen turns 
 red in a almost dead - 1 more shot warning. At which point if you can withstand not taking damage 
 for about 3seconds you recover fully and go about killing.
  
  But where the game fails is that throughout the game, nothing really SPECIAL happens. Sure you 
 can do different tasks, blow up tanks, and the like. But once you get past the graphics, sound, 
 and original gameplay. It just happens again. The online is also great, but I won't go into to 
 much detail. Just know that if you like day of defeat or cs, you will like this.
  
  Overall the game is good. Not great. You will most likely be addicted enough to play through once 
 on normal and after time again on veteran for those who really like to get achievement points and 
 strive for excellency. Online will addict the average FPS player and keep the replay value high. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madden118
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 7, 2006 1:34 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 for the xbox 360 is a great game. It's the best Call of Duty game you can buy on 
 a console. The graphics are great and the smoke in this game is amazing. The game runs really smooth. 
 The sound effects in this game are amazing. The sounds of the guns, grenades and your fellow soldiers 
 yelling at you giving you orders makes you feel like your really there. Campaign mode is long lasting 
 and fun. It also can be challenging depending on the difficulty setting you play it on.
  
  
  Overall this game is truly a classic and should be one of the first games that you buy if you 
 are buying an XBOX 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VooDoo1144
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 6, 2006 9:06 pm PT
Review:  I think this game really is love/hate with me. On one hand I really really like playing it... on 
 the other hand I always find myself trying to forget it's flaws... lets start with the good stuff...
 
  
  I really really really like the feel and tempo of this game... it is only sometimes broken with 
 poor level design... in some levels I would find myself wandering around trying to find the next 
 (really really scripted) event... it sometimes becomes very obvious that you are just playing a 
 game when everyone seems to wait for you and you really are not even in charge. unlike brothers 
 in arms... you are not in charge... not a single soldier would wait for you to find a certain spot 
 on the map and then rush forward. I also tended to not like the very forgiving nature of this game... I 
 have played harder WWII games... this one seems like Master chief stepped into a time warp and is 
 now a doughboy in the second great war... in other words... the heath system is underwhelming... and 
 again breaks the sense of danger and victory against all odds.
  
  The sound is top notch... I like the pops and bangs of the weapons.... and the constant chatter is 
 really neat... sometimes the chatter does seem to keep repeating as if you are a retard and can't 
 figure things out on your own... but as they said in some commentary on the second disc..."we need 
 the player to go there"... guys... if you can't get a player to go somewhere than you need to find 
 out where your level design failed.
  
  The graphics are where I was really angry... I spent $60 bones on a game and I expected to see visuals 
 that at LEAST compete with other games on the system... all we got was blurry textures and poor 
 lighting. This game looks like I am playing a Xbox game on the 360... it looks okay but not next 
 gen by any means... I know it is a launch title but still... we should have seen some decent textures 
 and lighting that rivals doom 3 for the Xbox. By far the worst part was that they made a big deal 
 about the horrible looking non volumetric smoke that comes from the grenades... it is like looking 
 at old school sprites... very very dissapointing.
  
  I do however like the multplayer... aside from the stupid kids, it really comes off as a great time... the 
 freinds list is a must... you can't really pick a server and it tends to be hit and miss when it 
 comes to good rooms to play in.
  EVERYONE NEEDS TO GET CABLE INTERNET!!!!... cmon people... DSL really sucks and we all should be 
 on the same page!
  
  Overall I like the game... I never really felt involved like I did in brothers in arms... but you 
 know how it goes... COD2 is a must for a live player... if you don't have live than you had better 
 be a history lover or a very forgiving gamer... I like it... but I ain't gonna love it.
  
  Mike
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: usmc123456
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 6, 2006 5:00 pm PT
Review:  
  COD 2 is a good game but it's not outstanding with the recent patches and map packs the multiplayer 
 has become very fun with up to 16 players you can have alot of fun battling it out with yor friends, 
 I'd give the online gameplay a 9 out of 10 but the single player isn't as good the single player 
 is great but once you beat the campaign sure set on a difficulty and challenge yourself but the 
 single player isn't that great, gameplay is smooth is great both online and single player, graphics 
 are great pretty nice but they are starting to become less and less fun to wacth due to all the 
 new games that are coming out this game is great game maybe wait for COD3 or BIA to come out though 
 but for right now this game is a good game. I give it an 8.9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iamtheleg
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 6, 2006 4:50 pm PT
Review:  This game has an amazing campaign. I keep going back to it and it is a real challenge on Veteran. 
 This is my favorite of the WW2 games and has a multiplayer on xbox live that I can play for hours 
 without getting bored. The graphics are great and the gameplay is much better than that of Medal 
 of Honor and the previous Call of Duty games. The sound was very well done and the grenades are 
 useful in this one. This game was easily worth buying and at some times I felt that i was there. 
 I cant wait for Call of Duty 3, I am sure it will be just as amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TeamMM3_Xbox
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 10, 2006 1:03 pm PT
Review:  This is my favorite Xbox 360 game. Very easy to pick up and play. Great Campaign that really puts 
 you into World War 2. The sounds, gunfire, your teammates and enemies yelling things and grenades 
 going off really helps make this game feel so real. The multiplayer is also a blast. Call of Duty 
 2 has been the #1 Xbox Live game for 360 since it came out. I have never played a game online as 
 much as I have with this game. The campaign can go from very easy to very hard depending on the 
 difficulty level. There is a nice variety of maps online. No split screen co-op or online co-op 
 which would have been great to see in there. Definitely a must have Xbox 360 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maddenman5
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 6, 2006 1:08 pm PT
Review:  Call Of Duty 2 is a must buy for the XBOX 360. This game is one of the best (if not the best) shooter 
 and war simulation for the XBOX 360. This game combines great artificial intelligence, stunning 
 graphics (on an HDTV) and great sound effects that that will make you feel as if you are a part 
 of the game. Campaign mode is long lasting and, depending on the difficulty setting, can be very 
 challenging. This game also offers excellent online gameplay which greatly increases the value 
 of this game.
  
  Overall this game is truly magnificent and should be one of the first games that you buy if you 
 are buying an XBOX 360. You should also strongly consider buying this game for your console if 
 you do not have an XBOX 360. I would highly recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BK-Sleeper
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 6, 2006 9:36 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2.
  
  Just the name of it is something that kills Medal of Honor. When it was released, it was the MoH 
 killer in terms of graphics and gameplay.
  
  Now CoD2 is here, and it's one of the best games ever.
  
  You start out in the game as a Russian 
 Soldier, defending Stalingrad, while fighting the germans in the streets of the war torn city. 
 As you advance through the story, you then play as a British Soldier, A british Tank Commander, 
 and then an American Sniper. It also takes you to memorable battles such as repelling the Germans 
 from Moscow, the tank battles in North Africa, and then D-day, the largest beach landing in history.
 
  
  The graphics are, to say the least, drop dead sexy. everything looks realistic from the threads 
 on a tank, to the sand kicked up by the tanks, and finally to your own hands when your throw a 
 grenade. Even the weapons and enemy models are accurately detailed, immersing you even more into 
 the game.
  
  The sound is also one of the more important aspects, from the artillery shells coming down, to 
 the explosion when you take out a tank, as well as the shouts of your teammates and the cries of 
 your enemies. Even the musical score is excellent.
  
  Though, sometimes the gameplay becomes repetitive. The same formula is used over and over. Go through 
 a certain building or patch of land, kill all the enemies complete. Or go to a little area, kill 
 all the enemies, and blow up the objective. Though the thing that saves the game from this repetition 
 is the slight free-form gameplay it gives you. The maps are sometimes large, allowing you freeroaming 
 during the mission, though if you roam away from combat too long, you allies may be cut down and 
 there will little reinforcements to help you in your objectives.
  
  Overall, this game is a legend, and basically was the best launch game of the 360. Hope my review 
 helped. If you were interested in this game, buy it now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dynexx
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 6, 2006 6:57 am PT
Review:  I love 1st person WWII shooters and this game has what it takes to make my top 5 list.
  
  My favorite part of the entire game is how realistic the guns are. I have fired most of the guns 
 in the game and I must say Call of Duty has stayed true to the real world guns.
  
  Another great aspect of the game is the split screen and online multiplayer modes. As far as split 
 screen goes i haven't played a game this fun since Jame Bond Golden Eye, seriously.
  
  Lucky for me my best friend has a 52" plasma HD television and surround sound which makes the game 
 that much better. If you are not playing XBOX 360 games in HD save your pennies up and go by one. 
 I promise you your game experience will be changed forever.
  
  The one and only thing i do not like about the game is that it can only be played with a controller. 
 I am avid PC 1st person shooter so there was a little bit of learning curve to catch on to the 
 game (i. e. NO mouse and keyboard) . But with the help of HD and and an insane graphics card and 
 Power PC processor I had no problem catching on.
  
  Call of Duty Stock rating: Strong Buy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spoogan
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 5, 2006 10:13 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 puts you in the role of three different people - Vasili, John Davis, and Bill Taylor 
 - during three highly intense but different WW2 campaigns.
  
  You see the war through each of these soldiers eyes, so in otherwords, its a first person shooter. 
 Anyway, you get a lot of authentic WW2 weapons which include Panzershreks, MP40s, M1 Garands, Thompsons, 
 etc and you get to shoot and blow up things like Halftracks and Tiger Tanks. Ontop of that, you 
 get smoke & frag grenades to toss around at will. There is a multiplayer which is pretty fun - 
 you pick a team (ie: British, Nazis, Americans.. you get it) and go toe to toe with a friend or 
 friends in random places that has WW2 history.
  
  The objectives in each level sually require you to either clear out houses room by room, snipe 
 out mortar teams, fend off a massive German counterattack, or place a bomb on something. Its pretty 
 fun and intense because you'll be fighting off wave after wave of Nazis and artillery while trying 
 to achieve your goal, but it becomes sorta repetitive during the later levels..
  
  I want to stress the word "intense" on this game. You will always be on your toes, always firing 
 at hordes of enemies. This game isn't easy, even on the easy difficulty, and is ridiculously hard 
 on the Veteran difficulty. The hardest in my opinion is the American campaign during the battle 
 of Point Du Heuc... if you think Medal of Honor: Frontline's Arnhem Knights level is difficult, 
 wait till you see this. Also, this game is pretty long so don't try rushing it hah.
  
  Moving on, you'll be fighting in very detailed and wartorn areas such as Egypt, France, Russia, 
 and even Germany. I was impressed with the beautiful looking enviroments when up close, and the 
 character models look amazing. However, the levels feel kind of linear. You are pretty limited 
 as to where you can go, but I guess we can look past that.
  
  The sound effects were great - I really loved the explosions. The voice acting was great, and actually 
 helpful because your allies would be like "Kraut on the 2nd floor, black building" and basically 
 point out enemies to you.
  
  What lowered this game from being a 9? Well for starters its in a genre that has been basically 
 played to death. Ontop of that the guns weren't very accurate nor did some of them seem very powerful. 
 I felt ripped off when I shot a guy with the BAR and he just sort of kelled over, got up and shot 
 me again. Meh. Also, like I mentioned, the objectives started to get repetitive.
  
  The ending was kind of a rip off at first - a simple news reel explaining how the Allies won - 
 but once the credits roll, the real ending begins. It shows a bunch of troops battling it out in 
 some destroyed city againt tanks, nazis, and airplanes. It was like watching a movie.
  
  To sum it all up, if you got an X-Box 360 then you need to play this game. It isn't the best in 
 my opinion, but it sure is a lot of fun. Go buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dimsey
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 5, 2006 3:29 am PT
Review:  I've played a couple of WW2 games and they ranged from mediocre to plain crap, but Call of Duty 
 2 is in my oppinion the top of the heap.
  Suprisingly awesome.
  
  The first thing that stood out of course were the graphics, which are definately great. Everything 
 from the evniroment to the character models to the guns are full of detail. You lose some of this 
 in the splitscreen multiplayer.
  But even so it still looks great.
  
  The sound is also above average.
  Voice work is adequet and the sounds of gunshots, explosions 
 and planes flying overhead in the background is music to the ears and not in any way plain annoying.
 
  
  The gameplay itself, being the important thing, is better than I expected.
  It moves faster then I anticipated. Aiming is easier.
  It's all smooth. You can jump in and shoot 
 right away.
  
  The online is also easy to jump into.
  Smooth. 
  And suprisingly I haven't run into many annoying 12 year old types.
  
  Anyway, great stuff. 
 Pick it up!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blaster2k7
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 4, 2006 6:27 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is a great game in many ways. It gives you the feeling that you were really there. From 
 fighting in the cold, harsh Stalingrad, to fighting in the hot, humid deserts in Africa, you'll enjoy 
 every aspect this game has to offer. First, you play as the Russians, fighting against the Fascists 
 in the winterous Russian lands. Then, you play as the British, fighting against the Africa corps and 
 the "Desert Rat", Rommel. Finally, you play as the Americans fighting on D-Day in Normandy, cities 
 in France, and fighting on the Rhine River.
  The combat is not very different from the first Call of Duty, but the graphics have taken a whole 
 new level! Everything looks more realistic than it did before, and even in Call of Duty it looked 
 realistic, so you can just imagine how great it looks.
  The multiplayer action has improved a lot over the last game. You can download a lot of mods and 
 custom maps as well as play them on a server. The gameplay is intense, and very thrilling.
  If your looking for a fast action paced game, then buy this game now. If you play levels on veteran 
 though, you need to be slow and careful. This game is better than Medal of Honor, or any other WWII 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxinshoes
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 19, 2006 6:15 am PT
Review:  Whenever there is man, there will be war - Albert Einstein
  Call of Duty began as a WWII phenomenon back on the PC, it then became GOTY (Game of the Year) . 
 It was then brought to console with Call of Duty: Finest Hour, which was great, for about a week, 
 then the console restrictions finally set in. The sequel, Call of Duty 2, was released on PC, which 
 was as good as the original. Then Call of Duty 2 (for 360) and Call of Duty 2: Big Red One (for 
 XBOX, PS2 and GC) were released. Sadly Call of Duty 2: Big Red One was not even as good as Finest 
 Hour.
  Call of Duty 2 features next gen graphics (and since it was one of the first games for the 360, 
 it shocked more than a few) , unbeatable sound (surround sound will perfectly give the illusion 
 of war) and it makes a great WWII game! Call of Duty 2 is the original and best game for the 360 (because 
 lets face it, The Outfit wasn't brilliant) .
  If you haven't already bought this, buy it now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roushfan1799
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 3, 2006 8:04 pm PT
Review:  This game is pretty sweet. But some of you gamers are asking which is better Brother In Arms or 
 Call of Duty. Well depends on what you like. If you like real Army tatics. Brothers In Arms can 
 give you that in a special way. The game also gives you a sense of Brotherhood. When one of your 
 squad mates you just wan't to say "Oh **** Medic!". 
  
  The first Call of Duty was like Medal of Honor. Your alone fighting the Germans. But now your with 
 other soliders who help you fight the Germans. Both games are similar, but since Call of Duty2 
 is on the 360 it is best World War II game out their. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TB0NE10
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 3, 2006 7:20 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay-In Call of Duty 2 you feel you are really in World War II. Whether you are a Russian soldier 
 in Stalingrad, a British soldier in Tunisia, or an American in Normandy, this game is a blast!
 
  
  Graphics-Very crisp! And I have an old 1990 TV. I cant't imagine what it would look like on a new 
 HD TV. I'm getting a HD TV and the near future and I'll update this. The soldiers have incredible 
 detail and when you shoot a german you can see the blood. The weapon you are holding and using 
 has great detail and you can see the scratches and stuff. Maps look great! This game is definately 
 next-gen!
  
  Sound: This game sounds like real war. You can tell which weapon is firing, and where. Explosions 
 are great and the sound is great.
  
  XBOX Live: Never gets old. I love it. Best game I've ever played online. 
  
  Difficulty: The 
 game is easy when you play on regular difficulty. I'm currently 3/4 finished on Veteran difficulty, 
 and trust me it is tough!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JesusChris
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 3, 2006 4:02 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is in my opinion the best release game for the xbox 360. It has incredible graphics, 
 an amazing single player, and some of the best multioplayer on the 360. The graphics for Call of 
 Duty are top-notch and they are some of the best out of any game. The soundtrack to the game is 
 amazing and the in-game sounds are incredible. The single player game takes you through missions 
 in Russia with the Soviets, Africa with the British, and France with the Americans. The multiplayer 
 in Call of Duty 2 is very fun and very addicting. The gametypes that are there are Deathmatch, 
 Team Deathmatch, Capture the Flag, Search and Destroy, and Headquarters. Also, with new maps coming 
 out on Xbox Live Marketplace, you can be assured that you'll always have something new to do on 
 this game. The only minor issues are that the online play can be incredibly laggy at times and 
 many people were wanting multiplayer achievements, but the achievements of the game can only be 
 earned in single player. These set aside, Call of Duty 2 is a must have game for any 360 owner. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ilivewithapanda
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 3, 2006 1:50 pm PT
Review:  This game has showen me that wwII can be made good .... this one was once again one of the best 
 wwII games i have ever played... this game kept me very amused the whole time. With every stage 
 i got more into the game and honestly i didnt want to stop playing it at all.... All though one 
 thing they could have done was maybe made an option to be the Germans......... and possibly made 
 D-day alittle longer.. because i dont know about you but in all the metal of honor games.... and 
 any other war game i couldnt wait untill D-day. But in all i think this was a very well made game 
 and i cant wait to see what they do with call of duty 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigroy666
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 3, 2006 3:03 am PT
Review:  As far as WW2games, the Brothers in arms series has been my favorite so far. Not anymore, Call 
 of Duty 2 is by far one of the best first person shooters ever made. For me It seems as though 
 the game captures the true intensity of war as no other game on the market has. Its just got that 
 gritty feel to it, I get goosebumps every time I play it. It just makes me feel like Im right in 
 the middle of hell fighting my way out.
  
  The game sports some excellent visuals, although I thought they could have been a little better, 
 they are still pretty good. The sound is amazing, I think its the best part of the game, the gun 
 fire in the background and the explosions going on around you just make you feel like your right 
 in the game. The controls are awsome, although on the demo of the game I seem to remeber you could 
 look around corners using the d-pad, that wasnt added to the finished game which I thought it should 
 have been. The physics of the game leave much to be desired. Actually the physics are good with 
 the exception of the soldiers when they die. If some one dies on stairs or falls on something when 
 they die its like they are stiff as a board, with one part of there body against whatever they 
 fell on, and the other part of there body floating in mid air. They should have used rag doll physics, 
 that would have been a lot better. It does have some replay value with the adjustable difficulty 
 setings, Try to beat it on veteran I dare you.
  
  Any way over all it is one of my Favorite games. Its a must buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GoldFireFly
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 3, 2006 12:58 am PT
Review:  This game is begins great. Bullets flying throw the air.
  Tanks driving over sand. This game is graphicly amazing.
  The story-line is a bit weird but the 
 game itselfs is in one word AMAZING.
  The multiplayer is just good but, it's a bit pitty that you can't go in a verhicle..
  The weapons 
 are also realistic you see i dont like science-fiction guns with Plasma in it and stuff (like PREY) 
 but these guns feels like you have one.
  Specially when you have HD-TV with a DOLBY SOUND SET
  It's like you're in the war.
  and i can't 
 wait till CALL OF DUTY: 3 
  comes out.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gskehans97
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 2, 2006 8:48 am PT
Review:  Call of duty 2 is just a really great ww2 game becasue of the Graphics on the xbox360, it just makes 
 the game so much more fun to play and it's like your there in the game. I have played all of the 
 CALL OF DUTY Games that are out there and this is the better one, but i that there will e many many 
 more great ww2 games to play in years to come, the gameplay for this game is really good, The Graphics 
 are like WOW there just GREAT!, the sound is AMAZING, I get Call of Duty 2 for the xbox360 a 9.4 
 out of 10
  GREAT GAME so go and pick it up for your xbox360, and i guess that it?.... Later... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alangeorge
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 2, 2006 4:29 am PT
Review:  I have played Call of Duty 2 since day one and its is incredible. The single player campaign is 
 really intense and make you feel like you're actually there. 
  Multiplayer on Call of Duty 2 is outstanding, I have played well over 300 hours on multiplayer 
 and it never gets boring because Infinity Ward and Activision keep adding new map packs to the 
 marketplace. The Skirmish map pack includes two maps, in which one level is just one house and 
 the other level has a tower to snipe from and many buildings to hide in. The latest map pack, The 
 Invasion map pack includes Rostov, Russia which is one of the best maps in the newest addition 
 of maps because its a snow level so its becomes more tense with the wind blowing throw your ears 
 and its a decent size map with several buildings to camp in and numerous boxes to hide behind and 
 its basically fun to play in. 
  The new Egypt level isn't to my liking because its too close combat for me but that doesn't matter 
 because out of the five new maps I like four of them so I'm happy with that.
  I just hope that they bring out more map packs in the future so I can continue to play Call of 
 Duty 2 on multiplayer.
  I have just recently joined a clan called "TheCell" clan and us and "TheHive" clan always play 
 together, mainly every night and we have lots of fun playing on the new and old maps and when someone 
 gets whacked around the head everyone laughs so I enjoy playing Call of Duty 2 online with my friends 
 and hope to do so for many more years to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_duong
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 1, 2006 6:02 am PT
Review:  this game is just even now i still play it any level never gets boring.
  this game shows you the intense action of what real soldiers did in the war. bullet whiz right 
 pass you as you try to get cover. you can see your own comrades fall right before you. there are 
 sounds of explosions everywhere bombs dropping motor rounds you name it. voice acting is pretty 
 good too. the graphics are also a amazing. you see smoke fire bullets and even the soldiers look 
 good. the gameplay has rewarded you with some replay factor as you try to finish it in other difficulties 
 besides normal or easy.
  the game is somewhat linear but then again some missions arent.
  i really recommend you to buy this game it is simply amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fable_fodder
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 30, 2006 10:41 pm PT
Review:  This game is great! If you're an Xbox360 fan, and you love war games, this is a good one to pick 
 up! Thegame spans over 3 campaigns (27 missions) . You can play as the Russians, the Americans, 
 or the British to fight against the nazis. This gameonly took me about 5 or 6 hours at most to 
 beat at regular, but playing at veteran dificulty is a whole new ball game. It is extremely hard 
 for most of the levels, and even if you do beat the level, it probably took you about 15 tries 
 (lives) to beat it. The graphics and realism in this game are phenomenal, and the weapons are pretty 
 cool too. The online for this game is ok, but not fantastic. You don't get the same rush of excitment 
 online as you do on the single player campaign. Even if you're into modern day combat games, this 
 is one you should try out. Who cares how advanced the guns are, its all about the gameplay. I also 
 like the music, it is very patriotic you could say (if you're american) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigesmalls101
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 30, 2006 2:45 pm PT
Review:  This was the best world war shooter I have ever played. The sound and graphics were amazings and 
 it is by far one of the greatest games I have ever played. I am so excited for Call of Duty 3 if 
 its like the second one I'm sure it will be great. I just got Xbox 360 the other day and Call of 
 duty has me hooked the Multiplayer and single player campaign is just amazing and epic perfact 
 world war 2 shooter. Its great because you can replay the campaign in difficultys and it never 
 gets old Its so much fun I love playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdknight21
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 29, 2006 6:12 pm PT
Review:  I only make the comparison to Wolfenstein, because it was a great WW2 on-line game, and this one 
 is just as addicting, although you can't pick classes, only weapons. I feel there are a little 
 too many snipers, but the on-line is great.
  The single player mode is excellent on legendary. On any other mode, I don't feel it was meant 
 for anything more than a casual person who just got an XBOX 360.
  The graphics are decent, but still good. Almost get the feeling of XBOX 1.5 at certain points, 
 but I still enjoyed them. The sound is top notch, and I found myself having to turn the game down 
 at times, because of the realistic, constant streat of weapons firing. Gameplay is rock solid, 
 and a pinnacle for the 360, and this game is actually worth $60. Not a big fan of having to pay 
 $10 extra for the new maps, but after experiencing the game itself, it seems reasonable, which 
 is scary, because this is just re-affirming that other dev parties will soon be sticking it to 
 us.
  This game will get a solid rating from me though, I hold it high, even if I am critical. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JabbasChef
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 29, 2006 2:30 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty 2 is an awesome war game. the pc version and the xbox360 version are almost i identical
 
  
  Gameplay. the singerplayer is awesome and intense. there are 3 campaigns. the Americans Russians, British. 
 you will find yourself blowing up buildings climbing up cliffs crawling through pipes and laying 
 in trenches. its very intence. the ai is smart.
  
  Graphics. good on the 360. like most games if you have a great pc you cn get it better than the 
 360. but both versions (depending on your pc) have a smooth frame rate.
  
  sound both versions sounds are the same. meaning there really good. guns sound real. you fire a 
 mp44 it sounds like one. if a grenade goes off you know its a grenade
  
  value 60$ in my opinion is kinda alot of money to spend on a game. 
  
  final thoughts
  there 
 are a couple things i like about each the xbox360 and the pc
  (pc) the multiplayer is alot better. hit boxes are smaller on pc games so it takes alot more skill. 
 mouse has more control that a controller. there are cal i and other tournaments.
  (xbox360) you can play splitscreen with your friends
  (xbox360) the game costs more but an xbox360 
 is cheaper than a good pc.
  
  what ever version you pick you cant go wrong with call of duty 2. cant wait for cod3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rtalmadge
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 28, 2006 5:38 pm PT
Review:  This game is so awesome. I really do not know where to start. I mean, well, lets start with the 
 graphics. The graphics are so amazing. The blood of the kill is perfected. Not too much when you 
 shoot someone, but not too little, just... a realistic amount, just enough so you can sayI hit 
 him!". Now, the visuals for weapons and fire! Amazing. Bullets zoom by, and you barely notice them 
 how fast they go! Sometimes you don't even know they flew by other than the sound of shooting. 
 Your hand on your gun, looks exactly like a real hand in Hi-DEF. I am not kidding. The various 
 weapons look, sound, and work like the real thing. The whole system of cover is realistic. If bullets 
 hit sand bags in front of you, well, sand will fly up and make it difficult to see. See, I really 
 can't explain it very well. I mean, I've never encountered graphics like this before. I've see 
 n some really bad graphics, and at the same time some really good ones. But, this is just.... awe 
 inspiring. I hope you see that I'm trying to say that they are the best graphics I have ever seen. 
 I never did play the first call of duty, but the second one ..... I like shooty shooty game lots! 
 :P :P Now, a game can't just run off of graphics can it? It has to Look, sound, play, and feel 
 like the real experience. Well it looks the part, but does it sound like it? Yes, it does. COD 
 2 has perfect sound. You hear the bullets humm by, you hear them rikochei off of barrles and stuff. 
 You hear wood crack when it is shot. You experience perfect voice overs. When officers shout commands 
 and orders, they sound perfect, accents, languages, everything. It is just superb. Now it looks 
 the part.
  Sounds the part.
  Does it.... play the part?
  Game play is awesome. I mean, the shooting, it shoots just as accuartely as the real thing, it 
 reacts as if you yourself were holding the rifle. You feel the vibration of the rifle... you feel 
 yourself get shot, you FEEL yourself drop to the ground behind cover. You get that sick feeling 
 when you kill someone, just to reasure yourself that Its better him than you! You know you don't 
 want to move out of that trench! You KNOW you don't want to dip your head out to take that shot! 
 You fear those bullets, and they are hungry bullets indeed. But somehow, someway you drag yourself 
 out of that trench, so entised by the game that you are on your knees, no longer sitting on the 
 couch but ducking behind a pillow barricade, and you lift you head to see the screen and move your 
 guy out of cover, YOU TAKE THE SHOT! you kill! you get behind cover, drop behind your pillow barricade 
 and take a breather, gathering rest before you must make another gruesome kill. This game is truly 
 awesome. Definitly worth $60.00 . Plus, it has bonus content downloadable for multiplayer play. 
 So when your done with the amazing single player campaign that spans 27 missions over 3 campaigns, 
 the russian, brittain, and americain campaigns. Which get you very attatched to the AI. You become 
 that soldier who becomes a friend of Private Macgregor, sitting right next to you. You have been 
 buddies since the beginning, right until a bulelt flies in and caps him in teh skull. Fear endrenches 
 you, He was your covering fire, suppressing fire, your friend, trusted ally, and now dead you are 
 afraid. Thats like haveing sgt. Johnsen die in Halo. You'd scream your head off cause everyone 
 loves Johnsen. Yes, this game is amazing. Graphics, superb! Gameplay, REAL! Sound, BLOWS YOUR EAR 
 DRUMS-REAL! This game is the best of war games. Welcome to World War II. Get ready to suffer. Get 
 ready for War.
  
  .... onyl one things missing out of the perfect Single Player Campaign and the very fun addicting 
 multiplayer campaign ( (even though the ranking system in there doesnt even exist, its still so 
 addicting... don't ask why, it just is) ) Whats missing is A co-op campaign and Online multiplayer 
 that allows you to sign in with more than 1 player per console and go online to fight! But other 
 than those 2 flaws this game is perfect!
  
  ... by the way, This game is only fun on the hardest difficulty... for me anyways. It gets frusterating, 
 but if your patiante, than its funny than than... than.... than alot of stuff! Like nobody's buisness! 
 Ive beaten every Mission (theres 10 missions with a bunch of levels in each) than the last 3, the 
 americain campaign and they are all awesome and such accomplishment you feel in playing veteren 
 difficulty because thats like... the real thing difficulty, how hard it would be if they sent you 
 into WWII and made you fight the natiz's. or Vice versa, make you fight the Allies! This game is 
 awesome..... I personally can not wait till the sequal to the sequal... Call of Duty 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Squall18
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 28, 2006 5:02 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is by far one of the best war games ever made. The game play is extremely smooth 
 and follows real accounts of World War 2 battles very accurately. The single player mode is by 
 far one of the best for shooter games. Through out the single player mode, the player takes part 
 of the Russian, British, and American campaign. The sounds and music are great as well as some 
 visuals in the game. The soldiers in the game also look very life like. However, this game does 
 lack clear and detailed graphics. Other than the soldiers, guns, and smoke grenades, the levels 
 can seem a bit blocky when you look up close. The plants in the game and some stationary objects 
 can look like it came from an old playstation game. Also, a lot of soldiers, bodies, and guns can 
 be seen sticking out of walls. However, even though the graphics aren't the best that people have 
 seen on the 360, the game is just plain fun. Also, the multiplayer mode is very easy to use. It 
 is addicting when your on a winning spree when playing through xbox live. However, the only complaint 
 about the multiplayer mode, which is very strange, is that you can change teams any time during 
 the game! Even during ranked matches! However, this game overall definitely outweighs some of the 
 cons. This game is a must buy for 360 owners. This game really shows how intense some of the World 
 War 2 battles were. All in all, this is a necesity for the 360! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mouse0624
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 28, 2006 12:46 pm PT
Review:  Its gotta pretty good difficulty to it.. Its not uber hard like ninja gaiden which kinda detracted 
 from the overall gameplay, but its not easy either. the heal on the go system works rather well. 
 Alot better than I thought it would and actually helps to pace the game. The smoke effect looks 
 extremely well as long as your standing in it and not outside of it. When your standing outside 
 it doesn't look that great. The game takes full advantage of 5.1 surround sound to the point that 
 you can tell if someone is walking upright or crouch walkling. The gameplay is pretty fast paced 
 and the jumping between campaigns is actually pretty darn fun. Overall the best 360 Shooter to 
 date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: behaik
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 28, 2006 12:27 pm PT
Review:  Straight kickin especially with the new online maps introduced. This game is also worth trying 
 on veteran mode, usually only takes one shot and your done. I was able to get this game 2 days 
 after the 360 launch date at a used game price, What a steal! At first the online mode was nothing 
 more than mediocre, but Activision began sending updates through xbox live to help customize the 
 online gameplay. The best features were new maps and the ability to choose which maps you want 
 to avoid in the case that you are not the game host. The single player mode is awesome especially 
 if you have high def. This is by far the best shooter on the 360 yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fazr
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 28, 2006 10:45 am PT
Review:  Infinity Ward really hit the bullseye with CoD2. It is the game of the year and most played 360 
 game on Xbox Live, and it deserves the attention. The campaign is superb. I played the campaign 
 on regular difficulty first and loved it. The health system is pretty unrealistic, though. Like 
 Halo, it has a regenerating health system. That means that you can get shot a few times, hide behind 
 cover, and wait for your health to come full again. I was somewhat disappointed that beating the 
 campaign on regular difficulty only earned me 150 gamerpoints, so I tried it on veteran mode. I've 
 never played an entire game on its hardest difficulty (i. e. Halo on legendary) but I was surprised 
 to see how unchallenging CoD was on veteran. It's not easy, but the health system allowed me to 
 tackle one task at a time, recover, and complete another. I really felt like I was in a fight for 
 my life on veteran. The graphics are awesome. The AI is very good, and my allies have got me out 
 of a jam a few times. I dont enjoy Xbox Live as much as the campaign, though. There's only 8 players 
 max and many of the games become sniper battles. But the map packs available on XBL marketplace 
 keep multiplayer fresh. Overall, CoD 2 is the best game I've played on the 360 so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheFlamingNinja
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 27, 2006 11:30 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is the sequel to the best-selling title Call of Duty and quickly climbed to the 
 top of the most played xbox live game on the xbox 360. However, the game's online play was plagued 
 with a few drawbacks. Extreme lag was very common and onlly the host would be able to move normally. 
 In addition, the lack of a party system led to many people throwing down their controllers in disgust, 
 this player included. If activision nailed one thing though, it was the campaign. The single player 
 missions were highly immersive and were tied together nicely in a sequence of events true to WWII. 
 Although there was no cooperative mode the single player mode was still enjoyable and brings you 
 back wanting more. If the easy difficulty setting is too "Easy" for hardcore gamers then you can 
 find a bigger challenge in veteran. The veteran campaign is where all of the acheivements are however, 
 it is extremely difficult. Shortly after the game was released the lag began to become a huge problem 
 and fans were screaming for a patch. There was a huge demand, and Activision delivered! They released 
 a patch that solved pretty much all of the problems. They eliminated almost all of the in-game 
 latency and added an option to create your own party and invite your friends. In addition to these 
 changes, they added the feature that enabled a party to travel through multiple games together 
 because before after the game was over everyone would be sent back to the menu. The patch was greeted 
 with open arms and the entire community lovged it. Even after all of the glitches were fixed Activision 
 still had a few tricks up it's very long sleeve. They announced that they would be bringing nine 
 new maps to gamers in two installments. The first installment is in the form of four new maps and 
 the next will be coming in July. Call of Duty is a must-have title for the xbox 360. If you have 
 a xbox 360 this is the game to get! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phantomdragon
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 27, 2006 11:10 pm PT
Review:  (*bang bang bang bang bang*) Machine gunfire in the distance slicing the silence, *BOOM* artillery 
 fire impacting on buildings, the yells of your comrades running into the fray will being sprayed 
 with bullets in every direction and you jump for cover as the Germans catapult grenades to you. 
 This is Call of Duty 2, one of the most anticipated games of the year, as to the critically acclaimed 
 game Call of Duty one of which I have played and love to the very essence of what both games bring 
 to the table. 
  
  The first mission starts of as you playing Private Vassili of the Russian Army, as quickly as your 
 given a crash course in shooting, aiming down the sights, melee attack and grenade throwing (one 
 of which is very well done of what they give you to shoot and train with, youll laugh) is as quickly 
 as you get jolted into the war with the Germans trying to infiltrate and defeat the Russian encampment. 
 Some games as they start off with a training mission with no fighting and boring as hell! But no, 
 this games training puts your teachings to the test as you are reminded to reload as you pick up 
 the renown Russian PSH machine gun, to using the new introduced smoke grenades. This is all in 
 the first mission, you may think that so early in the game it would go easy on you, but you really 
 have to keep yourself on track, some enemys will be in places you wouldnt think would be there, 
 as I said its training and a mission in itself.
  
  The character movement/facial animations are much much better thanks to the 360, you can see expressions 
 of fear and anger on allies and enemies faces, the mechanics has been reworked and grenade effects 
 are good to watch. If a grenade drops near your friends or enemies some will duck and shove their 
 arms over there heads, but a lot will run to it and chuck it back, some even pick it up and it 
 detonates In there hands because the timer ran out. There are many guns in the game as to last 
 time, and the single player missions are longer than its predecessor. The sounds in the distance, 
 guns and the yelling of people around are very good and sound like the real thing, immersing you 
 and making you fell like you were there
  
  The missions will not be soon forgot as they are atmospheric and enthralling, in reference to the 
 D-Day mission of Pointe du Hoc where you are arriving and your grapple boat fires its grappling 
 hooks into the top of the hill and you and your squad pile out of your boat, *BOOM* after coming 
 to you jump up and you mate next to you says you have to help the guys already climbing their way 
 to the top, to your left an American sniper rifle lays next to a fallen comrade, you pick it up 
 and defend you take out a machine gun emplacement while your friends try to traverse the cliff, 
 you try to take out as many enemies firing from above before you yourself have to find a free rope 
 to climb upon. By the third mission you would have already started to feel for your friends, and 
 feel sad when your team mates are killed.
  
  Multiplayer is not longer a problem as patches are now available for download and have addressed 
 the problems which have been plaguing Live. Achievements are well earned; the majority are on the 
 veteran difficulty, so it gives you another incentive to finish the game on the difficulties 
 
  
  I hope I have given the information necessary to sway your decision in buying a very worthy game 
 for your collection.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: godigoshin
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 27, 2006 9:56 pm PT
Review:  when i finally decided to get out there and buy an xbox 360 about a week ago only one game came 
 to mind: call of duty 2. i had heard many good things about it and couldnt wait to play. the game 
 didnt disappoint... the gameplay is great, parts of it feel like halo but are much more realistic. 
 there are a few vehicle levels with tanks and such that seemed like you couldnt controll the situation 
 very much but i guess that is what the developers intended. 
  single player - 9/10
  awesome graphics, great gameplay, an amazing game that was a little short but great while it lasted.
 
  split screen multi-player - 10/10
  im still a split screen guy as of now and i can say that it is awesome. a few modes to keep you 
 busy and fun little games you can make up yourself in different levels.
  online - ?/10
  i cant really judge this because i dont have xbox live yet... BUT, ive heard that this is the best 
 part of the game so ill leave it at a neutral ? out of 10
  THE GAME RULES. BUY IT NOW BEFORE CALL OF DUTY 3 COMES OUT SO YOU CAN OWN YOUR FRIENDS AT THE NEW 
 GAME 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smokethebearplz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 27, 2006 12:20 pm PT
Review:  Lets face it the FPS genres are starting to get a little outdated. Suddenly Call of Duty came out 
 and i was completely star strucken. I never would have thought that Call of Duty was comming out 
 on console till Microsoft anounced it E3 last year. Call of Duty on my own couch, can life get 
 better? I submit that it cannot!
  
  COD 2 offers you the perspective of three different sides during the war. You are a Russian conscript, 
 British tank commander, and an American ranger. Each offering a different cinematic feel to the 
 game. A new thing COD 2 added was the ability to choose what order you complete your objectives 
 in, offering a strategic feel to the game. The greatest thing about COD 2 is that you dont feel 
 alone. There are large amounts of friendly soldiers near you acting on there own and completing 
 the objectives with you, a different concept to the lone wolf run it and gun it that Medal of Honor 
 offers. 
  
  Altogether COD 2 is a good solid game that dictates the PC counterpart. If you already have COD2 
 on your PC then don't bother getting the game. However if you have not experienced COD 2 it is 
 a must have title for your 360 collection and one of my favorite Xbox Live titles to play. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gsparagana
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 26, 2006 8:46 pm PT
Review:  I was fairly skeptical at first when buying this game with my 360, but I was certainly not disappointed. 
 Gameplay is pretty solid, Infinity Ward certainly knows what they're doing. The atmosphere is amazing, 
 it's incredibly hectic at times which is how one would expect certain moments of WWII to be. The 
 graphics are really nice, a lot better than I expected -- they really help to immerse you in the 
 atmosphere of a WWII battlefield. The sound is where this game really shines (even though your 
 squadmates can get annoying) -- the sound of bullets flying everywhere/ricocheting and the background 
 noises of fighting in the distance do the best job of selling you the whole WWII thing. A pretty 
 solid addition to any FPS gamer's collection -- something slightly unique considering there aren't 
 as many WWII games out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crimsonkill
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 26, 2006 8:24 pm PT
Review:  4v4 may seem like a small amount but COD2 is packed with tons of action. In GRAW and BF you seem 
 to run most of the time but in this you spawn and get to the kills. So pick it up and look into 
 clans and get some rivals going! When your not on live be sure to check out the offline. IF you enjoy 
 FPS this 1 deserves at least a try. The best thing since castle wolfenstein on xbox 
  And an additional perk you dont have to worry about noobs with rocket launchers or panzers. They 
 keep updating with new maps for even more intense gameplay. Get some friends make a clan own some 
 n33bs! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nradd99
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 25, 2006 7:11 pm PT
Review:  With the exception of Mario 64 (and perhaps some games from "before my time") , launch titles have 
 rarely proven to be classics. Typically, it takes developers a while to get games functioning properly 
 on a new system, which naturally takes attention away from the creative aspects of game design. 
 Call of Duty 2 fits into this category of games, introducing little in the way of innovative new 
 mechanics. That said, it still manages to achieve greatness through taking all the tried and true 
 features of the first person shooter genre and getting them just right.
  
  The greatest and most immediately noticable noticeable strength in Call of Duty 2 is its graphics, 
 which is what one would expect from a next gen launch title. The character models are impressive, 
 but it is ultimately the diverse environments and particle effects that steal the show. From the 
 war torn ruins of Stalingrad, to the sandy desserts of North Africa, to mysteriously deserted French 
 villages, everything is rendered beautifully with relatively little effect on the frame rate. Arguably 
 even more impressive than viewing these immensely detailed environments is shooting them up. Stray 
 bullets kick up clouds of dust, while grenades and rockets do considerably more damage. Enemies 
 even bleed a bit when shot. While the aforementioned the effect isn't terribly realistic, as Call 
 of Duty 2 is rated T, it serves to add more realism to an already stunning game. It is not quite 
 as good-looking as GRAW, but the diversity in enemies and environment more than makes up for slight 
 technical inferiority.
  
  The sound in Call of Duty 2 is well done, even if its not extraordinary. The guns have a good 
 kick, and the explosions reverberate realistically. The little voice acting present is done competently, 
 as is the music, although there are no examples of either that stand out. 
  
  The gameplay isn't quite as superb as the graphics, but I can safely say that shooting Nazis has 
 never been more fun. While it lacks the depth and challenge of the recent Brothers in Arms series, 
 you will find that enemies still behave more intelligently than your average FPS fodder. Enemy 
 troops frequently utilize cover and flanking tactics, and while you sometimes get the impression 
 that they aren't trying quite hard enough to stay alive, this is easy to excuse, taking into account 
 that Call of Duty 2 never claims to be a strategy game. In between healthy doses of blowing away 
 Nazis with standard weapons is fun little diversions such as sniping and piloting tanks. While 
 these sections never last more than a few minutes, they punctuate the mindless shooting very well 
 and add some novelty to an otherwise standard shooter. Finally, the fact that you heal over time 
 like in Halo serves to speed up the game quite a bit (which would be a problem if their wasnt 
 so much content) , as you will never have to backtrack in search of first aid kits. In a game with 
 as heavy a focus on nonstop action as Call of Duty 2, this is overall a smart design choice, if 
 not terribly realistic.
  
  The biggest flaw in Call of Duty 2 is the been there, done that feeling you get after completing 
 it. While you are playing the game, you will likely be too absorbed to notice, but in the end it 
 is hard to shake the feeling that in the coming years, you most likely wont remember much about 
 this game, as there are no unique gameplay elements to it. That is what ultimately separates Call 
 of Duty 2 from FPS classics like Half-Life (1 and 2) , Halo etc. Perhaps the standard gameplay could 
 be forgiven with the presence of a memorable story and characters, but sadly these two (in my mind) 
 crucial elements are missing. With the exception of brief and generic journal entries at the beginning 
 of each level, there is no way to familiarize yourself with the playable characters as they have 
 no dialogue or back stories. NPCs are equally dull, as they exhibit no distinct personality traits 
 and all blend together despite different voice actors. This lack of narrative and characterization 
 is a chronic problem in most games today, so it would be unfair to give Call of Duty 2 a bad score 
 because of that. Still, when you look at other recent WWII shooters such as Brothers and Arms (which 
 featured memorable scenarios and characters) , it is clear that this game is missing something important.
 
  
  Nonetheless, Call of Duty 2 is still a great game. Its accessible nature and addictive gameplay 
 make it the perfect choice as a first purchase for your Xbox 360. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LinkRemembered
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 25, 2006 5:21 pm PT
Review:  Undeniably the most fun Xbox 360 experience to date, Call of Duty 2 is also the best CoD game yet. 
 I don't know who hasn't bought this game for either the 360 or PC, but if you haven't here's more 
 of a reason to do so.
  
  The stellar gameplay of the latest installment is incredibly robust, especially considering the 
 fact that World War II shooters are the most recurrent cliche of video games. Responsive, intuitive 
 controls help immerse the player into the world that is Europe during the early 1940s. Though levels 
 are very linear, the characters are lifelike, and they constantly communicate with you and your 
 allies (as do your enemies) , and you will see many of your buddies die in the wake of Nazi opposition. 
 The campaign spans across the stories of four soldiers of three nationalities, all with one common 
 goal: win the war. From the battle of Stalingrad to D-Day, the invasion of Normandy, France, you'll 
 participate in many of the crucial battles of the era. Historical accuracy and footage from the 
 Military Channel ensure authenticity. The main problem is that the offline segment is short. Not 
 really short, just kind of short. There are 27 missions, but they're all part of bigger levels, 
 so truly that cuts it down to a mere ten. Of course, it's incredibly fun, and with four difficulties 
 (ranging from easy (enemies bow down to your assault) to veteran (the opposite) ) , there is a hefty 
 replay value attached to it. 
  
  Of course, don't forget about the online multiplayer. Xbox Live is the portal to fun eight player 
 warfare. Sadly, there is no 16 player deathmatch, just 4 vs. 4, but that shouldn't affect your 
 enjoyment of the superb portion of the game. Lag is an occasional enemy, but since the last patch, 
 the problem has seemingly been wiped out entirely. Playing with your friends (and even PC brethren) , 
 is the lasting appeal of Call of Duty 2. At least until the third one.
  
  The graphics are nice, though on the level of quality of the high-end PC version, not what a next-gen 
 console should look like. They are realistic and suffer from little slow-down, though, which is 
 nice.
  
  The Dolby Digital sound is incredible, however, unmatched in its realism. The immersion created 
 by this is as if you're there. Utterly amazing. 'Nuff said.
  
  At $59.99, it's a little moe expensive than its PC cousin, but with the "Game of the Year" edition 
 recently released, and the fact that you get to hold a controller in your hand, it is worth it, 
 as it is more fun.
  
  Overall, there's a reason Call of Duty 2 has been the bestselling Xbox 360 game so far: it's one 
 of the best games out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: al323
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 25, 2006 5:05 pm PT
Review:  This game was great. I liked how you could play as other country's armies instead of just america. 
 The multiplayer is great in most levels, a few levels just become sniper wars. Its fun to maybe 
 have a few snipers, but if everyone is a sniper, there's just no fun in that. The multiplayer should 
 also support more than 8 people.
  So about the single player. There are at least 15 levels in all. It took me about 5 hours on normal 
 mode. A little bit longer on veteran. But I really think if you buy it, you should look forward 
 to great multiplayer, probably the best the 360 has to offer so far.
  There were only a few things I didn't like. One, there is no crosshair for most weapons unless 
 you are standing still. Even though there was downsight which I did enjoy more than the crosshair, 
 you move slowly so its hard to run and shoot whithout getting hit. Also on multiplayer when you 
 die, no matter where you're shot the person grabs his neck, it could be a bit more realistic, but 
 it was fun to laugh at. Also sometimes on the dead bodies a head disappears, but those two things 
 are really no big deal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 009988776655443
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 25, 2006 10:29 am PT
Review:  this is toataly awesome and is even better than OBLIVION oblivion isn't realy bad but this is WAYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYy 
 better so this is better than any other game of all kinds of games and of all the graphics avaliable 
 in FUTURE, PAST, PRESENT so toatly get this if you don't have this you are not a gamer at all. oh 
 and the 360 version is better than pc. and if you love shooting games or any other games of all 
 kinds this is the one for all of the people, animals, humans, aliens, and even things that can't breath 
 inside and outside all of the world, all of the galaxies, all of the planets, and all of the centuries, 
 and all of the universe so every single living/dead/non bearthable thing wil LOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOVE 
 this game and it will be their favourate game of all time it has to be YOURS TOO if it's not you 
 , well it neeeeeeeeeeeeds to be okey good. GO BUY IT RIGHT NOW oh and this is the best reason to 
 get a xbox 360 so if you don't have xbox360 go right now and get both xbox 360 and call of duty 
 2 with it. and if they make any other call of duties this is the best of all of them even in the: FUTURE, PAST, AND 
 PRESENT so go and get it **** or i'll make you. HAHAHAHA! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tazzydnc
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 24, 2006 1:25 pm PT
Review:  I got this game the day I picked up my 360 and never looked back. Its been loads of long lasting 
 fun, and I haven't even tried online yet.
  
  I guess I'll just start with the basics:
  
  Graphically this game is amazing - the environments, the smoke, the dirt that flies up when 
 you shoot the ground, the people all look like real life. The detail is great especially on an 
 HD TV. Basically you cant get a whole lot better than this when it comes to graphics.
  
  Even better than the graphics maybe was the sound. Its surround sound and it really makes you feel 
 like you're there. IT also helps figure out where enemy fire is coming from. The shells, the voices, 
 the shots its all perfectly done and makes for the perfect atmosphere.
  
  The controls are easy and intutive, every button is where it should be and every function works 
 brilliantly. My only complaint is sometimes hitting A to get over a wall doesn't work the first 
 time.
  
  This game has lots of replayability too. Playing on normal and veteran is like two different games. 
 Its not just harder you really have to think.
  
  If you like FPS and have a 360 I highly recomend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rokkuman09
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 23, 2006 10:47 am PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  The gameplay of COD2 is amazing! It is very intense especially on the harder difficulties! Throughout 
 the game you will fight as a British soldier fighting the Afrika Corps, a Russian soldier defending 
 Stalingrad, and a American soldier at Point Du Hoc at DDAY. 
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics for the game are beatiful. The weapon models are very realistic on some guns if you 
 look close enough you can actually clearly read the serial number! The Character models are equally 
 detailed along with their animations! The particle effects are GREAT too the explosions make dirt/sand 
 fly all over the place. Ya so basically the graphics are nice =) .
  
  Sound:
  COD2 also has very amazing Sound! As the soldiers fighting with you use a new "battle chatter" 
 system and they know 20,000 diffrent lines that are all voiced pretty well! So you might be fighting 
 in the middle of a town and one of your buddies will say MG42 grey building 2nd floor right window!!!! 
 Ya its really cool! Plus there tons of sound effects going off at once it really sounds like a 
 war!
  
  Value:
  The game's single player caimpaign isnt super long but it must be played! The game also features 
 a multiplayer mode that isn't that good on the Xbox 360 because the game can only support 8 players 
 unlike the PC version which has AWESOME multiplayer because u can play with 32 and more! But i've 
 played the game over many times because i'm trying to get all the achievments and there pretty 
 hard to get! But because of the AI and "battle chatter" system it can be pretty fun to play through 
 a few times because it can turn oout alot diffrent!
  
  and the final score is... 9.3 superb! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StarFry
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 10, 2007 11:01 am PT
Review:  I don't really like WW2 FPS because all of them share one experience that feel the same in every 
 game. However, Call of Duty 2 changed all of that with possibly the best game to date on 360 with 
 great sound and great gameplay. There are 3 campaigns all of which will clock you in to 10 hours 
 or more or less. As you continue American missions, you unlock British missions, and when continue 
 the British campaign, you unlock a new campaign and there's alot of checkpoints in the many missions. 
 Some missions are very good and never feel repetive or old. Most players recognize C0D2's formula 
 of its mission to go from Point A to Point B but it works out. The AI is very diffucult thought 
 sometimes feel easy. The only time when it feels hard is when you don't have a good supply of weapons 
 to maintain you staying alive and killing your opponent. The sound is very realistic and if you 
 keep your volume high, expect like you were in the battlefield itself. The graphics could have 
 been better, it shows simple graphics that feel like its for a regular Xbox. The tilt is kinda 
 easy sometimes it gets confusing. Overall, its a great game but if you've played alot of WW2 games, 
 this one might let you think its the same but really its not and thats why this game is very valuable. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gogokun
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 21, 2006 10:44 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is one of the better games in the Xbox 360 launch lineup, and not just because of 
 its graphics. The gameplay screams next generation, thanks in part to a clever control scheme. 
 The grenades are on the LB and RB buttons, making it extremely easy to throw a grenade without 
 stopping the shooting action. It isn't just for the convenience, though. This control scheme makes 
 the battles fluid and adds to the immersion factor. Another thing that makes the game more intense 
 is the health system. What happens here is that when you start to lose health, the edges of the 
 screen will turn red and you will have to find some cover. If you do find some cover, then after 
 a couple seconds your health will regenerate fully and you can continue. Some may argue that this 
 is unrealistic, but none will argue that endlessly collecting health packs is more fun. The two 
 things I have just mentioned to you help to make this game fast paced and fun, but the battles 
 themselves are the star of the show, visually and gameplay-wise. The number of characters on screen 
 sometimes reaches ridiculous numbers, and it never seems canned or rehearsed, even though it probably 
 is most of the time. The game is basically complete and utter chaos all of the time. A typical 
 gameplay scene: You look left, some one has sniped in the head as well as the guy who went to help 
 him. You see a grenade warning (another clever gameplay mechanic) and move out of the blast radius, 
 only to find that the person who saved your life 30 seconds ago is flying in the air amidst a cloud 
 of smoke. All of this while bullets whizz past your head. This is happening on their side too, 
 and combined makes one really chaotic scene. The general crispness of the graphics help this game 
 feel next gen, even though it is set in the 1940's. The sound is no detriment either. The screams 
 (both german and engish) , the explosions, the guns, the landing of bodies on the ground after they 
 are blown up, are all brought to you brilliantly by 5.1 channel surround sound. Overall, this is 
 certainly the best WW2 shooter ever, and a great buy when you go to pick up your 360.
  
  Author's note: The achivements are fantastic in this game, as well as highly addicting, they certainly 
 breathe more life into it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DEM0NCHIEF
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 20, 2006 12:01 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay- The gameplay in Cod 2 is one of the best parts of the game, the controls are very simple 
 and intuitive. The enemies in this game are very intelligent and at the higher levels of difficulty 
 they will flank you and use suppressing fire to allow others to get in close to you and lets not 
 forget the endless amounts of grenades to drive you from safe spots. It is just overall very fun 
 to play.
  
  Graphics- the graphics in Cod 2 are the weakest part of the game. Dont get me wrong, they are very 
 good but just not up to par with others like PDZ and not wht u would expect a next-gen game to 
 be. What I dont get is why everyone says the smoke is great looking, it looks okay when your in 
 it but when you arent you see all the lines in the smoke.
  
  Sound- This is an incredible part of the game. Every single gun sounds authentic and the grenades 
 and the artillary strikes just bring you into the atmosphere like no other game out there. It is 
 perfect.
  
  Value- There is alot of content in Cod 2. There are 27 single player missions that if you play 
 on the normal difficulty will take 12-17 hrs to play through. There is also a lot of replay value 
 on it because of the A. I being so responsive and just the overall joy. There are 12 maps on the 
 game already with 4 on the marketplace and many more on the way. With 5 gametypes on live which 
 will keep busy for a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: antonius05
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 20, 2006 8:44 am PT
Review:  When i got my Xbox 360 console in Feburary, I wanted to play Call of Duty 2 so bad, so I had to 
 look into different stores to see if they got any, lucky i found one in Wal-Mart in Kentville, 
 Nova Scotia. 
  
  The game is great, i must say the graphics could have been a little better but other than that, 
 the game is awesome to play. Smooth controls and the new health regeneration system really makes 
 the game fun, keeps you in the action like most people are saying. The Achievements for CoD2 is 
 pretty good, kinda hard at times, you will have to be really good at what you are doing in this 
 game because in hard difficulty is hard. 
  
  To get all the Achievements in CoD2, you need to beat all the missions in Veteran setting (very 
 hard) and play the game through, if you can do that, you are sure to have all the achievements 
 the game, straight forward I know.
  
  For me, to beat the game in Veteran took me about 2-3 weeks to get, not bad.
  
  Anyway moving 
 onto Online Multiplayer. Since i'm new to Xbox console, i really enjoy the online gaming. It makes 
 me feeling like i'm playing single player game over xbox live. Smooth gaming, so glitches and the 
 like the idea of new maps coming later. Makes the game more fun to play, and new stuff is coming 
 our way. Well thats all i have to say, if you're a Shooters player, you should definitly get this 
 game, its a blast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghangiskhan1
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 18, 2006 12:14 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 for the Xbox 360 has a few campaigns and then online play. There is no health bar 
 so you'll die after a few hits. Online play has only 8 players at max you can play with so thats 
 not that good but it's still great fun. The only other problem with only play is that when your 
 team is losing you can just switch to the other team which is pretty cheap and unfair. Still, the 
 maps are great even if there not overly big they are fun and look great.
  
  The graphics aren't phenomenal but they are still very, very good. Much better than anyother WWII 
 game out there, but still not up to Xbox 360 potential. The music is great and the sound is great 
 and very realistic. Online play has voice acting.
  
  Single player is pretty hard and even harder if you put it on "Veteran" difficulty. I mean, it's 
 super hard, I haven't even got past the first level yet on veteran. Normally, the game isn't overly 
 hard. About as hard as a Medal of Honor game, maybe a bit harder but oh so fun.
  
  This is worth it even though it is still $59.99. A new special edition has come out, get that one 
 because it has more maps and a bonus dvd. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CaRlOS-EdUaRdO
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 17, 2006 6:16 pm PT
Review:  Its one of the best WW ll games ever but the graphics could be better in certain moments, i mean 
 that in certain moments it looks good but in others not. Besides of that everything is pretty good. The 
 gameplay si excellent; the weapons are pretty good but of course there are some that i dont liked. 
 I pretty much liked the camera. I hope that in the next call of duty they improve the graphics 
 and they overcome themselves. mi conclussion is that this is one of the best WW ll games ever or 
 it is the best.
  thanks for reading this review =D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RyWireX
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 17, 2006 1:43 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2, one of the hottest Xbox 360 launch titles, offers three action
  packed campaigns from the scorching desert of Egypt to the muddy hills of Germany to the frigid 
 Motherland, all campaigns are exciting and very immersive. Multiplayer, not as big as the single 
 player portion of the game, but still keeps you going back for more. Multiplayer starts out with 
 you choosing your side which is either Russia, Britian, or America, but there will be only one 
 country to choose from because allies don't fight against each other. Or you can choose the Bastard 
 side... Oh I mean, the Nazi side. Each side offers a load of great weapons that are all different 
 and all fun to shoot. 
  Multiplayer is what you will be playing the most, if you are like me. Now to the whole game in 
 general, Gameplay, the gameplay gets better and better as you raise the difficulty. When you play 
 the game on Vetrain, the Artificial Intelegence is amazing, some of the best I have ever seen. 
 Graphics, the graphics in Call of Duty 2 are not as impresive as they should be, but they are still 
 good. Sound, best part of the game. Every sound is crisp and clean just like they should be. Value, 
 the game offers a very big single player and a great multiplayer experience, but still feels like 
 it should be around 50 big 
  ones. Tilt, I kept coming back for more because I wanted those 
  Gamer points which I don't know 
 if that is O. K. I denfinity recomend this game if you are willing to spend 60 Washingtons. Call 
 of Duty 2 should be on everybodys wish list when it hits 50 bucks. And this concludes RyWireX's 
 review on Call Of Duty 2 for Xbox 360.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: shakycurl
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 17, 2006 9:57 am PT
Review:  I LOVE IT! this is the first war game I have ever played and it's amazingly fun to play. war games 
 never really appealed to me. but even if ur not a fan of war games, you will definately love this 
 game. if your a fan of fps you will like it to. the graphics aren't all that, but the gameplay 
 makes of for it. this is the most realistic war game ever made. the sound is incredible. from the 
 sound of gunfire, to the exploding grenades, to your teammates telling you the position of the 
 enemy. this has to be one of my favorite games to play on xbox live only second to final fantasy 
 XI online. if you love war games, or first person shooters, this game is a must own. definately 
 worth the $60 pricetag 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JL2K6
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 22, 2007 11:50 am PT
Review:  Call of duty 2 was the first game i got for my xbox 360. i was planning to get dead or alive 4 
 first, but i got this instead and was not dissapointed. after i awhile i even got and beat DOA4 
 in 3 days and traded it in. call of duty 2 is not a game to trade in. it definately raised the 
 bar and set the standard for xbox 360 graphics. it is truly a great game. the sound is excellent 
 too. you can hear battlecries of the enemy while your guys are shooting them down, all behind the 
 sounds of flaring guns. the game is fun too. it captures all the aspects of WWII. for instance, 
 when you storm the beaches of Normandy, right away you are hit with something. you are near death, 
 and your vision gets a little blurry. while you are on the ground you look around and see all your 
 men being shot down by the nazis, barely any of them surviving. it is truly an epic game and is 
 not to be missed.
  
  edit: after now playing COD3, i can safely say that COD2 is better on all fronts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SkyeCupid
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 17, 2006 7:07 am PT
Review:  If you are looking for a solid shooter experience, and you own a 360, Call of Duty 2 should definitely 
 be in your collection. No 360 owner's collection is complete without a copy of this game. This 
 game makes for the best shooting experience on the system so far, and nothing even comes close 
 to matching it.
  
  When you first start off playing Call of Duty 2 you will notice the control scheme. It is probably 
 toally different from anything you may have experienced before. However, it will feel right at 
 home when you get used to it and translates perfectly to the 360 controller.
  
  The campaign in Call of Duty 2 will provide you with tons of shooting action to satisfy your itchy 
 trigger finger. There are for levels of difficulty ranging from Easy to Veteran. Beating the game 
 on Veteran will unlock all 1,000 gamerpoints and will feel great when you do so. You'll be put 
 in many challenging and intense gun battles throughout the campaign which makes for possibly the 
 best single player experience on the 360.
  
  Xbox Live has gotten a patch since this game was relased near launch day which fixed all of the 
 lag issues it once had while playing online. Now it is lag free and extremely fun. However, there 
 is no ranking system which is a drawback, and there can only be 8 players in one map at a time.
 
  
  The graphics in Call of Duty 2 are very nice on a high definition display, but it isn't anything 
 amazing. Still there are sharp textures on everywhere there should be and it will look more than 
 acceptable. The gun models look how they should, and when you kill someone there will be some ammusing 
 character animations. After an enemy takes a few hits he may lie down on the ground, drop his machine 
 gun, and whip out his pistol and start shooting at you in a dramatic fashion. At this point you 
 can finish the job. There are no framerate issues which is always a huge plus for a first person 
 shooter.
  
  This game will keep you busy for a while if you play through the campaign on its hardest difficulty 
 setting and you have Xbox Live. Hours of enjoyment are to be found in Call of Duty 2. No matter 
 if you are interested in first person shooters or just WWII, Call of Duty is a must have. It is 
 more than a rent, it is a buy. This game is a top of the line example on how first person shooters 
 should be made. Buy it now and you won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: newmanmaster
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 15, 2006 9:06 pm PT
Review:  for the 360. the single player mode is a great world war 2 simulator with tons of interactive people 
 and smart ai. as the single player may be a strong feature in this game the multiplayer on the 
 other hand tends to lack in some key important areas. for some reason the multiplayer seems to 
 be very dull and boaring but dont get me wrong its still very enjoyable. now youll be playing as 
 three different allies the British, the Russians, and the Americans. 
  this game was knowing that you fight on the beaches of normandy on d day climbing the ropes up 
 the cliffs with mp40 gun firing and grenades being tossed passed your head. this really puts you 
 in the game. you also fight in Egypt, France, Germany, and Russia. and you dont get the full enjoyment 
 until you beat the single player mode on every difficulty and the 360's achievement point system 
 theres a reason to. this game is a must have for the 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stealthrodent
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 15, 2006 9:01 pm PT
Review:  This is the most intense, immersive game that I've ever played, at this time.
  
  When I heard that it was intense and realistic, I thought sure, thats what all of the games say."as 
 close to war as you'll ever want to get" seems to be the slogan for many war games out these days.
 
  
  But NO! After I played this game for the first time, I was stunned and amazed at how realistic 
 and intense it really was. The single player is Amazing!
  
  The multiplayer is great too. It is still the game that I play online the most. I do prefer DoD: S 
 to it, but graphically and intense wise CoD:2 is way better. It's fast paced action has you making 
 quick decisions and has you always on the edge of your seat. 
  
  The only bad thing that I can think of, is that it doesn't have a co-op feature to share the exitment 
 with someone else. Oh well hopefully in CoD:3 it will.
  
  This game is definetally worth your money and even if you don't like WWII games, this game will 
 make you a dedicated fan.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: phillyfan1091
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 15, 2006 11:25 am PT
Review:  best single player game of the 360's opening games lineup. a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a why does this have to be 100 words i dont have 
 all day d d d d dkd dkd dkdshdiuofpa d jiopad f df dfj d djdjd d dkdkd dkd kdkd dkd dkdk dk d a 
 a a a a a a a a a qa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timmy343
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 14, 2006 3:09 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty was, and still is the best game on the xbox 360. I have had the game since christmas 
 and out of all the games i have eaither bought or rented, it remains the best. The best part of 
 cod is the mutiplayer, it gets ranked the 2nd best online get behind halo of course, and has a 
 huge community. The single player takes you through some fun missions, and the graffics, although 
 not superb are right up there. The developers are also still paying attention to this game, adding 
 patches to fix lag, and offering 4 new levels, along with more which will come out later. If your 
 getting bored of any other 360 games you have, cod is the one to be playing, mostly for its online, 
 and with an upcoming tournament from bestbuy, it should keep your interest until a new big titles 
 comes out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAMODA
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 14, 2006 9:24 am PT
Review:  COD2 is the best in the series of Call of Duty games. The graphics are amazing, the game play is 
 great, and the realism is real! The major set backs for me is:
  1) The Veteran difficulty. I don't see how Hardend can be so easy, and then it just like leaps 
 10x and you cant even go out in to cover without getting shot.
  2) Your teams AI, your teamates are about the stupidest people in the world, they have no clue 
 what their doing, and they don't help you, but when they want to.
  
  Overview:
  
  Gameplay - Amazing, Good for everyone. Although, there is some language, it is still good for everyone 
 in my opionion.
  
  Graphics - AMAZING, simply amazing that's all I can say.
  
  Sound - Very good, there is no weird lag crap, like a grenade going off then 10 seconds later you 
 hear the blast. It all sounds real!
  
  Value - This is deffinatly worth 50-60 bucks. PICK IT UP! MUST HAVE! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ukmids
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 14, 2006 3:02 am PT
Review:  right from the start of the game u thrown into instant action, the controls and aimin system for 
 the console is just right, ok it dnt compare to mouse n keyboard, but hey who cares, the graphics 
 on this game are awsome,, shoot someone in the head watch there helmet fly off, or get a headshot 
 n watch them hold there throat, the smoke genade n frag genade make me laugh as they just funny, 
 throw it ova a buildin n make a kill, one of the best levels in this game is the road to hill 400, 
 that series of levels on veteran test ur nerve n gameplay style to the max, overall of this game 
 is buy buy buy, bad point xbox live for this game is poor, 1 word for cod2 live LAGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGG 
 nt gd, needs sorting 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scooooters
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 13, 2006 4:57 pm PT
Review:  Wow! This game really is amazing. The visuals are just awe inspiring. The gameplay matches the 
 way it looks in every way. When you have an enemy that sidesteps your shots, that is a game that 
 is trying to outthink you. Sure, you can Rambo this thing, but you'll soon find yourself dead a 
 lot quicker. Not to mention, the sniping and crfack shots really make you feel like you've done 
 somehing. The online play is very impressive as well. Capture the flag from me, and I'll cut you 
 down as you run! It's just that much fun! And it's a nice way to rack up some acheivements as well. 
 Cause you know that will be on the top of the list! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VarsityGamer
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 12, 2006 7:49 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty does a lot of good things as far as level design and gameplay go but whether those 
 things translate into next gen experiences or not thats a different story, The graphics are no-doubt 
 about it next gen, visiting such locales as Europe and parts of Africa and Russia ,world war 2 
 has never looked so good. On the gameplay side of things the controls are spot on and the missions 
 are well laid out, when it comes down to it call of duty 2 is just plain fun to play. My only complaint 
 with the game is that at times when I felt the campaign could really pick up its pace and become 
 just that more intense it seems to let down and give the player a break and just let him wade threw 
 a bunch of enemies real fast before ramping up again. A more cinematic story also would have been 
 nice to engross the player even more. On the multiplayer sides of things you will find our typical 
 scenarios with nothing much added on, but still good for a few matches of fun here and there. Call 
 of duty 2 shows glimpses of amazing gameplay and some of the best whoa moments seen in gaming 
 however its the down time between these moments that keep it from becoming an instant classic 
 in my book. Despite its flaws the call of duty franchise has a very bright future to look forward 
 to.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ra-Devil
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 11, 2006 5:47 pm PT
Review:  IMMERSIVE: The amount of crap going on on-screen is really incredible. The missions are pretty 
 straight forward, but a lot of fun.
  
  THE GOOD: Solid Campaign that is full of action. A big rush of adrenaline the first time you play.
 
  
  THE BAD: The Multiplayer is lacking in customization. The action seems to fade away online. It's 
 a World War II game.
  
  REVIEW: This is so far the best action-oriented first-person-shooter for the 360. While sticking 
 to the straight forward run-and-gun style, you do have to keep focused and aim high to stay alive, 
 especially on the higher difficulties. The graphics are nice, but nothing too fancy; seriously, 
 they can be compared the Halo 2's graphics. While explosions and smoke look gorgeous, everything 
 else seems not so special. On the other hand, when you see 30 or so Nazi soldiers running at you, 
 you really don't mind the minor graphical flaws. The sound is one of the best parts of the game. 
 All of the sound effects are incredible, and all that background noise and yelling are really cool. 
 The voice acting is good, and the soldiers aren't just screaming to hear themselves talk; they 
 really do say important things. The gameplay is solid, and very fun. The whole aim before you shoot 
 is kind of annoying at first, but you get used to it. There are plenty of weapons, but you find 
 yourself wondering why after a while other than the fact that each country had different weapons. 
 They all handle the same for the most part with minor tweaks and differences. Multiplayer is really 
 lacking; it's not really that fun after playing for a few hour. It seems almost tacked on to the 
 great game that is. After you blow through the Campaign in a few hours, you might try the multiplayer, 
 but you won't like it unless you were a hardcore Call of Duty fan, or if you just have no other 
 FPS to play online. A good game that deserves a medal of honor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skatester57
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 9, 2006 9:43 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of my favorites, I don't really know what bad to say. My only problems are minor. 
 The multiplayer didn't have as many features as I would have liked, but then again I have not yet 
 played the XBOX Live feature of the game so this might not be an issue. The game is a little bit 
 repetative for the most part it is very fun. They have got rid of the health pack thing in the 
 first game and made it more like Halo in that when your hurt you take cover then you regenerate. 
 The game is not short so that makes it a good value, you can play it for hours and still have fun. 
 The gameplay and controls seem perfect for this game. The AI is amazing, you can here you allies 
 and your enemies shout orders out between each other. In this game you will have alot of fun for 
 along time. This game will please all fans of the genre. If you have a 360 pick this one up you 
 won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: miyogene
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 8, 2006 12:16 pm PT
Review:  This game was insane. It throws you into the fray as soon as you start. As many shooters based on 
 that time sucked, this one was good for a change. The story wasnt that bad but that wasnt the main 
 attraction for me. The AI was very good and challenging and made you feel like you needed 2 run 
 and hide at times. The guns looked and sounded good like their supposed to. In my opinion the best 
 part has to be the tank missions. It was hard and extremely challenging to fight with tank. The gun 
 fights were intense and so was the tank fights.. Only they were only in like 2 campaigns. You Have 
 3 campaigns to play as. The Russians, Americans, and the British. The Russian campaign is the best 
 in my opinion. If you like fps's or challenges then this game is a must play. Dont wait go get it 
 now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iceman8012
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 8, 2006 11:45 am PT
Review:  This instant classic shooter will make you jump for joy and in fear as the war blast sounds run 
 through your ears. The realistic sounds of gunfire in the distance and the AA guns blast in the 
 backround all along with the screams of pain let out from the wartorn soldiers that fire at the 
 Nazis. The visuals are absolutly amazing as smoke rises into the air and rebels run across the 
 field of battle and destroy the Nazi entanglement. Xbox Live features take it even further into 
 the field of battle mantain with acctually smart people as you compete to take control the area 
 and rule the land of dirt and buildings which you compete over to have. The only real flaw in this 
 game is the short campaign mode. It only took me 1 1/2 days to reach about three quarters through 
 the game and that the fact that it is just another WWII game but hey this is better than the other 
 ones. That is the reason why I give it a 9.0. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: racefan48
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 8, 2006 11:03 am PT
Review:  This game is the best of all the Call of Duty games. The games graphic are awesome. I would of 
 liked to see a free rome mode in Call of Duty 2. It difficult but yet still passable I beat the 
 game in 1 week on normal difficulty and beat 3 levels on hardened mode. And the level desighns 
 are done just right and there is nothing confussing to do in the levels it is straight foward game. 
 The control responds smoothly and this game is truly a good Xbox Live game. And if Call od Duty 
 3 is as good as COD 2 this series may have a long life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 09BA8053
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 7, 2006 3:08 pm PT
Review:  In my opinion one of the best Xbox 360 launch games. This the best looking and 1st person WWII 
 shooters I have played or seen. The graphics are great and gameplay is awesome. The enemy AI is 
 awesome too. They know when to flank, when to move back, and when to attack. Their are also many 
 weapons to choose from. Even the multiplayer is awsome. Their are many levels to choose from and 
 the graphics are just as good as the single player campaigns. 
  
  This game is one that I would highly recommend for anyone looking for an awsome 1st person shooter. 
 It's worth the $60, and it's a good first step into the next gen era. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DLB2
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 7, 2006 9:04 am PT
Review:  Wow what a great game for the 360, what a great way to launch the 360, ive been playing this game 
 so much that i have had not time to put this up on the web, if ur a new 360 owner and do not know 
 what game to get... get this one, its amazing, you cant decribe it with workds you just have to 
 play it and your hooked. if you dont know what to get your friend for christmas and he has a 360 
 get him/her this game, there is no dissapointment here, ur not going to find one on this game. 
 the online gameplay is extreamly good also thats what i mostly use it for, bust single playeer 
 is great also! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xnexus3372x
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 6, 2006 3:54 pm PT
Review:  This game is very innovative and takes full control of everything the 360 gives to it. From the 
 state-of-the-art graphics to the encompassing sound, this game delivers. If you are here for single-player 
 it is amazing. The achievements make thsi game hard and on the easy level you still have to think. 
 The entire single player takes about 16 or more hours to complete. This game is very realistic 
 and at times moving due to the fact that you hear and see your men being gunned down before your 
 eyes. Mulitplayer is just as intense as singleplayer. There are people on 24/7 and with updates 
 being given non-stop this game is truely a classic. You choose what side of the war you want to 
 be and go from there with your weapons. There are several modes (DM, TDM, CTF, etc) all are excellently 
 formulated into the levels. There is no major advantage on either side of the war, it's solely 
 your comport. If you like sniping theres plenty, shotguns are there, as well as SMG's and MG's 
 galore. I highly recomend this title as it is a vital piece of the 360 line-up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blind-folded
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 26, 2006 8:31 am PT
Review:  Just a quick review of my gaming experiences with Call of Duty 2!
  
  Gameplay: The Call of Duty series always amaze me with their thrilling and spectacular Single player 
 campaign, and is one of the best FPS campaigns i've ever played and is easily the best WW2 shooter 
 out! You actually feel like a soldier, with many enemies on screen, charging at you, with impressive 
 sound and great graphics, it feels fanastic. Just imagine that you and your allies are pinned down 
 behind a bunker, the enemy outnumbers you and you have no place to go. Whats this? A smoke grenade? 
 You toss it into the left (the smoke looks really good too) while your allies take the smoke screen 
 to their advantage as they take different cover and start to cover fire, alas, you finally mow 
 down the enemy with many corpses littering the floor, this is how it feels.
  Also worth mentioning are the controls, they fit so well with this game and its easy to learn and 
 remember.
  
  The most disapointing thing about the Gameplay is the Multiplayer: I myself have had lots of fun 
 out of it and still play it to this day, but it doesn't feel as great as the campaign, with 8 players 
 online (you can glitch to get a higher number of players though) , it feels like actually have to 
 look for the enemy, and look more, and keep on looking, until, alas, whats that in the distance? 
 Can it be? - Then you die. The lack of vehicles is also a let down, its all on foot. Vehicles, 
 perhaps just a tank and a car, would add so much more to the game but they wern't added. There 
 is also lag issues with the game, about have of the games I have played, lets say about 100, there 
 was noticable lag. Apart from the issues, Call of Duty multiplayer is fun and will make time fly 
 if you get a good game going.
  
  Summary:
  Graphics: Great, not the best, but great. 9/10
  Sound: The sound is done very well and makes 
 your ears feel good. 10/10
  Purchase or Rental: Definatley a purchase, it can take a long time to beat that Veteran campaign!
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedStarStrife
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 7, 2006 11:51 am PT
Review:  gameplay- The call of duty series is known for their amazing single player campaigns, and this 
 one is the best in the series because of the constant intense feeling of being attacked by impossible 
 odds and coming out on top
  It is one of the only games ive ever played that has succesfully gotten my adrenaline to rush through 
 my body, it gets crazy when you see 400 ruskies getting mowed down by thousands of kraut bullets
 
  
  Sadly though the multiplayer is a let down... what the hell happened. United offensive had AMAZING 
 multiplayer, This is also the first game ive ever seen to take a step back in its gameplay. In 
 United offensive, You were able to cook grenades, get in vehicles, more gamemodes, sprint, had 
 deployable machine guns, flamethrowers, the works..... and then call of duty 2 comes out and it 
 just goes right back to Call of duty 1, only reason this is getting a 9/10 is because single player 
 was perfect but multiplayer took a step back from being amazing.
  
  graphics- meh good but not top of the line 9/10
  
  Sound- best sound direction ever! the sound 
 is so immersive, i could of sworn i was actually at normandy. Voice acting is real good, and the 
 sound of bullets wizzing by my head adds another touch of intensity. plus when you go into shellshock 
 the noises and breathing are just done so well, you have to hear it to believe me.... excellent 
 job infinity!10/10
  
  value- really worth the money! 10/10
  
  tilt- 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Parker626
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 5, 2006 8:01 pm PT
Review:  If you like shooters - buy this game
  If you like WWII themed games - buy this game
  If you own a xbox 360 - buy this game
  If you like multiplayer - buy this game
  If you like 
 online multiplayer - buy this game
  If you have a spoiled brat of a relative that plays games on 360 - buy this game (and wait till 
 you get your own 360 and play it, preferably)
  If you have a friend who has an xbox 360 and not this game - rent it and play the crap out of it
 
  
  In other words, if you have anything to do with an xbox 360 then this game should be on your "to 
 play the hell out of" list 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jbrusati
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 5, 2006 12:01 am PT
Review:  COD 2 was the first game i purchased for my 360, and man, was i glad i did, theis game has great 
 controls, PERFECT frame rate, stunning graphics, and insane gameplay.
  In COD 2 you go through 3 caimpaigns, the british, russian (or german i cant remember) , and the good 
 ol' americans. The first level (training) really helps you get a good feel for controls, and basicly 
 , you find out thi is not a "run 'n' gun" game, you have to strateigecly take cover, use a good 
 balance of weapons, another thing i really like is the health system, when you are hurt, the screen 
 starts pulsing red, letting you know you're health is low, and if you're incredibly close to death, 
 the whole game slows down, and you have to take cover and let you're helth regenerate. The guns 
 in this game are plenty and diversified, the sub-machine  the rocket 
 launcher make for a great balance weaponry, and they really help you. One issue i had was that 
 they should have made the pistols a little better, or not have them at all, sure, they make you 
 feel cool but they suck, they have absoloutly no advantage at all, they can't zoom, at all, and 
 the're weak, the only reason to use them is if you're out of weapons (or playing on easy, and why 
 would you wabt to do that.) Another great thing about this game is the replay value, there are 
 several way's to try and beat each part of the game, you could
  a-take them out with the rifle
  b-snipe them all
  c-take them out with quick bursts from you're 
 thompson
  or d-kill 'em all in one hit with you're rocket launcher
  
  Another great thing is you're allies, they actually help, finally good ai, for you're teammates, 
 and the enemy. Sometimes this game makes you feel likethe strongest soldier ever, b/c it seems 
 most of the time the enemies only target you, when there are hundreds of other soldiers to kill.
 
  
  another great thing is the diversity of the objectives, one moment you'll be defending the north 
 side of town, then, you'll be calling in air strike on enemy tanks, then you'll be in a tank, killing 
 anti-tank guns, then you'll be demolishing a natsi building.
  
  COD 2 is a must have for 360 owners, it combines, great gameplay, great graphics, great sound, 
 and a authentic war feel, pick this one up... NOW
  
  NOTE: for the diffuculty i wrote just right, but the diffuculty varies from easy to veteran 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Saint
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 4, 2006 4:17 pm PT
Review:  The Call of Duty series is simply put "the best WWII series out there." I think we can all agree 
 with that. But now that it is brought to the next generation consoles it can only get better.
 
  
  The game is so real and carries so much history within it that you cannot play the game without 
 learning something about World War II. 
  
  World War II was brutal, terrible, but most of all... terrifying and this game brings all three 
 to the table. Adding good graphics and a ton better AI. Call of Duty 2 simply outclasses all other 
 Historical Shooters. It is and will remain THE best World War II series ever made.
  
  9.6 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _raymaster
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 4, 2006 10:18 am PT
Review:  Call of duty 2 is here on the 360! I love this game! For one thing the game is so epic. U really 
 feel like ur in a big massive battle theres always people running for cover ur men running behind 
 u grenades going off by ur head thats so awesome! The single player is mainly short in my opinion, 
 but u will love every second its always fast paced in ur face action never a dull moment. I really 
 like the level d-day level when u have to go up the bank on the rope and people r falling off! 
 The multiplayer is a blast theres nothing better then pistol whipping ur friends in the face and 
 talking smack! One issue I do got with this game is some frame rate issues here and there but for 
 the most part its more steady than its PC counterparts. So my final verdict is that if u dont have 
 this game for ur PC then Y R U WAITING HERE PICK IT UP NOW! But if u do I see no reason to spend 
 $59.99 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xparadox8
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 10, 2006 3:28 pm PT
Review:  This is definately the best launch title for the Xbox 360 and has some really great multiplayer
 
  
  There are 2 modes to CoD2 and they are Single Player and Multiplayer.
  The single player campaign mode was really fun and to beat it on veteran difficulty took some strategy 
 and remembering where the enemy is. 
  
  You need at least 4 players to enjoy this game in the multiplayer part. Two or Three players is 
 just too little because you spend too much time searching around the area for others. The maps 
 were designed for 4-8 players and the online is awesome. 
  
  There isnt a better feeling that meeting a player face to face and you are the first to draw your 
 weapon and take them out before they destroy you. Sniping someone from across the map also gives 
 a great feeling.
  
  Among all the Xbox 360 FPS, this one is my favorite. It just feels really cool to be landing on 
 the beaches of Normandy and destroying tanks in the deserts of Egypt. Though the campagn isnt as 
 long as i would have liked, the veteran mode definately extends its value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: disbadaszfool
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 3, 2006 12:55 pm PT
Review:  COD2 is the best in the series of Call of Duty games. The graphics are amazing, the game play is 
 great, and the realism is real! The major set backs for me is:
  1) The Veteran difficulty. I don't see how Hardend can be so easy, and then it just like leaps 
 10x and you cant even go out in to cover without getting shot. 
  2) Your teams AI, your teamates are about the stupidest people in the world, they have no clue 
 what their doing, and they don't help you, but when they want to.
  
  Overview:
  
  Gameplay - Amazing, Good for everyone. Although, there is some language, it is still good for everyone 
 in my opionion.
  
  Graphics - AMAZING, simply amazing that's all I can say.
  
  Sound - Very good, there is no weird lag crap, like a grenade going off then 10 seconds later you 
 hear the blast. It all sounds real!
  
  Value - This is deffinatly worth 50-60 bucks. PICK IT UP! MUST HAVE!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: l33t_gamer_88
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 2, 2006 9:00 pm PT
Review:  call of duty 2 is everything but average.. it offers extremely smooth running gameplay backed up 
 by fairly decent graphics, it has lots of different mission each requiring u to accomplish different 
 tasks and goals, some of the missions even let you drive tanks! :-) the game also allows you to 
 play as a few different countries instead of just america or germany etc... it has a well organised 
 control system and it is very easy to get addicted to it. if you like war games call of duty 2 
 is definately for you. It is definately a first person shooter that sets the bar for anything that 
 is set to come and is also easily game of the year material. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: j2johnson
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 2, 2006 4:10 pm PT
Review:  * * The "Difficulty" rating I gave this game is based on its hardest "Veteran" level, and was meant 
 as a good thing. * *
  
  Let me start this review by saying that, in my opinion, War truly sucks. Seriously, it does. Go 
 to your local VA Hospital and talk to anyone whos been through one. Ask them how the experience 
 affected their lives and the lives of those close to them. They call it Sacrifice for a very 
 good reason... because it Fing SUCKS!
  
  This game is so good... it almost sucks! 
  
  But before you venture into playing this game, be prepared for the experience. Yes, it is just 
 a game... but in this game, we have an opportunity to experience history (sort of) for ourselves... 
 the emphasis being more on experience than the absolute history of these incredible Battles 
 of WWII.
  
  Now I played the original Call of Duty on my old Xbox way back when and loved it. While frustrating 
 at times, it never affected my dreams. Im sure you can play Call of Duty 2 with a cold sort of 
 gamer approach and avoid letting the experience affect your dreams. But unfortunately, I was 
 unable to do this. 
  
  You watch helplessly as the soldiers youre fighting next to fall to your right, then to your left... 
 and some even jump on top of grenades to save everyone else around them... including you. Its 
 all just a little too good. The faces of your enemy, the faces of your fellow soldiers, theyre 
 all different. The detail expressed by each of them throughout the game is amazing.
  
  I find myself getting really pissed when my fellow soldiers are killed. I somehow feel responsible. 
 I find myself replaying levels trying to prevent my fellow soldiers from being killed... and it 
 actually works sometimes.
  
  Oh, and I do NOT recommend starting on the Veteran level of difficulty. Go through at least once 
 on Hardened at the very most. Let me tell ya, they are not screwing around when they say Veteran... 
 (definition: A person having had long experience, practice, or service of a particular activity.)
 
  
  Good Luck against all those Gerrys! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: littleplaya319
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 2, 2006 10:53 am PT
Review:  Great gameplay, great graphics, great sound, great A. I great game. This game is no doubt the best 
 world war 2 FPS ever made. This game story mode is very replayable and multiplayer is fun but being 
 cut to 8 people is pretty stupid. My opintion this game should have had at least 14 people online 
 and not 8. Multiplaye is fun with good gametypes but im not the kinda person who is extremely entertained 
 by it. Single player is what amazed me. The first second I played it I was amazed by everything. 
 To this day I stil like going back replaying the missions. The only thing I didnt like about this 
 game that made me stop playing it was it can be very hard even on normal mode. You find yourself 
 on hard an veteran mode having to take lots of cover to not get killed. And what I really hate 
 is veteran mode doesnt increase the bots anything but fire power. Your live expectansy is cut by 
 4 shots that to me is a little to many. But that isnt something that will make me hate this game 
 it's still a great game just can get frustrating at points. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dokomor
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 2, 2006 7:15 am PT
Review:  When i started playing this game my jaw dropped open. I have not lost intrest in it's SP campaign 
 since i first got it! Even playing it over on easier modes is fun to see how weak the enemies are! 
 lol. I dont have XBOX LIVE so i was wonderingwheres the grease gun?" lol, so i looked in MP 
 and saw it. Well This is the BEST WWII Shooter i have EVER seen. I give it a 10/10. And Whats more 
 is i havent played Multiplayer like i said! and i still give it a 10/10 its PERFECTO!!!!!!! I love 
 it, even better than oblivion i have to say. I know oblivion is awsome but this is THE BEST GAME 
 EVER!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LatinG187
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 1, 2006 2:43 pm PT
Review:  Here's my review for COD broken down into categories.
  
  Gameplay: 8.7/10
  Call of Duty's gameplay is very solid. The controls are very responsive and unlike some games, there 
 are two seperate buttons for a frag gernade and smoke gernade. Which kinda is a plus as it saves 
 time when you're in a middle of a war. The health system is a copy cat of the one in Halo 2, which 
 is not a bad thing. If you are wounded the screen turns bloody all around the screen and that means 
 you have to find cover and recover, no looking all over the place for health packs, however it sotra 
 takes away from the realism. Each gun feels different as well as sounds different. They each feel 
 unique and some are better than others when you are in a certain situation so you won't be able 
 to just the same weapon in every level. Sometimes you'll see that it's best to use a sniper while 
 other times it's better to use a machine gun like the Thompson. You can also click the right thumbstick 
 to melee your enemy but I personally very rarely used that move and the times I did it would not 
 kill them so I still had to shoot 'em. So I just figured I might as well shoot 'em and skip that 
 part lol.
  
  If played on Easy, Normal or even Hardened in some cases, you don't really need to strategize much. Basically 
 just run 'n gun and have fun killing the bad guys. Be careful though at who you're shooting because 
 if you kill one of your own soldiers you will be forced to restart from your last check point. Sometime 
 it is hard when there is just so much chaos going on you just start shooting as many enemies as 
 possible and a few times one of my soliders would get in my line of fire. For the most part though, the 
 A. I. on both sides is pretty damn smart, a helluva lot better than most other shooter game that 
 I have played. You soldiers will take cover when they take fire instead of just standing out in 
 the middle of everything. They will also at times throw back gernades that the enemy thorws at you. The 
 Germans though will also do the same, so watch out when you throw a frag because it just might find 
 it's way back to you.
  
  Single Player Campaign: 8.8/10
  In the campaign mode you will do three seperate campaigns, one as the Russians, British and of course 
 the Americans. There's 10 levels in all and before each one there is a nice little clip of real 
 footage provided by the History Channel that adds quite of bit of realism and authenticy to the 
 game.
  
  You first start off with the Russian campaign and the first level is a ''training level'' that 
 quickly turns into an actual level, but is not very difficult at all on the default difficulty (Normal) . All 
 the Russian levels are snow ones and are maybe my favorite levels D-Day. My personal fav. is one 
 where you must sneak through or try to sneak through a pipeline above the Germans and when they 
 start shooting at you, it feels crazy. The sound of the bullets ripping through the steel and also 
 the bullet holes are so realistic. The second campaign you take over as one of the British soldiers 
 and the levels take place on a ''desert'' in both night and day time. You do a tank mission which 
 is kinda confusing because you don't really no where you are going most of the time and not really 
 all that fun, but it is rather easy on every difficulty. Lastly, there is the American campaign and 
 you start it at D-Day with the ''Saving Private Ryan'' scene in the beginning where you have a 
 soldier throw up in the boat and then your boat gets hit and all hell breaks loose. You gotta work 
 your way down to find an available rope and climb up the cliff and then the fun happens. The battles 
 are so crazy, you will actually feel like you're there.
  
  If you dare try the single player campaign on Veteran mode (the hardest difficulty in the game) 
 you will have a very frustrating time but on the other hand when you do finally manage to beat 
 a level on Veteran, you will feel a sort of accomplisment. If you wanna really experience Call of 
 Duty at it's maximum, you gotta try it on this difficulty setting.
  
  Overall the campaign mode is very well done and is a great experiecne on any difficulty and after 
 you beat the single player mode, you are rewarded with a cutscene that feel like a lil mini movie.
 
  
  Sound: 9.7/10
  If you have your TV connected your speakers like I do you will be blown away by just how amazing 
 the sound is in Call of Duty, simply the best sound I've heard in just about any game. The gun effects, tanks, explosions 
 are all very real and also when someone fires at you, it's easy to tell where it's coming from by 
 the sound. I have even listened to this game on my TV without the speakers and it still sounds great, but 
 not as realistic as it does with 'em. I even tried it out with headphones on and it sounded just 
 like it does with my stereo speakers. Call of Duty 2 is going to sound simply outstanding not matter 
 what you hear it on.
  
  Graphics: 8.3/10
  When compared to games like Fight Night Round 3 or GRAW, Call of Duty's graphics are not as great 
 but then again, COD was released on launch day back in November where as Fight Night and GRAW came 
 out in late Febuary and early March.
  
  For a launch game, COD's graphics are very nice and in no way look bad or bring the game down. All 
 the guns were very well done and each level looks outstanding as well as have it's own unique ''feel'' 
 to it. Also the tanks are very detailed along with the buildings and houses and of course the soliders 
 are nicely detailed too.
  
  Online: 9.1/10
  I have heard a lot of negative things about Call of Duty's online play and how you is impossible 
 to actually play. Luckily for me I got my copy after the a patch was released and my experience 
 has been great from Day 1. The different types of matches you can do are pretty cool. You got the 
 standard Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, Capture the Flag plus you got other types like Headquarters, a 
 mode where you must rush to a specific location on the map and the first team to setup the headquarters 
 must defend it while the other team either trys to destory it or kill every member of the opposing 
 team. The other mode is kinda similar, it's called Search and Destory but one team is always the 
 defender while the other is the attckers. There are two locations the attackers can go and the defending 
 team must protect both spots. The attackers only need to destroy one location to win the round.
 
  
  The one downside to COD's online play in my opinion is the amount if players you can have in a 
 game. The maximum players in one game is only 8 and I personally would have liked to have seen a 
 16 player limit like in Halo 2 or at least 12. Still I have had a blast with Call of Duty online 
 with friends. I found myself playing from sunset til sun-up plenty of times, I would say that the 
 the online experience is worth the purchase alone. It's that much fun. 
  
  Achievements: 9/10
  Like Fight Night Round 3, all 13 of COD's achievments are earned through the 
 single player mode and I do mean EARNED. Unlike with FN, if you wanna get the 1000 gamerpoints COD 
 offers you will have to beat the entire game on Veteran mode, the hardest difficulty on the game. Out 
 of the 13 achievments, only three are able to be obtained on a difficulty lower than Veteran. You 
 can get ''Training'' and ''Won the War'' on any setting and the ''War Hardened'' can be obtained 
 on Hardened or Veteran. The remaining 10 are only earned on Veteran, you get 60 for each level you 
 complete. I personally love these achievments because they force you to play on the hardest setting 
 and in COD's case, it's hell trying to get through each level but like I metioned earlier in this 
 review, once you beat a level on Veteran, you will feel so good about yourself and feel like you 
 have actually accomplished something. It's been a month and a hald and I still have not got all 
 1000 yet.
  
  Only negative thing I have to say about these achievments is that there are only 13. Though the 
 13 are some of the toughest, it woulda been nice to see them spread out a lil more and maybe have 
 career totals such as ''500,000'' kills that can be totaled for both online and offline and maybe 
 a couple online achievments.
  
  Overall: 9.3/10
  I am not a big fan of the ''shooter'' games, in 4 years of owning a XBOX, I only bought two, Halo 
 and Halo 2. After hearing so many great things about Call of Duty 2 I decided to finally give it 
 a try and I am 150% satisfied with the pruchase. It's a great game both online and offline that 
 has plenty of longevity wether it's trying to beat the single player campaign on each difficulty 
 setting or just spending hours upon hours online with your buddies play Capture the Flag or one 
 of the other game modes.
  
  If you are a fan of shooters then this is has to be in your collection and if you aren't big on 
 these types of games, I still heavily recommend that you at least give this game a try. You won't 
 be sorry. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Catistrophic
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 1, 2006 11:17 am PT
Review:  The Call of Duty series has been such an impact on gaming history, its gameplay is immersive and 
 its multiplayer is beautiful. Call of Duty 2 is no different and packs a bigger punch with its 
 missions, achievments and vast multiplayer. The gameplay is similar to the games before it, the 
 graphics are exquisite and has a gritty atmosphere to provide a look into the eyes of the soldiers 
 in WWII. The sound is impecable, each shot fired, each person killed, each explosion gives the 
 player a great feeling in the game. The multiplayer gives it a larger jump and makes it so innovative 
 and spectacular. Play it with your friends, family, whoever, this game should be owned by owners 
 of an XBOX 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: murrayftw
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 6, 2006 11:55 pm PT
Review:  When the XBox 360 was first released, it was the platform that debuted the future of video gaming. 
 It proposed amazingly crisp graphics, severely advanced AI featured in NPCs, and some fantastic 
 online multiplayer. Although it has released some cuddly, loveable characters to the brand, they 
 have released a port of one of the best war-time fps's that the system has ever seen.
  
  World War II will never be the same after Call of Duty 2. If you have ever doubted the system, 
 pick up the controller, jump into a Live game, and prepare to be converted. Lets try to cover all 
 angles here, the game is great not only online but the single player campaign is fantastic.
  
  - Single Player -
  
  Days before D-Day, you are thrown into battle. You are there to help 
 the allied forces win the war. Easy, huh? Wrong.
  
  Snow is coming in from all angles, the intense cold can be felt through the seven layers of clothes 
 worn. You can feel the wood of the truck chipping away under your hands, the weather out here has 
 done enough to it that it disintegrates under your very touch. Welcome to Russia, comrade. You 
 are about to fight the war that has been heard throughout the world.
  
  You are thrown into preparation to fight. The commander of the Russian allied forces gets you and 
 some "noobs" to learn how to shoot. Now that that is over, you are ready to be a hero to the motherland. 
 This videogame is like Saving Private Ryan times 80. When you think it's over, it is just beginning 
 something else. The firefights are very intense, you WILL have to take cover like your computer 
 enemies and allies. The environments are pretty straightforward but bring alternate roots to, if 
 lucky enough, ambush your enemies and mow them down quicker. I have not had so much fun playing 
 a singleplayer war game since, well, Never!
  
  - In-Game Controls -
  
  So you have gotten out of the truck, and the commander of the army is asking you to take down all 
 of the plates you see in front of you. How, you have just been enlisted, never held a gun before. 
 Easy as cake here. This game has responsive controls that won't have you throwing the controller 
 at the wall in disgust of the game, only of your own skill. Sniping on a joystick has never been 
 easier. Coming from a PC background, I never thought I could play a console game which requires 
 twitch reflexes. Well, maybe I was a natural (heh) . Just take two minutes to fine tune your axis 
 speed's, and you are good to go. No running into walls, no shooting teammates, it's all smooth 
 moving and just enjoying the scenery spilled with blood. Oh yeah, the scenery!
  
  - Graphical Presentation -
  
  So you start the single player campaign and the screen has just 
 faded to black. What is there to be seen? Everything. The environments have obviously been maticulousy 
 mapped and textures near-photorealistic. The characters, soldiers, and weapons have the utmost 
 detail. Ever seen and MP44 automatic rifle before? Neither have I, but I bet that it looks nearly 
 perfectly identical to the one shown in COD2. The effects seen in the game are amazing to say the 
 least. From the jarring explosions in game blurring your vision to the snow/sand/dirt thrown up 
 in the air from a blast, the dust/snow blowing in the air to the blood splattering from a fallen 
 comrade, you will see the sights and never forget. This game was made to allow people to splendor 
 at the graphics. Whether you play on a regular TV set or a 52" widescreen rear projection HD TV 
 set, you will definitely enjoy every bit of this game. From the amazing graphical effects like 
 HDR lighting to the crisp textures and details, this game is one to stare in awe at.
  
  - Online Multiplayer -
  
  Aside from the graphics, the online play is truly addictive. With 
 a simple interface, you are into a game on XBox Live within minutes of starting up your console. 
 Featuring 8 player games of many game types, you will definitely enjoy yourself. There are types 
 such as Capture the Flag, Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, and another that many have seen before in 
 another game.
  
  Search and Destroy is a feature that many have seen in Counter-Strike. Featuring two bomb sites, 
 one team attempts to destroy usually a mortar station while the other attempts to defuse. This 
 game mode brings strategy and tactics to the battlefield as teams now fight for something important 
 in the map other than a flag that can be returned.
  
  This game is one that I couldn't wait to pick up, and is totally addictive on the XBox 360. I have 
 both the version for PC and 360, but I would pick this version over the PC because of how fun it 
 is to play with the graphical detail on max and with all of your friends online. With this being 
 one of the launch games with XBox 360, Call of Duty 2 is one to have in your collection for sure. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rbrown3
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 1, 2006 6:49 am PT
Review:  Wow, just wow, I never really enjoyed first person shooters, but Call of Duty 2 completely changed 
 my view. The story is top notch, the sound amazing, you really feel like you are in the middle 
 of the War. Being able to view the war from the perspective of three different countries is really 
 a treat, there are too many games out there where you follow one guy around and only know his story, 
 this game gives you the full experience. If you are a multiplayer junkie, you will definetly get 
 your moneys worth, as Xbox Live offers tons of great gameplay options. I don't really need to say 
 much more, pick it up, you will not be sorry! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kittengrr666
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 1, 2006 6:11 am PT
Review:  First it should be noted that I played this though on the hardest settings. 
  This was fundamental to my enjoyment of this title. 
  
  Seriously, I'm not kidding.
  
  
 I started playing on whatever passed for the normal setting, and was under whelmed. I was flying 
 through the game, and although it was all very pretty, I was bored. So I put it to one side for 
 a while, and enjoyed Christmas and got bored with King Kong, flailed around in a few other games 
 
  
  Then one day I started Call of Duty 2 up again, and for some reason started it up on the hardest 
 setting. And so went 4 weeks of my life.
  
  4 weeks of mayhem and bombings and trenches and tanks and war and it is all worth it. All of it. 
 Forget all the other 1st persons. Forget the embarrassment that was Kong, forget the average-ness 
 of Quake 4. Pick up CoD2, put it on hard, turn up the surround and get involved.
  
  Additionally I found that finishing a level on the hardest setting also claimed the relative achievement 
 on the normal setting, which was a bit of a bonus because after an hour or so on one level, the 
 last thing I wanted to do was sit through it again. 
  
  Enjoy CoD2. More games should be like this. More games should be as involved and as fun. More games 
 should drive you to WANT to finish them.
  
  Get involved in the goodness.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ORACLEPAGER1029
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 30, 2006 6:49 pm PT
Review:  This game is probably the best WWII FPS I've played since the Brothers in Arms series and they 
 were good! When German guy loses helmet it cracks me up every time. Laughable death screams from 
 the Germans keep the fun going. Everything makes you feel like you're there except the health (too 
 unrealistic, MG only makes you flinch) . It doesn't let you bond with men like BiA. When you shoot 
 Germans hurdling over a hedge, wall, or coming off a tank, you can't kill them. These can be overlooked 
 and you'll see a powerful shooter that lets you take a time machine into the past. No need for 
 (much) military history classes, just play Call of Duty 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ibanezx360
Rating: 9
Date: May 30, 2006 4:13 pm PT
Review:  this game is the type that will have you hooked. it will have you wanting more. story line is good 
 and it is a little difficult. you play as various guys so it will have different backgrounds throughout 
 the game!! the multiplayer is very fun and on high-def its amazing. this is a must if you like 
 war games. i personally think you will enjoy this very much! great great great! i still play this 
 after i beat it like 2 months ago! its cheaper now so go on out and buy it right now it is that 
 good but will be challenging! enjoy it its great 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HaloMasters
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 30, 2006 3:16 pm PT
Review:  CoD was for years playable at every kids home. It was magnificant. The epic Single player missions 
 were outstanding. Online it was a great game to play with more variety than most games. Now Activision 
 comes with the next gen CoD 2. This time it's a multi platformer. The X360 version looks great. 
 It runs smoothly and the Xbox Live mode is great. The graphics look stunning. When you're walking 
 in the snowy Stallingrad you notice the ice and snow on your jacket and helmet. Even your feet 
 marks the ground with a footstep. I often gets distracted from the battlefield just to look at 
 those amazing graphics. The gameplay is as it used to be fantastic too. I really enjoyed the demo 
 of the X360 version of CoD 2 and it will be worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thezuki
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 30, 2006 11:55 am PT
Review:  This game is amazing but dont get me wrong its nothing revolutionary, The single player is pretty 
 basic, you run and shoot, but its fun shooting, The length of the games is very good and the difficulty 
 is just right, but its nothing you havent seen before, the multiplayer is amazing and is worth 
 the purchase of the game, it used to be laggy but im sure they fixed that, the only problem is 
 everyone likes to use shotguns and sniper rifles so it really gets annoying
  
  overall i definatlely reccomend but dont expect to find anything you havent seen before 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pcfitness1
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 30, 2006 11:34 am PT
Review:  Where do I start, I love this game so much that I can't say enough about it. Let's start with the 
 frame rates, better known as FPS. When someone says wow that game runs so smooth the game is most 
 likely getting a solid 60 FPS or better. When we talk about COD2 we talk about solid FPS and for 
 me that's huge. The sad thing is with all the 360 games that have been released so far there is 
 maybe 2 or 3 other games besides COD2 that will give you such smooth graphics. 
  
  Single player is insanly good, can't get enough of it. 
  
  Multiplayer at launch was only a 
 little laggy. Just recently a patch was released to improve the lag and offer more control for 
 the players who wanted to host a game. 
  
  I would love to see more developers working on FPS and getting rid of their choppy graphics and 
 stop trying to push the console to it's limits with poorly written code. I say tone down the graphics 
 and increase the FPS. No one wants to see tearing or choppy graphics. You guys agree?
  
  The bottom line is this game is by far one of the greatest overall games for the 360 and will remain 
 that way for a long time even with all the new releases coming this holiday season. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: x-wing20
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 29, 2006 9:12 pm PT
Review:  i hadn't play CoD2 for a while until today after the new map packs are out and the game is better 
 than even. more fun than battlefeild not as repetive as GRAW or PDZ. Capgian is easy on the easy 
 setting of corse and vertn is super. unfortunatly all of the acheivements are in campaign. this 
 is one of thoes games that doesn't need of the points. This game is one of the few to actaully 
 have downloadable content like levels. The onlythings i would add would be co-op and vehicals. 
 the game is still good with out them I hope vol.3 is even better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: heir_jordan_023
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 29, 2006 12:51 pm PT
Review:  This was my first 360 game. I loved it the whole way through on normal. When I was finished with 
 it on normal, I noticed that the achievements wanted me to beat it on Veteran. So I though, sure.. 
 why not give it a shot. I started Veteran and I spent hours and hours longer while screaming at 
 the game at certain parts. Veteran was ridiculously hard. I recommend playing it on Veteran with 
 a friend you can switch off and on with, cos it was too much. I finally beat it on Veteran, and 
 I was very, very satisfied. I do recommend playing this game on Veteran for the reason that you'll 
 be very satisfied when you're done. But there isn't any replay value on Veteran.. whatsoever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warlord20
Rating: 9
Date: May 29, 2006 12:07 pm PT
Review:  Call Of Duty 2 is definantly one of the best games on XBOX 360 so far. Everyone may not agree but 
 if you like action games then this game is definitly for you. This game can be very addictive so 
 make sure you have some time to kill when you start this game because you will not want to put 
 it down. The graphics and sound effects are great. The game itself could have been longer but what 
 you can do is change the level to veteran and you are sure to have a good challenge. As for the 
 multiplayer mode..... its just as good. The more pple playing.... the better. Enjoy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: minime78362
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 28, 2006 10:20 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 for the xbox360. Who would've thought it would be this good? People didn't think they 
 could get the transfer from the PC to the 360 right. Well they did, and if you don't have a good 
 enough PC for this game, go the 360 way. I have played half way through the easy campaign, it's really 
 simple for beginners, now if you switch over to veteran like I did. It get's really hard, sometimes 
 frustrating, but overall it's worth it. When you beat the game on veteran you will feel like you 
 did something extraordinary. The reason being is because it's so hard, I don't suggest the Veteran 
 difficulty for anyone with a short temper, or gets annoyed by re-doing and re-doing one thing over 
 and over again. When you die, you will get a quote, randomly selected, it will come up, these are great 
 to read, but sometimes get really old, because sometimes it might come up with a paticular one, you 
 die again and one comes up, then the same one comes back up. The sound is really good, I don't have 
 surround sound, and I thought it was great, when you move around the voices get louder or quieter 
 and further away.
  All in all a great single player experience
  ====================================================
  Multiplayer
  ---------------
  A Bit 
 Different. Only 8 players in one server so that's a bit of a disappointment. But I found that it 
 was enough people, considering spawns are only 5 seconds long. Maps are generally good, except some 
 maps pretty much require you to grab a sniper rifle to get a kill. There's two match types Ranked 
 or Unraked. Ranked games, don't really do anything, except makes it more competitive, and when you 
 win you will be matched with better people next time. No leaderboards for ranked.. that's it.
  It's better to play "Player Match" because it's more relaxed and all in all the same thing as Ranked. There 
 are a couple of game types Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, Capture the Flag, Headquarters, and Search 
 and Destroy. The first three game types should be obvious what they are, but the last two are very 
 fun, but many people don't play them.
  Headquartes, makes you rush a randomly spawned radio in an attempt to set up a headquarter Hence 
 the name. The team that did not capture the radio must go and destroy the headquarter, but either 
 standing by the radio for a ammount of time or killing the team guarding it. (the spawns for the 
 team that's guarding it are turned off) Search and Destroy has the same idea, but one team will 
 have to set a bomb on a target site, and one team has to guard the site. Multiplayer is pretty fun, but 
 I have no idea what the maps that are coming out in June will be like. They might ruin the game.
 
  This game is great, but it for 360 or PC whichever one you have. Great game for a New Xbox360 owner.
 
  -Minime78362 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrimyGoblin
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 28, 2006 2:03 am PT
Review:  As someone who had never played the original of this game, I was a little unsure what to expect, 
 and have to admit that I only purchased this title after a heavy session of Band of Brothers (fantastic 
 by the way) ...
  
  Real weapons, real scenarios, real locations and really clever AI (on harder difficulty levels) ...
 
  
  An excellent antidote to the online 'abuse-a-thon' that Halo 2 has become, as the online mode is 
 more a case of being quiet, and legging it to a new location after every kill, thanks to the kill 
 cam which shows your defeated enemy a replay of how you killed them and therefore, where you we're 
 tucked up...
  
  Only down side, is that your team mates seem to have the really annoying habit of running directly 
 in front of you, just as you pull the trigger, or chase your grenade like a loyal puppy... Yap, 
 yap, yap *KABOOM!*..... followed by the game telling you that killing your teammates is not acceptable, 
 no matter how stoopid they are... and reverting to the last auto save point...
  
  Very good, very entertaining and well worth 40 of anyones cash... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steveroe29
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 27, 2006 6:07 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is an unbeliveable experience. It puts you in the shoes of a Russian soldier defending 
 Russia and going through Stalingrand a British soldier going through Egypt and a american soldier 
 going through D-day and Crossing the Rhine. When you play it, it feels like your are the soldier 
 going through those various events. The Multiplayer is a disappointment though. The PC version 
 supported up to 32 players while the 360 version suported only up to 8. Hopefully they bring Call 
 of Duty 3 up to 16-32 players. I don't get only having 8 players because both Finest Hour and Big 
 Red One both had up to 16 players. But the Single player was too good for the multiplayer to bring 
 it down. The frame rate is solid and the game never freezes.
  
  Gameplay 9 Like I said the singleplayer is unbeliveable it would be a 10 if the multiplayer was 
 better though.
  
  Graphics 9 The graphics might not be "next gen" but they are solid compared to some other 360 games.
 
  
  sound 10 It feels like you are shooting guns from WWII and it sounds like you are to and the explosions 
 sound realistic too.
  
  Value 9 this game has high replay ability.
  
  Tilt 10
  
  Call of Duty 2 is the best 360 game that is not a port of a game that came out months ago and the 
 best 360 game that you will see in a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -AirHendrix-
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 27, 2006 4:37 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 for Xbox 360
  
  Pros: Major Improvement on WW2 shooters that people play today: AI, Physiscs, etc.
  
  Cons: 
 Auto-Aim feels like its helping you as if you were a retard sometimes.
  
  
  As a fan of Shooters and the like, COD was definetly on my mind when I got my 360 2 weeks ago. 
 At the store, I muttered to myself, "I've played these games before, just get over they hype dude." 
 Wow. Was I wrong! After playing through many missions of the campaign, I can now see COD is awesome 
 for experiences. One of my favorities is the part in the mission, Stalingrad, where 20 germans 
 just raid the trenches leaving you along with your 5 men to fend them off with just a Tommy and 
 Garand. Chucking the nades, dodging left and right, a headshot here and there later, you make it 
 to the top only seeing more in the distance sprinting in Blood Rage for you. Not only does the 
 game include things like this but has exceptional Multi as well. Dont' get me wrong, Multi- isn't 
 everything but it does up the Replay Value. And my motto is (well unofficially lol) : "If its got 
 Multi-, it's gotta be damn good" and boy did this live up to it. It takes a couple matches to get 
 the hang of the maps for competition. The fun thing about it is the communication obviously with 
 Live. For instance: The dude who was hosting said, "Pistols & Nades, GO!" and we had a blast. Pick 
 the game up and see what everyone's talking about. Even if you have played a WW2 shooter, this 
 is nothing like you have ever played before, it IS..... Call of Duty 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aspro73
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 27, 2006 1:37 pm PT
Review:  Gamespot's review of this game can not be improved upon which gives me very little to say, other 
 than I throughly recommend this game to all FPS enthusiasts, not just WW2 shootists.
  
  Having not dabbled in the genre before, but desperate for a FPS for the 360 that was not Perfect 
 Dark, I was more than impressed with COD2.
  
  Yes the graphics are great and the sound awesome, but the real hook of the game is the intensity 
 of the battles and the AI of the enemies and those who fight by your side. As with Halo, COD2 takes 
 about 20-30 seconds of exhilarating gameplay and carefully paces the rate at which you get to repeat 
 it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: norgewhop
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 27, 2006 10:06 am PT
Review:  I found "Call of Duty 2" to be ten times better than the first, especially with high defenition 
 graphics. It is dramatically real, you are rushed from training to real-life warfare, from then 
 on in it is as full on and as realistic as you expect from a new release warshooter on a new console. 
 The sounds are great, the realism is great... I would have just liked it to have been a little longer, 
 don't get me wrong... It's good enough to repeatedly play, but at the rate I get into a good shooter, 
 I had finished it when it felt too soon but the harder settings will test your skills, I found 
 some settings "impossible." The fact that you not only drive tanks, but you ride in the back of 
 jeeps and stuff makes it a non-repedative shooter, also including repair missions and tank and 
 bunker objectives this game gets ny thumbs up! It seems that all the things you wanted from "Call 
 of Duty" are included in it's sequel, closer checkpoints, better array of weapons, special weapons 
 like an anti-aircraft gun are not sparce, the graphics are better, the whole storyline just makes 
 you feel so much like you are reinacting the "Great War" while sitting in comfort... basically...... I 
 am repeatedly playing this game after finishing it ages ago! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: poovens
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 27, 2006 9:13 am PT
Review:  1. the gameplay was is awesome there is just about no time where your just walking around. All 
 it is, is killing germans and blowing up stuff up all around.
  2. the graphics were awesome with tracer bullets flyin all around. tons of people were gettin shot 
 or blown up. and grenades flyin everywhere.
  3. the sound is great there isnt one second in the game where you dont hear bombs going off and 
 shots from every direction.
  4. I dont really know what tilt means or value so i gave them a ten because whatever they are they 
 were probably good too.
  5. xbox live was awesome too
  
  THIS IS ONE OF THE BEST WWII GAMES I EVER PLAYED!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gylfi88
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 27, 2006 9:04 am PT
Review:  The game lacks nothing in tearms of action packed scenes and storytelling, but there are a few 
 downsides to this magnificent piece of gaming exellence. The campaign is somewhat linear and some 
 of the missions aren't especially meaningful or fun for that matter. There is this level where 
 you play as the Brits in Africa controlling a tank. Nothing wrong with that exept it is so onedimensional 
 you drive shoot, drive shoot. What I'm trying to say is the britts campaign is rather boring but 
 on the other hand tha american campaign is treamendously enjoyable. One huge plus is the clinging 
 sound from your M1 when it's time to reload it. The graphics are goodlooking but not impressive, 
 yet it fills its main purpose. The overal soundquality is at an all time high, this game should 
 be an example of how to use sound in games to imense the gamer into the experiense of playing an 
 intense shooter.
  On to the multiplayer there is one gigantic flaw that drives me nuts: no splitscreen online gaming!! 
 What the heck is that about, I mean the graphics in perfectdark are better than in COD2 and they 
 have it!! The gamemodes here are standard like other shottergames. But with the cod2 style of playing 
 this game gets crazy fun when you play splitscreen ofline with your friends. Otherwise it is one 
 of the best online games you can get for xbox360 right now. To sum it all up The singleplayer is 
 enjoyable although it doesn't last long + the multiplayer is easy to get into even though you can't 
 get splitscreen online. 9.1great 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mariofan1314
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 20, 2006 11:08 am PT
Review:  When I got Call Of Duty 2 it wasnt my 1rst game that I got for my Xbox 360, but it sure was one 
 of the best. I thought this would be just another WWII game but when i played it I suddenly knew 
 that it wast like any other WWII game it better. Call Of Duty 2 packs a punch to all those games 
 trying to be the best I personally say its the best in the series so far (untill CallOf Duty 3 
 come out) .The game gives you some great online play but iits also very laggy which means if your 
 connection is bad dont start a game or people will well disconnect trust one game my friend hosted 
 every single person except for him. If you can get past that its got some pretty descent online 
 play. The graphice arent the best ive seen on the 360 but overall the graphics are good. there almost 
 there.
  
  The voices of the chrecters sound like there real people talking to you from a real war as in if 
 your charecter is a Russian and your General is Russian if you listen to him he'll sound like a 
 real Russian solider! The bottom line is this is a must buy game if you a real gamer or even if 
 your into WWII games get this game! So I give Call of Duty 2 9.1 British Sergants out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alcoholado
Rating: 6.8
Date: May 26, 2006 9:01 am PT
Review:  Graphics are good. The best graphics in a FPS. But not as GRAW, or Proyect Gotha Race, or Oblivion. 
 Not next generation graphics. Almost.
  Sound is terrific. You can feel the war, sourrounding you.
  Three campaigns. Differents levels 
 of difficulty. We are OK. 
 
  
  1. No Story. No script, no plot. So you dont care about your character. Kill him. He is nobody. 
 He has not a biography. Just go and shoot, go and kill, go and shoot. It is just a standard FPS, 
 with good graphics and sound. Another FPS from WWII , with better tech. I got boring after 3 hours. 
 I have played this kind of games maaany times. 
  
  2. Multiplayer SUCKSSSSS. Boring. First: too SMALL maps. Maps are a joke. Yes good graphics online, 
 but when you spawn you can see on the other side your enemies spawing too. 4 or 6 guys on a small 
 map. Second: no vehicles.
  Third: many snipers on a small map. BOOOORING. CTF is the best online mode. Team death match is 
 the worst. Yes no lag. But no ranks, no medals, no clans.
  After playin Battlefield2: MC on PS2 and 360, this shooter online is a joke.
  I like shooters 
 for the multiplayer mode. So tomorrow i will sell this and try with a good story, as Paper Mario. 
 LOL. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ps3rev
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 25, 2006 10:48 pm PT
Review:  After the first Call Of Duty game i wanted more out of the game sure it looked good and it was 
 fun but i was so into it and then it just stops all of a sudden. So when I heard about Call Of 
 Duty 2 I was hopping that it wouldnt face the same fait as the frist one did. The game is one of 
 the best looking games i have ever seen in a long time im sorry i take that back it is THE best 
 game i have seen EVER. The gameplay is really fast but at the same time it can be almost to fast. 
 Sometimes i feel like the game is way to pushy to tell you what to do or where to go which makes 
 u feel u really arnt important in WW2. Some parts of the game is very very hard. Oh and for the 
 online play hope you dont have a social life becuase once you get addicted you going to be playing 
 it untill 5 in the morning. But in the end YET AGAIN Call Of Duty 2 is just way to short and sometimes 
 the offline play is just way to boring. But its still a really really great game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mofongo
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 25, 2006 8:07 pm PT
Review:  This game deserves alot more than an 8.8
  
  I have never seen such an intense single player mode in a FPS than in this game.
  
  The game 
 is so realistic it makes games like halo seem really boring.. REALLY boring.
  
  FPS fans who have a 360 you HAVE to get this.
  FPS fans who have a 360 you HAVE to get this.
 
  FPS fans who have a 360 you HAVE to get this.
  FPS fans who have a 360 you HAVE to get this.
  FPS fans who have a 360 you HAVE to get this.
 
  FPS fans who have a 360 you HAVE to get this.
  FPS fans who have a 360 you HAVE to get this.
  FPS fans who have a 360 you HAVE to get this.
 
  FPS fans who have a 360 you HAVE to get this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterChiefSUB0
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 25, 2006 4:15 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Call of Duty 2's intense gameplay is very easy to get used to and understand. The controls 
 are very manageable and the storyline is especially interesting along the way and includes interesting 
 quotes and background information along the way. The AI is excellent and especially on Veteran 
 mode the enemies are ruthless as can be. Veteran mode can be especially hard for those not accustomed 
 to playing fast-pace shooters. The levels are well layed out and have plenty of entertaining scenery 
 and battles. The weapons are well designed and accurate to those of actual WWII weapons. You need 
 not worry about running out of ammo and the smoke grenades are especially helpful in tight situations. 
 The online mode is good, not great, and has a few minor issues with lag and the gameplay is pretty 
 bland and includes Deathmatch, Capture the Flag, as well as a few others. As of now it is not possible 
 to create your own party and have your friends join which is quite a downside. 
  
  Graphics: The graphics are good from a distance but when you go up close they can be blocky and 
 blurred. The rain effects are decent and the lighting especially in the Tunisia level is well done. 
 The graphics overall aren't very impressive espeically when viewed from up close but overall are 
 well contrasted and make for some great landscapes.
  
  Sound: The sound is great in this game and includes some good voice acting. The lines are humorus 
 such as when the soldiers yell, "Bloody wanker." The guns and planes overhead sound almost real 
 and the rumble of the tanks are very intriguing. The music is also well orchestrated to go along 
 with the situations in the game.
  
  Overall Call of Duty 2 is a must-have Xbox 360 title for anyone and includes some very good gameplay 
 to go along with well done graphics and excellent sound. It truely feels like you have just dropped 
 from a plane and into the battlefield with the realistic feeling gained from all the graphics and 
 sound. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 0011992288
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 25, 2006 3:53 pm PT
Review:  This an a must own. Even though by now there are more visually appealing games by now on 360, the 
 graphics aren't the only thing that sells this game. The sound is absolutely amazing. It is very 
 emersive and helps the overall "feel" of the game. The levels do get a bid repetative, but the 
 first Russian missions are amazing. Let me put it this way: I am an extremely jaded gamer. In order 
 to play all the way through a game, I have to really like it. I played all the way through this 
 game.
  I don't have any more time, but go buy this game. A solid shooter for 360. Go Microsoft 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacques117
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 25, 2006 2:40 pm PT
Review:  I really enjoyed every moment of this game. The intense close combat moments to long range sniping. 
 Nearly everything about his game is amazing. 
  
  Graphics-Fantastic. The smoke looks great and the environments are gorgeous.
  
  Sound-The best 
 part of the game. The guns are extremely realistic, the voices of your comrades are superb, and 
 with surround sound, the game feels like the actually experience.
  
  Gameplay-Responsive and tight. Good button layout. I like the two different grenades being on the 
 LB and RB
  
  Replay Value-Immense, the quest for beating veteran will take more than just skill.
  
  Online-After 
 the update, the game is basically perfect online. The new maps are great too.
  
  My only complaints are that at times your squad members will not cover you or advance in a motion 
 that I would like. If I could control my squad I don't think that this game would be anything less 
 than perfect.
  Nonetheless, the score only suffers from this extremely annoying fault, other than that, this game 
 is downright a sacrosanct of this generation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kp_klan
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 25, 2006 2:06 pm PT
Review:  Call Of Duty 2 is a war game as we all know. In the campaign there are three main peoples you play 
 with. The Russians, English and Americans. The game was great. The graphics were ok (iMO) and the 
 action was great. Lots of gunfire, explosions and screaming. Made you feel as if you were in a 
 movie. There were great things but also with the good comes the bad. One of the bad things is when 
 you get shot multiple times the screen goes red around you and all you need to do is find cover 
 and wait and your at full health again, that was handy yet really akward. The multiplayer was quite 
 irritating because of the lag so that was a real bummer. Something that i really liked were the 
 motto's. The game overall was great. If your looking for something that can last and want lots 
 of action this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: granposho
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 25, 2006 4:07 am PT
Review:  From the first moment to the last, this games is a total a$$ kicker!! First I got it for pc, the 
 visuals are the greatest seen on any ww2 shooter, the movie like situations always puts you in 
 the middle of the experience making you forget that actually it's just a game...
  As far as the sound and music goes... speechless, specially at certain moments, like on d day or 
 even when you storm at the 3 map of the russian campaign, getting ready for a counter attack at 
 the german outpost... this game is so full of great moments that makes you thank god the moment 
 you got that very pc or that very 360.
  You might want to know what differences (if any) are there between the 360 and PC version, and 
 I can assure you that there aren't any except for minor details, on the PC you can make the corpes 
 stay a lot longer while in the 360 they stay for a while and then they are gone. Other than that, 
 both are pretty much the very same game. This game kicks a$$ no matter when or where you play it, 
 but of course, the achievement system of the 360 makes you replay it so you can at least get to 
 gain those precious points, and of course, playing it at veteran level it's... breath taking, frustrating 
 at certain moments, but breath taking non the less. Bottom line, MUST HAVE!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mr_fox_man
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 24, 2006 10:40 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best games i have played ever! Graphics are great, very smooth and provide an 
 excellent feel to the game! The best gameplay, graphics are very nice and its the most fun i've 
 had with a game in a long time! The battles are so intense it feels almost real! Campaign mode 
 is my favourite followed by the awesome online multiplayer. I've finished the game on normal and 
 now i'm attempting to finish CoD2 on the hardest mode, Veteran which is just like real life! All 
 up this is the game to get if you have an xbox 360, the best console! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1337_gUn
Rating: 9
Date: May 24, 2006 6:49 am PT
Review:  The gameplay is really fun. The single player mode is good. The sound is GREAT. You will really 
 feel like your a real soldier in the battlefield when you hear the sound. The graphics blend in 
 to the atmosphere and looks STUNNING! The weapons are cool and its fun when you kill the soldiers 
 and they yell. The online mode is good but you cant play with like 4 players it wont be that fun 
 but u may enjoy it. I suggest you gather a lot of friends and play online and enjoy the online 
 pwnage! This game is a MUST BUY! These features are all parts of this classic game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MoreCowbell6924
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 24, 2006 1:25 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is probably the best WWII game to date, and I've played plenty of WWII shooters. 
 Call of Duty beats them all. 
  
  The graphics are great. The weapons almost look real. The character models also look very good. 
 The lighting is awesome just awesome. Like you'd expect when you move into a shadow the light gradually 
 diminishes and when your back in the sunlight, how the light reflects off your weapon just looks 
 awesome. The textures get a bit ugly up close but at a distance they look fine. Overall graphics 
 are just great.
  
  The sound of Call of Duty is pretty much perfect. All the guns sound great except maybe the pistols 
 but thats ok. The sounds of battle grenades exploding, barrels blazing, and everything during the 
 battles helps make it feel like you're really there. The voice acting and dialogue is some of the 
 best and well done. Something I found really neat about the voice acting is when someone gets shot 
 while they're talking they'll stop in mid-sentence and if they live you'll be able to hear what 
 you may have missed during your first playthrough; I just thought that was kinda cool.
  
  The replayablility is good for the multiplayer and singleplayer, though you may get bored of the 
 singleplayer after a few times. The multiplayer over Xbox Live is great and feels like it will 
 never get old.
  
  The singleplayer campaign consists 10 missions stretched into a bunch of levels, so you may think 
 that it's going to be a long game but it really isn't; it's about the length of your average shooter. 
 The singleplayer is really enjoyable and frustrating at the same time, that is if your playing 
 on Veteran or Hardened. Call of Duty 2 really does a great job of making it feel like your actually 
 in a war, and is probably as close to being in war as you'll ever want to be. Everything that happens 
 throughout the campaign is very believable and a blast, weather you're playing the Russian, American, 
 or British campaigns.
  
  The Multiplayer is awesome and very intense. Some of the levels are great and others arn't too 
 great. Most of them are enjoyable though. The only problem with the multiplayer is that your pretty 
 much restricted to a sniper rifle unless you just flat out own with the other guns.
  
  Call of Duty 2 with Xbox Live would be a worthy addition to any fan of FPS or WWII games, but without 
 Xbox Live I'd recommend renting this game before you buy it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: re4freak321
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 23, 2006 5:16 pm PT
Review:  This gonna to go down in my Top 3 games of all time. It delivers so well and its real easy to get 
 into. more than half of my gamerscore is COD 2 achievments. Gameplay is solid and its just down 
 right fun. It really captured that World War 2 sense and had awesome realism and stunning graphics, 
 It al so reminds me of a faster-paced Brothers in Arms. This was the first game I bought with my 
 360 thr first day Of 06' and i 've played it every day since then . I can only give this game the 
 highest recomendation. If you own a 360 and if you dont have this game.... YOu arent a real gamer! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yellosnolvr
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 1, 2007 6:48 pm PT
Review:  The ending didnt help out with the fact that it was placed it europe. But the gameplay is incredible! 
 
  
  The multiplayer isnt too fun, but shooting germans is great. I hate how it was placed in europe, 
 I cant do anything about that. But the fact that the ending was just a total letdown. From a GOTY 
 to another GOTY. WW2 games need more class. But..... The yelling of soldiers as they duck for their 
 lives is entertaining. Very realistic. Graphics arent too shabby.... sound isnt either...... but 
 the gameplay on veteran is crap! CRAP CRAP CRAP! Im glad that it was over pretty soon, because 
 t he story wasnt spectacular at all. BUt just pickin it up and playing on easy with a friend wont 
 hurt you. Final- 8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkShadow1425
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 15, 2006 1:29 am PT
Review:  although i don't own a xbox 360 console, i had the chance to play call of duty 2 at a friends console. 
 when it was time time to leave, i was still in front of the xbox playing the game. the game has 
 definately improved from its quality when compared to the pc version. needless to say, the graphics 
 are awesome, and so are the sound effects. but, the game has one little problem -which i dont really 
 think it as a problem for myself-, the lack of k/m will probably make some pc gamers go mad when 
 trying to aim. but as i said, this problem differs from person to person, what i'm trying to say 
 is that i didnt had any diffuculties aiming with the analog stick, but my friend had trouble when 
 shooting. 
  the multiplayer mode is also as perfect as the pc version, i havent seen any problems about it. 
 but i think that u only have the chance to divide the screen horizontally, it would be better if 
 you had the option to divide it vertically in my opinion.
  so xbox players, if u are good with the analog stick, dont miss it out i say. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThatGuy_5
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 21, 2006 6:25 pm PT
Review:  This game is quite the WWII shooter. The excellent gameplay is only hindered by the limited amount 
 of weaponry available and the pistol's terrible sights. It has great single player which can be 
 a little bit challenging on veteran difficulty. It also has grand online gaming, but is brought 
 down by the semi-pointless offline (4 players, not enough...) The graphics mix well with the atmosphere 
 and seem to send out that Next-Gen vibe. The sound is REALLY impressive IMO, I wish I had surround 
 sound! The gunfire, the nazi's yells as they die, the taunts of my fellow comrades, all a piece 
 of this game's greatness. I give it a good solid A! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: akessle1
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 21, 2006 12:11 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Good campaign in three different places with exciting attacks and overall just fun shoot 
 em up gameplay. It has enough difficulty settings to make it fun. Uses a health mode thing that 
 lets u rest to gain health. that is good in SP but makes MP kinda boring. Multiplayer is dumb. 
 Maps made for 16 or more people with almost no one around is dumb. The PC's multiplayer is much 
 better but the health thing makes multiplyer bad.
  
  Graphics are good and the best for a launch title. Overall, it conveys the themes but is not as 
 good as GRAW and OBlivion in terms of graphics. Great in HD
  
  Sound is awesome and makes you feels like the battle is really happening. It is good in Sur. Sound 
 but even normal audio is great.
  
  Value: Worth the 60 bucks. Has good replayiblity. Get PDZ if you want to go cheap though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paullywog
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 26, 2006 2:21 pm PT
Review:  COD2 is another World war II shooter. The graphics look like all other wwII shooters, but it's 
 pretty fun. Call of duty 2 is a fun game to rent because you'll explore lots of europe and make 
 lots of nazis pay for what they did. The game is fun, maybe for a few runs through, but not 60 
 dollar fun. Online is lacking simply because you can only play with 8 players. On either pc or 
 360, this game isn't worth buying, only renting. Or buy it cheap (under 30 bucks) . I don't know 
 why everyone thought it was so grand. anyways, break it down. 
  Gameplay
  Run here, shoot him, repeat. Fun for a while. 8/10
  Graphics
  What? Next gen? Not really. At 
 least it's stable. 8/10
  Sound
  Good 9/10
  Value
  not 60 bucks, that's for sure 8/10
  tilt
  its not horrible, so i'll boost it a bit. 8/10
  
  Oh, did I mention that on PC it has 
 64 players? So rethink this as a 360 shooter, there are much more unique and original ones to choose 
 from. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WWJD
Rating: 10
Date: May 20, 2006 10:25 am PT
Review:  the historical accuracy of this game is amazing. all the weapons are actual weapons used in wwii. 
 difficulty was made very well. it can be extremely hard if you want it to be, or extremely easy. 
 i wasn't much of a fan of fps before this game, but this game has really gotten me in to the fps 
 genre.
  This is by far the best 360 game i've played. Hell, im bold enough to say this game is better than 
 goldeneye 007 for n64. ITS THAT GOOD. Even germans would love this game.
  
  Now that have read this review. go buy this game NOW. if you can't afford it, steal it. its worth 
 risking going to jail. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Twilighted
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 19, 2006 4:29 pm PT
Review:  usually when i think of real war games i think of strategy and hard games, well Call of Duty 2, 
 is a mixture of war and great great gameplay. 
  
  The graphics of the game, are great, not bad, not fantastic, but they are great. 
  
  The sound 
 is excellent in the game, the sound totally gives u a feel of what a war is like, a lot of screaming. 
 Also the u hear bullets hitting stuff and u hear the enemy screaming and stuff like that. 
  
  Game play is great, no the gameplay is phenomenal. COD2 plays like a fast fun get in the action 
 game. u constantly aim fire and take risks, it can be strategic if u want it to be, but it is incredibly 
 fun. 
  
  The lasting appeal is rather short if done on easy mode, but veteran mode knocks it down to 4 shots 
 and its over. Plus the online play has been fixed so there isnt any more massive lag. 
  
  If you have not picked up COD2, u should go pick it up right away, because this game is not something 
 to pass up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Boricuan2128JJ
Rating: 10
Date: May 18, 2006 5:46 pm PT
Review:  Ok this is a very good game. The multiplayer , campain , and the guns. But i don't have it i just 
 play it online with a friend of mine. I can say that this is one of the best games i have played. 
 The graphics are the best in the world. This are te best graphics in the holl Damm world. Like 
 i sed i suck a$$ but if this game was a women i will merry it. This has to be the GODFATHER of 
 all the war games. And if u don't agre u can kiss my a$$. Ok so this is my review. 
  
  Ps 
  U may notes that i can spell well. 
  
  Pss 
  Also u may think i am dislexic 
  
 
  Psss 
  I am not i just hate inglesh
  
  Pssss
  If u play online this game tell me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: antislipshod
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 18, 2006 5:49 am PT
Review:  Awsome game single player is easy but has a good storyline. But the real thing here is multiplayer. 
 To me its gotta be the most played game on xbl. Theres always sessions and the new maps are great. 
 I cant wait for the ones that come out in july . Multiplayer i have to say the best multiplayer 
 for the xbox 360 right now. This game has been around since november and is still leading in sales. This 
 games multiplayer better than halo 2 at its time and has the some of the greatest gamers playing 
 it. I think the graphics are amazing and the new maps are great. If you do not have this game BUY 
 IT NOW 
::::::

::::::
UserName: colin_yarker
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 17, 2006 12:13 pm PT
Review:  this game was soo worth paying the extra 10 on the pc release since it has a flawless frame rate 
 and some incredibly intense game play if you get this prepare to be glued to your x360 days after 
 you get it this game appeals to the fans of fps and if you don't have many fps you should seriously 
 consider call of duty 2
  
  if you haven't got the game by now i think you should wait for the game of the year edition and 
 get all the extra maps for multiplayer and get a bonus disc with making of the game footage etc 
 just like a special edition dvd 
  
  in short this game is well worth the cost get it now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blueknight124
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 17, 2006 7:21 am PT
Review:  This game from start to finish is, in my opinion, one of the best first person shooters ive ever 
 played.... Not only are the graphics top notch, and the soundtrack amazing, but the enviroment 
 was done so well, that you actually feel like youre being sucked back in time to fight in one of 
 the biggest wars, since well the first world war. Its easy to pick up and learn and the breif tutorial 
 that they give you in the first mission is pretty much all you need to know for the whole game, 
 well that and duck and cover... This game is an easy play through on the easiest difficulty, but 
 be prepared to die often if youre trying the veteran levels...
  On-line play is another really good aspect of this game, with the various matches to choose from, 
 theres always something going in in the lobbies. You can team up with your friends, or perfect 
 strangers and go head to head or as teams to kill one another, capture the flag, or guard a headquarters....
 
  All and all this game was definatly worth the buy, and in the coming months i look forward to 
 seeing what new maps the release on the xbox live marketplace... Hope you enjoy this game as much 
 as i did... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: battle_chaser9
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 16, 2006 11:16 am PT
Review:  This game is intense, I played the original (PC version of course) and loved the game. At first, 
 I was wary of purchasing the game for the x-box 360 (I still believe that keyboard and mouse combo 
 is superior) , but I was blown away on the first 20 sec. of the game. I have 5.1 surround sound 
 and 42 inch plasma and the experience for me is just amazing. The controls in this game is the 
 best on ANY first person shooters in any console, no adjustments needed on the sensitivity it was 
 very responsive and dead on. Each level in the game is intense and it gave more freedom on the 
 missions that the first one, but what makes this game for me is the multi-player, it is just great. 
 I am not sure if they had fixed the ranking system by now but I hope they give the online part 
 more incentive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 3eyedrazorback
Rating: 10
Date: May 16, 2006 8:35 am PT
Review:  The Russian campaign is alright but isn't as good as the others. Although it's not the best, it 
 still has very very seducing graphics and gameplay! When i fired up my new 360 this was the first 
 game i put in and i was ASTOUNDED at how much the graphics have improved since the XBOX1 game came 
 out. It was so much fun storming the beach on D-Day in the American missions! it's just an immersive 
 game that keeps you going until you finish the game! Needless to say, if you don't have this game, 
 go out and BUY it! you don't know what you're missing out on! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WarEagle07
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 15, 2006 3:12 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2. The title may lead you to believe that this is the second game in the series, but 
 that would be incorrect. It is the first call of duty game to appear on the xbox360 and there have 
 been numerous call of duty games on last generation hardware. COD2 launched with the xbox360 and 
 while its not the killer app that Halo: Combat Evolved was for the original xbox, it is a very 
 solid and fun shooter than any first person shooter fan should own.
  
  The game is graphically very appealing. Your weapon is highly detailed and the reloading animations 
 are well done. Between the muzzle flash and smoke the game does a good job of looking like you 
 are actually shooting a gun. The environments are very nice and well done. They aren't quite up 
 to the level that your own gun is, but they are nice to look at. Overall the game definately looks 
 next-gen. If you have seen some Gears of War trailers then it should be said that COD2 is not on 
 level with that. However, there is little doubt that the look of COD2 could have been accomplished 
 on last-gen hardware.
  
  The game's audio is even better than its graphics. You'll hear your feet crunch in the Russian 
 snow as you push on. You'll hear Germans coming up the stairs after you, bullets whiz by your head, 
 and all of it brilliantly done. A nice touch is the conversations and comments that can be heard 
 from your comrades in the middle of a firefight. They can at times be funny, but mostly the provide 
 to deepen the experience and further immerse you in the intense battles that the Call of Duty series 
 rightly hangs its hat on.
  
  The gameplay is the most important part of any game and again COD2 answers the call of duty (ok 
 so I know that was lame) . The game has a fast pacing that is never too fast but always intense. 
 You are always surrounded by many of your comrades truly making you feel as if you are a part of 
 a much larger battle, which is part of a much larger war. The developers struck an amazing balance 
 between being the key character (like in say Halo) where the outcome is obviously dependent upon 
 yourself, and a feeling of insignifigance where you believe the outcome would be the same if you 
 hid in a corner somewhere. 
  
  There are three different campaigns that comprise the entire single player campaign, an American 
 campaign in France, a Russian campaign in Russia, and a British campaign in the African desert. 
 The story is told in history channel like cutscenes inbetween levels to fill you in on what part 
 of the war you are about to play in. The game is historically accurate, perhaps not as much so 
 as a textbook, but they're not making up these battles either. When all is said and done the story 
 feels like more of an excuse to put you in the levels they created. Its tough to tell if this is 
 simply because the story of the great war is so well known already or if its because the story 
 is poorly told. In either case the story telling does not get in the way of the experience, it 
 just doesn't really enhance it either. A bit odd is the health system used in COD2. It feels very 
 much like Halo 2's system of a recharging shield. As you are being shot the outside of your screen 
 turns red and closes in on the center of the screen the closer you are to death. To regain health 
 you simply need to stop being shot for a few seconds, and viola, all better. Its not very practical, 
 but it does serve to keep the action fast and you don't have to waste time looking for health packs.
 
  
  The game will probably take the average gamer 12-15 hours to play on the default difficulty. There 
 are four difficulty settings, with hardest difficutly being a true challenge. Sadly the multiplayer 
 is very lacking. The online play is too buggy to mention and perhaps xbox live has spoiled me, 
 but split screen just was not any fun at all.
  
  This is a solid game that any shooter fan should have. Its a decently long campaign with lots of 
 excitement and fun to be had. Well worth the price even if it is only for the single player experience.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: illwillpress88
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 14, 2006 2:25 pm PT
Review:  
  It is know amantitory to have a WWII for a console at launch, but the real question is do we really 
 want to shoot virtual Germans again? In COD2 we would do it all over again. 
  
  Story: In COD2 you play as 4 soiders one of wich is a tank commander, playing as Russian, British 
 and American in different places all around the world gives you a non-linerer path. Like other 
 CODs its not about a plot but about the action. 
  
  Gameplay: CODs is very intense you always feel over wellmed and because there are very few scripted 
 events you never know what is going to happen next, this makes the single player extremly replayable. 
 They have added some new additions to the gameplay like smoke grenades and very diverse AI. The 
 AI is so good they will come up with countless ways to beat you, and because the levels are so 
 big and diverse It always plays differenently. The guns all have a different feel to them and work 
 realisticly.
  
  Sound: COD sounds amazing, caonstant yelling and barking orders makes the chareters feel real and 
 alive and for once it is not fill in when they say somthing they are accually giving important 
 imformantion make you to depend on them to win. And music that rivals any other FPS.
  
  Graphics: CODs graphics are solid and crisp and have smoke affects that look better everytime chareters 
 have many different faces snow effects look great. They only problem with them is that it dose'nt 
 look ''next-gen'' some things look nice but others don't and what would have made everything even 
 beeter would be destructible everments and objects sometimes buildings and things to take damage 
 but alll those moments are scripted. One thing that does make the graphics look a bit better is 
 that there can be hundereds of people on screen at once all having seperate tasks and it always 
 stays at 60 frames per second. 
  
  Verdict: In the end COD is a highly reccomendable game for any FPS fan with high replayablity and 
 extensive online is a game that you will be proud to own on you next-gen console.
  
  Good
  + Intense and immersive action
  + Sounds amazing
  + Great AI 
  + Huge battles
  
 + online
  
  Bad
  - Graphics though solid are hard to call next-gen
  - online could have been more indepth
  -enviorment destruction only happens in scripted moments 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nrh04
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 14, 2006 1:32 pm PT
Review:  when I put this in the 360, I was amazed. You get to play as a Russian, British and American soldier, 
 with each one giving a different point of view about the game. this also creates a variety of settings 
 that you fight in too - from the blizzard-like cold in Stalingrad to towns in Egypt and France, 
 and the good old Hill 400. There are movie clips right before each mission...... so you get an idea 
 of what your upcoming missions are about - you're not just fighting a battle that you hae no clue 
 about. 
  
  Graphics are amazing, and the sound is just as good. I have it hooked up to a surround system and 
 it fills the entire room. You can hear gunshots in all the speakers. There's a variety of weapons, 
 from rifles to machine guns, snnipers, pistols....... the whole 9 yards. 
  
  One thing I would like to have been able to do is have a little more control over my team. Like 
 being able to tell some to clear one area while others go and clear another. I would reccommend 
 starting on regular difficulty....... its not too bad, but on hardened you gotta take it more serious.... can't 
 just run out in front of a mg42 anymore. If you like FPS's, expecially historic ones, then you 
 gotta give this a try 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamerfreak1991
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 15, 2006 2:50 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: The gameplay is amazingly good I thought that your squad-mates AI could've been a little 
 bit better. For example like the guys that are in your squad that don't need to survive to the 
 end of the mission, will sometimes just run right into a grenade or something, so I thought that 
 needed a little bit more work, but other than that its great. The controls were a dream, they were 
 done extraordinarily well.
  
  Graphics: The graphics on this game are INSANE! Everything looks so good, shiny and life-like. 
 Even for anyone with a Standard TV it still looks good. It easily has the best graphics of the 
 many Xbox 360's launch titles.
  
  Sound: The sound is most definitely the best part of the game, hands down. Whether its when your 
 firing a Thompson machine gun, the sound of an explosion going off, or your squad-mates screaming 
 orders to you. Its all good and well put together.
  
  Value: I think this game has decent value, you get some achievements on your Xbox 360 when you 
 go back and beat it on Hardened or Veteran difficulties, so I'd say its worth it, but if your not 
 planning on going back on a harder difficulty its not really worth it. Just to replay a mission 
 or for multi-player purposes.
  
  Reviewers Tilt: This game is spectacular, its a game that you definitely should not miss, its something 
 that you need to get as soon as possible. So what are you waiting for? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: game61566
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 13, 2006 4:32 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty 2 is another WWII shooterfrome activision. COD2 takes place during well WWII and It 
 has you shooting german throough a bunch of different points in the war. in fact, It actually has 
 you play the game not just from an american point of view but as well as russian and british factions. So 
 you'll be fighting the war in many different places taking you from russia to normandy.
  
  you'll start the game as a russian private just getting to the war and are in basic training when 
 then you start being attacked and this is where it all begins. you will take on many german opponents 
 through out the game in fast paced action through the entire game. but theres more to it than just 
 killing germans.
  
  usually you'll get some kind of objective to take on while your fighting which is a goood thing 
 as it makes it better for gameplay of course. all the controlls in the game are really well done 
 of course I seem to have in issue with the sniping in the game. but besiides that the game controls 
 pretty well in the game.
  
  while your playing you have your AI freinds to help you and the do a great job of doing so as they 
 wont just walk in front of you or anything stupid like that. But the same goes for the enemy Ai 
 as they are very aggressive and will shot at you when they have a chance. like if you dont do a 
 good job laying down enough surpressing fire they will attack you from all directions. but thanks 
 to this smart Ai it really makes you feel like you are in the midst of a battle while also making 
 it very intense. This game handles the shooting very welll in this game and it does a great job 
 of it.
  
  Also ,beside the single player, there is a multiplayer component with every thing you would find 
 in a multiplayer game. it has all that great stuff like death match, team deathmatch, ctf, and 
 other not so ordinary ones like HQ, search and destroy ,and others that are all very fun to play. 
 you can play all of these with up to eight players which might seem kinda small if your a fan of 
 the PC version but is is still fun to play. 
  
  Know I know that there has been alot of WWII shooters out there for quite a few years btu this 
 one is definently worth checking out. Its not just a good WWII shooter but a shooter period. So 
 if you like FPS's then you shouldnt hesitate to pick this one up its just good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cenamena
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 13, 2006 1:36 pm PT
Review:  a very strong game for hardcore gamers. the graphics are great and fit the design. hell is what it 
 is right now. you're standing there, then out of nowhere a mortor team hounds you with mortors. the 
 campaigne mode is fitting aswell with 27 missions spanning across russia germany and africa, with 
 you taking control of a brit, a yank and a russian. guns are cool and killing a nazi with a sniper 
 rifle takes hard work. but with the added blood affects. don't waste time on Brothers In Arms or 
 Medal Of Honour. remember, game of the year 2005. if this isn't your type, just buy somin like Perfect 
 Dark Zero or G. R. A. W. anyway, some bad points are that you can't drive vechiles (there is 2 tank 
 missions but the controls are terrible) and enemy A. I can become fustrating weather or not it's 
 difficult or dumb. this game's missiong feautures are nothing to worry about. BUY IT NOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sofaninja
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 13, 2006 12:16 pm PT
Review:  Call Of Duty 2 (COD2) is a first person shooter developed by Infinity Ward. It is set in WWII. 
 The game has you playing in three seperate forces those being the Russians, the British and the 
 American forces. Each group has its fair share of the game roughly taking up a third of the total 
 time. If your a complete RETARD and don't know what the plot could happen to be about i'll briefly 
 describe it. Stop the Nazi War Machine... done. The game has you playing all over the mostly in 
 France and Russia but there are also sections in Africa and Germany giving it enough variance to 
 stop players getting bored.
  The visuals are smooth and well detailed. You can see that the developers wanted to create a really 
 authentic feel with the game and it can be seen in the levels. The smoking chassis of destroyed 
 buses in the Stalingrad level and the bloody muddy trenches of the Point du Hoc make you feel like 
 its really accurate. Soldiers are also well designed and animated. Nailing a nazi in the head and 
 watching the spray of blood is most certainly addictive. However the visual really are shown best 
 in the smoke grenades, as the smoke animation is so perfectThe sound is great as well, there is 
 little in the way of music due to the constant rattling of gunfire and boom of explosions but its 
 soo firm and definitie it gives the feeling of war really well.
  
  The gamelpay is where the game takes off. The shooting pretty typical you can carry 2 guns and 
 zoom, but there are aspects of the game that feel so good, like the varing recoil between guns, 
 promotes burst fire instead of long sprays. The aiming is also helped by the ability to look down 
 the guns sight due to the lack of a crosshair again raising the authenticity. As well as fireing 
 there the ability to throw grenades both frawg and smoke. Certain touches like the difference between 
 'pinapple' american grenades and the 'potato masher' nazi grenades is just great. The second main 
 aspect of the game is cover. Just by pressing one button you can crouch and crawl. In the later 
 difficulties this is imperitive to survival as three shots can kill you easily so covering behind 
 stuff is definetly important. There are often walls or bollards to hid behing in most levels so 
 its always an available option. The AI in the game is impressive as well. While enemies thrown 
 grenades back and take cover , allies also do the same but also point out enemy locations and strong 
 points in levels as well as warn you of grenades. Also unlike Halo and other games you can't kill 
 them as you get arrested for traitorous acts. There are also two missions where you drive tanks 
 but the controls are awkward and its frustratingly easy to die. Apart from thats its awsome.
  The multiplayer aspect of the game is fun and the many modes of play give lifespan. There are some 
 weapons you can't use in the main game so thats a little bonus.
  The game itself is about 10 hours of so long. If you complete it at higher difficulties then that 
 adds even more time plus multiplayer. Unfortunately theres no co-op but who cares.
  
  Any problems? Well the grenade indictor sometimes doesn't come up. Also head shots don't always 
 kill. whats up with that. Umm its hard. The on rails sections are sometimes a bit boring and frustrating.
 
  ps the difficulty relates to the top level 
::::::

::::::
UserName: exeeded_limit
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 12, 2006 10:15 am PT
Review:  This game is realistic beyond belief. Except in easy mode. Why? well lets just say that you have 
 a pistol and you run up to 3 enemy guys with machine guns. In real life they would easily win right? 
 Well in the game I took them all out without reloading once and with no damage to me at all. Besides 
 that every thing else was great. The thing that amazed me most about that tho was that If you have 
 a sniper the aim moves around this gave it some realistic attributes to it but thats not all you 
 can also hold your breath and then the sniper will steady. Very cool The are many levels and if 
 you play in Veteran mode it will take you some time to beat it. I have beaten the entire game in 
 easy mode and in Veteran mode I have completed all three of the russian missions and one of the 
 English missions. So this game will keep you occupied for a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VincentV21
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 11, 2006 4:22 pm PT
Review:  When the XBox 360 first launched, there really weren't a whole lot of games I was crazy for, but 
 there was Call of Duty 2. I have been hooked on the Call of Duty series since it debuted on the 
 PC a couple of years back. Unfortunately, the real thing that keeps this game from being greater 
 is the fact that the entire time I played this game I had a feeling of "been there, done that". 
 Even though COD2 doesn't really do anything new, it is still fun and worth a look at.
  
  Graphically, this game is incredible. Even though you are playing the same game that was on the 
 PC, you get it at high resolution and maxed out. If you have an HD tv, this game looks great. Every 
 front you are fighting in is rendered beautifully, but if you are playing the British campaign, 
 you might get a little tired of the African sands.
  
  Sound is great here: from Nazi soldiers screaming orders, to your teammates doing the same, or 
 even the sound of a Tiger tank busting through a nearby wall, you defenitely will want surround 
 sound with this game.
  
  Multiplayer is fun and easy to get into. The usual suspects are all here: deathmatch, capture the 
 flag, team deathmatch, and objectives. And suprisingly, they pull some of the original COD's maps 
 into the lineup here.
  
  The campaign is lengthy enough, and will keep you occupied. Also, if you are a XBOX Live points 
 horder, you can get some easy points by going through the missions again on the harder difficulty 
 settings.
  
  Overall, a great game, I'm just dissapointed about the fact COD 2 really didn't do anything new 
 with this one. Perhaps in the upcomnig COD3 we will see some Pacific campaigns, or more aerial 
 assaults. 
  
  NOTE: This was reviewed after several patches to the multiplayer, so multiplayer IS different than 
 at launch.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xXBrazilManXx
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 11, 2006 11:37 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 as you all may know is another WW2 shooter. Now you might think that there have 
 been tons and I'm tired of playing the same story line over and over again.
  
  Well that may be right, but in Call of Duty 2, you just have to do it again! This game is guaranteed 
 fun especially with awesome graphics and sound. It challenges you with super-smart A. I., you'll 
 be amazed at the levels and the missions. They are immensely big and well designed. So yes, you 
 really do want to storm Normandy beach again with a Thompson. It's all worth it in Call of Duty 
 2.
  
  If you have not gotten this game yet, then go for it. Every Xbox 360 owner should have this! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CriticalDamage
Rating: 10
Date: May 10, 2006 5:46 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is the #1 title for the Xbox 360, and it lives up to its bold name. At first, I 
 thought Call of Duty 2 was gunna fail, because in the past, console versions of Call of Duty weren't 
 that good. MAN WAS I WRONG!
  
  Call of Duty 2 is near perfect next to its PC brother. During Call of Duty 2's 10-15 hour campaign, 
 you'll be put in the rolls of a Russian private in Stalingrad, a British sergeant in North Africa, 
 and a U. S. Ranger landing in Normandy, fighting through France, and eventually into Germany. 
 
  
  All categories in this game gets a gold star! AI, graphics, sound, gameplay, unfolding story, etc. 
 Voice work of the soldiers around you is amazing. If a soldier is gunna reload, he'll shout over 
 to his buddy to cover him while he reloads, or if a soldier spots an enemy, he'll give out the 
 direction and location of that enemy. You'll hear something new each time you play the game. Soldiers 
 run realisticly. All weapons and grenades feel good. 
  
  If you're done with camaign, you can jump right into online. Gametypes like Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, 
 Capture the Flag, and Headquarters are available. 90% of all existing lag before is now gone, have 
 fun with the furious firefights and intense gunplay with sniper spots, mounted machine gun placements, 
 ambushes, etc. Maps in multiplayer are great, maps range from wide-open French farmland and countrysides 
 to war-torn beaten-up cities. 
  
  The only downside to campaign and online is: You can't drive any vehicles, you can't call in air 
 strikes, there's no knife.
  
  Otherwise, this is a fantastic game, and can be without-a-doubt recommended to any WWII fan or 
 any shooter genre fan overall! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nuttabutta
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 10, 2006 5:24 pm PT
Review:  This was the first game I played on my 360 when I recieved it a few weeks ago. Let me tell you, 
 it was one awesome impression. The gameplay in this game is pretty simplistic, for the most part. 
 The controls are intuitive (really love the fact that the bumper buttons throw grenades :D) and 
 are easy to pick up. There's a variety of guns, and though there are very few different weapon 
 classes (only rifles, submachine guns, pistols, and a rocket launchers) there'll be enough to satisfy 
 you. It's pretty easy to aim the guns, but at the same they give a realistic impression, since 
 your handsare always shaking a bit and you aim through an actual sight. The AI in this game is 
 amazing. They run away from grenades, duck for cover, butt you with their rifle in close range, 
 and many other things. The graphics are incredible. From the lush and detailed environments to 
 the heavy breathing of your comrades, you'll be transfixed by the amount of graphical detail in 
 this game. There's a few blemishes and odd glitches, but overall it's very easy on the eyes. The 
 sound is the highlight of this game. The commands being yelled, sounds of grenades exploding, and 
 the distant sound of a submachine gun being fired make for an intense experience. Absolutely flawless 
 audio quality. The value of this game is probably the only big weakpoint. There's only about 10-12 
 hours of gameplay on your first playthrough, and going back to play it on veteran to get gamerscore 
 points is the only real motivation for playing through again. The multiplayer is pretty limited. 
 Offline, there are no bots or anything artificial to play against, but there's a huge variety of 
 maps. Online, a limit of only eight players per match is a tad low for the next generation, in 
 my opinion. Despite this, it's by far the best 360 launch game and is an exciting, just fun experience 
 that will take a while to forget. If you're looking for an awesome WWII gunplay experience COD 
 2 will suit your need. For a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zenwork21
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 8, 2006 8:54 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is a very good game at the "Soldier" level but it is much better if you play it 
 as "Veteran" 
  Germans "AI", is really good and they are very aggressive. 
  If you stay still just waiting for your team to kill them all, they would come from a side street 
 to kill you, so pay attention and be very quick to face them. The big issue with this game was 
 the on line experience, not very good with a big lag issue.
  Those problems have been fixed with the recent patch and now you are able to invite yours pal to 
 play with you.
  To conclude this is a top of the range game and if you like the first person shooter you can't 
 miss this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mr-sheep
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 8, 2006 6:04 am PT
Review:  Ah yes, Call of Duty.... IMHO the CoD series is the most action packed WWII shooter you can buy 
 on the market. Its so fun but, at the same time they keep a good realism of the battlefield when 
 you play the game.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  Not the best graphics on the 360 but, its quite good considering the fact that the framrate is 
 really good. Things look really shiny :P
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  You will start breaking a sweat even in just the training mission. All the levels are action packed 
 with nazis to shoot everywhere. The screen can get full of allies at most times which means you'll 
 never feel lonely again :P
  
  OVERALL:
  This is a great shooter to own if you have a 360. By far, this is the best shooter you can get 
 for the 360. Get this is you love FPS's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boomer2uall
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 7, 2006 11:36 pm PT
Review:  This game is great! Not to mention the game play and A. I. This game will surely challenge you so 
 you can get all the fun possible. The design of the levels are beautiful and the graphics are stunning. 
 Finally, it has amazing realistic game play to knock you off the couch!
  
  I recommend this game to every FPS fan, everyone should have this game in their collection. 
 
  
  The game was released with bad multi-player. Now the problem wasn't about it being boring, but 
 it was real laggy and had major connection issues online. Well now you don't have to worry because 
 Infinity Ward has fixed this problem and everything is fine! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: STB4LIFE
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 6, 2006 10:05 pm PT
Review:   breathe taking are just a few words that I can use to explain Call 
 Of Duty 2. This Game is good for all ages. I thought the graphics in this game were fantastic. 
 The learning curve doesnt take that long. This game will keep you mezmorized. My favorite shooter 
 game ever. Online play on this game is way better than G. R. A. W. Their are several diffrent types 
 of games to play online from: capture the flag, deathmatch, team deathmatch, headquarters and many 
 many more. I love this game i play it day and night and so will you. So you dont get tired of the 
 levels the company who made it is making new maps for online play 9 new maps to be exact. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bowchickabowow
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 6, 2006 2:50 pm PT
Review:  have you people seen saving private ryan?
  well think of that as a video game and you get COD2
  this game is probably one of THE MOST hektic 
 games ive ever played.
  i mean its insane.
  theres people shooting from all sides.
  tanks blowing everything up.
  airplanes dropping bombs.
  its one of those games.. where you 
 wont know what to expect next.
  its pretty amazing actually.
  the gameplay is for sure the best part of this game.
  i mean its unlike anything else.
  you 
 will feeel like a soldier..
  you wont want your partners to die.
  you feel like you have to protect them.
  its just amazing it puts you in the combat unlike ANY 
 other game.
  the graphics are good but no graw or pdz.
  theyre good tho..
  better than the pc for sure.
  well unless you have a 1940238502 dollar video card then yes i 
 could stand corrected
  so dont send me hatemail
  the game is better than the pc version in my opinion
  i mean the frame rate isnt choppy.
  not 
 all laggy.
  wont take an hr to install.
  its just easier.
  PC to CONSOLE ports are becoming better and better.
  the online is very fun and addicting.
 
  the only downer is that its 4v4
  but other than that.
  its great.
  i recommend this game a WHOLE lot.
  lots of replay value.
  long single player.
  its amazing
 
  just trust me on that one.
  great game.
  check it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheTruth2500XL
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 6, 2006 7:20 am PT
Review:  This is a great WW 2 shooter. One of my top 5 favorites. It has great graphics but sometimes look 
 a little outdated for some reason, maybe it's just me, or maybe I need a HDTV, idk... but anyway 
 this game is great. The best part of the graphics are the detailed faces and animation. Also the 
 scenery is amazing artisticly and graphically pretty good, but not always. Very intense game, alot 
 of bullets whizzing everywhere. Great sound, the score is great and the sound of the guns are very 
 well done, as well as the voice acting. One thing I really hated was the online. It's just really 
 boring, reminds me exactly of Day of Defeat, but DoD is so much better. The game is kind of short 
 depending on what difficulty you play one. The hardest will take a while. This game is probably 
 just worth the rent or maybe a buy if you want to have a good WW 2 shooter to have until another 
 one comes out for 360. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kkrokotillianis
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 5, 2006 9:20 pm PT
Review:  ... And with good reason. 
  
  This game latches on to your genitals like a bear trap, and never lets go until you finally, at 
 last, defeat that one last plucky little Nazi. Every inch of this game is beautiful. The graphics 
 are crisp, and the weapons are nicely tuned to force you to never depend on one single gun. Every 
 weapon has a different use. The rifle is your basic long-range smasher, and can kill in one (or 
 two) hits. The other weapon that will fill your two (a la Halo) -weapon inventory is an automatic 
 like the Thompson. 
  
  The levels are pure brilliance. From riding a... requisitioned... german armored car through a 
 doomed north african town, or assaulting Stalingrad (again) , these worlds created for you to do 
 battle in are filled with alternative routes, buffing the replay value a bit. 
  
  And you WILL want to play it again. The game is filled with memorable moments, the most memorable 
 of which are usually the campaign's final missions, which usually pit you and what's left of your 
 comrades deffending a strategically crucial town/house/wine barrel from a enormous enemy attack 
 or counter-attack (the downside of which is the predictability of these endgames) . These set-pieces 
 feature immense battles: In the first of which, where you defend a small, Britain-held town from 
 about 700 oncoming german soldiers while reenacting Punisher: Born. At your disposal? Artillery, 
 88 mm Flak Cannons, and enough machine guns to make Rambo proud. Let the relentless slaughter begin! 
 
  
  But every game is flawed, and this is no exception. This game is cliche'd in every way possible. 
 It seems to be a hodge-podge of Saving Private Ryan, mixed with Guns of Navarone and a sprinkle 
 (Okay, a bottle) of Enemy at The Gates, but with more explosions and russians. And the blatant 
 similarities to previous Call of Duty games (and every other WWII FPS as well, for that matter) 
 don't help, either.
  
  But what is there is golden. And, rare for a game of this genre, the multiplayer is also stellar. 
 
  
  If you only buy ONE World-War II game this year, make it this one! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PaladinJoo
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 4, 2006 7:41 pm PT
Review:  I remember that the first time I stepped onto the simulated beaches of Normandy on the excellent 
 MOH: Frontline, the thing that that game captured so well was the FEELING of chaos and intensity 
 of war, and though the realism was highly abbreviated, one could just feel like they were part 
 of a much larger thing taking place. Since that games release, I have burned through many a WWII 
 game without ever experiencing that same thrill I got when playing Frontline. I have been misfortunate 
 that I have not been able to play any PC games of this nature, but was eccstatic to hear that a 
 true port of one of those games was coming to consoles. Call of Duty 2 is, for lack of a better 
 word, extraordinary. It captures the essence of going to war, melds it with excellent gameplay, 
 and stunning visuals with easy playability. The game responds like one would expect it to, and 
 besides the HUD and other Gameplay prompts and tools, does a great job of sucking one into the 
 game with a good gameplay experience that challenges, but never frustrates because of cheapness 
 or outright sadisticness from developers. You'll sooner find yourself saying upon dyin "I should 
 have gotten behind that cover," rather than the far too often in other games "this part is so F*CKING 
 IMPOSSIBLE, I hate this game." And in that is Call of Duty 2's main hint to realism, in that one 
 will always blame their own skills rather than a cheap developer's level. A good game has the hallmarks 
 of COD 2, and every minute of this FPS will have you waiting for the next mission to begin, not 
 hoping that the current one will end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xoverkillx
Rating: 9
Date: May 3, 2006 6:03 pm PT
Review:  COD2 is probably my favorite WW2 game to date It is just a way awesome game. I would recommend 
 this game to anyone. Now that there are the 9 new maps coming out soon then it will be even better. 
 COD2 is just fun if you and your friends want to come over and play some fun multiplayer. It is 
 a blast it is for sure in the top 5 XBL games to date now. I would reccomend that you buy this 
 game if you have Xbox live and some friends to come play with. I would rent it if you dont have 
 Xbox LIve and if you just want to play campaign. The campaign in this game is short but its really 
 interesting and fun. All in all this is a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darth-revan
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 3, 2006 2:32 pm PT
Review:  Look lets not beat around the bush here, call of duty 2 for the xbox 360 just about kills all the 
 other launch titles in many catagories. 
  first, its action is amazingly fast paced and brutal. i felt physicly exhausted after playing 3 
 levels in-game. the single player missions are nearly perfect in every respect and accidently made 
 me care for some charicters i was fighting with, ther was one who was with me the entire mission 
 and i restarted to my last checkpoint just to be able to try and protect him from being shot in 
 the head. his name was pvt. phillip and i failed in the long run to try and save him. it made me 
 think a bit, hes probably some kid who got sent to war and has a family behind him who will sorely 
 miss this dead shot in the head soldier. moments like this is what call of duty has going for it 
 throughout the single player missions, the voice-acting is executed perfectly, the graphics and 
 detail is phenomenal without using too much shine ( a major problem with most "next-gen" games) , 
 that and its combat is really fast paced and when you hugging to that last clip of ammo you took 
 off that germans corpse and they just chucked a gernade at you while cover fire is pinning you 
 down and your friends just got torn down by mchine gun fire and rifles are aimed at you. surprisingly 
 you cn get out of these situations if you think them through. now for the parts where i can rip 
 this game apart, multiplayer is bad and a bit un balanced, the nly 8 player deathmatch really doesnt 
 help the game very much, that and the single player campaign is short clocking in only 10 hours 
 long and leaving you hungering for more action. luckily the a. i. is so good you will go back and 
 play missions over again. also the controls are very tight and good but it takes some getting used 
 to and the tank battles are very clunky and uncawardinated. all in all call of duty 2 is a very 
 great package that is a must play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcash012194
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 1, 2006 12:52 pm PT
Review:  Just play it...... then play it again..... then again..... then hit multiplayer. Best money spent. 
 100 words?? wow...... words fail me now. It's suprisingly easy to get into and epic in it's delivery. 
 Multiplayer frame rate is amazingly smooth. Get's choppy in single player but not so bad as to 
 be a complete problem. Achievements are hard to get because when you up the difficulty it really 
 starts to kick your a#$. 
  
  oH OK.... So the push and the pull of this game is realistic. You are constantly switching between 
 offence and defence. The game will punish you if you do not take opportunities to advance the line 
 and gain ground. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheVinster
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 30, 2006 7:37 pm PT
Review:  I have the original Call of Duty for the PC, and I must say that Call of Duty 2 is a great follow-up 
 to the first's ambitious ideas.
  
  Gameplay: Gameplay is fun, easy, and addictive. You can learn the basics within 5 minutes of picking 
 up the controller, 2 minutes even if you've played Halo 2 or any recent shooter (they basically 
 use all the same controls) . Shooting Germans (no offense) , never gets old. Enemies hide well, attack 
 intelligently, and just overall make you feel like you're in the war. I like the new "no health" 
 feature, which is basically you have no health gauge and the redness surrounding your screen will 
 appear if you need to hide from anything that can damage you for about 5 seconds to recover. The 
 gameplay is just overall fun, and ambitious, and just feels like a clean, solid, World War II game 
 that should be memorized. The down-side (albeit small) , is that it feels just a bit TOO much like 
 the 1st one, so on some levels it feels like a surprisingly well-done expansion to the first, but 
 it's not. Basically, if you loved the the original Call of Duty's gameplay, you'll love this ones. 
 Multiplayer is "backseat" to the campaign though, but offers addictive deathmatch, team deathmatch, 
 capture the flag, among other match types. All the weapons are very well constructed and so is 
 how the campaign follows (you first get to be Russian, then British, then American) .
  
  Graphics: They look amazing, such as the snow, facial features, environments, weapons, etc., but 
 they don't look superb. I have a feeling the graphics could have been better but I'm not complaining, 
 this game has solid graphics with no lagging (none that I've seen yet) .
  
  Sound: Sound is superb, I must say. It just makes you totally feel immersed in World War II. You 
 can hear bombs crashing, gun-fire, planes darting through the sky, the weapons each have a unique 
 and rewarding sound, Germans and even your allys yelling. The only dissapointing thing I found 
 is if you're Russian, your allys don't speak in Russian, only Russian accent; although this is 
 not a big sound issue I think it derives a bit away from HOW immersive and encapturing this game 
 really is.
  
  Value: This game is engrossing, addictive, and just plain fun. Campaign offers minimal hours of 
 fun but it's very excellent fun that'll have you coming back to play on Veteran (the hardest difficulty) 
 just to get those last few achievements. Multiplayer will span you much more hours of fun after 
 the campaign is done.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: I love Call of Duty and just HOW much this game sets itself apart from crappy 
 WWII video games, this game captures the true essence of war and WWII and you just feel like a 
 soldier trying to get by on what you have and what you can do in the war.
  
  Pick this game up, if you're unsure, then rent it first. It's basically worth the $60 although 
 maybe it should be $50. If you don't have Xbox Live, don't bother picking up the game since first 
 of all if you don't have Xbox Live, then you really need to save up your cash. Secondly, if you 
 don't have Xbox Live, the campaign will only hold your attention for 10 or so hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: atmk
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 30, 2006 11:52 am PT
Review:  This game is awesome most people including me were getting sick of WWII games but this was just 
 amazing.
  
  1. Graphics: The graphics are real good not the greatest but the people look real not plastic or 
 just moving dolls.
  
  2. Gameplay: Gret immersive gameplay is great this game actually makes you think your in WWII.
 
  
  3. Sound: sound is great nomatter what sound system you have but on 5.1 it is amazingly immersive 
 sound makes this game top notch.
  
  4. Difficulty: Except on easy this game is hard it has for difficulties easy: easy normal: hard hardened: extremely 
 frustrating veteran: pull hair out smash controler on ground stab your eyes out hard.
  
  5. Singleplayer: The best singleplayer game I have played since halo 2.
  
  6. Multiplayer: Good 
 multiplayer has a good amount of options real fun.
  
  7. Fun factor: Real fun game not for those who get mad at games easy.
  
  Overall this definatly 
 a game to get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seebeeman
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 29, 2006 5:14 pm PT
Review:  This game is by far the best in the series of call of duty. It has everything from pistols to rifles 
 to sub machine guns and even turrets. If u like war games than this is the game for u. If u r angry 
 take ur anger out on the Nazis and/or Germans. Trust my judgement i bought this game for one reason 
 it that reason is to KILL NAZIS. This is the best war game. If u want gun action this is the game 
 for u. If u r under 12 don't buy this game cause it is rated T. Buy this game now cause we r going 
 to WAR!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grant_Guy
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 29, 2006 12:11 pm PT
Review:  When i got call of duty 2 i had a lot of fun with playing the single player and then i decided 
 to take the game online so i did and it reminded me of playing cs but WWII style it was a lot of 
 fun but the lag sucked then a couple of months later Infinity Ward comes out with a patch and damn 
 the game online is totally diffrent. The sound in this game just makes you go wow. The graphics 
 aren't that great but still are solid throughout the whole game. If you like WWII games BUY THIS 
 GAME if you like FPS games BUY THIS GAME if you really don't like the genere just rent the game 
 to see if you like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Splayatino
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 29, 2006 8:53 am PT
Review:  One of the most intense FPS's you'll ever experince!!! Lets's face it the WWII FPS genre is overly 
 saturated by way to many games. But that doesnt mean you should pass this one up. Its got the best 
 elements from Halo (fully recharging health & great aiming) and adds much more by way of ferocius 
 A. I. To to this game justice you have to play it on Veteran difficulty. 3 or 4 shots and your dead. 
 Thank god for those check points or it would be impossible. Beating Veteran mode is one of the 
 most stressful situations EVER. You feal like a real soldiers out there, and it forces you to make 
 stragies in order to flank enemies. The smoke grenades can be your best friend! its got pretty 
 good multiplayer they finally fixed the lag issues. But the one aspect this game is missing is 
 COOP this game would be a perfect 10 if only it had a COOP mode i cant even begin to imagine how 
 good it would be. Other deveoper should looks at this game sound technonolgy and take note, it 
 can be used a strong gameplay element. I cant stop play the single play campaign & I've had it 
 since launch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gothcheese4444
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 29, 2006 8:11 am PT
Review:  I am a huge fan of the Call Of Duty series and I love the brothers in arms games, but no brothers 
 in arms game can ever be as goodm as call of duty 2. Everyone knows that there's more than 2 call 
 of duty games so I don't know why it's called call of duty 2, but that's besides the point. The 
 call of duty games always had pretty good sound and graphics, but had AI that could be better. 
 Thanks to the x box 260 hardrive and system the AI is great. Gamespot says that the pc version 
 is just as good but i've played both and the x box 360 version is much better. Because it's graphics, 
 AI, sound, and the fact that it's better than the pc call of duty 2, I give a 9.9 out of ten. (SCORE 
 5 for call of  
::::::

::::::
UserName: makron78
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 28, 2006 2:59 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 as you know is another WWII FPS. But what sets it apart from other WWII shooters 
 is it's gameplay. It's not just simple run'n'gun it has some strategy elements. Like if you are being 
 shot at by snipers do you throw smoke grenades or do you return fire or do you run and hide. It's 
 single player campaign will keep you busy for about ten hours. It's multiplayer is really fun sure 
 you get a laggy game every now and then but when you don't it runs real smooth. The sound is top 
 notch guns sound real your buddys sound real. The bottom line is this game is a solid WWII game 
 with fun multiplayer and a good solo campaign. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ElitesIgnorance
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 27, 2006 7:26 pm PT
Review:  This game will make you cry, this game may make you fry, but this game will make it dry. If you 
 love War World II games, I highly suggest you to pick this baby up and play it right away, but 
 if you hate games that often won't get you hyped, you may not like it. Unfornately, this game really 
 didn't make up to a great campaign, but great online experience for Xbox Live Gold.
  
  Graphics are just like shooting a frying pan and letting it sit on a hot day on pavement. The smoke 
 effects are great, and this heating you see in the desert levels are just new to see in a video 
 game. Though, sometimes the graphics might get a little old and stale. 
  
  The gameplay is just a little flaw in the game. When you kill people, they don't die realistic, 
 almost like rag dolls if you ask me. The weapons are really off balance, and online play is sometimes 
 just a game of who shoots first wins. I wished that the teams were even with guns because the Germans 
 will have some cheap weapons with their fleets of online players. I seen the update for the game, 
 but it gotten worse and after that, I just sold the game for Oblivion. 9.6/10.
  
  The sound is just bombing supberb. The explosions are great, and the voice acting is just chilling 
 to your knees great. This is a strong point in the game, and maybe the best.
  
  The story can bore you. Really, you start out as a Russian soldier, and then British, but really, 
 I can give a hoot about them. Americans will be the last stage, and was the best part of the game. 
 When you play D-Day, that is just simply amazing and will adore you.
  
  Whatever you do, rent this game. If you enjoy the great experience, you might want to buy it, but 
 if you don't, don't even waste your money because this game might really bore you after the second 
 week. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrazedColombian
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 27, 2006 7:17 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is better than the pc version .
  Call of Duty 2 is one of the xbox 360 launch titles and it is probably the hands down best launch 
 title and probably the best game to come out for the xbox 360 except for Oblivion.
  
  Usually when pc games are ported to consoles it turns out to be a bad move on the developers side. I 
 am glad to say that the xbox 360 version is just as good and maybe better. The xbox 360 version 
 has better frame rate than the pc version, even when you compare the pc frame rate on high end pc. The 
 xbox 360 also adds some grisper graphics, but the only thing the xbox 360 version lacks in is the 
 multiplayer. In the multiplayer on the pc version you could have 16 players and on the xbox 360 
 version on live you can only have 8 players but if you can get past the shortened multiplayer than 
 you will see a better game in the xbox 360 version.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tundraman
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 27, 2006 5:24 pm PT
Review:  This was my first game for Xbox 360 and all I can say is simply stunning!
  For one think this game has a good amount of levles. Like 27 the last time I think and all of them 
 are a blast. The people of Infinity ward realy got the Realisum and intensity of combat in world 
 war two, Infact it is probably one of the most intense I have played. How the developers got the 
 feeling of being a russian soldier or a british tank driver or a brittish soldier or an american 
 corpral. The levles have amazing variety from flanking and taking cover to getting on the enemy 
 88 wich I thought was a real awsome feature.
  Enemy AI is smart and agressive. Enemys dont just sit around. They flank move charge and do mele 
 atacks. I have never played a world war II game were the germans talk so much. Its like being there. 
 Every time I play this game my palms are swetting and im on the edge of my seat with my teeth chattering. 
 Your commrads voices are all different and there is rarly and I mean rarely a reapeted frase. There 
 are a buttload of weapons in the game and a ton of different weapons in every levle and all sound 
 super acurate. The way your helth works in the game is extreemaly unique and one of the best ideas 
 in my opinion and is just flat out cool. As for difficulty there are 4 difficultys and none of 
 them affect the realisum. the veterian is extreemaly hard but worth it when you beat a levle in 
 veterain. I realy Love the checkpoint systum wich you get a checkpoint after every compleated objective 
 or objective part wich is awsome because if you get tired you can pause select save and Quit and 
 you can turn your 360 off and when you get back just select resume game and you can continue from 
 that check point. One amazing and i Mean amazing think about Call of duty 2 is the smoke and smoke 
 grenades. I feel like coffing after seeing all the smoke it looks so good. Now the only problem 
 I had with this game is that like all FPS walking down a ladder is a pain in the A**. On the levle 
 caled "the silo" you are actualy on top of I silo and you have to walk down the ladder at the end 
 and if you dont do it just rite you will fall and die wich sucks but its not that bad. Over all 
 this game is One of the best I have played and I am excited for other games on the 360s horizon. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BFGbearer
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 27, 2006 5:30 pm PT
Review:  This sequel to the great call of duty game might even be better than the original. Only a few problems 
 with graphics and the length of the game. AI's are awesome, but this makes the game very easy. 
 The D-Day level is quite possibly the greatest make of that section of WWII. Medal of Honor is 
 nothing compared to this masterpiece. Some graphic errors occur when smoke bombs are thrown. Other 
 than that, the recoil of the guns, the grenade explosion, and the tanks look very convincing. I 
 give this game an A because I play it every day, even though it gets a little repetitive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soulreaper187
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 27, 2006 10:14 am PT
Review:  The first time I played call of duty 2 was on a demo before
  the the launch of the system. When I saw the graphics for
  the first time I said to my self Sony 
 you got your self some
  competition then when I finally got my system call of duty 2
  was amoung the first games I picked up. as games go
  it was easy to learn how to controll your 
 charater and the
  different options to use. It took me about 2 days to beat
  the game on the easy setting and about 3 days on the
  standard setting but when I sat down for 
 veteren let
  me tell you the game does not lie when it says-
  YOU WILL DIE, boy did I ever it took me about a week-7days
  to finilly beat the game on veteren. 
 If your the type of person
  that likes first person shooters then this is a must have
  I've already metioned the graphics so lets talk sound
  quility, this game's got that too. the 
 sound efects are very
  reallistic and even more so if you pipe it threw your home
  theater system my hole family thought I was watching a war
  movie, thats just how reallistic 
 the sound quility is also
  if your a bit of a history buff the game gives you small clips
  from back in the 40's now i'm not much on war history but
  I found it interesting and it added 
 to the overall experience
  to the game. The care to historical detail for the places and
  missions is first rate and sets a high bench mark for
  any other war game to live up to. Over 
 all I say this game
  can be played by everyone from a fist timer of this type of
  game to the hard core gamer 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sk8er4life24724
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 25, 2006 1:27 pm PT
Review:  I REALLY REALLY LIKE THIS GAME I MEAN WHO DOESNT ITS GOT GREAT GAMEPlay, perfect graphics and sound. 
 although sumtimes there will b SUM graphic glitches like a dead body floating but its usually a 
 rare event and the amazing graphics in it make up 4 it so i give graphics a 10.
  
  sound- wow when i sit and play this game thats 1 of the things i notice the most i mean bombs blowing 
 up and ppl on ur side yelling makes it sound so realistic great job makers of the game.
  
  gameplay- i really really like the gameplay but the only problem is its just about the same gameplay 
 through the whole game u run and gun and throw grenades and plant bombs and drive in a tank ( not 
 often) which to me isnt really unique so i give it a 7
  
  muitiplayer is amazing especially online play although it reminds me of halo in a different twist 
 online but thats no problem we all love halo 2 online... the 1 muitiplayer letdown is no co-op 
 this really let ,me down but what can i say call of duty 2 is definately a great game u should 
 buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaDeYe66
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 25, 2006 11:26 am PT
Review:  When I first bought my 360 I was a little hesitant to pick this game up because of it's predecessors. 
 I have always loved the Call of Duty series but I would normally wait till they dropped in price 
 before I got them. I am glad I didn't wait this time.
  
  This game on this system is absolutely amazing!!!
  
  From the get go I was amazed at the graphics 
 and sound in this game. One of my most memorable moments was when I shot an enemy soldier and walked 
 by him only to have him shoot at me from the ground after pulling out his sidearm. I thought he 
 was dead!!! Another time I was on a rooftop with a sniper rifle and I shot an enemy across the 
 way. Initially I was amazed because his helmet actually flew off when I shot him. Imagine my surprise 
 when he popped back up with no helmet to shoot back at me.
  
  I haven't had this much fun with a FPS in a long, long time. If you own a 360 then you need to 
 get this game even if you are not a big fan of FPS'. If you are a FPS gamer then you already know 
 what I am talking about 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeanX2 -- 3
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 25, 2006 4:56 pm PT
Review:  i gave the gameplay a ten 4 how they shoot it almost looks real i swear it does so i gave it a 
 10/10. the garphic look like real people so i gave it 10/10 also. the sound whoooooo im not even 
 gonna talk bout that the people talk to you and tell you what to do isnt that cool. the value is 
 good too if i was working in microsoft id also selll for 59.99$. so u game see that this game is 
 perfect
  i gave it a 10/10 thw whole game was fantastic get it its worth buying
  u get to german or british or americain or russian is that cool it what u can use the mp44 the 
 snipers and stuff
  
  
  
  gameplay-10/10
  graphics-10/10
  sound-10/10
  value-10/10
  reviewers tilt-10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryanstoy91
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 24, 2006 5:21 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is a game that can put alot of action and drama in World War II. It's very fun to 
 play the story mode, since there's a variety of missions to play in and is exciting to play each 
 story. The only problem is that each campaign has an unexpected ending when you think you're getting 
 more. The multiplayer is great as well, but there isn't a variety of levels to play in, and it 
 should be able to hold sixteen players. Besides that, the graphics are great, using the 360's new 
 graphics to a great extent. The sound and music are as well great, bringing a realistic side to 
 the war. You'll be plaing this game for a long time so I suggest anyone who enjoys a good shooter 
 and a great multiplayer to buy this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Torakami9933
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 24, 2006 4:09 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the most realistic WWII games that has ever reached the consols. Excellent 
 graphics, and great weapons. But, what makes the game REALLY great to me, is KILLING NAZI'S!! Yes! 
 Basically the story line is not so strong, its almost the same objectives and characters in different 
 maps... All you do is shoot the Nazi's, protect your Allies.... yes its cool at first, but it gets 
 boring after a while. Any WWII buff should definately get this game, though. It has the basic WWII 
 shooter requirements; Get antique guns, shoot Nazi's, and capture enemy territory... but, like most 
 WWII games out there, it lacks MANY things. Fighting the Japs would've helped out the story line, 
 and it would've been much more entertaining if we could've played as the Axis as well. I rank this 
 game among my favorites. If you like this game, i highly reccomend the game Day Of Defeat; Source 
 for PC. But if you would spend $50 on a shooting game, i would recomend this one. Every time you 
 die, win, or screw up, quotes from famous war heroes and leaders, which are so mesmerizing, that 
 it draws you closer into the gaming experience. Now I will explain what I have learned in the game 
 
  
  The best rifles in the game are;
  
  M1 Garand (you might have to kill an ally to get it... oh well bye bye AI...)
  K98 (It's in big 
 supply, since almost every Kraut carried one)
  MP44 (both MP's are awsome, but 1 of them is very bountiful, i reccomend that u drop the Thompson 
 for it, since Ammo is plentiful for it. I forget which one... :p)
  And finally the '03 Springfield Sniper Rifle, and the K98 Sniper Rifle
  (VERY RARE, but KICKS 
 TOTAL ASS)
  On any level, NEVER give up your sniper unless it has run out of ammo. 
  If you ever get onto an MG, STAY ON IT for a while, those mutha's have unlimited ammo in them, 
 and kick major Kraut ass.
  If you need a rifle, ALWAYS take the K98, I have found that it is highly acurate, and very highly 
 powered. The MP44 is best when climbing through the trenches, so in the US campaign in Normandy, 
 drop your Thompson for one, and keep a rifle as your other weapon (comes in handy when you see 
 Krauts running in an open field later on)
  Oh, and when you see a sigh that says "MINEFIELD" with a skill and crossbones, STAY THE HELL AWAY 
 from that place, only walk where you allies walk, because it spells D-E-A-T-H...
  Overall, buy the game, IT RULES!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: burninghawk
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 25, 2006 7:12 pm PT
Review:  I knew that the second Call of Duty would be a great game after seeing the amazement in the first 
 one. But i really was in for a surprise. Call of Duty 2 is the best WW2 game i have ever played.
 
  
  Most WW2 games are mediocare and don't capture the feel and intensity of how cruel the war was. 
 Call of Duty 2 did the best job possibly of making a game that would literally put you in the shoes 
 of a normal soldier. It's good that they finally balanced the soldiers health. You're not some 
 superhero who can run into a room full of 10 enemies and kill them with ease. You are a normal 
 soldier who is the match of any soldier on the battlefield. It's a challenging experience for any 
 shooter fan. I also liked it how every time you die, a war quote comes up which really make you 
 sympathetic for the war.
  
  The gameplay is great, not only for how fun the game is, but the level design is very well done 
 as well as the replayability which is hard to get tired of. The multiplayer is also pretty fun. 
 It's pretty much a blend of counterstrike: source and Medal of Honor.
  
  The graphics are crisp and detailed in every respect. the clothing material on the soldiers to 
 the useless furniture in the homes of residents is detailed to give you some sweet gaming eye candy! 
 They are a very nice start to the 360, and had great effort lunged into them.
  
  The sound effects sound like they were taken from the best WW2 movie ever, as well as the voice 
 acting and explosions. But it was like Half Life in this case, there was not enough music. But 
 they still remain extravagant.
  
  So any 360 owner would be doing themselves a favor if they were buying this game. Anyone planning 
 on getting a 360 should get this with it first. It is a challenging, yet very fun experience.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: o_sausage
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 29, 2006 4:03 am PT
Review:  OH COD2 i bought you before 360 launched waited weeks to play you and even longer to play you on 
 live. You were stolen along with my 360 so i bought you and my 360 back. Was it all worth it HELL 
 YES!!!
  
  Besides GRAW and Battlefield 2 this is the ONLY shooting game that is worth the $60 you pay and 
 deserves high scores.
  
  After pplaying almost every COD game out i can honestly say this is the best out on any console 
 or PC.
  
  The gameplay is smooth and immersive almost to the point where you feel yourself get shot right 
 through the head every time you die. Online is incredible and top notch for 360.
  
  This is one of the three games all shooter fans must buy WWII isn't dead and never will be thanks 
 to the series that near perfection amaze me. COD deserves the score and belive me when i say it 
 a 9.9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: contaminated
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 23, 2006 1:43 pm PT
Review:  The single player game is very fun and has a great feel to it that makes it stand out in shooter. 
 This has got to do with the fact that the A. I. although scripted for the most part passes out as 
 non scripted for those with a blind eye. You really feel like a average person doing the extraordinary 
 for your country. The game is very fun in the normal setting and although diffucult it is much 
 more rewarding and fun in the Veteran setting as well as the Hard I prefer Veteran however. The 
 sound is real impressive with German chatter yelling at the top of their lungs and German Stukas 
 flying above this games presentation is top notch and is even more amusing when played with the 
 volume all the way up. The graphics are very impressive although the lack of hit detection is quite 
 an eye sore at times. Multiplayer is very fun and worth playing although the ranking system seems 
 to be broken it is still fun and you won't really miss it. 13 maps in all the multiplayer rounds 
 up this package giving it replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Snipe_You_Out
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 23, 2006 11:49 am PT
Review:  This game has good gameplay but gets repetiative quite fast. The graphic are good but I have seen 
 way better on the 360. The music in this game is horriable. because its not new all the same. This 
 game WAS released unfinished I dont know why they would do that to us but they did. And once you 
 beat the game the urge to replay it is very low. This game is fun online but bores you quickly 
 because all people do is use the sniper rifle and that gets very boring. The AI is a challenge 
 but stupid non the less because they will stand in your way and wont move tell you to tAKE OUT 
 2 TANKS ALONE While they behind a corner. Ya just rent and get the points not worth the buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SHUTupNrocK8
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 30, 2006 8:37 pm PT
Review:  Okay, my worst subject in school is history .. I think its the most boring subject ever - And what 
 does me sucking in history have to do with this game? BECAUSE THIS GAME TURNS WW1 UPSIDE DOWN! 
 This game is AWESOME .. it's sound .. it's graphics .. it's realistic feel .. and everything about 
 this game! By realistic, I mean the sound of the wars and the battles. You have to avoid grenades 
 as you would in real war .. you feel it in your controller. It's like your in the game! For example, 
 close to the beginning of the game in Stalingrad - I went to a building to get ready for the germans 
 and the guy in the game said next to me .. "Wait.. wait.. wait get ready for the germans.. Wait.. wait.. HERE 
 THEY COME!" and theres like 100 germans running toward you screaming and you hear gun fire and 
 the historic music in the background .. Wow that part gave me chills. See what I mean .. Its like 
 your in the game, in WW1, going to war with the germans! The game is amazing and I love the feel 
 of this game like no other! Can't wait for Call of Duty 3 .. ha! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crashersmasher
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 5, 2007 6:12 pm PT
Review:  In call of duty 2 you take control of 3 characters spanning 3 different countries In WWII. The 
 graphics will actually sometimes make you fear for your life as men are being mowed down as you 
 frantically go for cover. It just looks real enough to give you this feeling and atmosphere. Also 
 just the intensity of the battles as mortar fire rains down on you or if your a sniper and you're 
 frantically firing away at troops trying to stop them getting in your building. Also the AI was 
 done extremely well. the enemy uses grenades and smoke grenades as if they really want to get in 
 there and kill you. Another thing I found was sometimes a shot enemy will actually try to crawl 
 away and sometimes they lie on the floor and shoot at you. (kind of like in saving private ryan) 
 just the scripted events alone will make your spine tingle but shooting at a german and their helmet 
 actually saving their lives for just a moment made me feel like a real soldier. Also the sound 
 is done perfectly as you fire away it just sounds right as it rumbles and explodes out of your 
 gun. just one more thing that made this game great was the fact that while you charged on a position 
 just all of your fellow soldiers and friends were being mowed down or killed by grenades just added 
 to the atnosphere. Another thing was that as I drew a bead on a german with a sniper rifle I just 
 felt sad knowing I held his life in my hands and thought as whether to let him go to his family 
 and live another day or kill him right there and try and forget about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CAR-MAKAZY
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 20, 2006 8:01 pm PT
Review:  This game captures all of the most exiting and saddest battles ever. I have waited so long for 
 a game that has the best looking D-Day replica. The games graphics are richly detailed and the voice 
 acting is one of the best in this game. When your in a firefight and you get shot all you have 
 to do is wait a ew second to refill your health, cant get any better than that right, WRONG. The 
 tank levels are one of the funnest levels in the game its like an arcade. The only bad thing is 
 that online can only hold 8 players but other than that its a very good game. All im trying to 
 say is if you like shooters and you always wanted to experience the best of the best battles you 
 just have to get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamesfreak4ever
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 20, 2006 6:19 pm PT
Review:  Play through 27 epic Single player missions spanning 3 campaigns.
  First campaign you are the Russians.
  The second you are the British.
  The third you are the 
 Americans.
  
  Single Player Mode:
  No many of you will say oh its not that hard and I have to agree, but that was until I tried the 
 veteran difficulty. Oh man that was hard and there is so much more happening in the game. The enemy 
 keeps re-spawning all the time and the keep coming at you. So you really have to fight youre way 
 thru the enemys and I have never depended on my team mates this much in my life. The AI of the 
 game is really outstanding, the enemy is using cover much more then any game I ever have played 
 before and they communicate with each other so the enemy know where you are. They even know what 
 weapons you have and they dont get fooled by youre smoke grenades. They can really understand 
 what you are doing and what you are up to. The graphics of the game is really good but it can get 
 better. The sound is excellent. The game play and story line is wary good. So if you like WWII 
 games you will not get disappointed.
  
  Multiplayer Mode:
  The multiplayer mode have a lot of potentials they just have to sort out a few thing first like 
 its lagging like hell sometimes. But other than that its a real joy to play.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: boarding4ever
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 19, 2006 9:41 am PT
Review:  this is the only 360 game to date that i have bought and i can safely say it was money well spent. 
 the achievment level is just right because beating the game on veteran will take you at least 12 
 hours if your good. the replay-ability is there and i have continued to play the campaign. the 
 sound is great especially with a surround sound system. everyone with a 360 should have this game. 
 i cannot wait for COD3 bring it soon infinity  the multiplayer 
 was okay though not as great as the campaign because you cant have huge WWII battles with only 
 8 people. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tikichris20
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 18, 2006 12:23 pm PT
Review:  I have never been a huge fan of war games in general. So when my local Gamestop recommended I picked 
 up COD2 with my 360 I was a little hesitant; those feelings went away shortly after popping the 
 disc in. First and foremost the thing that definitely blew me away was the sound. Keep in mind 
 I am just playing on a standard TV and I'd swear that it sounded like I was personally being shot 
 at. The sound is top-notch and feels very authentic. The look of the game is great, it really seems 
 they put a lot of effort into making this feel like a real experience. Another huge plus to this 
 game is the AI. Both the enemies as well as your allies execute perfectly. If you are holed up 
 somewhere the Germans are going to come looking for you, decide to hide behind something and your 
 going to get plenty of grenades thrown your way. Thankfully, your allies are just as smart and 
 have saved my butt on more than one occasion. There is a nice variation of levels and objectives 
 that keeps things fresh ( you will be fortunate, enough to drive a tank in a couple levels. ) Getting 
 to play as Russia, Britain and America also is keeps things nice and new. The few gripes I have 
 is that first the game feels too short, for the average gamer it will probably less than 10 hours 
 to finish. I really wish there would have just been more missions to do. Secondly, the standard 
 difficulty is WAY too easy. For a game that seems to stress staying with your allies for support, 
 I found if I ever got annoyed I could just run into the fire Rambo-style and kill everything, no 
 prob. On the other side if you set the difficulty to veteran you would swear Hitler himself was 
 on the front line. All in all, a short but very enjoyable single player experience.
  Multi-player was the true reason I bought this game. If you are looking for a game to just be able 
 to jump in and play at anytime, you have come to the right place. COD2 has one of the biggest gaming 
 communities, for the 360 right now. The lobbies are very easy to navigate and straight-forward. 
 You'll be fragging some kid from Montana in no time. The game offers typical deathmatch, team deathmatch, 
 capture the flag as well as an interesting game where both teams build and capture each others 
 bases. I spend the majority of my time just getting it on in the DM or team DM. It does get kind 
 old when 80% of the people like to snipe but thats pretty much the case in any FPS. The only other 
 real downpoint is the fact that you can only have 8 people fragging it up in one game at a time, 
 which can make some of the bigger levels feel a bit empty. Hopefully, this will be changed in the 
 future, I know I'm crossing my fingers. All in all, if your looking for a fast-paced FPS with some 
 good single and multiplayer action you can't go wrong with COD2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: furionpride
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 18, 2006 8:24 am PT
Review:  This is an exellent WW2 game. Heck, it's a great war game "period". One thing I noticed right away 
 was the buttery smooth framerate. It never chugged on me once, nor did it freeze. There is a large 
 array of weapons to pick up on the battlefield, and they're all so fun to shoot. Unlike most games, 
 where you just here a "Bang", here, you hear a "click, bang, shhhhew, boof, AAAAARRGGG!" lol... 
 My favorite level was D-Day, of course. If you have seen "Saving Private Ryan" than you will love 
 the beach landing. It is scripted to where you are knocked off your feet by an explosion, then 
 a medic comes and drags you out of fire. While he's dragging you, you see another medic get gunned 
 down by the many MG-42's that are pounding the dirt around you. COD2 gives you a sence of urgency, 
 unlike any other game that I have played. COD2 is deffinetly worth a purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 07pimp
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 17, 2006 11:00 am PT
Review:  From 3:00pm to 5:00pm every day is how long I played this. But i onlly rented it though.
  
  A fun overall shooting game. Not very tactical but very very fun.
  You can sit down and play 
 this game with your friends for a while. I play with my friends every weekend and I smoke them. 
 I haven't lost a game yet.
  
  A++ I don't know how much time they spent on this but its one of the best games I have played for 
 Xbox360.
  
  The graphics are good, but not as good as madden 06's. Check out my review of madden here: http://www. gamespot. com/xbox360/sports/maddennfl2006/player_review. html? id=299392 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AWalGamer
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 17, 2006 7:56 am PT
Review:  I am a WWII fanatic, and out of ALL the WWII games I have played, (I have played a lot of 'em) 
 this is probably the best. Now, I'm not sure about the original CoD, because I never played that 
 game, but this one is absolutely amazing. It captures the sense of being out in a battlefield surrounded 
 by hundreds of Nazi soldiers with huge MP44's ready to blast your ass off. For a launch title, 
 it utilises the capabilities of the Xbox 360 to its fullest. Playing this game is just fun. No 
 matter how long you have been playing this game, you will want to play more and continue cutting 
 down the Nazi War Machine. Most of the evens are not scripted, which means that each time you play 
 a level/battle is unique. Even playing on Veteran, the hardest difficulty (and it is difficult) 
 is fun even though you continuously get shot down by a damn Nazi sitting in a window with a Kar98 
 bolt action rifle. If you love Fps's and own an Xbox 360, get off your ass right now and run out 
 to pick this Holy Grail up and shoot some Nazis! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameCubeN24
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 16, 2006 7:15 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty has to be the most thrilling game ever made. The game has you playing all all the 
 forces that fought against the German forces in WW2. The game play is perfect and is so perfect, 
 you will often think you are fighting the Nazis yourself. The graphics are ok, but did not relay 
 shock me; but the gameplay and tilt make this go away. The sound is the stongest element to the 
 game. The sounds of war is aw inspiring and they will make you feel as if the war moved from the 
 360 to your room. This is easily one of the best FPS on the 360, if not, the best FPS ever made........ 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kazuma334
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 16, 2006 6:09 pm PT
Review:  A obvious stride for the 360 this game is (sorry for the Yoda talk lol) . This is the game that 
 actually makes you feel part of the war, unlike those sloppy other games where you are in a set 
 line through streets shooting apparently retarded Nazis. Enemy and friendly AI is good especially 
 on the harder modes, making it appropriately real. I actually had more fun on veteran mode then 
 the normal, but I consider myself a FPS vet, so don't take my word on that if you don't enjoy being 
 outsmarted by digital Nazis and dying in 2 or less hits lol. Which reminds me, graphics. Nice, 
 from the enviroments to the character models, and the sound sounds like what it should be, WW2 
 like (duh) . No lag or any type of slowdown online or offline, which I think was mainly due to the 
 patch for the multi-player. The only thing that I really had a problem with was the 8 player limit 
 online, which is by no means a deal breaker, and features some real competitive action between 
 players in the excellent maps. Did I take you out in that window (which I probably did. Can you 
 say... PWNED?!?) Well, this little nice thing on the multi-player called the kill-cam shows how 
 you were killed from your murderer's perspective, which can be quite useful to show where you don't 
 want to make the same mistake again. This is definitely worth it, and is one of those rare WW2 
 game masterpieces that really stands out of those cheap imitations that piss everyone off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: X_gamer_god_X
Rating: 6.9
Date: Apr 16, 2006 10:52 am PT
Review:  I for one am sick of WWII Games, they just get so repetative. THEY ARE ALL THE SAME AND I AM BORED 
 OF THEM!! This game just feels like any other WWII game. Shoot Germans, Plant Bombs And Get mad 
 about dying, thats just all you do. There are hardly any new weapons. The only thing That is slightly 
 better is the graphics. You do the same thing as the first call of duty. Shoot Germans, Plant Bombs 
 And Get mad about dying. The only good thing is the online play. So i wouldnt reccomend buying 
 this, rent it, it just isnt worth 60$ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ctiebel
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 15, 2006 4:01 pm PT
Review:  When I pre-ordered my 360 last summer, I also reserved some games as well. Call of Duty 2 was not 
 one of them. This was a big mistake. After playing Perfect Dark Zero and Madden I was a little 
 disappointed with my 360 experience. That was until I bought COD2. This is one of the most entertaining 
 game experiences I have had in many years. I was getting tired of every military game being set 
 in WWII, but this was somehow different. Not only did I play this on normal difficulty, but I also 
 went right back though it on veteran and still enjoyed every minute of it. I'm not even sure why. 
 The multiplayer aspect could be good, but it is very buggy, and the graphics and sound are good 
 but not great. Even the AI is a little repetitive, but I just couldn't put this game down. If you 
 have not played this game yet then you should immediately go and buy it, rent it or whatever. In 
 my opinion, this is one of the best games ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asou
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 15, 2006 4:26 am PT
Review:  Undoubtedly one of the greatest WW2 games released, really amazing graphics, the sound effects 
 and the speech from soldiers are excellent (Especially on the british missions) . The weapons sound 
 like you are holding it in your hands and if you play with a Dolby Digital 5.1 setup it will feel 
 like you are really there!
  
  Only worry is that the game could do with a few more missions as I don't feel the single player 
 mode had enough gametime. 
  
  The online play was good, but not great, will look to Battlefield II for some multiplayer action. 
 
  
  All in all an excellent game, not amazing value for money, but then again which xbox 360 games 
 are? Definately worth a look. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jasonfinger
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 14, 2006 6:47 am PT
Review:  ............... Let's first start off by saying do you have a HI-DEF tv? No matter what game your 
 playing you can't judge the x-box 360 graphics on a standard tv, come on now. So people that are 
 saying the graphics aren't the standard that they should be probaly don't have a Hi-DEF. Though 
 graphics are still better than the ps2 and x-box.
  
  This game is amazing! Easy to learn, fun, excellent graphics, and not to mention interesting missions. 
 You'll encounter the D-day invasion along with running up hill 400 getting massacred. The multiplayer 
 as of now has been updated so it runs a lot better. Setting up your own SPECIFIC matches involves 
 a little trick that you can find somewhere online. What else can I say. If you like 1st person 
 shooters, buy it first. Make sure you plug it in online to get the updates. (don't need to be on 
 x-box live to get the updates) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hurricane006
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 13, 2006 3:42 pm PT
Review:  Infinity Ward and Activision have given us a first rate shooter that should not be passed up by 
 Xbox or PC owners out there. First off the gameplay is amazingly good. I mean like there's bullets 
 flying everywhere, mortars, are going off, grenades are exploding, it's great fun. Secondly the 
 graphics are pretty amazing, the people look really real, the guns are nicely designed, and the 
 environment looks nice too. The only two things that stand out are if you look at a soldier through 
 the binoculors or through a scope, they don't look so good, and the explosions look ok. The sound 
 is amazing. Big MP44 have a real bite to them, the Thompson sounds amazing, the trench gun has 
 a big boom to it, and the rifles realy have a great crack to them. That said, the multiplayer is 
 fun with four people, but online it's really fun when you have eight guys playing at the same time, 
 yet online modes can get some significant lag sometimes ( maybe not so much now that they have the 
 patch.) Put all together and you get one of the best shooters I've ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ewave07
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 11, 2007 5:12 pm PT
Review:  What better way to launch off the XBOX 360 than with a beautiful yet deadly and addictive WWII 
 fps. The Call of Duty series struck it big with this instant classic sequel. One might ask, Medal 
 of Honor, what's that? 
  
  The graphics in this game are gorgeous. From the beautiful sunlit missions in Toujane to the wintry 
 Russian campaign, everything looks impressive. The weapons also look very well detailed. What's 
 cool is to see all the bullet holes left in the wall after a big battle. The sound in this game 
 is awesome too.
  
  I simply love the gameplay. The controls are very similar to Halo's control set, so it is fairly 
 smooth. The one player missions also offer a lot of variety: British, Russian, and American campains 
 are all available to you. Downside: The only downside in this game in my opinion dealt with the 
 single player...... the tank levels. Call of Duty 2 is much more fun when you're on foot fighting 
 your way through German occupied areas or protecting your own bases. Using the tanks is a good 
 idea at making the game more diverse, but they just weren't very fun and didn't seem to fit. With 
 all this in mind, I give Call of Duty 2 a 9.0 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xplayrox
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 13, 2006 12:59 pm PT
Review:  This was one of the first good 360 games until GRAW was released. It has great single player missons 
 and gives you the feel of the battle. You play as different countries as well. Such as the Brittish 
 or French and the Americans. The game is fun for single player only. Unless your playing online. 
 If you try to do co-op missions or co-op anthing, its not so good.
  
  I think what was a problem was how they made you health thing. If you are close to death, you must 
 take cover or die. It kind of works out fine because if it did not have it, you would die. I thought 
 that took away the realism. Yes I know this review sucks but hey, I put what I felt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hydrolite
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 12, 2006 7:38 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 will always bring about good feelings with me because it was the first shooter I 
 ever owned and played on the Xbox 360. It will not stay in mind only for this but for the great 
 gaming experience it has given me. You have moments of very intense warfare and even a few laughs 
 as you listen to some of your fellow combatants. As i do in all of my reviews i will list both 
 the good and the bad things.
  
  
  Good: As I have stated periously the core of this game is centered around the intense action of 
 warfare. Many times you will find yourself outgunned and outmanned and the bullets will start to 
 fly. At first you may shake in your boots but as the game goes on you will become a true war veteran 
 and will begin to get more comfortable in the line of fire. There are really two major upgrades 
 from the last game. First one you will probably notice is the new health system. You will not see 
 any health bars or any med kits. Instead of using med kits like in the last game you will have 
 to get cover and your health will recoup. The other big advancement is the fact that your squadmates 
 play a more central role in combat. They actually seem like they fight this time! Many times you 
 will find that a squadmate will take out that german you have been having your sites on. Sometimes 
 it gets annoying in a good way. Also the level design is very good.
  
  
  Bad: The worst thing is probably the fact that the much needed patch came out about 5 months to 
 late. It was so flusterating to get into a match and then it lags up so umbearably bad that you 
 just have to stop playing. For me its either stop playing or send my controller through the TV 
 screen lol. Really that is the only thing i don't like about this game.
  
  
  Soon this game will be enducted into the Xbox 360's platinum collection (if such a program will 
 be enacted) and it is has exceded the requirements for such an honor. This game has a lot of centimental 
 value to me and it will probably never be traded in. This game should be in every WWII and FPS 
 fans collection. Heres hoping CoD3 will be even better! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: law1274
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 12, 2006 9:41 am PT
Review:  When I first played this game I was amazed. I mean, I am a giant Halo Fan and this game just blows 
 it completely out of the water. It has to be the best WW2 Shooter ever. Last year I was hooked 
 on another WW2 game in Medal of Honor: European Assault but I have to say do not waste your money 
 on a thing like that. Pay double or triple even for an absolute masterpiece of a game! Everything 
 about the game is just so appealing. It has awesome graphics, awesome gameplay and is so realistic. 
 It is worth the money so go to your local games store and buy it today, it will be well worth it!
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 669594
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 11, 2006 2:31 pm PT
Review:  When i bought my Xbox 360 i tried to find a game that will use the full power of this console. 
 And i found Call Of Duty 2. I was amazed bu it's exellent presentation, sound effects, gamplay 
 and more aspects as well. Call Of Duty 2 looks fabulous on an HDTV or on an LCDyou will think that 
 you are living a real battle, especially on a 60'' tv and full home cinema; you will begin to take 
 cover and make sound effects...... WW2 fans= total immersion. Long live the COD series. Finally 
 the COD series has made a game better than the first COD by a hundred times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DryvBy27
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 11, 2006 6:31 am PT
Review:  Good Idea:
  Graphics might be touched up Quake III or something but they did a great job with them.
  Terrific 
 sounds.
  Multiplayer is just amazing (thanks to the patch, not much lag either) .
  
  Bad Idea:
  No co-op mode.
  
  Trying to beat vetern mode Rambo style.
  
  Overall:
 
  Another WWII shooter, but stands a top of the million others to get the gold. Very addicting and 
 will get you through many boring nights.
  -------------------------------------------
  
  I own the original on the PC. I could still load that game up and play it because it wasn't just 
 a typical shooter that has **** It was a great and revolutionary shooter for me. Being able to 
 pin down your enemies actually between your sights or just hiding like a coward while you're team's 
 excellent AI killed the Nazis for you is what I consider realistic. I got this game right after 
 I got my Xbox360. I like how the game really took over after the first one, just resuming game 
 play. The graphics are a little better, but nothing much (although the originals are still really 
 good) . They did some airbrushing on the screen shots it looks like. Now, the sounds, make up for 
 that. The sounds actually bring the game more to life than the visuals with every boom and every 
 tracer flying past your head. 
  
  Behind a solid engine and sound system, the story is very captivating. You start out as a Russian 
 soldier who is working his way up the ranks. The snowy weather in abandoned buildings really add 
 to the mood. Most of your snipers will hang out here. I love how the game starts out and sort of 
 shoves you into the game. You actually grow to know your fellow men. Then it ends, and you're a 
 British troop. In the original, I didn't like being the British but the game really put you in 
 good steps of how it was like for the British soldiers. And then, we come down to the good ol' 
 Americans. When I first saw us going up Omaha, I just shook my head thinking "Not another 'Saving 
 Private Ryan' scene again.". Then, they did something different. They went up another side of the 
 beach! You actually get the climb up ropes while your men fall down cliffs, and just go in gun-ho! 
 Towards the end of the game, you actually feel like it shouldn't have ended. But, it all must end 
 sometime.
  
  The multiplayer mode is the same as before. Axis vs Allies. I thought I was going to have a boring 
 time playing 7 other players online but I actually had a ton of fun. There's usually no lag. The 
 best thing about the multiplayer is the instant replay feature is great too. I like seeing how 
 the opposing team ended up slaying me. The maps are terrific too. The game modes are the same as 
 most games but the fact that they added a few different capture points in the capture modes. Other 
 than that, just a fun overall game.
  
  The things I don't like are the lack of downloadables. Why can't we download more maps later? I 
 want more and more and more (because gamers are greedy and for $60 a pop, we have the right to 
 be!) . So far, I've yet to see a good reason to own Xbox Live's Silver Service. It's free, but where 
 are the game mods and downloads??! 
  
  -------------------------------------------
  
  Violence:
  You shoot Nazi pigs. That's not violent. There's some blood but no perm blood or 
 gore.
  
  Sexuality:
  Can't really score when you're fighting ****
  
  Language:
  A lot of minor words.
  
  Substance Use:
  None. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: onebuff1
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 12, 2007 12:56 pm PT
Review:  This game has got to be one of the best titles for Microsoft. Not only is the single player campaign 
 so impressing but multi-player on Xbox Live keeps you coming back for more. I like the reality 
 of the game because you choose your weapons before each multi-player match and depending on the 
 situation your in can either kill you or make you a killing machine. The sound does get a little 
 repetitive for the most part, and I wish you could throw back grenades that has been tossed at 
 you. You can see your squad-mates do it, but sometimes they also get blown up. Achievements don't 
 come that easy past the first 50 points earned after you finish basic training. Once completing 
 the single player campaign on normal that does get you 150 points. Not too shabby... But, if your 
 playing on veteran you can rack up points after certain missions. COD 2 will not disappoint or 
 sit on your shelf, it makes you want to keep coming back for more!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blitzkrieg8131
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 9, 2006 7:06 pm PT
Review:  Okay, lets start with the graphics. The graphics on Call of Duty 2 are far from mediocre. The slick 
 environments add to the feeling of being in WWII. The characters and their lip movements are perfect 
 too. If you take a sniper rifle and zoom in on a comrades face when he is talking , you will see 
 what I mean. I give the graphics a 9.5 out of 10. 
  Now, the sounds. This game has the best sound effects that I have ever heard. The sounds of the 
 guns and explosions add to the games realism and intensity. Your comrades also yell commands, warnings 
 and sometimes even taunts. This games background noise is also simply perfect. The great voiceovers 
 combined with the firing sounds and background explosions and gun fire, leads me to give this game 
 a 10 out of 10 in the sound area.
  The gameplay in this game is excellent. With tight controls and great battles this game is very 
 easy to get into from the get-go. The environments combined with the hordes of Nazis and your comrades 
 screaming GRENADE make you feel like you are an ally thrown right in the middle of World War 
 II. This game has three different campaigns, the Russians, the British, and the Americans, which 
 really keeps the game fresh and exciting. Each level has its own unique objectives which keeps 
 the game from getting repetitive and boring. This game has a very unique health system. There are 
 no health packs or pickups. Its kind of like Halo 2s health system. When you start getting shot 
 at you screen starts turning red and you start to hear heart pounding and deep breathing. Then 
 you get to cover and heal yourself. This game has a four different difficulty settings for you 
 to change depending on how good you are. I give the gameplay a 10 out of 10.
  The online is perfect too. You have the power to setup private matches or you can join random matches. 
 The online will keep you playing for hours at a time. The online is the best part and is another 
 great reason to buy this game. 10 out of 10!!!!!!!
  
  You have GOT to buy this game. IT IS EXCELLENT!!!!!!!!! 
  
  My gamertag is blitzkrieg8131. 
 Send me a message if you have any questions thank you. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gigan12
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 9, 2006 8:48 am PT
Review:  There are many wars. Tons and tons of wars. There have been tons and tons of wars. Call of Duty 
 2 is a game based on world war II. It is an absolutely amazing success. There are many components 
 that make it good . For starters, the gameplay is absolutely top notch. With frag grenades assignd 
 to the right button and smoke grenades to the left button with firing tasked to the right trigger 
 and looking down the sight the to the left trigger. When this is compared to other first person 
 shooters, it is readily apparent that Call of Duty 2 just went for a better and simpler approach. 
 They succeded at that too. The campaign mode is where most people are going to go to first. The 
 first couple of missions detail the Soviet Union vs. Germany. The next few are England vs. Germany 
 and the final few are America vs. (gasp) Germany. Each mission is really very long with the mission 
 being sepperated into two or three parts. Overall it will take you somewhere between ten and twenty 
 hours to beat the campaign. Closer to ten for more experianced FPS players, and closer to twenty 
 for those few who have never really played a first person shooter. And around fifteen for those 
 who are pretty good but aren't going to impress anybody. The multiplayer is a high point. Which 
 puts you against other players in a veriaty of matches. From deathmatch to search and destroy. 
 I really liked playing Call of Duty 2 because everything was just right. There were a couple of 
 rough edges in the graphics department but nothing too bad. If you like first person shooters you 
 owe it too yourself to buy this game. It is really amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elfstone2087
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 8, 2006 1:21 pm PT
Review:  This game is really good. For someone who has never played a World War II shooter before, I was 
 impressed. 
  
  The Good: The one-player mode is immersive and its easy to learn how to play. The music in the 
 game is great and gives you a real sense of achieving something when you finish a mission. I immediately 
 played through the one-player mode on Easy difficulty and was hooked. A week later I started the 
 Veteran difficulty mode and let me tell you it is not easy. So far, Im up to the fifth mission. 
 The graphics are good, much better than the Original Xbox version. 
  
  The Bad: The multiplayer had major lag issues and it was almost impossible to find a server. Luckily, 
 Infinity Ward released a patch to fix the problem. Not only that, but improvements were made. You 
 can now create a lobby, pick your favorite maps so it never plays through the ones you dont like, 
 and you can choose to boot a player from your lobby if you so desire. The lag isnt as nearly as 
 bad as it was with only a few encounters here and there. You can almost always find a server now.
 
  
  Call of Duty 2 is a great buy and I would recommend it to any WWII shooter fan.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomedtakedown
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 7, 2006 10:33 pm PT
Review:  Let's Get Started
  Graphics: Realistic is what I have to say. Really this looks as if you're playing G. R. A. W in first 
 person. But it does not meet all of G. R. A. W's Graphical Expectations.
  
  Sound: Sounds if they had the real guns in the game and recorded their fires (They maybe did, Im not 
 sure with this stuff) . And that is all good. Also you get some great voice acting. Not super great 
 but great.
  
  Gameplay: Don't get me started. Just as I said in my review deck, Call of Duty at it's best. Also it's 
 pick up and play. Beat a level, Then you'll get your money's worth.
  
  Achievements/Gamerpoints: This part is not really special cause in COD2 the way you get the Achievements 
 is beating Training (Beginning Level, Any difficulty) also beating the game (Any Difficulty) but the 
 rest of the achievements is basicly beating the game on the hardest Difficulty.
  
  Overall:10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Angelodivita
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 7, 2006 1:00 pm PT
Review:  I should express my ... um ... typical lack of enthusiasm for first-person shooters on a console. 
 That being said, I should then point out that I was pleasantly suprised to find that I actually 
 got sucked into this game. I had played through the first Call Of Duty which was an underdog newcomer 
 to the genre. Its style of gameplay wasn't quite the same as most other first-person war shooters. 
 Medal of Honor is probably the most comparable for that time frame, but Call of Duty was able to 
 stand out amidst the competition.
  
  Call of Duty 2 follows closely in the footsteps of the first ... very closely. The single-player 
 campaign is ... dandy ... but the multi-player was where it was at for me. 
  
  The Good:
  - This game definitely tops the lists when it comes to immersing you in a war-time environment. 
 
  - Tying in with the above, good sound effects and communication with the team in the single player 
 campaign.
  - The recent re-vamp to the online play added a lot of features that filled many gaps in the online 
 gamers' hearts, hehe. 
  - The graphics were well done, not a shabby job at all. I was impressed with the backgrounds and 
 such involved.
  - The linear design of the single-player campaign is played to a point where it doesn't seem so 
 linear. There are different ways you can plan your route to victory in each mission.
  - The online gameplay is definitely a saving grace of the game's rating, overall.
  
  The Bad:
 
  - As incredible an era as it was, I think the WWII genre (just for the time being) is rather over-done. 
 I think the efforts could definitely be rewarding in other eras. (Is it just me, or do a lot of 
 recent WWII games seem like they are modeled after the Band of Brothers series?)
  - The game plays very similar to its predecessor, and other than the fact that I played it for 
 the 360, I might as well have just played the first one. 
  - I quickly got tired of the single-player campaign. Some of the later levels would add more spunk 
 ... like riding around in the jeep (funny level) or the tank level. Luckily, the online play added 
 a lot to the experience.
  
  I don't have too much to say about the game. I think if you've played the first you'd know what 
 to expect. Nothing too terribly wrong with the game, but nothing too terribly impressive about 
 it. It was just kinda ... interesting. To illustrate, I decided to play Tony Hawk 1 for the PSOne 
 over playing COD2 recently. After that, I hopped onto tennis for the PSP. Sorry COD2 ... but I 
 don't know if I want to eat the same type of cereal every morning for breakfast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: T-tronicum
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 7, 2006 10:36 am PT
Review:  Yes, it is!!! The Best! Every Night we are Playing it in Multiplayer with our Clan!!!!
  Its so funny!!!
  O. k,8 Players only is a little bit....., but o. k!
  More Player and the Ping 
 goes down, i think that was the Reason why only 8!!!
  The Graphics are really Amazing!!!
  So many Details, on my HDTV its really Incredible!!! I never saw so many Details in a Game, and the 
 Best is, no FPS Slowdowns!!!
  The Framerate never goes under 25 FPS, i think thats enough!
  And it looks much better then on my PC!!!!!
  BUY CALL OF DUTY-THE BEST and forget the REST!!!!
 
  Our MultiPlayer Clan SPAIN TORREVIEJA is waiting for you!!!!
  KILL THEM ALL!!!!!!!!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pappasfurs
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 6, 2006 7:59 pm PT
Review:  This game is going to be a classic next to halo 2. The graphics are great and nothing in this game 
 is repetitive, each level brings its own unique style of strategy and style. The online is great, 
 and there are a great selection of weapons, and each weapon has great range and accuracy. Every 
 level is fun because they all offer and place for campers, great sniping areas, not too good when 
 they find you, and each level has great detail. The only problem I found online was the constant 
 connection interruption, but if you get the update it should fix itself. The other great aspect 
 about this is your independence for each level you do not have to protect your team or anyone special, 
 but if you shoot one of your team members you will have to restart at your last checkpoint. So 
 overall the graphics are great, so is the gameplay an it is fun to go back to levels after you 
 complete them to screw around so I suggest you purchase it for online mainly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NDS419
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 6, 2006 2:50 pm PT
Review:  this game is amazing. it is actually a good fps on xbox 360 because most of the others suck. If 
 you have a 360 you need to get this game because it is the best 360 game. it has amazing graphics 
 and gameplay. Dont compare this game to the first call of duty until you play it because the first 
 one is a piece of crap with health packs. In this game you just cant take any hits for about 3 
 seconds to recover your health. It is also funny to hear the people talk because its like "get 
 those jerry bastards!!!!" (jerry means german) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baznasty
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 6, 2006 10:31 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is a difficult review for me. This FPS provided many hours of undeniable fun but 
 some aspects seemed to spur many hours of frustration. 
  Let's start with the single player campaign. As soon as you jump into the game you can see the 
 mass of potential that surrounds you. As you progress through the training and into the "fog of 
 war" you begin to realize the time that went into this game. The smoke is one of the first things 
 that will really make you feel as if your purchase or rent was justified. This is one of the first 
 games in which not only does the smoke look great but it actually plays an essential roll in your 
 fight against those fascist pigs.
  The default difficulty setting is fine for beginners or the seasoned veteran. As I have found though, 
 you get the true sense of accomplishment if you play it on veteran. This level takes patience and 
 a willingness to restart at your last checkpoint as the deaths are easy to come by. The AI on this 
 level is not too impressive to me though. It doesn't seem to be intelligent at all. Your comrades 
 will run in front of your barrage of bullets, meanwhile it seems your enemies only fire at you 
 sometimes completely ignoring one of your friendlies firing ten feet in front of him. The variety 
 of the levels is strangely similar and yet different at once. You will find them changing minor 
 things in the levels and yet those minor changes seem to really break up the monotony of it all. 
 Overall the single player alone makes this game a classic that we will be talking about for months 
 to come.
  Now, onto the part that hurts, the multiplayer. The multiplayer, first off, had the potential to 
 be amazing. Plagued by bugs, lag, and a total lack of features really sold this title short of 
 the upper echelon. To start, the lobby in general seemed to take a step backward instead of being 
 "next gen". There were no friends slots, in fact, you couldn't even host a game at all by choice. 
 If you did manage to host a game it was by pure luck alone and getting friends in that game should 
 have been considered a "mini-game" and successfully getting friends in should have awarded you 
 a 1000 point boost to your gamerscore. In my experience, which has been quite a bit, I found that 
 roughly 50% of the games I entered were too laggy to even play but in their defense, when I did 
 manage to get in a lag free game I was consumed by the entertainment value. The patch has now come 
 out though, and some thought that I should include the patched game as my review but I disagree 
 with that belief. I believe a game should be reviewed as the initial product unless there is a 
 rare circumstance when the game has an update available almost immediately. In this case it took 
 nearly four months to patch and therefore this review is based on the originally released product.
 
  Overall this game provided me with countless hours of entertainment. There were bugs and lag during 
 multiplayer play that accounted for hundreds of grey hairs but I would still recommend this game 
 to any fan of this genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zornth
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 6, 2006 4:15 am PT
Review:  Single player is good... Not great not bad just good. Mediocre, Call of Duty 1's single player 
 was great this one not so much. Well for starters it gets boring... I would have never said that 
 about UO or COD. Its movie-ish yet it bores the living hell out of me. Graphics amazing... except 
 for the character models. Environments, are simply great... looking... They get boring, repetitive. 
 Something thats good about the game is that just when your getting so mad about how your doing 
 the same sh*& in the same place you get moved to another area. HOORAY! Plus it ends far to quickly. 
 Instead of drawing you into the experience this game sorta draws you out. A serious negative about 
 being moved around is that in other COD games the single player was better and longer so that you 
 didnt mind being moved from campaign to campaign. This game is far to short so I cant say for sure 
 if going from Russian to the British is a bad or good thing... Its just not that fun. Sound is 
 also a bit repetitive. 
  Multiplayer... Ugh... It puts you in same map far to often horrible matchmaking makes you wish you 
 had bought the PC version instead. 
  Overall its a more then mediocre experience yet nothing great. Still a better game then perfect 
 dark. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StikyfingatipZ
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 4, 2006 11:58 pm PT
Review:  This is most likely one of the best games Ive played in a long time... The missions are excellent 
 and the graphics looks so real you think youre watching a movie and you forget youre in your 
 living room playing a video game. The sounds are usually overlooked in video games, well by me 
 at least, because they never really mattered but in the single player of COD2 I can really feel 
 the urgency when time is running out or krauts are moving in. I suggest this game to any shoot-em-up 
 classic lover and will probably keep this game for a while until the 360 makes a Greatest Hits 
 line or something like that. This is my favorite game and thats all I have to say about that. 
 
  
  PS. learn to host, its real fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PUKED
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 4, 2006 7:42 am PT
Review:  So yeah I love my WWII games. Remember, YOU'RE NEVER TO OLD TO HAVE A VIETNAM FLASHBACK. Wait a 
 minute, was vietnam and world war 2 the same thing? Hell if I know! On to the game, i bought this 
 expecting it to look really good which it does. The sound is really cool on 5.1. HOWEVER!... the 
 single player is short and annoying. The multiplayer is where it's at. The death cam is hilarious. 
 I love watching myself run around a corner and get owned. However i have tons of connection issues 
 when the host leaves. Unlike halo 2 where it sets the game back up, COD2 goes into a horrible unplayable 
 lagfest. I just quit when the host does which is my biggest complaint but I'll live. The game is 
 a buy if you like FPS and have live. I wouldn't recommend this game for just single player, HELL 
 IT'S NOT EVEN WORTH A RENT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toma_sasr_aus
Rating: 3.5
Date: Apr 4, 2006 7:40 am PT
Review:  The Xbox 360 has brilliant specs and cod2 have not used them to the full extent the gameplay is 
 extremely repetitive and the graphics lack detail, extremely pixelated graphics, gun models look 
 shocking and nothing compared to what they would look like. gameplay is extremely repetitive as 
 for multiplay you may get a couple of laughs with mates but lacks intensity on xbox live there 
 is some worthwhile playing time but other than that boring as PS2 this game seriously insults the 
 Xbox 360 and definatly does not use the full extent of the 360's power as it should have MAJOR 
 DISSAPOINTMENT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: H-box2
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 3, 2006 8:02 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 was one of my first Xbox 360 games and it is a good one. The constant action and 
 intense battles are in a class of there own. The graphics and gameplay are unparalled. Overall 
 Call of Duty 2 is an intense thrill ride that is long enough to make you want it to keep you wanting 
 more. The game is not too difficult when playing on regular, however the harder difficulties such 
 as Veteran get much much harder. The battle sounds are so realistic and authentic that you fell 
 like you are in the battle. Its a great game and a must own for the Xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Knightgolfer
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 3, 2006 6:56 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is one of the best xbox 360 launch titles. This game has ton of replayabillity. 
 I am still working on vetern myself. I am on D-Day. The game is intense. The sound is amazing. 
 I like it that your men yell, which makes it even more intense. The gameplay is real smooth with 
 hardly any frame rate problems. The game looks really good. The game is veterans and noobs (depending 
 on which dificulty level you put it on) . The multiplayer is very addictive. Although sometimes 
 you can get on a bad server and have really bad lag. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chestnutz
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 3, 2006 12:57 pm PT
Review:  To fully appreciate the game, it must be played on the hardest. The beginning isn't very difficult, 
 but as you move on, the game gets tougher and tougher. The firefights in the towns are alot of 
 fun. It gets so intense, especially on the battle for the hill. The graphics are incredible, watch 
 the smoke, the snowfall, people getting blown up, shell shock, D-Day beach, e. t. c. I loved it. 
 It's one of the 360's best games, hands down. What is better then shooting a bunch of nazi bastards? 
 Maybe stomping on your bosses face, or ejaculating on Pamela Andersons boobies. Trust me, go buy 
 this game. It kicks butt! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 666_NOTB
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 2, 2006 7:34 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2... oh boy just another World War 2 game out there, right? Wrong. Call of Duty 2 for 
 me was the best WWII game that there has been to date and it was also the best Xbox 360 launch 
 title. I didn't plan to buy this one at launch until I played it at a friends house. The game is 
 very easy to get into, should take less than 30 minutes to get to, maybe 15 at most. Call of Duty 
 2 is amazing, when I was fighting through Stalingrad in the winter I couldn't believe how much 
 fun I was having. It was great to experience this type of a game that I had been waiting for. 
 
  
  Gameplay: Absolutely awesome, the single player is absolutely a blast. Once you have beaten it 
 on easy or normal, go through and play it on Veteran, it's a challenge! Multiplayer leaves more 
 to be desired, only 8 players. : (
  
  Graphics: Well done. Textures could have been better but the character models are excellent. Also, 
 no jaggies at all! 
  
  Sound: Best to date, I think Oblivion comes close but this game still I think beats it.
  
  
 Value: Probably were this game suffers the most. If you're just going to play it for the Multiplayer... you 
 might want to rent it first. If you like both single player and multiplayer, go ahead and pick 
 this baby up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Are_Ya_Ready
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 2, 2006 1:51 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best game for the 360 as of now. Beautiful graphics, amazing sound, and the game 
 is briliant.
  
  Gameplay- 10 - This game is amazing, it will keep you hooked for hours and hours. The AI is very 
 smart, if you die, nothing is the same from before. In my own opinion, i think that this game has 
 the best online play, even if it does have some problems letting people in the room sometimes, 
 but they're working on it.
  
  Graphics- 9- This game looks stunning! Very crisp graphics; great character models and the environments 
 are amazing. Nothing more to say.
  
  Sound- 10 - This game sounds as great as it plays. Everything from the footsteps; voice acting, 
 and gun shots sound realistic, no cheep crap. It sounds like you are in the game!!!
  
  Value- 10 - This is without a doubt worth the $60. Go out and buy this now, it is a must have. 
 When i first saw it, i wasn't going to buy it because i was never into WW shooters, but now im 
 hooked. You will not be disappointed with this selection.
  
  Overall Score= 9.6
  
  _Justin_ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mexicutioner_07
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 2, 2006 11:08 am PT
Review:  COD 2 was the first game i purchased for my 360, and man, was i glad i did, theis game has great 
 controls, PERFECT frame rate, stunning graphics, and insane gameplay.
  In COD 2 you go through 3 caimpaigns, the british, russian (or german i cant remember) , and the good 
 ol' americans. The first level (training) really helps you get a good feel for controls, and basicly 
 , you find out thi is not a "run 'n' gun" game, you have to strateigecly take cover, use a good 
 balance of weapons, another thing i really like is the health system, when you are hurt, the screen 
 starts pulsing red, letting you know you're health is low, and if you're incredibly close to death, 
 the whole game slows down, and you have to take cover and let you're helth regenerate. The guns 
 in this game are plenty and diversified, the sub-machine  the rocket 
 launcher make for a great balance weaponry, and they really help you. One issue i had was that 
 they should have made the pistols a little better, or not have them at all, sure, they make you 
 feel cool but they suck, they have absoloutly no advantage at all, they can't zoom, at all, and 
 the're weak, the only reason to use them is if you're out of weapons (or playing on easy, and why 
 would you wabt to do that.) Another great thing about this game is the replay value, there are 
 several way's to try and beat each part of the game, you could
  a-take them out with the rifle
  b-snipe them all
  c-take them out with quick bursts from you're 
 thompson
  or d-kill 'em all in one hit with you're rocket launcher
  
  Another great thing is you're allies, they actually help, finally good ai, for you're teammates, 
 and the enemy. Sometimes this game makes you feel likethe strongest soldier ever, b/c it seems 
 most of the time the enemies only target you, when there are hundreds of other soldiers to kill.
 
  
  another great thing is the diversity of the objectives, one moment you'll be defending the north 
 side of town, then, you'll be calling in air strike on enemy tanks, then you'll be in a tank, killing 
 anti-tank guns, then you'll be demolishing a natsi building. 
  
  COD 2 is a must have for 360 owners, it combines, great gameplay, great graphics, great sound, 
 and a authentic war feel, pick this one up... NOW
  
  NOTE: for the diffuculty i wrote just right, but the diffuculty varies from easy to veteran 
::::::

::::::
UserName: detroithardcore
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 2, 2006 7:15 am PT
Review:  This is a must buy game for anybody that really digs historic fps, I myself wasnt going to get 
 this game (because i am a futuristic fps kinda guy) but my friend let me borrow it and told me 
 to play through on the veteran setting, even if it is the first time youve ever played... so I did. 
 And I died countless times but i tell you everytime i beat a stage, my heart was pounding like 
 omg i survived!
  
  The graphics are great but they are amazing in HD.. the sound effects are dead on ( you can even 
 hear the fighting going on all around you and off in the distance. The stages are all well designed, 
 and your teamates are standard run out and get popped right in front of you lol... but i never had 
 a problem with them getting in my way. 
  
  I cant comment on the online portion of the game because i had to give it back before i had a chance 
 to try my luck, borrowing it and beating it didnt leave me unsatisfied, in fact it left me wanting 
 more... after all the hard work of beating it on vet. i almost wished the game wasnt ending cause 
 it was such a rush when i beat a level.... and thats when you know its a great game when it can 
 get your heart pounding.
  
  my suggestion is buy this game and if youre not gonna buy it borrow it, and do just like i did 
 ( beat it on veteran) and youll want this game even more. but considering ive had my fill... ill 
 wait for its price drop than ill go purchase it, hopefully by than, it wont be too late to still 
 bust heads online.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skihawks
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 1, 2006 5:07 pm PT
Review:  Where do I start? I have played through this game four times. Usually, once I beat a game I trade 
 it in feeling that I have accomplished something. Although I have gained massive satisfaction, 
 this is a game that I want in my library for a long time. 
  
  The graphics are highly detailed. For those that don't know, compare it to the Xbox version. HUGE 
 difference. The smoke, the detail in the war-battered towns, the chunks of Earth exlploding around 
 you really immerses you in the experience. 
  
  Another area where this game excels is in the sound department. You can hear gunfire in the distance. 
 You can hear closing German troops communicating in German as they get close. Again, another element 
 that immerses you in the experience.
  
  The single player missions are somewhat short. It took me about 15 to 20 hours to complete. However, 
 that doesn't mean it isn't worth purchasing. It is an outstanding effort and a must buy.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kotor_Forever
Rating: 6.6
Date: Apr 1, 2006 11:32 am PT
Review:  Let me start out by saying that COD 2 is not a bad game. But it has been SERIOUSLY overrated by 
 almost every major review in the known world. Mindlessly killing germans is getting really old. 
 The action is good, but quickly gets old. The online mode will prove hard for anyone. A shot in 
 the foot from a sniper rifle will kill you. But that won't matter when you can't even get into 
 a game. There are so many connection problems in this game that you may be able to get into 5 games 
 in a day, and by a day I mean a FULL day. In single player, anything above the medium diffulty 
 is impossible for average gamers. The major reason for people overrating this game, I don't know. 
 But don't believe these people. There are plenty of good shooters out there, you don't need this 
 one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nauman_97
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 1, 2006 7:31 am PT
Review:  Call of duty on 360 is world war 2 based game like many others in the market but it still stands 
 out as one of the best.
  Reason is mainly because its a true fun. Graphics are absolute sweet and give the true next gen 
 feel never ever seen on consoles. Textures, weather effects, smoke etc are truly realistic. And everything 
 is done with quite a detail.
  On the other hand gameplay is a treat to play. You really feel that you are in the midst of a battlefield 
 and really its quite amazing and you only know when you play it.
  Sound is another great aspect of call of duty. Its quite superb. When you fire a gun it really sounds 
 are firing a gun whether its a BAR, a machine gun or a sniper, all of them sound great and feel great 
 too.]
  So if u like world war games and you haven't played call of duty 2 on pc then its surely the best 
 thing available in the market. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: krulluk
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 1, 2006 12:09 am PT
Review:  If you like FPS and you like to feel in acctual danger then get this game. Playing through on Veteran 
 you truly believe you are a mere soldier in the thick of WWII. A few shots to the body and you're 
 dead (no shields here) the guns are realistically imprecise and recoil is beautiful. In short this 
 game feels REAL. 
  
  Graphics are solid with a few drops in framerate if you go smoke-grenade crazy or if too many enemies 
 are about. Sound is crisp and atmospheric.
  
  On the downside it can get linear at times, but you'll normally be dodging too much Nazi gunfire 
 to care!
  
  Essential purchase 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redviper2321
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 31, 2006 5:42 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing. The graphics are stunning, the sound is amazing, and the voice acting is 
 on par. The realism factor is set to "OMG!!!" and the online is good. The story mode pits you against 
 the Nazis in three different campaigns. Thay are the Russians who defend Stalingrad, the British 
 who invade Africa to take it back from the Gremans, and also you get to play through D-Day as the 
 US Army Rangers. The AI is stunning because they will actually throw grenades, advance, hide behind 
 cover, and flank you. The online is fun, but not a Halo 2 experience. Overall, this is an amazing 
 game that will have you coming back for more, just like our friend Halo 2. I give it a 10 out of 
 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peterles
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 31, 2006 12:03 pm PT
Review:  i wish they would do this more often. simply port pc games to the xbox360. and port it well. the 
 game was great on the pc, and just as great on the 360. i beat the game on verteran just to get 
 the gamerpoints, but i had a really really fun time doing it. the levels vary in environment. sometimes 
 you'll be in a desert, or in a snow storm, for yea, whatever the enviornments look good and its 
 fun. its fun. but over xbox live, its pretty buggy. you'll loose connection 4 out of 5 games. it 
 pretty gay. they had a patch that was suposto help, but it really didnt do anything. but a great 
 fun single player mission. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hazuki87
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 30, 2006 11:03 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 may very well be the best historic WWII shooter yet. Throughout the game I found 
 myself in awe of the AI and the presentation. Enemies are always on the move providing each other 
 covering fire and attempting to flank you. Each level is fast paced and really authentic feeling. 
 The presentation far exceeds the actual graphics form a technical standpoint because they really 
 aren't all that impressive and while they certainly are better than anything could ever look in 
 the previous generation they really aren't next-gen either.
  Each of the three sub-campaigns is different enough to keep you interested and all 3 are entertaining 
 in their own right. The North Africa campaign though was the least fun as the environments were 
 bland and repetitive and the tank sessions, while fun, really felt out of place. Its the American 
 campaign and in particular the battle at point du-Hoc that define the game. The initial offensive 
 and (especially) the subsequent retreat are both some of the most intense FPS levels I have ever 
 played.
  The controls are another thing that really help this game along with the two grenade types mapped 
 to the bumpers and the left trigger used to look down the sights of your gun. Also the two gun 
 mechanic pioneered by Halo works well. 
  Call of Duty 2 isnt a killer app but it is definitely the best 360 launch title and certainly a 
 whole lot of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PanDamian12
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 31, 2006 4:46 am PT
Review:  I have played all of the previous COD games and this one is of course the best one. Thanks to the 
 outstanding graphics and greatly improved AI of your enemies (they will retreat, regroup, storm, 
 throw grenades, defend, etc.) Your teammates will also prove helpful, telling you about upcoming 
 dangers and overall helping you in combat quite effectively. The action in very real, as you will 
 almost never be out of action and almost always in the middle of it, especially while defending 
 a position from storming Germans, who sometimes come in dozens at a time. The Halo2 style energy 
 recharge system proves to be very helpful as well, and it doesn't make the game any easier, as 
 some may think for sometimes you will really have to hustle to get out of the rain of bullets flying 
 towards you from all directions. The game could be longer though (value: 9) , but who cares, I'll 
 just play it again. Great fps, great war game, great launch title! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sirsclub
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 30, 2006 8:27 pm PT
Review:  I have had my 360 since feburay and I have play Call of Duty 2 for most of the that time, I started 
 on the easy lvl which I do alot to get to know the game (lol I hate to die when learning a game) 
 as I moved throw the easy lvl, I was amased at the game the game bring's out a passion of the second 
 world war when america and the alles were fighting the worst people in the world, I am one of those 
 history buff people I love to know every thing there is to know about every thing ( does not happen 
 all the time) and with that said I have to say bravo to the people who made this game that got 
 it to a ti, well almost but it works. the game is so easy to learn and to play and there is always 
 some one to kill, that is the best part of the game killing the damm Na*** all over germany, I 
 have given this game a rating of 10 this game is the best I have ever played and I have played 
 many game's. if any of you play and want to team on live hit me up Orecal 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jebushank
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 30, 2006 1:00 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome. its fun to play and its a challenging masterpeice of world war ingunuity. 
 the game has immense graphics with realistic enviroments and amazing caracter models. the three 
 armies you play as are (in order) the russian army which personaly i think are the best, then the 
 british army in the deserts or south africa and finally the american army in the heart of germany 
 fighting the nazi homeland. the game is indeed captiviating and the non stop shooting and explosions 
 make this game a joy to play. this is the best game from the call of duty series compared to the 
 pc versions and the unpopluar "big red one". this game is a true gamers expeirence and its a must 
 by for the x-box 360.
  
  play this, love this 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sicncrazy7816
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 29, 2006 8:56 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is by far the funnest game I have ever played
  
  Gameplay 
  The gameplay to this game is flawless, AI is perfect, the controls flawless, everything about the 
 gameplay is good
  
  Graphics
  So far the graphics are unsurpassed, beautiful and makes the game seem so reallistic it adds to 
 everything the game is supposed to be, the graphics really draw attention
  
  Sound
  Authentic WWII sounds make it as if you were there, the cinematic music, and the high explosions
 
  
  Value
  I never wanted to put down the controller but I dont have an Xbox 360 so I cant play the game even 
 if I bought it but you will get addicted
  
  Bottom Line
  If you have an Xbox 360 buy it if you dont Buy it and praise its name, if you do have an Xbox 360 
 give it to me because the withdrawl symptoms are getting worse by the second 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CharlieLFCFan91
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 29, 2006 9:43 am PT
Review:  I don't have an Xbox 360. My cousin does. And I saw him set it up and the first game he played 
 was Call Of Duty 2. And when he left the room for 5 minutes I couldn't help but pick up the control 
 and play the game. It was amazing. As if a PC game has converted to console. And I couldn't believe 
 it when I saw the graphics which were absolutely amazing compared to Killzone and The Punisher 
 (my other fav shooters) and I gotta put it down that I hope this comes out on PS3 because I will 
 then get it. It seems real fun. But for now Ill look for the Big Red One version on either PS2, 
 Xbox or the GameCube and see how it compares. Anyway a solid Wartime shooter and one I hope to 
 play more of. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: echmyr
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 29, 2006 8:55 am PT
Review:  Well, I finished this game on the normal level, and really enjoyed it. the smoke affects were really 
 cool and I thought the AI was pretty good (though I wish my buddies would watch my back a bit more) . 
 I did not like driving tanks at all though. I would get all turned around.
  
  For the most part I thought the game was pretty easy. I used a lot of rush and fire tactics in 
 tight spots, but after finishing the game I decided to play through on veteran level (I wanted 
 the points :-) ) Can I tell you it is much harder on veteran than on normal! You die a lot faster 
 and the enemies appear to be much better shots!
  
  That said, I like it better on the harder level. Rush and fire does not work AT ALL on this level. 
 You have to really plan your moves much better, take cover, fire from your arches and trust you 
 buddies to cover you.
  
  My ratings below are be based on playing on the veteran level. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ILIKEMAGNETS
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 29, 2006 1:41 am PT
Review:  Call of duty 2
  One of the best shooters out there
  For those who do not know that Call of duty 2 is the sequel to the game of the year call of duty 
 1 and is based on WWII and is perhaps one of the most strategic first person shooter in a long 
 while. For those of you who enjoy war games this is a must have the game doesnt offer much for 
 graphics but for what it lacks there it makes it back in its glorious battles and the freedom to 
 move just about anywhere.
  
  The campaigns
  while playing through the campaigns you will have the opputunitity to play as The Americans, Russians 
 and the British armies, each civilization has there own character which you will play for until 
 you have completed that civilizations Missions. Upon each level you will encounter many different 
 objectives which can be displayed by pressing the start button your best hope of finding your objectives 
 is with the very handy radar located in the bottom right corner you will notice that each task 
 has it has its own display picture such as A, B, C, D and E to complete the mission you will either 
 have to complete the areas on your radar or be given direct orders from your commanding officer. 
 A major difference compared to many other first person shooters is the freedom to take different 
 paths to complete your main objective heck you can even have kill your enemies in different was 
 weather it be camping or running in to them and beating them up with your gun the choice is yours.
 
  
  The Missions
  in many parts you will need to defend an area or a building you might have to keep pushing your 
 way thorough enemy frontlines no matter what the risks in many cases you will be asked to destroy 
 enemy armories, tanks and artillery. For each mission you can guarantee a load of fun and a lot 
 of battles. 
  
  Difficulty
  when first starting the campaigns you will be given the option to play on different difficulty 
 levels such as easy, normal, hard and for the daring Veteran all though the difficulty does not 
 give you extras except for people collecting gamer points. When completing the Campaigns it is 
 well recommended that you should try to complete it on a harder difficulty to make the game last 
 a lot longer. 
  
  Graphics
  Well to be honest I was a bit disappointed in it I truly expected more considering it is on a next 
 -gen console but they still look good except for the terrain I believe is the only let down in 
 this department all above though the graphics will not make you go wow! But will leave you with 
 Ive seen that before.
  
  Sound
  if there is one thing that this game has got plenty of it is Sound.
  Even the sound of your gun 
 makes you feel like your going to die from the realism and when it rains I could swear it was raining 
 out side, the sounds jus t add to the atmosphere for every level.
  
  Value 
  All though the storyline will keep you going for a good week (depends on what difficulty you are 
 playing) and once you have completed that you will be able to Xbox live or multi player and even 
 System link for you and your buddies all though the 8 player on live is a major disappointment 
 we will just have to wait for the patch.
  
  By: ILIKEMAGNETS
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: scuffdog_65
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 28, 2006 5:30 pm PT
Review:  What can I say about this game other than that it is the best shooter I have ever played. I havent 
 played many war games but I have played a lot of shooters and I think this has got to be the best. 
 Single player is very good. It is plenty long and worth the buy. Online is especially good. If 
 u have online, this game is a must buy. If u dont have online, its still worth buyin. The best 
 place to play is Toujane, Tunisia. Just one hint. Don't go in the perch or u are dead. Best shooter 
 ever made right here. Go buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chex81
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 28, 2006 12:01 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  Do you remember the intense experience of playing Call of Duty when it was released on PC (no, 
 not the horrid console versions) ? Well, whether you did or didnt play the first rendition 
 of this series on PC is irrelevant. Call of Duty 2 (CoD2) does not require the player to have previous 
 experience is the series, which is great for new comers. The single player campaign takes you through 
 events of World War 2 from the prospective of the American, British and Russian armies. If you 
 have any knowledge of WW2, all the missions will be very familiar, and that is because the missions 
 are based on the most popular events during WW2. Infinity Ward has done a great job with the sequel 
 to one of my favorite FPSers ever. The game is unmerciful, as you cannot go running through stages 
 blindly without considering your destination. The computer A. I. is extremely intelligent, as they 
 seem to act just as natural as another human player. They will cover, throw grenades, call commands 
 and even take you down any chance is given. The levels vary in size, but with the larger levels 
 need not worry as checkpoints are there to help just incase you get snipped in the head or taken 
 down by 5 guy hiding behind that barn yard. The level layout is somewhat linear, but with constant 
 action you wont have time to even notice it. Missions vary in securing buildings/positions, 
 to taking clearing towns and landscapes. The action is non-stop and there isnt a single 
 point of disappoint. 10/10 
  
  Graphics:
  Visually the game is stunning. Most of the time you can walk up to specific buildings, or walls, 
 zoom in and see that Infinity Ward wanted to make this experience memorable. The character details 
 are great, as well as the smoke and lighting effects. At times you can see some poor textures, 
 but it isnt often. The level of depth gone into these environments really makes you appreciate 
 your new Xbox 360. 9.5/10
  
  Audio:
  The audio department is perfect, to say the least. You are in WW2 and Infinity Ward isnt 
 holding anything back. Every little effect detail was taken into consideration. From the earth 
 shattering explosions, to chattering comments from fellow soldiers and enemies, you feel as though 
 youre in this massive living world. The music is original and outstanding, soft violins 
 lead you in and out of missions, and when the battles get intense the music builds. 10/10
  
  Controls:
  Controls like any typical FPS. The big difference with the 360 is it uses bump 
 (left and right) that replace the older black and white buttons on the Xbox controller. The button 
 layout is perfectly mapped, as everything is at your disposal without having any issues. Options 
 are available such as customizing invert axis, and other pre-set options. 10/10
  
  Replay:
  The Xbox Live component is great, but its not perfect. The game is a blast online 
 and will definitely make the games lifespan much longer than just the single player, but the lack 
 of options really hurts the gameplay. Youre only allowed to choose what type of game youd 
 like to play, and the game randomly finds an existing lobby. If it exists, you join. If it doesnt, 
 it makes one for you. And when youre done the match, you dont even return to the 
 previous lobby. Instead, the system brings you back to the Xbox Live main menu. However, this isnt 
 to say the game isnt great online because it definitely is. I also had some trouble with 
 extreme lag, which isnt uncommon as fellow gamers have had the same issues. However, when 
 the game plays without lag it is outstanding. There is also multiplayer split-screen and co-op, 
 but unfortunately these only work through system link or split screen. 8.5/10
  
  Overall:
  Although the game has some minor online flaws, its still the best game Ive 
 played in 2005. Its intense, fast, brutal and of course very mature (recommended for ages 
 17+) . The campaign is about 10-15 hours long, but there is incentive to go back and play on Veteran 
 difficulty level, as Gamerscore points are available. Plus theres the online play which 
 could hold you down for quite some time. Highly recommended to any Xbox 360 owner, even if youve 
 already played too many WW2 games.
  
  Score - 9.5/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: outbreak201
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 27, 2006 4:19 pm PT
Review:  Well the game has it ups and it has its downs, but most of them are downs. Lets start with a couple 
 of the ups first. If you have never played any Call of Duty then i would sugest to buy or rent 
 this game, just because there arent many titles on the 360. The graphics arent the best. You can 
 see alot of objects, soliders, and landscape with semi bad graphics. The smoke clouds look like 
 cardboard. Which means that its just layers over layers and when you walk into them you can tell 
 its a flat and thin. The multiplayer is plain and dull. 4 vs 4 isnt all that fun with such big 
 maps. If your not a fan of the game I would stay far from this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MajorT1943
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 27, 2006 3:28 pm PT
Review:  I was amazed by the games historical accuracy on Military History, which considers the uniforms, 
 EP and Officer insignia for the U. S Military and Foreign Militaries. The weaponry was authentic 
 also, like the PPSH-41 and the M1928A1 Thompson .45 sub-machinegun. I was truely flabbergasted 
 by the competency of the graphics and sound of COD2. I thought that throughout the game, German 
 Wehrmacht Military units seemed to aggressive when it comes to Military tactics. They seemed to 
 not lay down a base of covering fire for their comrads, so they were easy to neutralize (benefit 
 for me) . There were a few significant glitches throughout the game, but didn't bother me to such 
 an extent. For example, when I was in a skirmish during the Battle of Stalingrad: a German Heer 
 enlisted soldier was suppressing fire with a MG-42 light- machinegun and neutralized a Soviet Red 
 Army NCO ranked corporal, who was my fire-team CNCO and 3rd squad XNCO. He was floating in mid-air, 
 clearly a glitch. Two-player seems fairly boring, so that's why if you have Xbox live for the Xbox 
 360 it benefits more toward the game, and creates a more sufficient game experience. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: redsam
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 27, 2006 12:13 pm PT
Review:  Campaign mode was a blast, literally. This is one of the better pure campaign shooter I have played. 
 
  
  The ability of this game to put you in situations that give the smallest taste of the insanity 
 of war is amazing. When you do stupid stuff, and pin yourself in a position that has limited visibility, 
 cross-fire from all angles, and potato mashers flying the feel of the chaos of how to work your 
 way out of a tough battle is awesome. AI is not too tough, so not hard by any means, but man, what 
 a visceral mood.
  
  Campaign is what people have been calling short, but to me, perfect, got my money's worth and more. 
 Have played just a bit on live, and is fun getting your ass kicked by the pros.
  
  Oh yeah, and the graphics are as Tony would say, GREEEAT!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: M1MyRifle
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 27, 2006 11:45 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is a great first person shooter which totally immerses you in the most intense combat 
 that I think World War 2 has to offfer. You go to almost all the areas of the european war fighting 
 for the russians, british and of course the best americans. The sound and gameplay is utterly amazing 
 since i think the enemy ai is one of the things that makes this game pretty F'ing good. Also the 
 environments are pretty lifelike in which the game mechanics and how the buildings and natural 
 foliage is rendered. The online just got a boost finally after about 5 months since it got released. 
 Bottom line is that it is a great buy with the single player campaign and the much better mutliplayer 
 on xbox live. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: miscs
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 27, 2006 8:47 am PT
Review:  call of duty 2 is great game that offers long hours of entertainment even after the campaign is 
 finished looks outstanding on a HD TV also has the chance to give experienced players a chance 
 to pick up some easy points although there is many flaws in call of duty like some of your team-mates 
 are invincible so sometimes they can hit with grenades and walk away unharmed and your own tanks 
 can run you over although these dont ruin game play they defiantly are noticeable and could be 
 fixed the AI system on this is quit solid especially if you play on harder difficulties there is 
 actually a challenge your team-mates (not including the invisible ones) will help you out and arent 
 completely useless. 
  so if your looking for a shooter add this to your collection
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lil_ky
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 26, 2006 8:59 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 for the xbox 360 what can i say about it its a great shooter for any person with 
 a 360 the graphics are pretty good but not quit next gen but its the multi palyer that sets it 
 apart but kills it at the same time its pretty much the same as EVERY SHOOTER OUT THERE death match 
 team death match and capture the flag are the only game worth playing sometimes u will even be 
 amazed at how some of these people know where u are a big problem with the multi palyer is if u 
 get shot in the leg once with a sniper rifle ur dead umm when was the last time someone died from 
 getting shot in the foot all in all its pretty good but if u cant find graw in ur town and ur local 
 game dealer has call of duty yeah u should buy it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nuboy83
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 26, 2006 7:23 pm PT
Review:  WOW!
  
  This game has taken World War 2 games to a new level. Simply the best graphics I have ever seen. 
 You actually feel like you are there fighting agains the evil Germans of 1943. 
  
  Game play is very fluid with no loading problems. After many many hours of play you never get tired 
 of playing. The actions of the AI is unlike any I have ever seen before. They are simply bullett 
 magnets like they are in most preceding games. 
  
  Very easy to lean. A must have for any serious 360 gamer. Multiplayer is also a lot of fun with 
 4-16 people killing each other is a blaze of glory! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: F1esh_Grinder
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 26, 2006 2:57 pm PT
Review:  Call Of Duty or COD2 is one of the must have games for the xbox 360.
  The graphics of this game are just amazing showing off alot of bump mapping and a taste of what 
 the Xbox 360 can do with all the chaos in the battlefield in crisp high def detail. The story is 
 that of three people from different countries typical to the COD franchise. The sound in this game 
 is so real in 5.1 surround sound that you actual think there's a german soldier blasting his machine 
 gun right behind you to make you jump off your seat. The enemy A. I is super smart, Infinity Ward 
 did A super job making these guys act so life like and move so smoothly. The online part of this 
 game is Fun and addictive. The new patch that came out not so long ago really helped the major 
 LAG ISSUES and now has the abillity to make and customize and host rooms. The bottom line is, COD2 
 is a must-have game for the Xbox 360 and it's an awsome Xbox LIVE game as well, and will be played 
 even a years after its release. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dajo128
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 26, 2006 8:43 am PT
Review:  I think Call of Duty 2 is a good launch game for the xbox 360. It has the instant classic shooter 
 that every game fan must have. it has you going through several missions on three different playing 
 fields. You start with the Russain battles and move to Britain and end with the United States battle. 
 Overall the game is good and leaves you wanting more at the end. It kind of shocks you on how early 
 the game ends, but in the mis of the game it leaves you with a sense of that you got value out 
 what you bought. I think this game is a worthy buy for someone at this point with a 360 looking 
 for a war shooter, but if you wait too long then you will find that Ghost Recon and Far Cry might 
 just edge the game out a little. I thinkg this was a worthy buy for myself and it gave me a good 
 20 hours to beat it on 2 different levels. Might i add that i think the Gamer points added on Xbox 
 live rock, it gives you a sense that the game is complete when all the points are earned. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpaghettiDiner
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 25, 2006 7:24 pm PT
Review:  i got this game for the pc and beat it, then purchased it for my 360 a week or so ago and was blown 
 away by how much better it looks on the 360. everything is the same basically except its a bit 
 harder with a controller then a mouse and keyboard. but id say its worth the controls for the straight 
 out look of the game on the 360 its awesome, im not quite blown away by the graphics as i thought 
 i would be but still stunning. Enough about looks, the game is just fun and addicting. Very frustrating 
 on veteran tho as 2-3 rifle shots kills and 3-4 machine gun shots kill. buy passing a level makes 
 it much more of a feel of accomplishment, on easy and normal basically anyone can beat the game 
 so put it on at least hardened if your new to fps's, if not go strait for veteran unless if you 
 hate dieing all the time and wanna make it through the game by taking endless hits and not much 
 skill, but try it out you wont be disappointed 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trendkill351
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 25, 2006 8:47 am PT
Review:  CoD2 is a great 360 launch game with tons of fun. single player is good but multiplayer is amazing. 
 me and my friends played for 5 hours of CoD2 multiplayer straight. this game is worth 60$ just 
 for live play and if you dont have live there is very little point of buying this game instead 
 of renting it. this is game that you should have 4 controlers for. if you only want it for single 
 player id rent it for a week and beat it a few times and return it. this is the best live mutiplayer 
 game althought there is lag when people have bad conection. this game can give a good 50 hours of 
 mutiplayer fun but after that its not fun anymore
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chaoscougar1
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 25, 2006 4:17 am PT
Review:  Let me tell you, once you play this game on veteran you will never go back! You may have to do 
 a section over and over, but it teaches you skill, patience and multiple ways to do the exact same 
 section. Although some of the soldiers can get annoying, sometimes they seem to kill you before 
 you even see them, but it adds to the amazing realism of the game in veteran. The weapons are fun, 
 realistic and look great, although a few of them get a bit repetitive the fun of using them is 
 still there. I strongly recommend this game for anyone that is a fan of First Person Shooters, 
 World War 2 games and of course anyone who owns a 360, it just would'nt be one with out this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bluespike000
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 24, 2006 6:54 pm PT
Review:  Im seriously if this game got any better i may have wet myself at times when i was ducking for 
 cover or running from a nade. Graphis were just beautiful with realistic character animations i 
 had no trouble there. Im sorry but anyone remember in halo 2 when some marine says "get up so i 
 can kill you again" they did that a little to much in this game, after shooting someone in the 
 head and watching them crawl around and fire at you, it gets a little old. The sound itself was 
 rather loud witch fits for the idea of WW2 damn it must have been loud there as well, but for home 
 viewing its a little crazy.
  Now multiplayer... DAMN U! my biggest pet pieve for this game has to be the super lag involved 
 with it. You must join four games before you find a suitable host it gets old after a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheMightyGwin
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 24, 2006 5:24 pm PT
Review:  I am always rough on World War II games, but this one seems to treat the war in a respectful way. 
 This is the first WWII game where I cared about the people in my unit. In particular, the player 
 gains a real kinship with his American and British brother in arms. The graphics are amazing for 
 a launch game, with the map textures being amazing. The beauty of this game is map and the details. 
 I loved the breath that comes from characters mouth in the Russian campaign. The only downside 
 to this game is the multiplayer. The severs are bad, and only allow for eight players. Typical 
 game types are the rule here: death match, team death match, s+d, and ctf. Worth every penny just 
 for the British tank missions and the smoke grenades. To get the feel of a real war, play on veteran. 
 To feel like John Rambo play on normal or easy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamingStrife
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 24, 2006 3:49 am PT
Review:  
  Gameplay: The gameplay offers both a great and realistic experiance, such as having no health bar 
 you have to judge on your own health as you get hurt, but it doesn't take a lot to finally die, 
 a few shots sometimes even one will take you down. The shooting is really fun and you can really 
 feel the power of some weapons, a combination of both Frag Grenades and Smoke Grenades adds more 
 strategy to the game. There are a few things missing really and that is squad commands and being 
 able to pick up grenades thrown at you andthrow them back (like the enemy does to you) . There is 
 no driving in this game but turrets are available to use, except on one of the British missions 
 you take control of a tank in first-person and assist your squad of tanks in a ground assault. 
 Veteran mode will really add a challenging experiance, one or two shots your always dead and the 
 enemy is highly accurate, take it slow through this difficulty.
  
  Controls: The controls are smooth, although the movement of a character combined with the conflict 
 with certain objects/walls/areas can be irritating.
  
  AI: The AI is very good, enemies will know when to take cover, know when to shoot at you and your 
 allies, even know when it is suitable to throw grenades. If you throw a grenade at the AI enemy 
 and he is close to it then he will attempt to pick it up and throw it back at you, this is a nice 
 feature.
  
  Graphics: The views are stunning, the guns look so detailed and teh special effects such as water, 
 dirt and explosions are great. The face textures are far greater then any preceeding console shooter. 
 The graphics details and texture do seem to slip a bit with certain objects and parts of the ground.
 
  
  Sound: Gunfire and explosions are really given what they deserve with this game, combined with 
 epic music that really fits in with the game scenarios.
  
  Value: This game has much longevity, with the achievements that need to be unlocked by playing 
 the whole game through on Veteran mode. The multiplayer at first was weak, but with the latest 
 update pregame lobbys and much more customization is enabled.
  
  This is definatly my favorite Historic FPS.
  
  ps. my review score is based on that of the 
 X360, therefore cannot be compared with an original Xbox game
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jerami
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 23, 2006 4:33 pm PT
Review:  If you haven't played this game already, whether it be at a Target store, or a friend's house, 
 you are missing out. The Xbox 360 is, of course, a pioneer for the new age of graphical superiority. 
 And Call of Duty 2 is to Xbox 360 as Halo was to the Xbox. But as for the game, playing is very 
 easy to pick up on, and very addictive as well. Also, this game is very accurate as far as what 
 actually happened during World War II. If you play the D-Day mission in the game and afterwards 
 go look up pictures and logs of the Pointe Du Hoc mission, you will be amazed at how similar they 
 are. The campaign is quite long, but it is impossible to loose interest. And of course, the best 
 thing about this game is how remarkable the graphics are. I don't have a high def. Tv., but this 
 game was still extremely nice looking. I couldn't stop playing because i was caught up in a whirlwind 
 of amazement at the graphical splendor. So if you enjoy shooting games in general, and you always 
 wanted to be a war hero.... this game is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilchild
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 23, 2006 7:55 am PT
Review:  I got this game yesterday and i really like it. Total different thing from Xbox, PC or even PS2, 
 graphics are awesome, they make you feel that you are in the game. Characters reaction, moves, 
 speech is awesome too, they not even look like robots with those unrealistic moves. Sound is REAL 
 dude, such as bombs, bullets, commands and stuff. I didn't try yet play the game on HD resolution, 
 i dont know if its going to look better but on Standard tv looks great !! I recommend this game 
 to everyone who likes shooting games, or if its your first time playing xbox 360, you will get 
 addicted to it, so as i did :) !!! Difficulty depends on how good you are on shooting games, controlers 
 are easy to get use to them so odnt worry, it's easy to get use to the controlers but once you 
 get in the field it's REAL!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enzima
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 23, 2006 4:37 am PT
Review:  Yes people : this was the game to buy with your new 360 (together with PGR3) , the rest was not 
 important. Cant imagine why PDZ got a better grade (that game had the worst controls ever) here 
 on gamespot, but hey: everybody's got different taste. True, here there are no innovations, but 
 everything is done the way its supposed to be: great graphic and gameplay, easily the best WW2 
 shooter up to now. It feels great in your hands, some moments are memorable, the game's got only 
 one issue: the online side.
  Infinity Ward, whats up with that? do you know you just took 3 point off your game? boh.... but back 
 to the game: you'll enjoy till the end, cause the single player campaign is not that short. in 
 the end : a GOOD game, worth your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -X-Caliber-123
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 22, 2006 8:32 pm PT
Review:  This game is up there with the best. The graphics on this game kill the others. It truly shows 
 what the next generation console games should look and play this. This game has almost no downfalls 
 at all. You need to buy this game and you will not let go of that controler. If you are very obsessive 
 do not, I repeat, do not pick this game up off the rack. You will not focus on anything besides 
 this game until you beat it on veteren mode. 
  This game slaghters the rest with amazing gameplay and graphics. I would get the 360 for just this 
 game. You play as multiple characters fighting in war. Buy it. 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1o0oDOMo0o1
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 22, 2006 7:27 pm PT
Review:  call of duty 2 is awsome!!! this game has everything. tho whole world war 2 thing is great and 
 you feel like yo are in a real war. th graffics are awsome and the a. i of the cpu is incredible. 
 i can play this game for hours. the multiplayer is awsome but u may have some trouble finding a 
 match online. i would recomend this game to nay one that is a huge fan of call of duty or is just 
 a first person shooter fan. the weapons are amazing. you will have lots of fun playing this game 
 with your freinds and you will get very competative. get this game its worth every penny. awsome 
 game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vinnylong
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 22, 2006 9:21 am PT
Review:  THE XBOX 360 FIRST GREAT SHOOTERS
  call of duty. infinit ward retuns with more cinematic intensity and chaos than ever before, in 
 world war 2s most climactic battes join your squad and choose your single player missions. you 
 can play through 27 epic single players missions and 3 diffent campaigns. and you can battle in 
 world war 2 tanks. i think this game is so good because you get to kill all the jerrys. The core 
 gameplay hasnt changed much from the PC with the exception of some locked-down controls that you'll 
 either love or hate. With the exception of inverting the sticks, you are stuck with the button 
 assignments they give you. What has changed is the A. I., both for your squad and the enemy, which 
 now offers a much greater challenge than ever before, so choose your difficulty setting wisely. 
 The biggest change in A. I. is the squad awareness which is communicated through the new battle 
 chatter system. More than 25,000 lines of recorded dialogue (taking up as much space as the original 
 COD game) will give you continuous and accurate information about your surroundings and the status 
 of your men and that of the enemy. Once the first shot is fired this game turns into total realistic 
 warfare unlike anything you have ever experience, at least in game form.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thechosenone827
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 21, 2006 4:11 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is an awesome game for the Xbox 360 and is a title you must own. To start off the 
 graphics are very good. The detail on the characters and places are incredible. When switching 
 to zoom mode, you can actually read the writing on the gun. The single player game is very addicting 
 and has different difficulty levels. Most of the achievement points are to beat the game on Veteran 
 mode and it is insanely hard, but very well worth it. It was frustrating because you can only take 
 a few hits before dying, but it was very rewarding to get all the achievement points. The difficulty 
 makes this game's replay value that much higher. I played this game for a couple months just to 
 beat get all the veteran achievement points. The sound is incredible and the game play is very 
 well done, I would have liked to see a more open environment since the game is pretty linear but 
 it is still very well done. If you own a Xbox 360, this is one of the best shooter games available 
 for it and is definitely worth buying. This game was awesome and I can only imagine what Call of 
 Duty 3 is going to be like. If you don't own this game, get it and play it on veteran, it will 
 be frustrating, but you will get lots of replay value out of it and have some achievement points 
 to be proud of. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Abrussa
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 20, 2006 4:18 pm PT
Review:  The game sound is amazing, i havent heard anthing that good in surround system. The game is have 
 amazing graphics, but gel very old very quickly is a type of game done that play that. The only 
 difference is that is the first xbxo 360 game ans the graphics and sound make the game pretty interested. 
 I think people should rent it first. The online mode is horrible dont buy this game for the multiplayer 
 option. If you are looking for multiplayer action , check ghost reacon or perfect dark zero, remember 
 launch games, are not the best games but usally people get it because are the launch game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mmjm
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 20, 2006 9:32 am PT
Review:  If you own an Xbox 360 then you should own this game. Call of Duty 2 is a fabulous if not one of 
 the best first-person shooter for the Xbox 360 at launch date. 
  
  The gameplay is nice and fluid; there are little to zero technical problems in this game. Call 
 of Duty 2 is solid - at least, it appears so, in the earlier difficulties. You get to play on easy, 
 normal, hardened and veteran. There is a huge difference in difficulty settings as you can guess. 
 Easy is just that, veteran: Well I will say this - if you are not paying attention you will take 
 three steps and die. 
  
  The game plays out just like Call of Duty: you fight on several war fronts, as several different 
 characters. At the beginning, you play as a recently enlisted Russian, fighting the Germans in 
 Stalingrad.
  
  From there your fights gets moved on into Africa, where the British spent a great deal of time 
 to complete offensive manuevers. Your campaigns will end with American troops at D-Day. The beginning 
 of D-Day is just hard, no other way to put it. You scale a mountain and take out German artillery.
 
  
  The features of the online play are fabulous, there is a good reason to play xbox live with the 
 gold membership. This game is just a lot of fun to play online. No doubt about it.
  
  Call of Duty 2 is a fabulous game that all Xbox 360 owners should have in their collection. There 
 are hours of fun to be had. It will satisfy any gamers appetite for challenge and goals. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zoidberg1234
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 19, 2006 5:13 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty 2 is one of the best WWII fps out there. There are the three campains ( russian, british, 
 and american) each wonderful. It is fairly easy to learn, although i had a hard time because some 
 buttons are different from halo and MOHAA. The graphics are very good, although you can crawl through 
 bodys on the ground. Amazing sound puts you in the fight, from heart stopping explosions, to clear 
 voice overs. You can beat the game fairly quickly on easy or normal, but achiving the "war hardened" 
 achivement (beating thw game on veteran) is a great, time consuming challange. I highly reccomend 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tbolt_88
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 19, 2006 4:18 pm PT
Review:  Call Of Duty 2 is a very superb and wonderful game. I would have to say its one of the best WWII 
 games ever made. Its entertaining and fun from start to finish and i really had a blast with it, 
 i cant wait for the next one. They got the historical aspect down nicely and its very action pacted 
 and very worth owning. Multiplayer is fun and a good time can be had with Live. Call Of Duty just 
 rocks. I really loved this game a lot and dont see very many problems with it. Only problem i seen 
 was that the AI of your partners sometimes bad cuz they will run out and get killed or they will 
 get you stuck in spots resulting in your death due to a grenade. Other then that i see Call Of 
 Duty 2 as a wonderful game and a great sign of things to come on the 360 in the first person shooter 
 genre. I cant wait for Call Of Duty 3.. it will be sweet!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CassiusVII
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 19, 2006 4:04 pm PT
Review:  When I say best in series, I mean xbox360 fps's. There isn't much competition with it because PD0 
 is the only other fps out as of now. It has GRAW and FCI coming out to deal with but right now 
 its the best.
  Gameplay- Very Very fun. Its not to hard and not to easy, because you can pick which one you want 
 depending on your skill.
  Graphics- Flawless
  Sound- Very good, It fits the WWII theme.
  Value- It is a desently lengthed game and it has Online so you can play it forever.
  It was a 
 really fun game and challenging. Its def. worth a buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackHawk2599
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 19, 2006 3:24 pm PT
Review:  This was the first game I got for my 360 (actually I got it for Christmas b4 I even had my 369 
 :P) . Gameplay is fast and furious while being somewhat varied, but you spend most of your time 
 as an infantry unit from either America, Britain, or the Soviet Union. Graphics for this game are 
 silky smooth and I have yet to see any slowdown. Sound is amazing, from the booming gunshots, to 
 the massive artillery strikes. Multiplayer would be better online if it didn't have a big lag issue. 
 If you can find a lag free game it's fun. Be in mind that they are making a multiplayer patch. 
 I would buy this game rather than renting it and give it a 9.3 if it wasn't for GS ranking system. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FullMetalPanic7
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 18, 2006 11:23 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is a great game that looks, sounds, and plays extremely well. its a World War 2 
 game that has non-stop action from the moment you finish training. I only rented Call of Duty 2 
 for five days, but it was definitely worth buying. During the five days I rented it I played about 
 2-3 hours for 4 nights so it took me around 8-12 hours to complete the entire campaign and the 
 difficulty was excellent, and the achievements were done right in Call of Duty 2. If I bought the 
 game I would definitely go back through on Veteran to try and unlock all the achievements. Anyone 
 who is looking for a solid First-person shooter this is the game without a doubt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raylen12
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 18, 2006 11:00 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is quite obviously the best first-person shooter for the Xbox 360 at launch date. 
 The gameplay is much better than Perfect Dark Zero; the technical problems are much less than Quake 
 4. Call of Duty 2 is solid - at least, it appears so, in the earlier difficulties. 
  
  The game plays out just like Call of Duty: you fight on several war fronts, as several different 
 characters. At the beginning, you play as a recently enlisted Russian, fighting the Germans in 
 Stalingrad.
  
  After six or so missions, you switch to the British, playing as a sergeant fighting throughout 
 the North African countries. You also switch to a British tank commander, but that seems thrown 
 in, because you soon change right back to the sergeant.
  
  Towards the end, you will take the helm of an American soldier, storming the beaches on D-Day, 
 but not at Omaha. Instead, you must scale the cliffs of Point du Hoc, take out the German artillery, 
 and establish an offensive.
  
  All in all, the game can be completed in a short four or five hours on the easy difficulty. The 
 standard difficulty is only slightly harder; maybe an extra hour. Hardened gets a bit tough, but 
 the real, uh, highlight is the Veteran difficulty. You can blow through the first three levels, 
 but then you lose momentum like a drag racer hitting a big rig. The levels become insanely difficult. 
 Some levels last as long as the entire game on the easy difficulty. It may seem that you have faced 
 the hardest by the time you reach the British campaign, only to find a whole new set of problems. 
 On Veteran difficulty, two MG40 bullets will kill you. The Germans ignore your allies and focus 
 almost solely on you. 
  
  Other than the AI problems on the Veteran difficulty (it is supposed to be hard) , the game is solid 
 and good in the single-player aspect. Xbox Live multiplayer has some of the worst lag I have ever 
 experienced (e. g. going backwards while moving forwards) . 
  
  So, Call of Duty 2 is a solid FPS that an Xbox 360 owner should have. It provides a lot of good, 
 cinematic WWII moments, and is plenty of fun in some places. The sound is fantastic; the graphics 
 are acceptable; the gameplay is good everywhere except on the Veteran difficulty; the value is 
 basic for any FPS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bulldog7
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 18, 2006 12:30 am PT
Review:  It's a great game. Although I'm rather sick of WW games, this manages to pull it off. The single 
 player game is very fun, with intense shootouts and it is incredibly immersive. Multiplayer is 
 pretty good too, though it seems to me it could have had more depth to it.
  Graphics are great. Sound is top notch. AI is also well done, though nothing amazing. There aren't 
 really any big flaws in this game. 
  I don't think the multiplayer game is going to be for everyone though. It's not bad by any means; 
 but like I noted above, it doesn't have the depth that some other FPS have with regards to multiplayer.
 
  I personally think the single player mode is the strongest element of this game; it's very well 
 done.
  
  Is it worth buying? It's worth renting for sure, the single player campaign at least twice, and 
 multiplayer will keep you entertained for a bit. It's hard to say if it's worth buying. I'd rent 
 it first and see how much you like multiplayer.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: justinrf12345
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 17, 2006 8:28 pm PT
Review:  Man what an awsome single player. I have beat this game on all the settings and still enjoyed a 
 challenge on my third time through. There was just one thing missing though ......... ummm oh A 
 XBOX LIVE MULTIPLAYER. This has to be almost the worst online I have seen yet. Horrible servers 
 with lag every 4th game and no way to change the modifications without the HUGE glitch in the system. 
 Thank heaven for the internet though, because of huge complaints about these issuses there is a 
 multiplayer patch comming sometime soon to fix some of the problems, but I am not keeping my fingers 
 crossed for it to fix everything. Right now I am sticking to GRAW MP, but this is definately a 
 great addition for a single player game with a challenge and some multiplayer fun (when it doesn't 
 lag :) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mocha360
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 17, 2006 4:57 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty has an epic single player mode that will take you roughly 6-8 hours of play depending 
 on how good you are or what difficulty you set in on.
  You play as the Russians, Americans and the British, and it's got some replay value to it but not 
 as much as you would hope. The two things that stand out for me the most are the graphics and sounds, 
 with the graphics you have some of the best explosions that i have ever seen in a video game, and 
 the environments are very nice too look at also. The sound is probobly the best part of the game 
 great weapon sounds, voice acting and fantastic music. The online play is ok, you can have up to 
 8 players which is kind of a bummer, but they have a really cool kill cam so when you die you get 
 to see how you got killed by the eyes of the enemy that killed it it's really a nice feature. I 
 think that call of duty 2 is probably the best fps in the 360's launch lineup. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobstos
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 17, 2006 10:16 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2, the sequel to the 2003 game of the year, is back and it better than ever. This 
 game is till, in my book, the best single player first person shooter ever made. 
  The campaign starts you off with a short training, and then drops you right in the middle of a 
 battle in the snowy bombed out city in Soviet Russia. From there, you move to Africa, to Normandy, 
 even to Nazi Germany. 
  The action is non-stop, and it will force you to always be alert, to always be ready for an enemy 
 ambush. The ambiance of War are really great, also. you will hear the distant soft Boom's of artillery, 
 and the cackle of rifles in the distance. up close, the weapons all sound like they pack a punch, 
 and it feels satisfying when you kill an enemy with your M1 Garand.
  All in all, this is a great (if not the best) launch title for the Xbox 360, and you should check 
 it out.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ewmgreendawg
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 17, 2006 9:24 am PT
Review:  This game is THE BEST, and I mean THE BEST FPS WAR SHOOTER EVER. The graphics are amazing from 
 the bodies flying, explosions erupting from tank fire, smoke clouds, sand blowing in the desert..... amazing. 
 The sound also plays a crucial role in the experience of campaign mode. The single player campaign 
 is perfect. PERFECT! However, Call of Duty lacks a good mulitiplayer configuration. I like to think 
 of Call of Duty 2 as the yin and Perfect dark zero as the yang. COD has awesome single player, 
 PDZ has awesome mulitplayer. The mulitplayer for COD has a lot of potential but really doesn't 
 do anything with it. It's impossible to create a party to play online with friends, and there are 
 no accomplishments for online play that go towards your gamerscore. If Call of Duty fixied the 
 multiplayer bugs, this game would have a 10.... but until then.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ArmoredAshes
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 17, 2006 8:40 am PT
Review:  Im not one for war games but there is just something about COD2 that draws me to it. Maybe its 
 the fact i can play my favorite music in the backround to get me into the killing mood... heh. The 
 effects are great... if a shell explodes near you, you are stunned for a short period of time. The 
 different difficulties adds game replay value. Alot of the gamerpoints are from beating it on higher 
 difficulties. The higher difficulties give a more war like feel to them because of the AI. Only 
 bad thing is the AI can be too intelligent sometimes... such as being ble to see you in the smokescreens 
 you drop while trying ot find cover. All in all i suggest that if you like war games to pick this 
 up, and maybe even if you dont like them but are looking for a fun game try this out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fallen_Zen
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 17, 2006 8:06 am PT
Review:  I always hold my interest in World War II games, maybe because I'm from Poland and as you may know 
 this is where all started. The issue with Call of Duty for me was that it's a game designed for 
 PC (at least the first part) . So I thought what's the point in buying a port from PC to my Xbox 
 360? Thankfully my friend already had this game on his 360 so I was able to do a little interview 
 ;) . He convinced me that the game looks and feels a lot better on 360 than on PC. So this was no 
 longer an issue for me. When the game arrived I instantly dived into it. I managed to complete 
 the Veteran difficulty in less than three days. Graphics are good (too bad I don't have HDTV yet 
 probably there it looks a lot better) but the gameplay is what beats everything else. Sound and 
 music is also good but in my opinion not that important as the two above. If you really love FPS 
 and WWII games then it is a must have for you. If you preffer more games like Halo or Perfect Dark 
 Zero then probably you won't be as much interested as I am. And the good thing in playing a historical 
 game is that you can always learn something. I'm really happy that I bought this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grooveregulator
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 17, 2006 6:13 am PT
Review:  First of all it was my first 360 game, so I was impressed with the graphics, even I have a normal 
 TV (not HDTV) it looks great. I think the action its really cool because it simulates lot of characteristics 
 of a soldier, Unless the 100 bullets U can receive!! :p The tactical part of the game its great 
 but I think if that it could be better because when u repeat the mission, the enemy will do the 
 same.
  I didnt like either the no cop online game. I wish I could play online like Halo, Me and guests 
 of my account. 
  My Final Review is that Call of Duty its a great game wth few errors on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xb360addict
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 17, 2006 4:52 am PT
Review:  GRAPHICS - OH MY GOD i mean this is the words came out of my mouth when i saw this game for the 
 first time and the graphics is unbelievable with smooth textures and great lighting effects if 
 u see the smoke effect when u throw grenades on enemy it looks so real that i cant control myself 
 throwing grenades continuously on my enemy and when it comes to frame rates it's very cool and 
 it runs very smoothly and i think this is the start of a next gen gaming .
  
  SOUND - sound of this game is very cool and it's feel like u r actually a part of ww2 believe me 
 if u have a 5.1 surround sound then this is the plus point for u .it creates very awesome atmosphere 
 when u play this game.
  
  OVERALL - call of duty 2 is a very solid game with stunning graphics with great sound and it has 
 a great replay value if u own xbox 360 this is a must buy for u .
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sweendrix
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 16, 2006 11:10 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is another military first person shooter set in the period of World War 2. One would 
 think that a game entering such a crowded market would get lost in the crowd, however, Call of 
 Duty 2 stands out from it's brethern and shines like a diamond in the rough. The Xbox 360 version 
 runs at a very steady frame rate throughout, and the graphics, sound, and gameplay lead to a very 
 satisfying experience. The game puts a player into various campaigns throughout World War 2 and 
 even though a story is almost non existant, this in no way takes away from the superb experience 
 that is Call of Duty 2.
  
  Pros: Superb Single Player Mode. Intense action around every corner leaves gamers bewildered and 
 craving for more. Advanced A. I. really makes you feel in the middle of a tremendous struggle to 
 survive. Graphics are outstanding, especially considering it's a first generation Xbox 360 game. 
 The multi channel surround will really immerse you deeply into the game and each gun's sound effects 
 are earily authentic and make firing at your enemy a pleasure gaming sensation. The soundtrack 
 is often inspiring.
  
  Cons: Save Game glitch frustrated many gamers. Online multiplayer can get laggy. Game could be 
 a little longer... but... given how good this game is any extra content would still not be enough 
 to satisfy the urge to play this game over and over.
  
  Conclusion: Go out and buy this game. It kicks arse. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boolow407
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 16, 2006 10:26 pm PT
Review:  Honestly, FPS games to me meant headaches, dizziness and frustration in getting lost. This game 
 is hands down amazing. The gameplay is really easy to pick up, even despite what you may have played 
 in the Wal-Mart demo they always have going. You start off as a Russian soldier, training and getting 
 to know the controls as instructed by your commander. The game picks up very quick and you are 
 in a war environment, taking out the nazis. You move on through the game after fighting as a Russian, 
 a British soldier, then American. You fight in snowy Russia, sandy and hot northern Africa, rainy 
 France, and eventually Germany. The weapons are great too, giving you the opportunity to fire the 
 88 flak gun, an anti aircraft gun, sniper rifles, and tanks to name a few. Even the AI is not bad, 
 and your fellow soldiers make mostly smart moves. The graphics and sound put you right in the middle 
 of a war environment and are great.
  Truthfully, I use to turn away from first person shooters. Do yourself a favor and give this one 
 its day in court. Since I got this, I tried other FPS games including black. Nothing compares. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ocdog45
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 16, 2006 8:28 pm PT
Review:  this game with its clarity and a clear perspective of war heroes in the game, makes you remember 
 those who actually did give there lives in the war. while most know the story of WWII, unless your 
 a historian freak, not much know about actual hero's. call of duty shooting games brings war and 
 everything ugly about it. the game is intense at all times. ensure you know your control skills. 
 strategy is essential in the game if you plan on taking veteran mode on. its real life damage in 
 the game will either make you hate if, or enjoy the challenge. game play is great and non stop. 
 having an HDTV makes this game almost perfect. and some how when you die =, it almost doesn't upset 
 you with quick quotes from famous war hero's such a Patterson, napoleon, even Einstein. the replay 
 value of this is great, and while the multi player mode could use improvement. what game wouldn't.
 
  
  over all this game is worth buying but i rented it., so going that route isn't bad either. especially 
 with the shortness of the story mode.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GreyHairedGamer
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 16, 2006 4:50 pm PT
Review:  I waited a while to write a review on this game. Ive played it on the PC also and I have to say 
 I like the 360 version better. Maybe it is because I sit in front of PC all day and get tired of 
 it or maybe it is the fact I get to sit in a nice big easy chair when I play it on the 360 nonetheless 
 I like it better on the 360!
  
  Here is my review:
  
  Difficulty: Depends on who is playing it I rate it as Just Right because it is like so many other 
 FPS games.
  
  Learning Curve: 0-30 minutes. If youve played any other shooter you just need to get use to the 
 controls and that is about it. It really takes no time!
  
  Time Spent Playing To Date: 40-100 hours. I just got my 360 a few weeks ago. But this game has 
 been the most played with some competition from PGR3 and now GRAW!
  
  Classification: Immersive. The game seems to suck you in.
  
  GamePlay (10/10) : Replay value 
 is written all over this game. The game is fun the, the game is addicting, the game great. I cant 
 say enough about the gameplay, it really is immersive. It has the feel of being in the middle of 
 an epic battle.
  
  Graphics (9/10) : It is hard to ding the graphics at all in the game. Ive had no frame rate issues 
 and no glitches. The graphics look great and are superior to just about any game on the 360 to 
 date.
  
  Sound (9/10) : Excellent sound quality. No doubt the sound has been nearly mastered in the game.
 
  
  Value (10/10) : Again this game has tremendous replay value.
  
  Reviewer Tilt (10/10) : This is my second favorite 360 game and used to be my first until GRAW. 
 The game seems to have been made with a passion for fun and making the player feel like they are 
 a part of the game. One of my favorite games of all time.
  
  Closing thoughts: If you like WWII shooters, youll love this. If you like shooters, youll love 
 this. If you like video games yep, youll love this. :)
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ritcheyz
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 15, 2006 5:55 pm PT
Review:  Well, I've played Call of Duty 2 through and through, multiplayer and all, and I have to say is: 
 it is freaking intense. From firefights to sniping missions and turret segment, Call of Duty 2 
 is definently the best game of the 360's launch line-up.
  
  Pros: Graphics, Control Setup, Intense Action, basically everything.
  
  Cons: Multiplayer can 
 be laggy, in Veteran mode the enemies seem to know where you are all the time and they don't shoot 
 at you as much as they shoot at your allies.
  
  Overall, I think that Activision pulled off Call of Duty 2 rather well, but there are a few hiccups. 
 Definently worth buying. (Or renting, if you don't have Live.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Randomnessdoom
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 15, 2006 1:56 pm PT
Review:  Wow Microsoft in a big shocker has yet another fantastic fps game as an opener for a new system. 
 The gameplay and realism is dead on. ANd the nazi's tlak nazi its just the greatest game in the 
 series takes a while to get the hang of btu boy o boy. if there only one 360 game u can get get 
 this one its worth the 60 bux and then some. I would pay up to 100 for this game it was so good. 
 The wireless controllers were a pain in the neck u will play this game so much you will need the 
 play and charge cable after just 2 hours of gameplay do to the fact u may need some button mashing 
 skills either way it s the best opening title for the 360 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timbeamsrv
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 15, 2006 8:20 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2, in my opinion, is the best game out for the XBOX 360. If you have a 360 then you 
 must play this game. The graphics are unbelievable and you honestly feel like you are actually 
 in the battles. The fighting can be intense at times and you actually get nervous like you are 
 physically at the battles. I've only played the game through on easy mode so far and it hasn't 
 been too difficult. The enemy AI is good and they put up a good fight usually. The sound is great, 
 especially when there are planes overhead. I hope the next generation of games follows the lead 
 of Call of Duty 2. If so, the future of gaming is going to be exciting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hjart6
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 15, 2006 6:57 am PT
Review:  So there we have Call of Duty 2, the intro has the worst framerate i've ever seen, its like playing 
 WoW on a 1 ghz CPU ,awful.
  But when you get to play the game its not that bad, and graphics look good, if you dont go to close 
 to objects. it has its ups and downs. But when you get into the game you will sit there for hours, 
 because its a REALLY fun game.
  I've gone trough the game at normal and at veteran after still as fun.
  Sound has gotta be the 
 greatest, the blast of the sniper is ice cold.
  Now for the multiplayer, its a lot of lag, but its a great deal of fun.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yuiitsu
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 14, 2006 10:13 am PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  The gameplay produced from call of duty is of a very high standard, it's always putting you in 
 intense and exciting positions through-out the game. 
  Once the game is started it will give you the option to start a new game, when that is selected 
 your ready for a great gaming experience, it puts you at a russian (correct me if im wrong) training 
 ground there you train and learn all main skills, after that it gets you straight in for an all 
 out brawl with an opposing team.
  Far out into gameplay your put into a situation where your the front man in an army tank, doesn't 
 this sum up to you the joys of playing this game, im not even sure to call this game repetitive 
 as its always putting you in different positions
  
  Sound:
  The sound is incredible adding to the whole experience of playing this game, from all angles a 
 new sound appears, you really feel like your in the game.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics are very impressive, you might call it, not as good as the other games but when put 
 in perspective it shows off the XBOX 360 standard.
  
  A New Addition To My Review Structure
  
 
  
  Multiplayer:
  The multiplayer is tons of fun, its very exciting and can get very competitive a let down is you 
 cant both have your own teams which is a bit not fair. 
  Online gaming is AMAZING and enjoyable 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Silly
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 13, 2006 7:12 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is not unlike many other WWII shooters out there but its an amazing game. 
  The graphics in COD2 are nothing special but really gave the sense of a gritty WWII theme. 
  
 The gameplay is very solid and fast but its nothing new. It reminds me a lot of Medal of Honor 
 European Assault for the original XBOX. It has no everywhere on the battlefield and it sound great. 
 Expecially when hospecial gameplay tweaks and doesn't allow you to lean like it did on PC. I played 
 through the game once on normal and once on veteran. On veteran it is one of the most difficult 
 games out there but also one of the most thrilling WWII experiences you can get. 1 or 2 shots and 
 your dead.
  The sound is great and really adds to the experience. You can hear gun shots and explosions happening 
 all around the battlefield and it sounds great. Especially when hooked up to some surround sound 
 speakers.
  The games worth buying but like many games comming out recently its not really worth playing through 
 more then once. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: desaimastaflash
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 13, 2006 4:08 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is truly a spectacular game. I have played and beaten the game on every difficulty 
 level offered, and It was worth it every time. The Graphics in this game are superb. The are not 
 the most realistic, but they are very vivid and and just unlike anything offered on any other system. 
 The game itself is really intense. That is probably the best part of this game. You play it and 
 you feel like you are in the action. It can be really tough on the higher levels and a little frustrating, 
 but it is worth the frustration. Those damn Nazis keep coming from everywhere, but i guess you 
 have to expect thtat in German occupied France. The variety of weapons is done very well and each 
 has its own feel and attributes. There is no gaming experience more satisfying than being pinned 
 down in a door way with Nazi's on either side throwing grenades at you because you went back to 
 save one of your men. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fares_bytes
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 13, 2006 3:06 pm PT
Review:  I Was Simply Amaze Of This game ,Fantastic and Intense Single-Player Campaign, But Multiplayer Is 
 A Little Flaw Cause Only 8 People could Play online for some weird reason and better have a fast 
 internet connection cause i experience a lot of lag while playing online, had fun thought when it 
 was playing smoothly, the campaign is outstanding, you get the sense that you are outnumbered and 
 you feel like you are having a zero percent chance of surviver but some how you made it and you 
 need to just take like a 30 second walk and you have a intense battle again, had a fun time playing, war 
 or fps fans get this game, amazing campaign, and multiplayer thats good for the people with fast 
 internet and dont mind a 8 player battle. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uchitha
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 13, 2006 12:09 pm PT
Review:  Its the best of its kind. The gameplay is totally different from what other FPS games offer. The 
 developers have done it to the best you can feel the difference. Comparing with any other war game 
 or World War games this one is the best without any doubt.
  
  Graphics are so cool some blast and the effects are superb. The best part is you get this special 
 feeling and you are not alone like most of the FPS. You get this team spirit. The sad thing about 
 this game is that its very easy and anyone who plays it properly can finish it in one day. But 
 the experience you get from this is incredible.
  
  I strongly suggest you play this game if you haven't coz you are missing one best game all time. 
 Rated 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: turbo_prelude
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 13, 2006 10:24 am PT
Review:  this is one of the best first person shooters i have played in a long time people have been trying 
 to compare this game to G. R. A. W. and u cant do that because call of duty take place in ww2 and 
 G. R. A. W. takw place in the year 2013 thats centuries apart ones future warfare and ones old school 
 warfare and yea call of duty has sum problems but there working them out and making improvment 
 u cant expect everything to be perfect the first time around cant wait for call of duty 3 when 
 that one come out i dont think im ever gonna stop playing it oh yea almost 4got battle feild 2 
 moderen combat come out next month thats gonna be an awsome game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Untitled-One
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 13, 2006 6:33 am PT
Review:  This is the most realistic war game I have ever played. The graphics are just, AMAZING. The gameplay, 
 and the Squad fighting with you. 
  
  The sound, the explosions, the granades, the weapons, bobms, ships, yells, comandes, curses, shell-shock, 
 this game has it all! The game really gives you the feeling of true war.
  
  XBOX 360 owners, if you don't have this, get it. It really grows on you. This game features real 
 historical battles and events of World War 2, and even videos of the actual war.
  
  The only thing wrong about this game was its length. It was pretty short, and would have been a 
 whole heck of a lot better if the campain was longer.
  
  But overall, if you seek what war really is, or if you want an awesome shoote with great graphics 
 and sound, get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arronax2003
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 12, 2006 6:58 pm PT
Review:  World war 2 FPS games have come a long way from "back in the day". Seems only yesterday we were 
 running around absorbing lead by nazi's and beating them to death with a single smack of our rifles 
 in medal of honor. Then came Call of duty, and it was like a whole new war. Now its starting again 
 with COD2. First off, the graphics on the 360 are phenomenal. The people look amazing and the environments 
 are spectacular. The game itself takes a little while to play, (maybe 10 hours) but in the time, 
 the missions don't get old. Every time you get cornered by a bunch of nazi's you have to fight 
 for your life all over again. If you're a FPS master, you can take the game on Veteran, for a garaunteed 
 tough fight. The Nazi's will make you fight for every footstep into France (and step back in Russia 
 and Africa) . Veteran will most likely make you really angry at the game at times (wondering why 
 the russians couldn't just make a fireable explosive instead of running up to tanks) but afterwards 
 you feel like you really fought the Nazi war machine, and not just a bunch of wimpy guys in german 
 uniforms waiting for you to kill them. The A. I. is really nice, the Nazi's will chuck grenades 
 and take cover apropriately, and your teammates will give you support and call out useful sayings 
 like where the germans are. Also, the sound is beatiful, you can make out where gunfre is, and 
 hear your teammates shouting support. And you also get multi-player with the game, which at launch 
 kind of sucked because it was only quick games, and you couldn't really make friends. Now though, 
 a patch is a coming out so that it will have servers, making a more enjoyable online experience. 
 If i have on Complaint though, it would be that it seemed like a step backwards, gameplaywise, 
 from United Offensive. No vehicles or deployable turrets, whats up I. W.? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameDestroyer88
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 12, 2006 3:15 pm PT
Review:  The WWII genre is as popular in the gaming biz as the FF games or the RE games. However.... not 
 every WWII shooter is great..... most of them aren't even good. Then came the smash hit Brothers 
 In Arms, a game that revitalized the WWII FPS and brought new and unused aspects to the game. Now 
 that the 360 is out, Activision made the smart choice of bringing the best war game to date on 
 Microsofts brand new box.
  
  Gameplay: Call of Duty 2 is, of course a FPS. Now the main thing to notice about the game isn't 
 quite the graphics... well not yet. What really is noticable is the way the game feels. The controls 
 are crisp, and highly responsive, putting the new wireless controller of the 360 to great use. 
 I must say that this was the most tantalizing aspect of the game to me. The feel is just so amazing. 
 Like I said, the controller is put to use in the best way possible. COD2 works like your basic 
 FPS: run, shoot, jump, cover, grenade, the works. Although that formula may sound simple, the good 
 folks who developed COD2, Infinity Ward made it feel so much more than just the average shooter. 
 Everything in COD2 really puts you in the boots of a battle hardened soldier, shooting his way 
 through the Nazi war machine, watching his friends being shot as they charge the front lines in 
 the name of all that is good. The AI in COD2 is another noteworthy subject. The Nazi's will supress, 
 cover, flank, and even chuck grenades all hoping to nail your ass. Your teamates aren't that bad 
 either, they'll call out enemy positions all over the place and will even take down the Nazis on 
 their own.
  
  Graphics: Absolutley amazing. This is a good way to kick off the 360. The visuals are all beautiful, 
 enviroments that range from Africa to Stalingrad, to west Germany, they all look incredible. If 
 you look closely you can see the woodworking on the guns, and the scratches in the metal.... now 
 that's detail.
  
  Sound: The 2nd WWII game to feature incredible audio. The rat-ta-ta-tat of the Tommy Gun, the sonic 
 boom of the frag grenades, everything is superior. The chatter of your fellow fighters pours out 
 during fire. Your commanding officer barking orders at you, all incredible. The only thing in this 
 department I miss is the foul language that Brothers In Arms had. I know it's a little childish, 
 but the language makes it feel so much more realistic..... like I mentioned in my BIA review, you're 
 not gonna take the time to be polite on the battlefield.
  
  Overall: Overall COD2 is one of the best games for the Xbox360 right now. And guess what, this 
 is a game I can reccomend you give to your 12 year old... why cause it's rated T. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DevilToPay
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 12, 2006 2:07 pm PT
Review:  I know this has all been said before but wanted to add my vote on CoD2 for Xbox 360. I haven't 
 played video games for awhile so the single player campaign blew me away. I really only play first 
 person shooters (got hooked on Doom when it first came out) and this one is fantastic. I am also 
 new to multiplayer but it didn't take me long to find all the flaws that even I can see with the 
 multiplayer version. This is really too bad because this game can be a classic. I would have rated 
 this much higher but for the multiplayer problems. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reece590
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 12, 2006 9:18 am PT
Review:  This game is a very larg scale game. Be prepared to storm beaches, buildings and tanks... The feeling 
 you get when you strom something is a great one... A feeling when you feel like you are there.. The 
 graphics are truely next generation and the AI will put you in checkmate many times... The multi 
 player is fun and intense on Live and the split screen is also very fun with some freinds... Makeing 
 up little game modes with a gruop of friends is very fun... The scale of this game is amazing and 
 everything perfectly fits the time era... Be sure to pick this one up......... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joemania56
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 11, 2006 7:32 pm PT
Review:  With a real arsenal of WWI weapons, you battle it out in real WWI locations. Very Fun Game! If 
 you loved Star Wars Battle Front you will love this game. (Personal Experience There) So much action 
 in single player. Play as a sniper or a front man. Game is very realistic, they even make it so 
 that close people have smoke gernades and snipers only have frags. Great online play. Good Graphics. 
 Very Realistic Settings! I loved this game so much i cant put it on paper... but i think i just 
 did... actually i put it on PC. Just go buy it dont question it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BIGTRC
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 11, 2006 4:57 pm PT
Review:  By far better than the rest of the other world war 2 games made. The graphics are unbeliveable. Gameplay 
 is incredible. Sound is out of this world. Big Red One was an all right game but call of duty 2 for 
 the xbox 360 blows the competion away. It is like being in world war 2 because of all of the great 
 sound and graphics. This game is the best game for the 360 .It real puts the 360 to the test .If 
 you have a 360 you should get this game. This was the first game i bought for the xbox 360 I spent 
 all day playing this game. So when it comes down to it call of duty 2 is the best of its kind and 
 there is only one word to describe it amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SonicKid_UK
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 11, 2006 1:54 pm PT
Review:  As a group of soviet soldiers pile out of the back of the truck you see incredibly life-like faces 
 and hear frightingly excellent sounds. After training you are thrown straight into battle which 
 is actually like being in World War 2 (without the imminent death aspect) and is just mind boggling. 
 I love this game for so many reasons 1 of which being the only war game i've managed to find to 
 feature the soviets as playable characters. The missions are exciting and tense and highly addictive 
 and they have all the right level settings so if you are a hardcore gamer or not this is definitely 
 worth picking up. You can play as the U. S. S. R, UK or U. S. A all with varying and exciting missions. 
 Each country have their own different and distinctive weapons plus you can pick up the German weapons 
 along the way. This is the only shooter I will place next to my Halo games as I feel its the only 
 1 that can match up to them. If you don't like shooters you'd be surprised if you tried this game. 
 AWSOME! If I had to name 1 problem it would be that the game is too short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sushi_111
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 11, 2006 10:11 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is the sequel to Infinity Ward's award winning WWII FPS which was released in 2003. 
 I think it's safe to say the wait was well worth it, as Call of Duty 2 is a phenomenal game that 
 truly stands out in the crowd of WWII themed shooters. 
  
  The gameplay in Call of Duty is, of course, first person action during World War II. The combat 
 in the game is beyond intense, and as Bob mentioned in his review, it really makes you feel like 
 you are only a small part of a large war. With so much going on around you, Call of Duty 2 is definitely 
 not a game for the faint of heart. 
  
  The core combat is really intense. The weapons in the game are all great and unique, ranging from 
 pistols and rifles to snipers and panzer... rocket launching thingies. All the guns in the game 
 are really solid, but you might see yourself ditching your pistol as soon as possible for a sniper 
 rifle or machine gun. But the shooting itself is really intense and satisfying. Don't expect to 
 go in guns blazing into situations, or you going to going to have every war quote in the book memorized 
 (which is a nice touch) . Definitely one of the coolest and most strategist parts of combat is the 
 use of smoke grenades, which not only gets you out of really difficult spots if you use them right, 
 but also look amazing when in full effect. Of course you can always toss a potato masher to get 
 the job done. The A. I. is something I could write a whole review on, but in short, it's fantastic 
 on both sides.
  
  Complaints about the gameplay? Well the whole tank driving segment was really disappointing, but 
 if there is one major thing to complain about on the gameplay side it's that the whole halo-armor 
 type regenerating health system will not appeal to everyone, especially those expecting this to 
 be an extremely realistic affair. But it does help the game be even more intense. Speaking of intense, 
 the amount of "OMGWTFBBQEXPLOSION!" moments is so high, it's ridiculous. I don't want to give it 
 away, but landing on the beaches of Normandy in this game is something I'll never forget. There 
 are a lot of things you will see in this game that will amaze you.
  
  Graphically, Call of Duty 2 is fantastic. All the guns look extremely clear and realistic, the 
 environments are all great looking, the frame rate is very smooth, and like I mentioned before, 
 the smoke effects in this game are beyond compare. Admittedly, there are some small technical issues 
 in the game, but I wont get into that. 
  
  Now we get to the greatest part of the whole game - the sound. The sound of everything in the game 
 is mind-blowing. Be it the dramatic hiss of death as that last enemy grenade seals your destiny, 
 to the triumphant score at every missions end. Every weapon in this game is beyond compare in the 
 sound department, especially the sniper rifles. I didn't want to mention it before, but the sound 
 of nailing a German soldier in the head with your rifle is extremely satisfying and realistic. 
 Overall the sound pretty much puts life into the game. 
  
  Now we get to the disappointing part - the online multiplayer over Xbox LIVE. First of all the 
 game only supports eight players over Xbox LIVE, which is a disappointment to say the least, especially 
 since the PC version of Call of Duty 2 supports 32 people online, a number the 360 surely can handle. 
 Maybe they want to prevent lag you say? Think again. This online mode is completely broken, with 
 over three quarters of the games you enter lagging like there's no tomorrow. Split-screen on the 
 other hand is a complete blast, running at 60 FPS. But the maps are a little too big to play with 
 1 or 2 buddies.
  
  Overall Call of Duty 2 is an amazing and epic FPS that you will never forget. While hardcore online 
 shooters might prefer something like Perfect Dark Zero, Call of duty is just an overall fantastic 
 package, and is one of the games no 360 owner should be without. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattw1555
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 11, 2006 8:34 am PT
Review:  I have played everygame in the Call od Duty series and love them all with the exception of Finest 
 Hour. However, Call of Duty 2 is the BEST COD ever. The gameplay is exciting, unexpected and a 
 lot of fun. When I ply this game I'm always on the edge of my seat and jumping up saying whoa!!! 
 This is just an outstanding fps and WW2 game. I feel it really grabs the intensity of war unlike 
 anyother game has to this point. Occasionally the game gets extremely challenging for me. Mainly 
 when you need to hold off counterattacks. I really suck at that part of the game. I'm more of an 
 aggresor, other than that the campaign is awesome. The multiplayer however leave something to be 
 desired. Mainly because you will experience a lot of lag while playing online compared to some 
 other games. But a positive side is it changes with everymap. One map it's best to be a sniper, 
 the next a rifleman. I LOVE that!!! This is just an outstanding game to. Oh, and the graphics are 
 out of this world. I never thought I would be so impressed with realistic looking smoke, but this 
 game has it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chris177
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 11, 2006 7:29 am PT
Review:  this has to be the best xbox 360 game iv played so far, the controls on this gave is very easy unlike 
 other games that iv played on the 360. The best thing about this game is the gameplay its the best 
 so far one of the bad things is the frame rate its extremely crappy every time there is an explosion 
 you lag for a couple of secs. The storyline is quite good but it could use some improvements. The 
 graphics are the best iv seen so far in the xbox 360 i hope the graphics improve on the 360 so 
 it will show the full potential of the 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SolidKeevo
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 19, 2006 6:31 pm PT
Review:  I am a WW2 finatic, so the more WW2 shooters the better! CoD2 is one of the best WW2 games I've 
 ever played.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is fairly simple and straight forward in CoD2. It's a WW2 first person shooter. 
 They're really no new innovations in the second installment of this franchise. Almost all the time, 
 your firing your gun at Nazi's. They try to spice it up with tank battles, ground-to-air fighting, 
 and calling in artillery strikes, but none of it is really fun. There isn't much of a story here, 
 you play as an American, Britian, and Russian. In most missions you're given one goal, and in between 
 you find obstacles you must overcome. The multiplayer gameplay is good, and CoD2 is my favourite 
 game online. It's only 8 players online, but it is still tons of fun.
  
  Graphics: CoD2 has pretty good graphics, but they aren't the best. The backgrounds look nice, but 
 when looking at them with binaculars or a sniper scope, it's just a picture. The smoke and explosions 
 are great, especially the smoke.
  
  Sound: From the voice acting to the explosions, this game sounds great. Each gun has its own unique 
 sound. Actors from Band of Brothers lended there voice, and they did a pretty good job. I love 
 how when there is no fighting going on (which rarely happens) you can here firefights and artillery 
 in the background.
  
  Value: I can't belive I'm still playing this game. It's the only launch title I still play. Ocasionally 
 I go back to the singleplayer, but most of the Value is in the multiplayer. There are 5 different 
 gametypes and 20+ levels (if you include the DLC) . The singleplayer does last a while, if your 
 not just running through it on easy. It's a good idea to play easy first, then keep going higher. 
 The achievements really help with the singleplayer value. There's my review on CoD2, hope you enjotyed 
 it. .Happy Gaming! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Will171
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 10, 2006 4:16 pm PT
Review:  
  Call of duty 2 for the 360 is my favorite game yet. the campain mode is great and you can adjust 
 the difficulty well. for the real game to come out you have to play on veteran mode. the sound, 
 graphics, game play all great but its fatal mistake lies in the online fighting. it is often hard 
 to join a game lobby and it lags 4 out of 10 times. although when you can play it is still very 
 fun . 
  
  now i need to have at least 100 words so i will just shoot the breeze for awile. yeah i want to 
 get j j jkj kdjf k sjf sflsjfkl sf sd fkls kfl f klds f df d dd dd d d d d d dd d d d d d d d d 
 d d d dd d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unlimitedkiller
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 10, 2006 12:31 pm PT
Review:  man i love this game non stop actiong and as the level pass on it seems to get easier but i just 
 love moving it to verteran the skilled veteran i love this killing killin time building ur skills 
 the replay value of this game is amazing and it iz addiction from the begining i would say erfect 
 for anybody that loves shooter games and miltiary games together wolf wolf go get them i just love 
 this game i would surely add this game to ur xbox 360 selection the launch title worth ur money 
 graphic wise and game play wise 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hendrix_986
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 9, 2006 6:03 pm PT
Review:  To sum up Call of Duty 2, take the franchise to a whole new level with SMART A. I. and state of 
 the art graphics. 
  
  GAMEPLAY: Plays very well, its all FPS action be it Russian, British, British Tank Squadran, or 
 American fronts. I like the grenade warning icon, helps if you have the sound off or if the explosions 
 and gunfire are to destracting. The enemy A. I. is on of the things you will notice that really 
 makes this a great game. I like the variety in the levels and weapons. By the way, enough levels 
 to feed your FPS craving.
  
  GRAPHICS: Better than expected, also looks unbelivable on an HDTV. 
  
  SOUND: Like all WWII 
 games sound is a must and COD2 delivers.
  
  VALUE: I've played levels over again trying differant ways to take down the Nazi war machine and 
 it doesn't get to old. 
  
  ONLINE: AWESOME!!!!!!! Probably the best FPS on 360 so far!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ScarFace8248
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 9, 2006 5:02 pm PT
Review:  The day I bought the X360, my mission was to get Call of Duty 2. I saw the screenshots and videos 
 of the gameplay, and they looked amazing, but I still was concerned on the gameplay and the framerate. 
 As I finally achieved in getting the game, I had no patience in peeling off the security plastic. 
 I ripped open the case and started playing. After the first mission, my jaw dropped. The graphics, 
 the smoke effects, the bestious AI, the realism in the game was unbelievable. All of the missions 
 were great, but when I came across the battle of Point du Hoc, I just couldn't take it anymore. 
 Not one game can come across this part, not Halo, not Half Life, not even F. E. A. R. The gameplay 
 was solid. Thee AI was outstanding, they were ruthless, even after being shot several times, they 
 got up and tried to take you out with a hand gun. Your teammates were always with you, and I loved 
 how they were able to kill the enemies. Maybe I haven't played too many games but this is the first 
 time I saw AI kill other AI. The graphics were outstanding, yes there were some minor flinches 
 here and there, but it was still outstanding. The smoke grenades had an unbelievable effect. The 
 gun fire was superb and the blood spraying off the enemy really made you feel like a killer. There 
 was ferocity in the fights throughout the entire game and intense action. 
  
  The multiplayer was also good. I truly loved some of the maps in the mulitplayer section of the 
 game. My friend and I love the Moscow map. Only sniper battle, in the snow. Whoever shot who first 
 made the batlle feel more intense. Every time I killed him, from across the map I couldn't help 
 myself and go OOOOOH. The replays made it feel even more satisfying. 
  
  The Bad
  I really wanted to play some pacific maps, but I hope that's going to be in Call of Duty 3. 
 
  Physics was lacking. The only thing you could shoot was the wine bottles.
  Fire effects could have been better.
  I cannot think of any more for this game is near to perfection
 
  I was surprised that gamespot gave it an 8.8
  It deserved better, MUCH BETTER
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamemasta456456
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 9, 2006 4:37 pm PT
Review:  If u want the basics scroll down.... (pros n cons)
  Now my first impressions are... WOW!!! This is wayy better than the PC version in many ways. One 
 of them is that there is no LAG in single player mode, since COD2 takes up soo much space. BUT 
 there is saving glitches, and other glitches, they will release patches if they havent already.
 
  This game has a GrEaT concept, but used too many times, like Medal Of Honor, the other COD games, 
 and other followers. 
  You play as random soldiers from each front and faction (GB in Africa, US in West Europe, and Russia 
 in East Europe) . I definetly love the graphics, they are extreamly detailed, i mean if u look at 
 the guns, u see specks and the material it is made of very good.... Here is the basics
  
  + Extreamly detailed graphics
  + Cool gun designs and sounds
  + Very smart AI even on easy
 
  + The fun concept is well, very fun!
  + Your allies at times will yell out positions of enemys
  + Your allies are very smart too, they 
 dont run around in circles like complete idiots like in many other FPS
  +/- Great concept but used too many times, there should be twists in these games
  
  - A few 
 glithces like saving problems
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: clcougars33
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 5, 2006 6:45 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best game for the xbox 360 by far. The graphics are unreal for any 360 owner who 
 doesn't have it he or she is missing alot. The gameplay is the best i've ever seen out of any game 
 out there. This is by the best World War 2 game ever made. Posibly the best shooter ever made. I've 
 played every World War 2 game they have made. This is definitly the best shooter on the xbox 360 
 no matter what anyone sais. This is the best game for sound on the xbox 360 also. This is my personel 
 opinion of this game or any other game out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MTHoodlum423
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 9, 2006 12:01 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is an awsome game. The campaign keeps you yelling at your T. V. screen and always 
 brings you back to play some more. This game is both good for novice players and hardcore gamers. 
 It is easy on the normal difficult setting but when you bump it up to Vetern the game is definatly 
 a challange. Multiplayer is extremely fun, yet this is where the game is lacking and is the only 
 reason why I gave it a 9 instead of a 10. It can take up to thirty minutes for a person to get 
 into a game because it keeps bringing up a screen that says no games available (its an error, not 
 because there is no games) . After that there is a good chance that it will says server disconnected 
 right when you finally get into a game and it loads the map. After that, there is a very high chance 
 the game will lag. There are no dedicated servers and most people can't host more than 4 or 5 people 
 before it lags. However if you find some friends on there that have good connections and like to 
 host, then you can get into some awsome games. I have been in games that have had up to 12 people 
 playing (8 is the normal limit) without any lag. The game developers have been promising a patch 
 to fix the problems for months now and we have not seen anything. With Ghost Recon Advanced War 
 Fighter out and Battlefield 2 on its way next month I think this game will die off fast, even with 
 a patch now, because its taken them way to long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 670179139
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 9, 2006 3:37 am PT
Review:  This game is the best game for the xbox 360 by far. The graphics are unreal for any 360 owner who 
 doesn't have it he or she is missing alot. The gameplay is the best i've ever seen out of any game 
 out there. This is by the best World War 2 game ever made. Posibly the best shooter ever made. I've 
 played every World War 2 game they have made. This is definitly the best shooter on the xbox 360 
 no matter what anyone sais. This is the best game for sound on the xbox 360 also. This is my personel 
 opinion of this game or any other game out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gladius619
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 8, 2006 8:55 pm PT
Review:  When I purchased my xbox 360 system last month, of course I needed a game to go with it. As xbox 
 360 owners know, there isn't a lot to choose from yet, and when you are shelling out that kind 
 of bread for a system, you wanna get something that you know is good when purchasing a game. Call 
 of Duty 2 did not disappoint. The graphics and gameplay are awesome. This game definitely feels 
 "next gen" in my opinion and there isn't a lot negetive I can say about this game. I do feel it 
 to be a little on the short side, and playing it on the higher difficulty settings can be very 
 frustrating. I cursed the game out quite a few times, and some levels did take some trial and error. 
 All in all a great launch title. For those looking for a great game to play for the xbox 360, you 
 can't go wrong with Call of Duty 2. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowsurge
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 7, 2006 5:24 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty 2 has the potential for greatness and is good for a launch title but really I'd expect 
 more maybe its just that I'm not really into military games but there are too many weapons and 
 they all feel the same. I mean how many different version are their of the machine gun or even 
 worse the unscoped rifle archetype and then you have things like 15 rifles and only 2 with a scope 
 but having a scope magically decreases the speed you can shoot at. Also I hat that all Nazis look 
 exactly the same for god's sake give me at least 2-3 different faces and 2 somatypes not all Nazis 
 are the same.
  Also the Xbox Live play needs some work but with the patches that have already comes out i think 
 this will eventually get fixed but as of now multiplayer can be pretty broken 
::::::

::::::
UserName: netsgiantsfan24
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 7, 2006 5:14 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is a good game but not amazing. If you like war games then this is a must have but 
 if not then just rent it. The graphics in the game are amazing except for a few glitches. The smoke 
 effects are excellent as well. It is pretty easy to get the controls because it is just like every 
 other first person shooter. The single player is excellent but multiplayer is where the game falters. 
 Online the game lags like crazy. People float around and jump frum place to place. It is impossible 
 to control your guy. Also it is hard just to get into a game because it always tells you unable 
 to join the game. If you dont have xbox live its worth a buy but if you do just rent it. I'm going 
 to trade this game in for GRAW very shortly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: S22391
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 7, 2006 2:33 pm PT
Review:  I think every aspect of this game is almost perfect. Theres only a few things wrong. Sometimes 
 its kinda hard to use the iron sights on the rifles so people usually end up just shooting their 
 gun at the hip. You can't invite your friends to play with you in online multiplayer. And they 
 have degraded the Thompson greatly from the first one which is kinda gay but in the end i guess 
 it makes it a little more balanced. The last thing is that crosshairs only appear when you're standing 
 still. Why? They should be on all the time or not at all but w/e. Overall, this is a damn good 
 game with great sound and graphics and the multiplayer is very enjoyable even without ur friends! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Soccermn6
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 7, 2006 1:02 pm PT
Review:  yes it is unbelievable, The single player mode is so belive you will think you were drafted and 
 are fighting in world war 2. the game consists of 9 missions which is not alot but if you play 
 it on a harder level then you will find that theses nine levels are incredible dificult. You cannot 
 just run around shooting and expect that god will spare you. You will be reading the game qoutes 
 very often. The game can get frustrating but the visuals are so spectacular that you will get over 
 it quickly
  
  The AI is so smart you would think you are playing online. Speaking of online. I come to the only 
 thing that is bad in this game. The Online is horribile. you cant join your friends in a custum 
 match you can only play on game at a time and right after your sent right back to the lobbby. There 
 is a lot of lagg and its just not fun to play when it says CONNECTION ERROR however still the best 
 world war game ever made!!!!!!!!!!! or at least in single player!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: T-Mac1H
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 6, 2006 1:18 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is easily the best game for XBox 360 out now. It has a somewhat short single player 
 game, but it becomes very challenging when you turn the difficulty up. You could spend many hours 
 beating the game on its highest difficulty.
  It also has a good multiplayer. While the game says it only has 8 player multiplayer on XBox Live, 
 there are ways of making games with many more people online. If you have XBox live, this is a game 
 you will never get tired of!
  This is a good game for people who are looking for a good single player and or a good multiplayer 
 game. This game is a must have for anyone who has XBox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rgreenawald
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 6, 2006 11:19 am PT
Review:  Okay, we have all played Call of Duty and all were eagerly anticipating the release of this game. 
 Well, I don't think anyone is disappointed. This is one of the best FPS out there, and on top of 
 that, THE best WW game. You actually feel like you are part of the era, and the graphics are incredible. 
 I am going through the game on Veteran, which is the only way to get all of the achievements, which 
 is one of the hardest things I have had to do. It really makes you appreciate the old days when 
 you could bum rush the enemies with a machine gun and be okay. On Veteran, you have to use your 
 noggin a little more and protect yourself. This game has the perfect blend of great graphics, fantastic 
 gameplay, realistic weapons, and is very difficult. For all of you who loved Call of Duty, this 
 game will be your new favorite. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reaper5
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 5, 2006 11:21 pm PT
Review:  This game is a intence experence. Its realisme is amazing. it emerses you into the war and is truly 
 fun. The game also has exelent soundeffect and stunning vissual graphics. The graphics push the 
 360 to its limits. I beleve that it needs lots of improvement mulltyplayer wise. You disconect 
 after evergame . Forcing you to start or find another game. That gets anoying fast. I here they 
 are working on a path whitch is good. altogether its vetrain experence is fun and a good chalenge. 
 so i recomend it to anyone with the xbox 360 if they dont already have it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doa_luver
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 5, 2006 9:10 am PT
Review:  ok well this game definetly isnt a "bad" game but i wouldnt consider it that "good" wither. i mean 
 if ur into war then u'll totally luv this game but i h8 war games! the only reason i actually thot 
 of playing it wuz cuz my lil bro wanted it and i heard it wuz good. 
  
  gameplay: well like i said, it bascially deals wit war. and im not a war kind of person so i would 
 say the gameplay sux! but since im thinking about the war fans and the non war fans im gonna say 
 the gameplay wuz pretty good 4 a war game. i only played the game like once so i have no experience 
 and i never really knew wat eevryone wuz talkin about in the game cuz i dunno abotu war! lol
  
  graphics: the graphics in this game look really good! i mean it feels like ur really in war! 
 but i dont really like that theres no aiming thing on the gun. theres sort of an aiming thing on 
 the gun but not as good as in pdz . the ppl look really real tho, and so duz the setting of all 
 the levels. (well i wouldnt really noe about "all" the levels cuz i've only played like one! 
 
  
  online: ok online sux! its boring! i mean theres hardly any action! i dont like the way its set 
 up. the y coulda dun better. but 4 ppl who like war games they mite liek the online play. it all 
 depends on wat kinda games u like. 
  
  sound: souind is really really really good! thats all i gotta say! 
  
  overall (in my opinion) 
 i think this game is kinda boring and i wouldnt play it again! (thats 4 all those non war fans 
 out there) but 4 the war fans (or ppl who r like obsessed wit shooter games) this game is pretty 
 cool wit good graphics, sum history lessons (lol) , and action packed entertainment. *couh, cough* 
 lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abclol
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 5, 2006 8:08 am PT
Review:  Im not a army game fan. I picked up call of duty 2 on the xbox 360 I put the game on normal and 
 started playing first thing i noticed is the graphics are really good. It wasnt over shinny like 
 PD0. They were just right. During the first level when training is over and you get into the game 
 the sound were amazing. The People yelling, gunshots, bombs blowing up it was amazing. The game 
 play was basic to me. Just like every other FPS game see somebody, shoot, they die. But since its 
 a army game they made it realistic the enemies die in 1 to 3 shots even in Veteran mode which is 
 very hard mode. You have so much ammo you cant really run out. That could be good or bad depending 
 on how you see it. On the normal setting, it is way to easy, I flew through the game. On Hardened 
 ( I think its called. Hard mode) It is a little more enjoying and a little challenging. On Veteran 
 mode it is really hard It will keep you busy for a while. If you like the challenge this it the 
 mode for you. This game is long and will take you about 10 to 20 hours to beat. Which is good for 
 a FPS. I had a lot of fun the first time through but after I beat it, I got bored of it. Whith 
 nothing to unlock it gets boring after you beat it. Playing this on Xbox live is fun. I can play 
 that for hours. (After you beat the game, you can go on xbox live) . It was a good game overall 
 but I really hate army games but this I somewhat enjoyed. I Give Call of Duty 2 A 7.5 out of 10 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cpttemplar
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 4, 2006 4:55 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is my favorite game on the XBOX 360 as of now (March 4, 2006) . It's filled with 
 intense WWII action, such as D-Day, Starlingrade, the game is amazing. One of my favorite things 
 is the battle cry audio, which adds an extra bit of intensity by hearing the shouts of your fellow 
 soldiers at all times. I love this game, and i think that the developers made it the best it could 
 be. The only thing that i think could have used work were the graphics. I mean, they were TOTALLY 
 next-gen, but after seeing games such as PDZ and Fight Night, we all know they still could have 
 been better. I love the nice steady framerate of 60 fps, and how it never lags even in online play, 
 which is amazing. This game is one of my favorite games of all time, for the XBOX 360 and all other 
 gaming systems. It's truly a classic! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockokla4life
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 4, 2006 10:14 am PT
Review:  Call Of Duty 2 on the Xbox 360 offers you many different, and unique styles accompanied with graphics 
 that lived up to the growing hype of the next generation. The Difficulty Modes, and Acheivement 
 fit in perfectly with the game makes it a ardious task to get those achievements; However, the 
 thing that kept me coming back for more and more of this game would have to be the variety of gameplay, and 
 which sides they allowed you to play on the Soviet's, British, and American's. This game also boasts 
 enough missions to keep you satisfied that is if you play it on the veteran difficulty level any 
 lower difficulty and it'd probably be a BLACK game.. the AI within the game is impressive as well, 
 and how they don't run into walls its wonderful! Overall I'd give this a 9.0 if your looking for 
 your first 360 title keep this one in mind it's a good buy, and is sure to not disappoint! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sykodude4523
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 4, 2006 8:35 am PT
Review:  Well First off the multiplayer is horribly lagy at time then others its just fine. Not enough American 
 Missions. Too Many British Missions. No Driveable vehicles-Only in one mission thats super easy even 
 on Veteran. And You don't get to use a rocket launcher enough.
  
  Now the Good Stuff.
  
  Sound Is amazing. I left my xbox 3 times just to wash my hands. It is so Immersive it will get your 
 adrenaline flowing. even Though there is only 3 Ameican missions, They are well played. Hill 400 And 
 D-Day By Far are the best missions on the game. Now Its Time for the help on D-Day. As Soon as you 
 scale the cliff. Grab a rifle. Then turn left, there should be a trench.4 germans will run at you."Thompson 
 time" go on down and kill the rest. Then run Like hell to the other side where there should be an 
 American G. I.. A explosion will launch him into the air. M1 Garand ammo anyone. Then lay low while 
 your squad mates move up and kill a few nazizs. Then move above the trenchs then you should see 
 a underground bunker bloen open.3 germans will run out kill'em quick clear out the tunnel and make 
 your way outside. Germans will run down the hill only to be wasted by your comrades on top of the 
 bunker. Release a smoke grenade up in the trench, run up and take position. Clear out the trench and 
 it gets easy from there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andrewkendo
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 3, 2006 7:03 pm PT
Review:  Very few times have i been wow'd by any war game. But i tell you what, this is good stuff. Mind 
 you i am playing this on the HARDENED level. so its hard as hell. died about 1000 times. but i 
 love the challenge.
  
  GRAPHIX-
  
  Mouth watering graphics. Guns look like guns. Dead people look dead. and they nazi's look bad ass. 
 i tell you what. they did a really good job on this. You actually feel like you are in the war. 
 Looks like a war. I am sure when or if a COD-3 comes out. it will be insane. the animation is near 
 perfect. its the smoothest game on the system next to DOA4. 
  Graphix-A
  recommendation on COD3- body parts?????
  
  SOUND
  hmm....... if that damn grenade didnt go 
 off next to my ear. i probably would have heard alot more.
  Sound- A
  next one?- sound was near perfect
  
  COMPETITION/AI
  i tell you what. on hardened. its hard 
 as hell. war is hell. and you will go there if you dont buy this game and play it on hardened. 
 relativly short game, so get your money's worth. They throw grenades at you from behind a door, 
 they will hide behind a crate or something. or even pick you off with a sniper rifle from 100 yards 
 away. damn bastard
  comp/ai-A
  next one? cant think of anything
  
  GAMEPLAY/FUN
  Yeah, you know. this is the best part. like i said before. you feel like you are in a war. and 
 there is no cheep-ass crosshair when you zoon in. you actually look from the ACTUAL crosshair when 
 you zoom in. so yes, your rifle you really cant see nothing. authentic. i love the realism. also, 
 did i mention it feels like a war. 
  GP/FUN - A
  next one? i would like to see more levels
  
  if you dont own this game... your probably a liberal...... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BiA-Beast
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 3, 2006 5:29 pm PT
Review:  Well, I broke it open and stuck it in, and played for about 8 hours, and beat the game, so heres 
 my breakdown.
  
  Lets start with gameplay. It appears that Infinity Ward and Activision pulled their magnificent 
 Call of Duty 1 gameplay yet again. It is fanatical, truly something to be marveled. I believe every 
 video game industry should truly study it and master it, it would make some better games. 
  
  As far as graphics go, I believe this is something they could have done better with. Now, I'll 
 give it to em, they're pretty awsome, but I do not believe that they did not take full advantage 
 of the next generation software.
  
  Sound is pretty sweet. Very realistic, if you have a good sound system, get ready because its gonna 
 rock you.
  
  The one problem with the game is its just too damn short. I beat it first day on medium difficulty. 
 'Nuf said about that though. And the one other problem is the multiplayer, damn it sucks do not 
 play, do not try to play, its not worth the 3-4 minutes trying to get into a game. When you do 
 get into a game its laggy as sh! t.
  
  Overall I think the game is worth renting, but don't put all 60$ into it, its not worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: juicymongoose
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 3, 2006 4:04 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 has surpassed my expectations. I thought that it would be far superior on the PC. 
 Well, I guess im wrong. This version looks amazing. The textures and overall visuals are outstanding. 
 You have to have a frickin insane rig to play the game this smooth for PC. Also the gameplay, on 
 both consoles its the same, is pretty variable. Giving you 3 different campaigns and online play. 
 I liked the online play on PC better. but it was still enjoyable for 360. Overall, I loved this 
 game especially for a launch game. 
  
  This game looks beautiful and its a launch game. Try to imagine what will happen when the xbox 
 360 is crankin out its full power. Ohh goodness thats a pretty picture. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gizmo24
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 3, 2006 7:53 am PT
Review:  Play through 27 epic Single player missions spanning 3 campaigns.
  First campaign you are the Russians.
  The second you are the British.
  The third you are the 
 Americans.
  
  Single Player Mode:
  No many of you will say oh its not that hard and I have to agree, but that was until I tried the 
 veteran difficulty. Oh man that was hard and there is so much more happening in the game. The enemy 
 keeps re-spawning all the time and the keep coming at you. So you really have to fight youre way 
 thru the enemys and I have never depended on my team mates this much in my life. The AI of the 
 game is really outstanding, the enemy is using cover much more then any game I ever have played 
 before and they communicate with each other so the enemy know where you are. They even know what 
 weapons you have and they dont get fooled by youre smoke grenades. They can really understand 
 what you are doing and what you are up to. The graphics of the game is really good but it can get 
 better. The sound is excellent. The game play and story line is wary good. So if you like WWII 
 games you will not get disappointed.
  
  Multiplayer Mode:
  The multiplayer mode have a lot of potentials they just have to sort out a few thing first like 
 its lagging like hell sometimes. But other than that its a real joy to play.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mastachief2552
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 4, 2006 3:45 am PT
Review:  Call of duty 2 for the 360 is a intense ww2 shooter that no 360 owner should miss. the single player 
 portion of the game has you play through ww2 through the perspective of three different soldiers, 
 a russian, a british , and a american. the game plays farily well as you go from checkpoint to 
 checkpoint fufiling multiple objectieves along the way. the ammount of detail in the game is very 
 impresive, charecter models look great ,weapons look and react great, enviroments are bueatifully 
 detailed and varried, ennmy and allied ai are some of the best i have seen, espically on harder 
 diffuicaltys. overall the single player should take about 10-14 hours to complete one normal but, 
 the game gets a huge replay value when u play on vetran depending on your skill level it can be 
 a breze or a headache but in the end it is a fun and satisfying experiance. as for achievements 
 you can unlock 1000 gamerpoints by completing the game on vetran. now on to multiplayer, its a 
 mixed blessing, on xbox live constant lag and dissconnects are a royal pain but when you get a 
 lag free match it can be some of the best multiplayer fun you can find on the 360. alot of people 
 complain about the 8 player limit, but this realy isnt a problem with the maps being mostly city 
 enviroments and close quarters areas. even the open maps play well with 8 players so this is realy 
 a prefrance issue.
  all in all call of duty 2 delivers a epic single player experiance and a good but somewhat cumbersome 
 multiplayer experiance but with a patch from infinity ward expected in the near future this game 
 should have a place in 360 owners collection for years to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonicdart
Rating: 6.4
Date: Mar 3, 2006 4:11 am PT
Review:  lets talk about the game.
  
  first of all lets talk about the good then the bad then the just plain horrible.
  
  sound:
 
  
  First of all the sounds in my opinion are SPELENDED they sound exactly what there spouse to be 
 from the soldiers calling out orders to the explosions heck even the gun sounds really great prolly 
 the best sound ever in a ww2 game for me.
  
  graphics: 
  
  The graphics are great i only gave it a 8 because theres more potential to be unlocked, theres 
 no frame rate problems from what i saw no graphical glitches check and explosions looks like there 
 spouse the smoke grenades smoke actually helps because it acts like real smoke etc, moving on.
 
  
  Gameplay:
  
  This is where the core is and sorta let me down the thing is that the game off-line is only ok 
 i mean when you first start playing the game is AWSOME then when you get into about the second 
 side of the war the game gets sorta repetitious the game is about easy on every setting except 
 veteren then you think WTF???
  
  Im reviewing the multiplayer here as well.
  
  The multiplayer of the game is how i say funny the games main leading weapons are the trench gun 
 and the sniper rifle.
  
  the sniper rifle kills in one shot no matter where you shoot them makes me wonder eh shotgun on 
 the other hand can kill in medium range sometimes long range with 2 or even 1 shot and how grenades 
 work now since you cant prime them there now just side baggage exclude the smoke grenades those 
 actual work preety well in the game.
  
  if you can find a non laggy game where not everyo0ne uses sniper or shotgun good luck on that then 
 you got a preety solid multiplayer thoo i wish for more maps  _ .
  
  also amazing it lags with 8 people moving on.
  
  Value:
  
  i thought the single player 
 took to fast to run through and the multiplayer althoo its spouse to add more gameplay read my 
 reviewers tilt.
  
  Reviewers tilt:
  
  The games main problems come in 2 forms the single player is unoriginal and tries not to go from 
 the standard millions of other WW2 games and dosent try to wow you with something innovative that 
 you would never thought of being in a WW2 game.
  
  like maybe fighting in planes fighting on the sea and fighting on the ground in tanks and on foot 
 because theres no vehicles in the game you feel like your preety much a uber soldier that could 
 win the war itself maybe if they included that maybe it could get a higher grade.
  
  Multiplayer tilt:
  
  The multiplayer i couldnt believe it in a bad way first problem comes 
 in joining a game sometimes it lets you join one sometimes it makes you keep going out going back 
 in over and over and over again.
  
  actually that isnt the first problem it is the ranking that makes me wonder, theres something called 
 trueskill ranking which isnt about showing your score even thoo i dont know why they did this as 
 well its spouse to help you join people that are as skilled as you in my opinion its broken its 
 random i think.
  
  second problem is the lobby it is stupid you cant design your own games with check off like no 
 sniper no shotgun ETC you just join a game with random people and then it starts the game whats 
 even worse is while in the lobby you learn that its only 8 players only 8 players for god sakes 
 heck big red one could hold 16 but whats even a bigger mock adding to this is...
  
  LAG good ole lag now this game has TERRIBLE lag it happens in alot of your games once it starts 
 it usally dosent stop then you have to quit and go through the whole process again...
  
  now the game is ok when you start the game you think its fun which it is but when you go online 
 or even get through 1/4th of the game repitition sets in and you find your doing the same stuff 
 no innovation.
  
  i was able to rent the game and beat it in about 2 days like the other xbox-360 games on the market 
 they feel rushed purposely just to get them out at launch since we need games to play on teh thing 
 the marketing scheme worked.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: larocabottom1
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 2, 2006 8:48 pm PT
Review:  A must have for the 360 and any war junkie. I feel like I'm actually in a war 
  when I play this game. If you have an HDTV and a surround sound system this game will put you on 
 the frontline. The graphics are crisp and the sound is realistic, every gun has a different sound 
 and it's really never quiet in the game like a real war zone. This game actually makes me teary 
 eyed, not because I'm crying but because I don't blink while playing it. The multiplayer on xbox 
 live is good and fun to play with friends. I could keep going on about this game but I'm gonna leave 
 it short and sweet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whitey3221
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 2, 2006 7:40 pm PT
Review:  This game is an amazingly realistic fps. The only problem with gameplay is the destructibility 
 of environments. The only things I can remember being destructible are the bright red barrels that 
 explode when you shoot them. Yeah it's great that they are actually barrels of gasoline, but is 
 anybody else tired of the only things that are destructible being exploding objects? Graphics are 
 great I can't say I found anything bad about them. The sound is also great, but the sayings can 
 get a bit old for example the next time I hear "potato masher, run" I'm gonna dive behind a wall 
 pretty quick. One great thing they said during the Russian missions that never got old was "ahhh 
 motherland!" explosions and the ear ringing is a nice effect when getting shelled by mortar or 
 tanks. I was disappointed by the d-day mission going up cliffs rather than being on Omaha Beach 
 or Utah Beach. The game is a great value however I spent somewhere from 10-40 hours playing, because 
 the story was good enough to play on the most difficult setting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roku33
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 2, 2006 7:30 pm PT
Review:  The overall game is good but it is exactly th same as computer and you can get it for computer 
 for cheaper but however they make thier money is thier own business. and i think it was too easy 
 even when you are hard but i think it is good for other gamers. Eventhough you can get it on computer 
 for cheaper the xbox 360 just has the part of sound and graphics the computer cant have. Have fun 
 and try not spend to much time playing have a nice day i couldent type anymore so i am just babing 
 on but you know how it is yup just blah blah blah :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lukewind
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 2, 2006 11:57 am PT
Review:  This review will be short and sweet.
  
  First off, I have played every and I stress every WWII FPS, and CALL OF DUTY 2 puts them all to 
 shame.
  
  GRAPHICS - The game looks amazing but at the same time you know the 360 could do more but it is 
 a port so I canmot complain.
  
  GAMEPLAY - 
  There nuff said. of wait - FREAKIN AWESOME
  
  SOUND - AGAIN FREAKIN AWESOME - IF YOU DO NOT 
 HABE SURROUND SOUND GET IT NOW 
  
  OVERALL - THE BEST WWII FPS EVER MADE PERIOD!
  
  PROBLEMS - The only problems i had with this game is the online and its less then stellar design. 
 Obviously infinty ward was to busy to hash out a bug free online. Although there is a patch on 
 the way that will clear these issues up. The gamed needs customizable lobbys and the ability to 
 tailor the game. If not for these shortcomings I think that I would have given this game a perfect 
 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meetmike13
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 1, 2006 6:31 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty is a very cool immersive and intense first person war sim. With cool graphics, although 
 not spectacular but still nice and sharp.
  The single player game is super fun with lot's of variety and alot of fun tasks.
  Now on to the 
 online play if you can get on that is. It's fun when you can get on but it starts to kill the fun 
 after a while. One time I sat their for a good ten minutes and was so brain dead from pushing the 
 a button 20 thousand different time's I got shot about 10 times looking into the tv but not really 
 on earth at that moment. I turned of my xbox and did not touch it again untill fight night came 
 out. It can be fun but they could have done a lttle more work on the xbox live portion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChevelleFan
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 1, 2006 5:27 pm PT
Review:  This game is the perfect balance of intense, immersive gameplay, and just pure fun. Many of the 
 effects in this game add to the intense realism of being in combat. Effects such as: Bullets that 
 make whizzing noises as they pass by your head. Dirt and rubble flies everywhere as grenades go 
 off and rounds are fired. The screams and barking orders of your teammates actually give you useful 
 information which adds to the immersiveness of the game. The overall game is just very intense 
 and I sometimes find myself feeling like I am actually in WWII. 
  
  The single player is very well done in this game. Although I thought it was a bit short, this game 
 does a very good job of making you feel like you are actually in the locations that you are fighting 
 in. It also does a good job of transitioning you through different fronts and characters which 
 changes things up a bit and adds alot of fun as well. Although the default difficulty setting might 
 challenge your skills if you are not a veteran FPS player. I would recommend playing the campaign 
 on the veteran setting which will really make the game challenging and make the game feel authentic 
 and will prepare you for playing against real people on Xbox Live.
  
  Multiplayer on Xbox LIve has a few issues such as quite a bit of lag, server crashes, and no ability 
 to choose maps or lobbies, but if you can get it to work then you will see that the online multiplayer 
 is extremely fun and challenges your skill as you work with your teammates to defeat the enemy 
 or just go on a killing spree as you play in a FFA game. The multiplayer offers many other game 
 modes besides Standard Deathmatch and Team Deathmatch. These multiplayer modes include Capture 
 the Flag, Headquarters in which one team sets up an HQ while the other tries to destroy it, and 
 Search and Destroy in which one team tries to destroy an object while the other defends it. These 
 components of the multiplayer all add up to a very fun experience.
  
  This game is truly amazing and is one of the few games I keep coming back to. The intensity, realism, 
 and pure fun make this game is definite must for any WWII shooter fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nilihist
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 1, 2006 4:37 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty 2 is the best game out for the XBOX360. The presentation of the game is superb it 
 still keeps that same feeling just like in the original call of duty. The campaign is awesome and 
 the sound of the game rules, the graphics aren't really that good it seems that it's in between 
 xbox and the 360. The multiplayer rules if it didn't lag all the time. Almost every frickin time 
 I get into a game it frickin lag's, I hate it, that is the weakness and everytime the game ends 
 it takes you back to the lobby the entrance lobby that is. Why cant it be like halo2 where it brings 
 you back to the lobby with your friends it doens't do that. I hope they work on that problem. The 
 multiplayer is restricted to 8 players I was kinda thinking like 12 players online. Call of Duty 
 2 is still a great game and dont play the multiplayer all the time datz tru blu yo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lolgubbe
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 1, 2006 11:21 am PT
Review:  alright to first start off the xbox 360 version is a port from the pc masterpiece title call of 
 duty 2 obviousely and the xbox 360 verison has not so much diffrences from the pc version interms 
 of the graphics. first off if you got an high end pc or even very high end pc that you'll defiently 
 get the case if you playing it on pc but playing this game on xbox 360 is also really good especially 
 in HD obviousely but it runs pretty well on SD also for that matter.
  the game is really take advanced on 5.1 surround sound even on the pc obviousely. playing this 
 game in HD and 5.1 surround sound. and if playing it on pc then you gotta have an high or an very 
 high end pc especially in very high end pc i recommended, but just if you wanna get the ultimate 
 case. from the long singleplayer campaign there is also multiplayer which is pretty good-fun the 
 360's multiplayer is diffrent than on the pc. meaning that you can play the multiplayer on the 
 360 both in split-screen, system link and the online the online got game modes like capture the 
 flag, deathmatch, team deathmatch and so on you gotta play this game if you are an WWII fps fan 
 and even not defiently try the demo cause it deserves it
  and also the game will be more challenging depending which difficulty level you play it on. this 
 game is a must buy!!!!!!!!!! :D: P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Apoc112
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 1, 2006 10:37 am PT
Review:  I am a late-comer to the 360 game because it wasn't one of my first priorities when i got the system. 
 I had already played through the entire PC version, so my decision to pick it up for 360 mostly 
 stemmed from wanting to play some system link multiplayer at college. (13.5 credits in my final 
 semester leaves a lot of spare time for the important things...)
  
  Graphics - I wish they looked this good on my computer. The 360 is truely and undoubtedly a powerhouse 
 in this respect. The framerates are excellent and the fog table looks better than any PC card i've 
 seen in person. I am really pleased with the way movement stands out even in the most crowded maps. 
 It makes multiplayer realistically difficult in terms of moving around and finding cover.
  
  Sound - What's not to like? Dobly Digital surround makes the Nazi screams as exciting as they 
 might be in real life. The quality of the sound in this game is as top-notch as the PC version.
 
  
  Mechanics - The controls are intuitive and fluid. My only gripe is how difficult it can be to get 
 out of a grenade situation if there are obstacles or doorways around you. The system is just a 
 TAD too unforgiving, whereas in a game like Halo, if you run into a box, you can simply slide around 
 it without slowing you down too terribly much. CoD's physics system pretty much stops you dead 
 in your tracks if you don't make it perfectly through a doorway in a panicing run.
  
  Overall - I think this is a must-own for 360 gamers, especially if you're into FPS's. The shooting 
 mechanics are some of the best ever implemented in the genre and there is enough strategy and historical 
 accuracy to please any war-game fan. Even if you already own and love Perfect Dark Zero, this is 
 one to check out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chineolee
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 1, 2006 6:55 am PT
Review:  Even if you've been saturated with WWII action games this one should still be able to spring a 
 few surprises on you with its silky-smooth framrate and jaw-dropping graphics. Environments are 
 realised with a very high level of detail and if you play through the game again on a higher level 
 of difficulty (highly recommended) you'll notice loads of things you didn't see first time around, 
 including different ways to neutralise those Nazis, and little details that tie the whole experience 
 together.
  
  The game is well paced, although at times you may feel that you're getting ahead of the action 
 and you'll need to go back to a certain area in order to carry the game on to the next stage. You'll 
 often find your brothers in arms waiting like statues for you to catch up and this is probably 
 the biggest criticism of the game, the way that you're guided so tightly from one goal to the next.
 
  
  Although the action is repetivive (its continual shooting from start to finish) the gameplay and 
 variety of level design is such that you'll want to keep moving and progressing through. Sound 
 quality is immersive, and the chatter of your fellow soldiers is often very helpful in giving you 
 a heads-up. 
  As an XBox 360 launch title, this game really shows the potential of the console to perform, arguably 
 more so than any of the other titles at launch. The only negative aspect is the poor Live performance, 
 with laggy gameplay and difficulty finding a match. All-in-all though this game is about the single-player 
 experience, which is an adrenaline fuelled ride from start to finish. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: atom420
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 28, 2006 3:43 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is another attempt at putting gamers in the shoes of soldiers from sixty five years 
 ago, its been done many times before and the genre has had its failures as well as its successes; 
 so what does Call of Duty 2 bring to a table already full of dishes both sweet and sour? We are 
 in the next generation now so with superior hardware comes higher expectations. Luckily for gamers 
 Call of Duty 2 acts as a good omen of things to come. Infinity Ward have managed to tap into the 
 Xbox 360s potential very early on, meaning that Call of Duty 2 offers great graphics, expansive 
 single player levels, and experience shattering gameplay. However the game does fall short when 
 it comes to its online mode, but we will explore that later.
  
  You start the game as a raw Soviet Red army recruit in training. The training exercises allow for 
 those new to the FPS genre to get used to the controls and movement but also gives FPS junkies 
 a bit of a warm up for the up and coming battles that will ensue. After the short, but necessary, 
 training you are thrown head first into the war. In the single player campaign you will be playing 
 as allied soldiers from not only the Soviet army but also the British and American forces and fight 
 in a variety of locations including Russia, Africa and France. In one mission you take on the role 
 of a tank operator, and even though the tank controls are basic the mission does well to break 
 you away from the standard FPS missions and so adds variety to the gameplay. The weapons available 
 are all authentic from the time and place which gives you an incredibly authentic experience, and 
 the weapons not only look like the real McCoy but also fire realistically, which again allows you 
 to sink deeper into the World War II atmosphere that Call of Duty 2 attempts to create. Apart from 
 the usual array of weaponry such as the Thompson sub machine gun or the German Lugar pistol you 
 will also have the ability to throw grenades and smoke bombs, and it must be said that the smoke 
 effect produced is awesome to look at, I found myself throwing smoke bombs just so that I could 
 sit back and watch the show. On saying that though smoke grenades come in very useful, as when 
 used at the right time they help you and your fellow soldiers advance on either enemy hardened 
 positions or roaming German tanks. Its a sign of a well developed FPS when the player needs to 
 use all of the arsenal available, it would have been easy for Infinity Ward to put in the smoke 
 grenades just because they cause an aesthetically pleasing effect without giving them any real 
 purpose.
  
  What was really captivating about Call of Duty 2 though was the level design, as it is the environment 
 in which you fight battles that completely immerses you in the World War II experience. The levels 
 are not only well designed but also huge; in one level you start by landing on a beach, from which 
 you climb up a cliff face to be faced by a vast open field covered in mortar craters and enemy 
 bunkers with interlinking underground passages. After dealing with the German bunkers you move 
 into a farm house area which contains a silo, a barn and of course the farmers house. You then 
 go behind the farm house area to be faced by an orchard where again you are faced with even more 
 German troops. Once the orchard is clear you find yourself on an old country crossroad area which 
 then leads to a field containing German artillery guns you have to take out.
  
  The battles you take part in can go from taking out one enemy hot spot at a time to just plain 
 out hectic where you are swamped by German troops. This again shows off what the Xbox 360 can do 
 as there can be multiple enemies on screen as well as fellow Allied soldiers and the frame rate 
 never slows down. There are a few little niggles however, for starters the tank mission is not 
 all that great and will make you feel like you just want to get through it to get back into taking 
 out Nazi soldiers with sniper rifles and sub machine guns. Also there are some points in the game 
 where you have to storm buildings held by the Germans and secure them, and at these points you 
 are faced with never endingI repeatnever ending waves of enemy troops until you control the designated 
 building. This seems to take away the realistic feel Call of Duty 2 creates so well as there is 
 no way so many troops could occupy one building, unless Willy Wonka was the architect. On saying 
 that though, these are little annoyances with the game and by no means make the game less than 
 great.
  
  Unfortunately however the Xbox 360 version of Call of Duty 2 suffers a lot when it comes to the 
 online mode of play. The split screen and system link modes work very well but you will find that 
 online the game has missed the mark by a long shot. There is no way to customise game types as 
 you are thrown straight into a lobby automatically and to find a lobby is a task in itself, some 
 might even say a miracle. The game also suffers from lag which will pretty much make you sign off 
 from a game (that took you a millennia to join) very early on. This is very unfortunate as the 
 single player campaign is so good and a well made online multiplayer portion of the game would 
 have made Call of Duty 2 truly superb all round. Perhaps a future patch made available from Xbox 
 Live might sort out these online issues with the game.
  
  Some might say that the World War II FPS genre has been done to death; Call of Duty 2 is refreshing 
 as it proves these people wrong. You should find yourself compelled to finish the game from start 
 to finish as the game offers a lot of variety in the single player campaign. Its a shame that 
 the online mode suffers so much, however Call of Duty 2 still stands out amongst the crowd and 
 is definitely a must have game for all FPS fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flyboy22
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 28, 2006 2:50 pm PT
Review:  this game is a lot better then the first one. its AI are awesome with the enemy's actually throwing 
 back grenades you threw at them. I have the 360 version and its graphics are the best of the 360 
 games out right now. its story line is above bar. it follows four different guys in world war two. 
 when you play as them they really feel like they are real and the emotions that the NPCs show is 
 amazing. the game follows the russian campaign, british campaign, and the american campaign. the 
 russian story line is the first you play and teaches you the basics and is not very hard. you play 
 as PVT. Vasili I. Koslov, and use russian weapons. the british story line gets harder and your 
 in bigger battles with more enemys on screen. you play as Sergent John Davis for most of the missions 
 put the two tank missions you play as Tank Commander David Welsh. the tank missions are pretty 
 strait forward and not very hard. the american story line is where it gets interesting. its the 
 hardest of all the campaigns put also the shortest. it starts out with a bang with the battle of 
 D-Day then gets into smaller battles put still pretty hard. you play as Corporal Bill Taylor though 
 the campain. what i thought was the hardest levels in the whole game is the defence of hill 400. 
 even on normal this mission is hard. well in all this game is really fun and i think everyone should 
 pick this up or at least play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smarb001
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 28, 2006 12:24 pm PT
Review:  This is the game that everybody should have. The graphics are amazing, and bring World War II to 
 life as never before. The smoke effects actually create a sense of confusion and disordination, 
 and the guns are shiny! The booms, the screams and the gun fire of the sound effects make you feel 
 as if you were there, and nothing can be better to make you believe you are actually there than 
 the many lines your comrades say out loud regularly, warning you and updating you on the situation. 
 The only things that I found a bit disappointing is the repetative nature of the gameplay, in which 
 case you go there, kill everyone, walk over there, man the MG42, go over there, and so on... and 
 the other thing is the that the multiplayer is majorly laggy, and its hard to find a good server 
 therefore making its value lessen and my review score drop. Overall, this is a great game which 
 is at least worth a rent, and at most can last you months and months of replaying the singleplayer 
 and trying to play the multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slipknot-maggot
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 28, 2006 9:23 am PT
Review:  Wow, Call of Duty 2..... This game is awsome! First off gameplay is amazing, it puts you right in 
 the war without any delay. It has alot of replay value, from shooting jerries on the easiest mode 
 to the hardest mode it never gets old. Fire fights can get rather intense, from running sticking 
 sticky bombs on the panzers to invading normady it never gets old. The graphics are awsome. It 
 looks almost like the PC version!. Would been nice to see 16 online multiplayer or 32 or even higher! 
 Game is a bit hard, but after playing it for a bit you will get used to it. Over audio is awsome 
 good voice overs and moving soundtracks. Over all great game definetly check this out if you have 
 a 360! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zep311
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 27, 2006 5:02 pm PT
Review:  My friends got me to buy this game though it was not the highest on my list. I got it and played 
 through the whole single play on the normal level, which was fun but I mainly charged into the 
 houses and blew enemies out of my way.
  
  The game started getting interested when I started playing on veteran to get some xtra game points 
 (though I have not finished yet.... guess I don't care much about the points) . Anyway, I first noticed 
 that the first time I charged at the enemy i didn't just get killed, I got raped. The enemies watch 
 you like a hawk, and will kill you as quickly as possible. This is actually fun though because 
 you have to be strategic. So if you play single player, play it on veteran.
  
  For the multiplayer.... well there really is none right now. It's laggy and hard to join up with 
 friends. You pick a game type and it puts u in a lobby. That may seem good, but since you can't 
 party up with friends like in halo2 its a pain. The 2nd patch will fix this though. I don't have 
 the link, but I read it on teamxbox. com. There will be a fix in the lag, and they will add game 
 lobbies that people can host. You can reserve spots for your friends, and after a match you return 
 back to the lobby instead of being tossed and having to find a new game like it is right now. This 
 is the way players want it. And btw, if you know how the ranking system works could u tell me because 
 I'm clueless.
  
  Bottom line is is that once the multiplayer gets its second patch this will be a very fun game 
 worth buying. No more monster lag? Thank goodness 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 360warrior
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 26, 2006 7:57 pm PT
Review:  Call Of Duty 2 delivers on so many levels. Great graphics, sound, gameplay, and just plain fun. 
 The only way to get achievements in this game is to be skilled at it, except for the complete training 
 achievement. The game offers about 20 little mssinons combined within a mission, and when i say 
 that i mean loads between levels. The games difficulty settings definetly make the game that much 
 more fun. The multiplayer is rough but there are rumors of a patch in the works so expect great 
 live play from this game in about april-may area. This game is at least a 9/10, a must have for 
 under the entertainment center.
  Gamertag   PHINS FAN 8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steff3121
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 26, 2006 3:47 pm PT
Review:  I have never been fond of the Soviet Union, and that's because it was a communistic government. 
 As of playing the campaign, I learned that the Russians are tight, and I welcome the change of 
 opinion (though I don't approve of the S. U.) . I say this because I loved the game's first levels. 
 The Russian campaign is very tough, and you get some freaking good weapons. Every other campaign 
 was from a nation that I've fought for. The weapons of each army were unique, and the difficulty 
 was noticeably different on each setting (if you think that you can beat D-Day on veteran, you're 
 suicidal) . The game even has the option to turn off the cross hairs and auto-snipe-assist abilities, 
 which makes a very challenging experience. Above all, this is the testing ground for how the graphics 
 will hold up on the new system. If this is the starting point, how much better can it get? In conclusion; 
 aside from the Russian campaign, it's a graphical master piece of been there, shot that. Not a 
 bad thing though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JhnB3707
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 4, 2007 11:35 pm PT
Review:  this is one of the most immersive games i have ever played. it truly shows what the actual people 
 in ww2 had to go through and after playing this game i cant believe anyone could've survived that 
 war. the AI is so realistic they will cover, flank, and charge and you just like a real soldier. 
 the graphics is a mixed reaction because the smoke effects and the number of people on screen are 
 just incredible, but the ground looks very low-res and some of the mounds of dirt are 2-d and things 
 go from low to hi res as u approach things but other than thatthe graphics are nice. if you have 
 a 360 and you like ww2 or fps then dont hesitate to get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LTomlinson21
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 26, 2006 1:49 pm PT
Review:  I had heard so many great things about Call of Duty 2. Gamespot reviewed it good and everybody 
 on GameSpot told me that it was a "must get game".
  
  Well I decided to buy it. First I popped in the game and started playing th campaign. It didn't 
 take me but 2 days to beat it all, and I was kind of dissapointed. Then I turned the hardness level 
 up to "Veteran" (the hardest one) . After that, I took back what I had said, because "Veteran" mode 
 was insanely hard! You die fairly quickly and it takes a lot of concentration and patience to beat 
 a level. 
  
  The gameplay is just insanely great. It also is very realestic. Everything that happens in the 
 game kind of give you a feel of what it might have been like in WWII. All of the buildings and 
 how they have blown out parts to them is very nice to see.
  
  The graphics are also truly amazing. Some of the explosions are ind-blowing and so are the fire's 
 you see. The soldier's are pretty detailed. Also the tree's, grass, and bushes look really good 
 compared to most games. The bunkers are nicely done, and so are the weapons, and smoke that sometimes 
 is every where.
  
  The sound is pretty damn good too. All of the different guns and their different sounds are really 
 entertaining to listen too. The explosions sounds so realistic and make you feel like your right 
 there fighting in WWII.
  
  The online is also very amazing. The only problems I noticed the pulled it down, is that you can 
 only have 8 people maximum in a game. I wish it was at least 16, but oh well, it's still great. 
 Also there is sometime's really bad lag. Trust me, it's not my internet connection, because mine's 
 amazing. Luckily they are soon coming out with a patch to fix this problem.
  
  This is a must get game for the Xbox 360, and if you don't buy it, you deffinatley are missing 
 out on one hell of a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: honk_sm
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 26, 2006 12:25 pm PT
Review:  This game was a great idea for the XBox 360 launch. It is stunningly beautiful, especially in HD, 
 and it overcomes many of the issues with most of the other World War II games. They just don't 
 seem to care. This game takes you in it's arms gives you some warm milk, rocks you to sleep... then 
 scares the living crap out of you with non-stop miliary action the likes of which we haven't seen 
 for a long time.
  
  The graphics are absolutely great. Really wonderful. The developers have obviously spent a long 
 time with them. Best so far on the 360.
  
  Gameplay is great. I'm not sure what it is, but you can tell they took their time with everything. 
 Blood splatter is especially gruesome.
  
  Mulitiplayer is really fun. They did a good job, but navigating around in the lobby of the game 
 needs work. It is not easy, and in fact it frustrated me that you cannot choose (at least easily) 
 what game you want to join.
  
  The story is really well done. I like the fact that you take the role in 3 different armies. That 
 was a great idea on their part. That said, you really can't give the company much credit for the 
 story since it is supposed to be a historical shooter. Well done though.
  
  Sound is amazing. With a digital optical cable and a good surround setup, it is frightening when 
 you're in battle.
  
  Even though there are only a few good games out there for the 360 right now, everyone should give 
 this one a try. Buy, rent, whatever, just play.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJ_Nario
Rating: 7.4
Date: Feb 26, 2006 6:10 am PT
Review:  XBOX 360, a console that can handle nearly as much as the upcoming PS3. It is obvious that it's 
 3.2 GHz processor can manipulate real-looking textures, but it's also obvious that it's not the 
 console that makes games good, but rather how well or how much effort the company puts into the 
 game. Activision is famous for making games with good gameplay (ex. Tony Hawk's Pro Skater) but 
 also making games with bad graphics. With this being said, I would like to present a review for 
 one of those bad games for a good console. This, my friend, is one of those games.
  
  Gameplay - The way the actions have been made are incredible. Throw smoke grenades, shoot down 
 people, etc. Very basic, yet at the same time, fits with the style of the controller. Sniping down 
 enemies hasn't been this fun since Goldeneye!
  
  Graphics - Introducing yesterday's graphics, today! Seriously, the only good-looking textures in 
 this game are the human models and the tanks, but even those have problems. Observe: turn on the 
 game, go to multiplayer, and look at some sandbags (The ones used for protection) . Stay about 30 
 feet from them. Now, keep your eye on them and walk very slowly to them. Eventually they will change 
 detail, but not in the way you'd think them to. IT ABRUPTLY CHANGES. That's not good. If Activision 
 has such a great budget to make hi-def, false-advertising commercials for games like these, why 
 can't they actually look good!?
  
  Sound - The composition of the music works fine and seems to fit the mood of where you're playing, 
 any time. As for the SFX, however, sometimes I wondered if these were real SFX or not, because 
 some of these make me think of what I heard back in games 5 years ago.
  
  Value - Activision makes yet another shooter; a shooter that has fun multiplayer and a good sinple 
 player mode, but it doesn't compare up to what the XBOX 360 "can" handle. I am very critical on 
 consoles and how much they can work, trust me; this game doesn't cut it for being "next-gen".
 
  
  Reviewer's Tilt - If Activision really has a ka-zillion dollars in the budget for making a game, 
 they should at least put some effort into making "good" commercials for the game (ie: In-game screens 
 instead of false-advertising with pre-rendered junk) . This is next-gen we're talking about, not 
 current-gen. I swear, this really makes me NOT want an XBOX 360.
  
  Overall: Don't believe what everyone says about this game and how life-like it looks; it's horrible.
 
  
  Score: 7.4 - Good
  
  A bad game on a good console... just like all the other games for it... (Excluding Kameo, PDZ, 
 and Retrospective) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whitsel
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 25, 2006 5:24 pm PT
Review:  Personally I think this is the best game I have ever played!!! I loved Halo and H2 was okay and 
 other games like Ghost Recon 1 & 2 were basically what I base everything on, since I found GR2 
 to be the best game I ever played, so let me just explain this...
  First off, the graphics are probobly twice as good as any xbox game, although you can find some 
 less-than-perfect graphical problems if you just look around the levels rather than actually playing, 
 such as the seeing-through bodies and enemies at times being able to stick thier weapons through 
 the walls and shoot, but other than that I have yet to discover any problems and even those dont 
 happen significantly enough to downgrade the game.
  The gameplay isnt (let me say) gameplay at all. Playing thise game is more like actually fighting 
 in combat whall in a hostile district or warzone if you will. The levels arent huge but are wellened 
 out enough to give you the freedom of roaming and flanking an entire village. The best thing is 
 that you are given freedom to complete the missions in order of your accords, such as wanting to 
 neutralize a West, then North, then East, then South building, then move on the City Hall in the 
 area's center. The only thing better than playing this on Easy is playing it on Veteran.
  Mulitplayer has many of the attributes of single but I have only played online for about 1 hour 
 to date. I dont play much online but compared to Halo, this game is very competitive with other 
 games of the FPS genre. The only thing that would make the game better online or offline with multiplayer 
 would be co-op mode or an alternative co-op were massive company to company sized players vs. AI 
 fighting would be played on alternate maps.
  Overall this game is just short of perfect due to the lack of co-op and the graphical issues, but 
 since no game has lacked the issues, I will give the game a 9.5 but in my book .5=1 when rounded 
 so its getting a 10! playing this game is absolutley worth getting a 360 (and just think of the 
 fact that this is the only military shooter available yet, wait untill after March 06) . Playing 
 the game is like playing Band of Brothers or Saving Private Ryan, the feel of being pinned down 
 and using a rifle to pick off stationary guns and MGs and when finally able, rising up and following 
 your squad mates into a war-torn urban enviorment. FInal words... Get it, Get it now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DemonX_portugal
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 25, 2006 8:20 am PT
Review:  The title says it all; if Microsoft wants to sell games, they will have to learn to give up their 
 concept of "nicer looking games with poor frame rates" & adopt the more Japanese approache of "high 
 frame rates with great gameplay before graphics"... 
  
  It is truly beyond me that, in this next generation of consoles, we are still faced with serious 
 frame rate issues in the majority of our game titles... I refused to buy Quake 4 after seeing how 
 POORLY it ran, rendering the game nearly unplayable with constant frame rate fluctuations going 
 from 60 to 15... & this, with only the multiplayer portion running at a stable, but measely, 30 
 frames... one has to wonder; what the hell was the quality controle team thinking about? 
  
  I'ts clear in my mind that, if Micorsoft wants to win this round of the console wars, they 
 will have to acknowledge this issue now & show the example for all 3rd parties who think they can 
 get away with poor frame rates; we gamers will not waste our hard earn money on poorly executed 
 games anymore; especialy in this new generation. 
  
  So Micorsoft, tell Bizare Creations that we demand Project Gotham 4 at 60fps... no less! Tell Rare 
 to wake up & smell the coffee & make first person shooter games at 60fps (Perfect Dark Zero is 
 slow, boring & nearly unplayable at -30fps) . Tell 2k Games & EA (especialy EA!) to give us sports 
 titles that run completely at 60fps (not just here or there) ... Tell Bungie that, 30fps was ok 
 on the XBOX, but it's time to get 60fps on the XBOX360 as it should be. Micorsoft, do what you're 
 supposed to be good at & give your developpers the right tools to achieve this frame rate benchmark; 
 there are no more hardware excuses... & we, the gamers who spend thousands of dollars on games 
 every year, we be faithful to you for it. 
  
  So on that note, BRAVO Activision! This IS the next generation title we were all waiting for because 
 you knew what we were expecting from this round= smooth, 60fps gameplay with naturaly better graphics 
 & sound. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: joe_boy83
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 14, 2007 1:11 pm PT
Review:  The best game on 360 at the moment. Fantastic graphics as you would expect. Excellent smooth framerate 
 and fast responsive controlls. Great sound and a hefty amount of levels. Not much wrong with this 
 game, but it does not try anything new really, perhaps being a test run for the almighty to come. 
 The gameplay is fast and never lets up and there are while not many, some neat touches like when 
 you are heading up to a door with your pals and one of them gets shot through the door and flys 
 backwards with bullets spraying everywhere than your soldiers taking revenge. The graphics are 
 pin sharp and very detailed, the smoke effects are the best seen in a game and cloud your judgement 
 when navigating around the large levels while realistically linear. Another neat touch is when 
 you enter a building and another one of your mates gets shot, so you pick up his sniper and wait 
 for one of your fellows to hold his hat on the tip of his rifle giving away the snipers position 
 with your mates helmet spinning around as the bullet hits it. More scripted sections like these 
 would have been fabulous for me as it adds a sense of leadership and being surrounded by your fellow 
 soldiers in battle. They do always follow you about finding there own targets. This is an easy 
 game to my standards and a very well crafted first person shooter. role on call of duty 3 ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halofan20
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 24, 2006 1:47 pm PT
Review:  Overview: Call of Duty 2. Hearing the name makes many salivate. Of course, then there are the people 
 that have not heard the name Call of Duty 2. I am here to explain the greatness to those very cave-dwellers, 
 and answer the question many ask: Why the hell is this game so great?
  
  
  
  Graphics: Graphics are one of the main points of next-gen games. I must say the artists must be 
 extremely talented. EXTREMELY! Every aspect of this game from the tanks to the explosions, from 
 the soldiers to the trees, absolutely incredible. I had no Idea that games could look so great. 
 The textures are perfect, the well-rendered levels are large and realistic, and the guns look authentic. 
 Hell, even the grass looks awesome! The physics are well done, but only on objects. No ragdoll, 
 but that's not important. The important thing is that some dead bodies may look like crap when 
 killed on stairs, and there is a lot of clipping. But, hey, not everything can be perfect. 9.3/10
 
  
  
  
  Sound: Sound is one of the major aspects in war games. This sound is incredible, and it makes you 
 feel like a soldier when you fire your rifle. Screams, footsteps, sots fired, they all make you 
 feel like you were a soldier in the worst world war. This game is so real, it is almost scary, 
 and the sound helps. A lot. The music in this game is very well written, a mix of victorious, sad, 
 and upbeat. When you pop that bomb on that tank, and start to run for cover, not only will you 
 hear the the music, you will feel it, helping to make your heart beat faster than it should in 
 those last 3 seconds 'till "boom-boom" time. When Soldiers talk, it isn't just useless, unimportant 
 crap, instead they will say useful information like excact locations of objectives and German troops. 
 This game's sound is overwhelmingly immersive. 9.5/10
  
  
  
  Gameplay: From the moment I set eyes on this games opening cinematic, my gut instinct told me that 
 I was in for a ride. It was correct. Every mission is so well thought out and interesting, that 
 you can't even believe that the next mission can get better. It does. The missions are divided 
 up into campaigns (the Russian campaign, the English campaign, and the American campaign) , and 
 each country shares a common enemythe Nazi War Macine. Each campaign is so immersive that it makes 
 you feel like the person you're playing as. This game makes you want to win, it makes you want 
 to kill every Nazi, it makes you want to climb that wall, blow up that tank, capture that building. 
 This game makes you want to never put your controller down again. 10/10
  
  In closing, Call of duty 2 is better than its predecessor in every way, and it is so incredibly 
 immersive that I wouldn't be surprised if someone played this game for 15 hours straight. This 
 is one of the best war games to date, definitely BUY IT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Electobulb
Rating: 7.7
Date: Sep 3, 2006 9:25 am PT
Review:  This game is not at all what people said it was. It's live is very laggy, and the weapons are a 
 bit... uber? I mean, It takes 3 shots to kill someone. You cant even see how much health you have 
 got... meaning that its hard to know when to take cover etc. Single player is good. It's very different 
 to other war games I must say. All in all, Xbox live lets this game down. Single player =I have 
 nothing against. Also, I cant say the graphics are the best i have ever seen... Rent this game 
 first, or get PD0. It is more worth your money and has better gameplay; the lot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wrany1972
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 24, 2006 8:08 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 on Xbox 360 in HD - COD 2 isn't my first video game, but it is probably the first 
 game I actually finished without cheats. I played in easy difficulty, and quickly mastered the 
 techniques. After playing the demo at the store which starts you off in one of the easier American 
 campaigns, I was worried it was a tough game. However, starting from the beginning it was a wonderful 
 gaming experience. I was very impressed with the graphics, the mild violence, and the degree of 
 freedom in the game. The compass indicators were invaluable. Gold stars outlining objectives was 
 very handy along with your commanding officers shouting out directions. There were a couple parts, 
 usually sniping motar teams, that presented a little challenge. Other than that, waiting 5 minutes 
 for reinforcements to arrive and fending off large numbers of Germans during the wait, were the 
 toughest parts of the game that I'm not sure I could do in any level other than easy. The multiplayer 
 aspect of the game is a blast. Playing deathmatch with 4 players on a large widescreen HD television 
 all with wireless remotes is the best. There is a lot of replay on mulitiplayer but I have little 
 desire to repeat the game in any other level. I did try the hardest level in the first campaign 
 and managed to succeed which was a bit of surprise; the main difference being how many bullets 
 you can take without dying. I like the multiple checkpoints that autosave in this game. It makes 
 it manageable for those of us that just like to get through the game to say we did it. I am the 
 type of player that occasionally likes to have an invicible cheat so I can play superman. But I 
 was glad that I was able to play easily through this game without any cheats. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bowpet
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 24, 2006 7:42 am PT
Review:  At last, this shooter works! Call of duty 2 have nerve, tru graphics and "i want to play just one 
 more level"!
  After Perfect dark and Gun, this game lead the way. So if you have to buy just one shooter right 
 now, then it must be Call of Duty 2. I can recomended.
  Russian, Englishman or American save your life. I'm glad! im not an German. Mybe we have to talk 
 about this issue and not always about Muhammed. I think the english or american soon should be 
 the bad guy in a computergame - what do you think?
  Well, go for the intertainment and not for the confilct between religions and nations. We are all 
 bad some times.
  I appolygies for the cartoons in Jyllands Posten - really. But now we have to find the red line 
 again.
  Love to all nations - have fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VFA-102
Rating: 7.7
Date: Feb 23, 2006 10:19 pm PT
Review:  I hate to have to put down an almost perfect game, but, I must. The single player campaign is awesome, 
 but there are some minor glitches in your allies AI. Sometimes grenades will fall at the feet of 
 your fellow soldiers and they will duck, 3 feet from the grenade, and die. While this is a limited 
 problem, it does exist. I also find not being able to pick up and throw the enemies own grenades 
 back them slightly irritating. The main flaw though is multi-player. This is definitely a game 
 that should have more than 16 people playing at a time. The lag on the servers though is inexcusable. 
 I have rarely been able to play through a match and not have SERIOUS lag problems. About half of 
 the players in any match will leave because it gets waayy to laggy. DOA 4, PGR3, PDZ, never have 
 this huge problem. While I have encountered lag problems on these games, never to the extent of 
 CD2. For those reasons, CD2 is so close, yet so far, from being a perfect game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: p8tball99nyr
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 23, 2006 10:00 pm PT
Review:  Verry goooood!!! If you ever played the first call of duty. You do have a good reason to buy the 
 new one. The game has 3 campines; the russians, the british, and the U. s. All three combined makes 
 the game alot longer then the first one. The gfx are pretty good. If you want to compare it to 
 the pc version it is identical and you can see they didnt really try to much to convert the game 
 to the 360. It looks a little better on the 360 if you have a highdef set up becuase the resultion 
 of 1080i makes it a more clear picture. 
  The gameplay Is flawless. The single play campian is so much fun, you will probly kill about 200,000 
 germans at the end of the game. There are points in the game when feel so relived the the mission 
 is over and you just wanna rest from shooting, as the action is non-stop shooting. The multiplayer, 
 tho is a little differnt. Not many people play online and there isnt much a varity in the menu. 
 I mean the split screen is fun but now with xb live, screen looking is out dated. If you are but 
 the game for multiplayer purposes get the pc version even if you have a high def tv. If you dont 
 have xb live and not planing on to. Then by all means get the 360 version. 
  The sound is incrediable. If you have 5.1 sound with the 360. be prepared to feel like you are 
 at war. Some times i would play singleplayer so long and once i finshed i got a headace from all 
 the bullets wising by my ear. It makes the game stronger then the other WW2 shooters.
  Other all i feel the game is a great launch game for the 360. I know for a fact it is not the 360s 
 highest potential. As when every other launch system does reach it untill later on. If your looking 
 for a good first person shooter even if you are sick of ww2 shooters. Get this game. You will not 
 be disapointed
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Urashima_best
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 23, 2006 5:23 pm PT
Review:  When i got an xbox 360 for my birthday and the reason i got xbox 360 was call of duty 2. Call of 
 duty is intense that it makes the game perfect. I would play it 24hrs every day! There is nothing 
 bad you can say about this game because it is pefect. The graphics is veeery good and the gunshots, explosions, etc 
 you hear from the distance makes it feel like your actually in World War II. The gameplay is great! But 
 the best thing about this game is its addicting. If your going to get an xbox 360, I suggest that 
 you buy call of duty 2. Its worth the price and really worth checking out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickdastick
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 23, 2006 2:48 pm PT
Review:  I got this game the day the 360 came out. I have never been happier with a video game purchase. 
 I have played through this game many times and plan to keep on playing it. There are so many things 
 this game does right and almost nothing it does wrong. The smoke effects are just insane and the 
 combat is so crazy I sometimes feel drained after playing this with the surround sound turned up. 
 Every person that has played this with me loves it! It is our favorite multiplayer game. The only 
 thing that would have made it better was co-op but that still doesn't hamper the game much. If 
 you don't have this game you need to buy it. It is a must have for sure! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dizzynuts
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 23, 2006 1:26 pm PT
Review:  As far as WWII first person shooters go, this one is truly a gem. This game doesn't do anything 
 different than most FPS out there (you run, you shoot, and you occassionaly throw a grenade) but 
 the difference is in the detail. This is more of an experienced than a game, from the subtle puffs 
 of smoke from bullets hitting your surroundings, to the muzzle flash of your weapon in the dim 
 light. It truly feels like you're there. The enemy AI is ruthless, they rarely miss their mark 
 and seem to have an unlimited supply of grenades, and they constantly remind you of it. If you're 
 looking for the first great experienced for your 360, then look no further. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnman05
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 23, 2006 1:14 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty was one of the games that was released at the same time when the 360 came out and 
 it is also one of the best games for the 360 thus far! First, let me get to the story plot of the 
 game. Call of Duty 2 takes place during the 2nd world war and the missions you have are w/ the 
 soviets, british, and the Americans. The whole game goes through something that of a timeline. 
 You start out by being a soldier of the soviet union and so on complete the campaigns. In addition 
 you'll find yourself learning some history while you play the missions.
  
  The game has many pros and some cons, in which makes this game good. First, i'll break down the 
 gameplay. The gameplay in this game is very sharp on my terms. The aiming is well done, making 
 it a bit easier to kill those Nazi's. The A. I. is very weel put together and you can definatly 
 see an agression in the enemy. For example, if you find yourself face to face w/ a Nazi he will 
 hit non-stop. The Veteran difficulty setting does get a bit repetitive and you will find yourself 
 getting killed a lot and restarting from your last check point. The sound is great too. As your 
 fighting and shooting you can here bullets whistle by you. ( Sound is awesome on surround sound!) 
 Graphics are prtty good, but they can be better, but dont worry these are only the first generation 
 of graphics for the 360, they will get better. Overall, the value of the game isnt that strong, 
 but you find this game to be a lot of fun for the most part. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SunLord592
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 23, 2006 1:08 pm PT
Review:  I was really waiting for this game for a while. This has to be the best Call of Duty game ever. 
 the graphics are just amazing, for example when u go up to your men you can see the clothes wet 
 and stuff just cool. The game has very well made gameplay. It really is made well the shooting 
 part is just awesome and the vast amounts of guns you can get just makes it even better. Each gun 
 in thegame has its own sound and strrengths each is good at something. 
  
  The single player campaign is just awesome and goes through many amazing areas. The single player 
 is very well balanced and is quite a big game. The game still features Russian, American and British 
 missions and i think they should have Canada in it also. Not to be pickie but they did have a job 
 to capture a Juno Beach on D-Day, which would be cool to see. The AI in the game is amazing. The 
 smartest AI i have seen to date. And the funny thing is that the worse thing about them is that 
 they can throw grenades so accuretly that it would land right on ur toes, which gets quite annoying 
 but just makes it even fun when you have to run like crazy away from the grenade. The grenade indicator 
 is also a good thing it tell you where grenades are thrown if there new you and if you will take 
 damage from them which is cool.
  
  The multiplayer is well done. But there is many problems on Xbox Live because you would frequently 
 get lag which really ruins the ganeplay and hopefuly soon a patch would be released.
  
  Overall i think this is a must buy for 360 owners because this game is just to good and astonishing 
 that people actually fought in these wars and these kinds of games make us not forgot which is 
 a good. And i hope WWII games will still come out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StanleyHandyman
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 23, 2006 9:07 am PT
Review:  This game is a great shooter reguardless if you like WWII shooters.
  
  Gameplay
  Good: AI is agressive on both sides, very challenging on higher levels, plenty of times when the 
 game makes you feel outnumbered.
  Bad: Allied AI can be really stupid at times
  
  Graphics
  Good: Detailed Guns, enviroments, charecters make this game come alive
  Bad: Some 
 minor things that aren't that easily noticable
  
  Sound
  Good: Great FX and voice acting ,good music to back that all up
  Bad: German dialouge could have 
 had more variety
  
  Value
  After beatng the game you might not want to play it again (on lower difficulties) , but playing 
 on higher difficulties will not only increase the value of this game but will give you some hefty 
 gamerpoints as a reward for beating the levels, 1 on 1's are really fun in this game.
  
  Overall
  Call of Duty 2 is an awesome game that displays the 360's power as well as matches up 
 its PC counterpart. The bottom line is you need to buy Call of Duty 2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jkorn360
Rating: 2.1
Date: Feb 22, 2006 10:27 pm PT
Review:  I honestly don't know why everyone loves this game I bought it yesterday and it plays just as well 
 as any other COD on the original Xbox. There's nothing special about the mediorcore Xbox 1 caliber 
 graphics, there's no health bar and the online is simply horrible. If it wasnt for being a WWII 
 game everyone would hate this pieve of sh*t. 
  
  Why don't you get off your lazy asses and go read a history textbook, seriously, that is more fun 
 than playing this game. There's nothing about this game that hasn't already been done with any 
 other game on a prev gen console. I hate this game with a passion and I am going to return this 
 game so I can buy Full Auto and laugh at myself for buying this for my 360. If you want a decent 
 WWII game just buy Medal of Honor for the PS2. You'd save alot alot money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KrazyGorilla
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 22, 2006 6:21 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 (cod) was a great game for the 360 to start off with, with its Crisp Graphics and 
 nonstop game play. Although it is Great, all games have there flaws Call of Duty deals with some 
 Major Lag Online and a an Odd Spawn System in Campaign. Though these things are minor they still 
 drag this game down. Call of Duty's Campaign is pretty much Flawless, With a pretty easy curve 
 to learn, the nonstop action that goes on, but it is easy to get lost or have your mates take all 
 the kills, but the game all flows very easily together, the Missions in the game are fairly easy. 
 In the game you are pretty much never alone and have 2 or 3 mates to help you out. The Maps and 
 Locations in the Game are Great and work with the perfectly. This game is rendered more toward 
 the Campaign and not the multi-player and Live aspect. The Multi-player is great if you have more 
 than 2 players, if you 2 players its okay for 1 or 2 matches but it tends to get boring just fighting 
 1 vs. 1. The "Live" aspect is another factor, such as Extreme Lag and Servers are Normally Busy, 
 whichs means no you cant play, and Horrible Ping in game. But when and if you get a good game online 
 it is pretty thrilling, and is Fun. But you cant talk to anyone if it is a free for all, which 
 is the point of "live". This game all around is Great and is worth buying if you like a good Campaign 
 Game and an on Console Multi-player, not worth it to play online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ben1551
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 22, 2006 1:23 pm PT
Review:  COD 2 is an amazing war and strategy that will be entertaining its buyers for some time now. The 
 story line takes a few hours to beat on the default skill setting, but if you want to get the achievements 
 then you have to play on veteran which makes the game last alot longer. Although some might say 
 that the veteran setting is to hard, the achievements weren't meant to be given to everybody, only 
 the ones who worked hard and earned. The guns control very well, and unlike alot of games where 
 the snipers can hide and camp, this game doesn't play like that. Also, the killcam which shows 
 where and how you were killed looks neat, and can help tell you where the enemies are hiding. The 
 maps are pretty good, and there are a decent amount of them so you'll enjoy playing them for awhile 
 even if you don't have xbox live. In conclusion, if you have a xbox 360 then this is a must have 
 for any gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lincolnmustang4
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 22, 2006 12:26 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game the best launch title in my opinion worth the money. the game shines on all 
 accounts everything to the bullet delay to the smoke grenades. One of the things that I've been 
 having the most trouble is the online experience it seems to be to hard for the danged server to 
 allow a full game of 8 peeps to play whats goin on with that. And the really sad part aobut is 
 that this is really the first online game i've owned but what the hey it is still to early to get 
 completely disheartened. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Castorz
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 21, 2006 5:19 pm PT
Review:  Can you even begin to wonder what Soviet soldiers must have felt like when going into the battle 
 empty handed, forced to pick up their fallen Bros in Arms weapons in order to push back German 
 forces out of Stalingrad? Well, neither can I, and CoD 2 won t let you relive those moments either, 
 or even let you smash a crate to grab a bottle of wine between shootout sessions. That s the first 
 odd thing I remarked, glass can be reduced to pieces when resting on a bar stool, but not when 
 carefully packaged in a wooden box, even if you can see them lined up in said box, all the while 
 your teammates are shouting slurs and engaging the enemy in a brutal face-off. That s just where 
 this game nails it, there will not be a dull moment when playing CoD 2, avid shooter fans will 
 feel right at home with the control scheme but since you can t send your troops to any specific 
 spot or tell them to cover you while advancing, they will react precisely to where you are headed 
 and then take positions to your advantage. It works pretty well, but unfortunately most of the 
 time when reaching the second floor in clearing out buildings, your comrades/mates will suddenly 
 go AWOL and let you do the soil work on your own, which is actually how most of the game works 
 out, although they can turn out to be a life saver in certain situations. Most of the enemy soldiers 
 will also tend to focus their line of fire on the only private with a square shaped vision of the 
 field, which can get frustrating and makes you feel like you cannot sneak by as if there was a 
 spotlight following you around. The game is really worth playing on Veteran for the achievements, 
 which consist of a reward attributed to you for every single level completed.
  
  If you took a poll amongst CoD 2 enlistees, you d be treated with a huge disappointment towards 
 the lack of multiplayer functionalities, which can only accommodate 8 players max unless you decide 
 to bend the rules via system link, which will then allow you to engage in heated firefights (or 
 in most cases, sniper whoring) for up to 16 at a time.
  
  I know what you re thinking, if you d ever ask a war vet in a geriatric nursing home how it felt 
 just being out there surrounded by explosions, trying to survive the hail of bullets coming at 
 him, he would probably respond that it was more than a matter of a dozen men going at it, and that 
 the switch between the horrendousness of war could never be re-created in a video game, unless, 
 you know, you actually lost someone you knew in battle and there wouldn t be any respawn points.
 
  
  Overall, this one game is a must play if you want smooth controls and an epic sense of what could 
 have been going on in the Russian snowy streets (from practicing lobbing grenades with potatoes 
 to planting a satchel on a panzer tank) , in the arid fields of Africa playing alongside blokes 
 with saucer-shaped helmets or in some of the lusher French bourgades that you will get to encounter 
 later on in the American Campaign, no pass it on and let it be known that CoD 2 deserves its own 
 place in the WWII games Hall of Fame, but only single player wise though 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MkII_Templars
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 21, 2006 1:05 pm PT
Review:  This has to be the best xbox360 game to date. This is the most intense war games for the 360 and 
 possibly tied with battle field 2 in excellent game play. In this game you play in various roles (armies) 
 you go from Russian Conscript forced to fight againts the Facist Nazi's to a Bloodly Englishman 
 in North Africa, and finally to a Good Ol' American Coproral Bill Taylor. The Objectives are very 
 good keeps you entertained throughout the whole game, nice diversity for weapons from the STG44 
 to the Mp40 and so on. The graphics and sounds are above average for this game. The sounds of grenades 
 and the sounds of weapons fire sounds realistic, like when i take my STG44 and unload on a tank 
 theres a metaillic ring to it. Very good. The grapichs surpass the older game so much, it doesn't 
 look like a retard holding a submachine gun anymore when you in idle/firing state. You actually 
 look like a real solider when firing, pretty sweet eh? But overall this has to be one of the best 
 war games for any platform so far, and I think it was worht the time, wait, and money for playing 
 such an awesome game like this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheKretinousQ
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 21, 2006 8:27 am PT
Review:  As I put on the headline, Call of Duty 2 on XBOX360 doesn't feel like a game. If you play this 
 with full Dolby 5.1 on a huge HD TV, you forget the things in the real world and you think you 
 are holding that rifle and you are in Stalingrad taking cover from an MG42. This game truly is 
 that amazing, don't buy the cheaper PC version, it's slower and less impressive. The singleplayer 
 campaign lasts long enough, especially when played on Veteran (three shots and you're dead) . Achievements 
 take some unlocking and offer a rich reward, 
  and there's offer 1000 on offer. You may have heard older reviews of the online having serious 
 lag issues, but worry no more they are all fixed after a patch got released.
  
  Cheers for reading TKQ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skidudeone27
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 20, 2006 9:18 pm PT
Review:  This gamed amazed me and its the my most played game of all my 360 games. The campaign is just 
 great and the graphics are really good. If you loved teh original call of duty and love WWII shooters 
 then this game is right for you.
  
  The online play could do better though. The 8 players on live isnt too exciting even though it 
 can get fun but sometimes the lag is too much.
  
  What is the best about this game is the campaign. I cant stop playing it. I am sooooo hooked in 
 the storylines of the campaigns. I only get frustrated because i play on veteran and made it all 
 the way to D-DAY but cant beat the last level on veteran. It annoys me so much. lol.
  
  Anyways its a great game that you should get 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iceCOLEd
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 20, 2006 8:35 pm PT
Review:  If XBOX 360 owners have a problem choosing a new game, and you don't own Call of Duty 2... I suggest 
 picking this one up. The gameplay is extremely solid and fun to play. The storyline in this game 
 is emotional and one of the best WWII remakes ever.
  The only problem really with Call of Duty 2 is that the multiplayer can feel very stale when compared 
 with a game like Perfect Dark Zero or Halo, because you can't really do much other than the same 
 basic multiplayer options that have been used for the past decade. No vehicles, simple character 
 selection, and basic weapons to choose from. The sad part is, this game really could have been 
 one of the best FPS games ever if it had included bots and more multiplayer options.
  Simply put, if you love FPS games and you own an xbox 360, go buy this game. If you aren't a huge 
 fan of the WWII genre or you just don't like FPS games, don't get this game. I recommend getting 
 Perfect Dark Zero just because the multiplayer can be fun for hours on end, and it provides more 
 multiplayer fun than this game packs... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: squirelrunner
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 1, 2006 5:57 pm PT
Review:  Worldwar II, we've all been their countless times and is definatly a old worn out srea in gaming. 
 And come on do we really want to strm Omaha Beach one more time ? In Call Of Duty's sake yea, damn 
 right we do! Call Of Duty has got to have one of the best FPS singleplayer in a while. The basics, 
 are the same you have a campeing consisting of the Soviet, British, and American sides of the war 
 and you fight the evil German warmachiene. We've ALL done this but this time it's just done so 
 well. The health bar is gone, instead is a Halo style haelth system you get hit to much you die 
 but, get under cover an your health regenerates. The AI is so well everytime you play a level again 
 its like something completly diffrent cause the AI is really, really reactive by constantly moving, 
 taking cover and throwing your own grenades back at you! And the game can impressivly hold alot 
 of enemies with out ANY slowdown. The multiplayer ids when COD2 falls apart on the 360. The games 
 have just a horrible amount of lag it's pathetic , and thats saying you even got into a game because 
 the servers are so bad over half the time you want to play it will say 'server to busy can't find 
 match' , but when you are playing a game it's great! If it wasent for small problems this would 
 be a Halo2 substitute. The control is just perfect as well its amazing that a consel FPS plays 
 like a PC FPS. Its problems are mainly online based but overall for a WWII game in a first time 
 in a long time is an absolute must play................. Just don't get it for Xbox Live multiplayer. 
 gamertag; SwollenEyeBall 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Akoiah
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 20, 2006 5:05 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty 2 has great graphics and gameplay. the control layout is my favorite as far as fps's 
 go. storyline and objectives are very fun. campaign is the best part of the game. however, the 
 multiplayer can be very boring. especially since about 90% of the sessions turn out to be sniper 
 wars. while infinity ward has issued a patch for the multi player, lag (400+ ping) is still often 
 encountered. this is also beside the fact that there can only be 8 players in one server at a time. 
 if you're an fps fan i highly recommend this game for its single player but if you are looking 
 for a goood multiplayer fps, get perfect dark zero. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: txbagz4fun
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 28, 2006 12:34 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty is Amazing when it comes down to the campaign and co-op offline. But when you step 
 in the online arena you wonder when you are going to go to the bathroom later it is that bad. My 
 opinon save yourself the sixty dollars and go buy yourself project gotham racing 3. If your still 
 thinking about it get a subscription to gamefly and rent it for the month. At the end call of duty 
 2 is a great shooter overall but doesn't bring anything new into the genre. After playing a game 
 like halo, do the math!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: makaronnik
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 20, 2006 1:06 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty is a fun game but its just like the pc version. The graphics are very good but I exspected 
 more out of 360. The game is not that long, took me three days but a dedicated gamer could probaly 
 beat it in one day. The multiplayer is good but limited to eight players. The pc version is limited 
 to 64 players a big difference to the 360 version. The leval d day wasn't good al all, The D day 
 leval 
  in medal of honor frontline was way better then the d day leval in call of duty. I enconter a few 
 glitchs while playing but Call of duty is the most insane wwII game ever made, it has good sound 
 ,ok graphics for the next gen. I recomand this game to anybody who is a fan of first person shooters. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: j_m_a_n
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 20, 2006 12:46 pm PT
Review:  First things first, I have 5 of the 360's launch titles and this is probably my favourite. First 
 time i played it I couldnt believe the graphics - on HDTV they really do shine, and the sound, 
 best use of it in a game that I have played for a long time, (if you have surround sound your in 
 for a treat) . The game draws you in at a slow pace making you do training missions but 10 minutes 
 down the line your in a full frontal head on assault on the german HQ,.
  
  In case you didnt know, the game is based on 3 characters, a Russian, an Englishman and an American, 
 all with the same goal, wiping out those 'bloody jerries' The missions are spread along a timeline 
 and when you complete a mission you get a small cutscene of what happened after in real life and 
 the game is so immersive that you start thinking how terrible it really was back then. I like WWII 
 history anyway and quite liked finding out what happened.
  
  The game itself isnt that long, i completed normal mode in around 5 - 6 hours and went back for 
 seconds on veteran which took me a little longer. Graphics are superb, sound and gameplay are superb, 
 but there are a few flaws to the game. Multiplayer is terrible, there is so much lag on xbox live 
 that its really impossible to play if you have more than 3 people playing at the same time. Also 
 the longevity of the game is not really enough, 2 more campaigns would of been excellent but it 
 still kept me entertained for a while and Im glad I bought it. If you like FPS's and not too worried 
 about multiplayer then what are you waiting for - get this.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JasonEFowle
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 20, 2006 12:17 pm PT
Review:  Well there's not a lot bad you can say about this game the graphics are awesome and the game runs 
 lovely never freezing and people never half disappear behind walls and things like that the sound 
 effects are also very very good and the gameplay is excellent but the thing that makes this truly 
 stand out as a game is you get a feeling of how it must have been to really storm a beach in WWII 
 which i think is one of the hardest things for a game to achieve the one bad thing i have to say 
 about this game is that for some reason its very difficult to join a multiplayer game put i'm not 
 to sure if i'm doing something wrong or if it's the game but everytime i click quick match in the 
 multiplayer menu it comes up with a message saying i can't join the game after about ten times 
 it lets me in fine and it's worth the wait because the multilayer mode is also very good i would 
 highly recommend this game to anyone an excellent buy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cobydes2569
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 20, 2006 12:15 pm PT
Review:  This game has it all... graphics, sound, gameplay, difficulty, you name it. The ONLY negative thing 
 about this game is that if you are an online player like myself, then you are in for a little aggrivation. 
 This game is somewhatt hard to get into matches and has a serious lag problem; though I think that 
 Activision will resolve these problems soon. The difficulty is perfect. On easy setting, you can 
 fly through the game and learn where everything is, on veteran, you better not take more than 1 
 or 2 bullets... let me rephrase that... you CAN NOT take more than 1 or 2 bullets. Overall, one heck 
 of a game!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kinco360
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 20, 2006 11:54 am PT
Review:  This was the first game I got for my XBOX 360 and I wasn't disappointed. I'm not going to just 
 jump out and say that there's nothing wrong with this game, but despite it's flaws, I still consider 
 it a quality WW2 game.
  
  Pros:
  -One of the best single player WW2 games since the first Call of Duty.
  -Multiplayer action second-to-none 
 on the 360 as far as FPS games go.
  -Nice array of weapons and vehicles in singleplayer mode.
  -Nice array of weapons in multiplayer 
 mode.
  -Everyone VS. the Nazis, who doesn't love that?! lol
  
  Cons:
  -No vehicles in multiplayer mode.
  -Sometimes you can't connect to multiplayer games. Getting 
 the message, "Unable to join game session." Really annoying.
  -Lack of innovation as far as maps go, nothing but an endless sea of abandoned buildings.
  -Too 
 many people use snipers in multiplayer mode, ruining the experience at times.
  -Too easy to kill people with a sniper rifle. You can shoot someone in the foot with a sniper and 
 they'll die.
  -Multiplayer consists of a maximum of 8 people. I didn't know that WW2 was fought with just 8 people. 
 lol. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yanks5759
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 20, 2006 7:42 am PT
Review:  This game is by far the best FPS WWII shooter I have ever played. The game play is awsome and the 
 graphics are amazing. The detail in the weapons, equipment, persons, building is the best I have 
 ever seen. Starting out in Normal mode gives you a simple way to play the game and get a feel for 
 the game play. Veteran level is really puts your skills to the test. You must be able to use everthing 
 at your disposal in order for you to complete your mission. The only downside, is the online play 
 which has a tendancy to lag and have poor play. This is supposed to get fixed. Excellent game and 
 highly recommended as anyone who must choose a first game for their new 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: berrry
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 20, 2006 2:56 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is in my opinion the best launch game. It offers an amazing single player and an 
 intense multiplayer. For the single player. You play 3 campaigns, a Russian, British and an American. 
 Therefore you'll have to fight in all sort of different environments with different tactics. If 
 played on Veteran the single player is very rewarding. On any level under, you'll have a great 
 time the first time you play it trough as there are a lot of scripted events but for once the are 
 worked out properly.
  As for the multiplayer, apart from the lag which occurs in let's say 1 in 5 games, it's really 
 cool and intense. A lot of players just the sniper but with the handy kill cam you can easily find 
 out where the were the moment the killed you. And as you can use smoke grenades, this games makes 
 it easy to take out campers. The game modes are all really good work out and all bring out the 
 Call of Duty feeling.
  The game play is really good. All the vital handlings are easy to do because to button layout is 
 really good. 
  The graphics are not al that great. Some things look really good like you weapons but other things 
 like grass en some details look a bit sloppy. 
  The sound is amazing, you can hear yourself walking and sounding different with every ground type. 
 The weapons sound cool and on you'll always hear gunshots, and artillery fire somewhere far away 
 making you always feel like you're really at war.
  Call of Duty 2 is the best launch game if you ask me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HercDriver
Rating: 6.8
Date: Feb 20, 2006 12:34 am PT
Review:  This game is geat but its too short and too predictable. I thought it was great in the beggining 
 when the AI just kept coming, but when I realized all that was needed was a smoke grenade and a 
 bum rush, weapons free, it just got too easy! I am really happy that you don't have to control 
 your squad and that it seems like you have endless help, but I think that if the boards were a 
 little more expansive, it may be a little more fun and add to the replay value. When I say expansive 
 I mean a little more like open boards instead of the game leading you through a board and brinign 
 you to their conclusion. 
  All in All the best 360 game out there but I think my problem is more with the 360 line up and 
 not this game. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ecrous
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 19, 2006 9:37 pm PT
Review:  I thought that this game was awesome however it was really short i beat it like the first two days 
 i had it. When they say hard on the difficulty they mean it i died on the training level sad yes 
 but awesome. That is one thing i like about the hard you get hit once you die. one thing that i 
 don't like is the way the people get up after you have hit them. Even if you shot them in the head 
 sometimes they manage to get back up i don't get it, i can understand if you hit them in the arm 
 or leg but it just doesn't happen when you hit them in the head. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luc11044
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 7, 2006 12:02 pm PT
Review:  Take into consideration, Im writing this review strictly as a console gamer. I was a pc gamer 
 many years ago, but lack of money to constantly upgrade my system, finally led me back to the console 
 market.
  
  If we go back a few years, the original COD was developed by Infinity Ward for the pc and it was 
 a masterpiece! For some reason, Activision felt it necessary to have a different developer deliver 
 the console experience entitled, Call of Duty Finest Hour. The result was mediocre at best. A huge 
 disappointment and as a console gamer, I felt I missed out on a great gaming experience.
  
  When I pre-ordered my 360, I never envisioned that my favourite 360 title would be Call of Duty 
 2. I knew that it would be a quality title because this time, they decided to give us the same 
 single player campaign that blessed the pc gamers. There are certain sacrifices and issues that 
 plague the 360 multiplayer modes, but Ill expand on that farther below
  
  Heres how I recommend someone play the single player portion of the game. Try selecting the easy 
 or normal difficulty setting at first. This will permit you to breeze through the game once, 
 to let you see the brilliance in level design, the variety of the missions and the beauty of all 
 the different environments and special effects. Once youre done, you need to try the hardened 
 or veteran difficulty modes as this is where the game shines from an A. I. perspective. 
  
  Playing on veteran or even hardened mode is where the game shines. The A. I of everyone involved 
 (your foes and your allies) , kicks it up a notch. Suddenly, youre enemies are so much smarter. 
 When you throw a grenade, they might toss it back or run away. Youre also more vulnerable! On 
 veteran mode, if you so much as stick your head out at the wrong time, youll be getting a new 
 haircut. It makes Call of Duty 2 seem that much more realisticto know that all it takes is one 
 bullet and youre starting back at the last checkpoint. This also means that you might die like 
 50 fifty times before completing a level. It could end up being a frustrating but rewarding affair.
 
  
  One the aspects I love about Call of Duty 2, is the pacing. The action never stops. You finish 
 an objective or clear out a bunch of soldiers and all of a sudden, your troop has a second or third 
 wave of enemies attacking them or your objectives change as you progress through the level. COD2 
 keeps you on your toes by constantly updating your objectives and by always keep those interesting. 
 The missions also vary with vehicles that you may control (like the tanks) or by having you destroy 
 those of the enemy. 
  
  Ok, this is the next generation and one of the biggest factors open to criticism is the graphics. 
 The good news is that Call of Duty 2 is graphically sharp, detailed and smooth. This game delivers 
 on really superb graphics equal to that of the pc version. The animation is realistic and the movement 
 is smooth while the frame rate is adequate. Its rare to see a game ported from the pc that doesnt 
 sacrifice on the graphics. What I also appreciate is the fact that no matter how much action there 
 is, theres no slowdown. 
  
  There are three different campaigns included in the single player mode. Each campaign has very 
 different environments and the amount of detail on every level is outstanding. Everything from 
 the smoke, the fires in abandoned in buildings and vehicles, the explosions, the trees, the vehicles 
 and even the breath of your soldiers in the cold weatherI can go on and on about the care and 
 attention to detail that was poured into Call of Duty 2.
  
  The sound is some of the best Ive heard in this genre. Everything from the different guns, the 
 explosions, even the sound of reloading your weapon is outstanding! Every gun has their original 
 firing effect. Even the sound of the jeeps, planes and tanks moving sounds so realistic. You can 
 actually hear the rocks cracking and crumbling under the tanks. The voices of your enemies and 
 your troop really add to the game. You actually feel involved in a story, in a warin a struggle 
 for survival. 
  
  The music during the game is hard to notice at times because theres so much happening. There are 
 so many explosions, guns firing and people yelling, thats its hard to notice that there is any 
 music at all. That being said, when the action dies down, the orchestral soundtrack fits the mood 
 very well.
  
  Someone might ask, How does the control on the 360 compare to the mouse and keyboard of the pc? 
 Hear my wordsnever has a first person shooter controlled so well on a console. The targeting is 
 precise and easy to controlevery movement you make with your soldier feels natural and effortless. 
 You can actually target a soldiers helmet, fire your gun, and you see him turn around to look 
 for it. Hilarious! There are no hang-ups that I can think about concerning this.
  
  You have two buttons to throw grenadeseither frags or smoke grenades. The smoke grenades are an 
 awesome and efficient addition in certain situations throughout the whole game. I was totally speechless 
 as I saw bodies flying with a few frags that I through in a pack of my opponents. So cool!
  
  Theres a great deal of variety as far as guns are concerned. You can carry two at a time. 
 Your character can also pick up any weapons that are dropped by any soldiers along the way. Im 
 really happy Infinity Ward didnt make Call of Duty 2 a sniping fest. You will at certain occasions 
 use a sniper rifle but these are specific to tasks that really need the long range attacks.
  
  Finally, lets talk about the multiplayer
  
  The first thing I want to point out is this 
 number90% of the time I play games on Xbox Live; Im doing deathmatches on Call of Duty 2. I could 
 be playing NFS Most Wanted, Quake IV, any of the Splinter Cells or even Halo 2 but somehow, COD2 
 keeps me coming back for more. Ive never had so much fun playing online.
  
  The multiplayer on Xbox Live is limited to 8 players only but, the level design is such that if 
 there were any more than 8, the matches would be too crowded and end too quickly. There are the 
 standard modes like: Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch and Capture the Flag but, if you look at all the 
 multiplayer FPS games today, Infinity Ward has not made an effort to encourage a lot of online 
 play.
  
  This brings me to the topic of lag. Anyone reading this review that has Call of Duty 2 has at one 
 point, experienced lag during play. Im not taking about small lag that last a second or two. Im 
 talking about a lag so frustrating that Ive shut off my system because of it. In addition to this, 
 you might get disconnected or even booted before you get a chance to even start a match. Infinity 
 Ward has promised a patch to address these issues but from what I hear, it wont be available until 
 April 2006. Believe it or not, even after you put these issues aside, the online portion is enjoyable. 
 Its just too bad that they couldnt fix these issues sooner rather than later.
  
  I strongly recommend Call of Duty 2 to all 360 owners. It successfully immerses you and makes you 
 feel like you are part of the action and the story. Its my favourite launch title for the 360 
 and it ranks in my top ten of all time. COD2 has great balance by having an amazing single player 
 campaign while having an enjoyable, albeit problematic multiplayer mode for now. It is without 
 a doubt, my favourite of all WWII themed first person shooters.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: donKEYsnOTT16
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 19, 2006 8:21 pm PT
Review:  Ok, thats not too fair because there are plenty of other games out there that are fun on XBOX LIVE, 
 but there arent that many for 360. Call of Duty 2 is just about as fun a game as I have played 
 on live since the day the original Mech Assault came out. The story is deep enough that you just 
 want to play it all through on one sitting, and the sounds are soooooo intense. Everything seems 
 so well designed. My ONLY COMPLAINT is the fact that it is so darn hard to get into a game. All 
 around great game. Compelling campaign, and an imersive multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: felgabbar
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 19, 2006 6:11 pm PT
Review:  The campaign is short but the missions are so incredible that you won't have any trouble playing 
 them again. Make sure you have a good home theater because the sound is amazing. You feel like 
 your in the war. It is really hard to find a glitch in this game except for the dead soldiers magically 
 disappearing. The multi-player is kind of disappointing because the graphics are downgraded but 
 the real reason of the game is the single player which is perfect. The best game I have ever played 
 for a console and a revolutionary game for the game industry. Incredible game, a must buy for the 
 xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bass7
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 19, 2006 3:11 pm PT
Review:  I mean don't get me wrong but this game is fun. I mean the graphics are good and the sound is good. 
 Well the gameplay is kind of good I mean you don't really use that much of tactics. You can just 
 pretty much throw a grenade and someone is bound to just run into it so you really don't use your 
 smarts. The only time you do is when you're under MG42 fire and you are crouching. There isn't 
 any flanking (that much) in this game. I have played Brothers In Arms which was spectacular, with 
 a good story and you need to think on your feet. Now I have played CoD2 on veteran on the 360 and 
 it's not that hard. I mean some parts it is but not really. If you play BIA on authentic, one shot 
 usually means your dead, and if you aren't the next shot will kill you. Another problem with the 
 game is you can gain your health back which gives this game "kind of" a Halo feel to it. It would 
 be better instead to make you go find a medic to help you out. This game has great multiplayer 
 on the other hand though, unlike BIA, it's pretty much fast paced and is almost like Day Of Defeat. 
 Well I can give props to Activision for stunning graphics and a good fast paced shooter and this 
 game is good. If you want something more realistic maybe go for BIA. If you want fast paced WWII 
 Shooter go with CoD2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vivalaneta
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 19, 2006 11:41 am PT
Review:  This is BY FAR my favorite Xbox 360 game. It's got everything going for it. The sheer excitement 
 of playing through one mission got me hooked on the game, and unable to put that controller down. 
 The amazing presentation and clips from The Military Channel between missions really add to the 
 game's realism and make it more fun to play. Also, being that I am a HUGE war buff, this really 
 hit home for me, and made the game a whole lot better for me to enjoy.
  
  Everything is right on the spot. One of my favorite parts of the game (the sound) is really worth 
 checking the game out for alone. Everything sounds perfect. The guns, the voice acting, the background 
 sounds, and the numerous thing your ally and enemy soldiers shout during the battle. The guns sound 
 perfect, and the battle scenes you encounter sound so lifelike it's unbelievable. When you really 
 get into this game, it's the closest you'll ever want to get to war.
  
  The game's graphics; while they aren't up to par with other 360 launch games are still fantastic. 
 While you won't see the power of the 360's graphics used on the player models unless you are close 
 up, you'll definitely see it on the guns and environments: which look completely amazing and are 
 heavily detailed. 
  
  Really, nothing major needs to be said about this game for me to recommend it to you. You need 
 to get out there and try it for yourself. Even if you don't like FPS War shooters, Call of Duty 
 2 will take over your soul, and put you right in the WWII experience. 
  
  If you are going to get an Xbox 360, this is most definitely the game to start with. Regardless 
 of what anyone says, Call of Duty 2 is reason enough to have an Xbox 360 in my opinion. Amazing, 
 fun game that really any video game fan is sure to enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jjj13
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 19, 2006 10:41 am PT
Review:  This game is so mutch fun. Lets start out with the gameplay. It is loads of fun. 27 missions is 
 a great amount. The missions on veteren is great. I suggest going on normal first and work your 
 way up. Now that we have covered that, let's talk about the mutiplayer. The multiplayer is great. 
 Split screen is fun on a big screen so that it would be easy to stay fixed on your side of your 
 screen. The online is great when you could get in and there would be no lag. I hope you enjoyed 
 this reveiw and if you did, please suggest this review. Thanks!
  
  
  -John JJ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SoralinkGS
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 19, 2006 9:54 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 on Xbox 360 impressed me in leaps in bounds. I loved everyminute of playing this 
 game and I will probably play it again down the road. The Graphics were excellent and gameplay 
 was fun and immersed you into the era so well. The sound was incredible and the Smoke effect were 
 top notch.
  
  So whats wrong with it? Well to start off, the multiplayer online is terrible ( 8 players and extremely 
 laggy) . Whoever designed the 360's multiplayer's servers should be shot. Another problem I had 
 was the AI. While extremely helpful in British and American Campains, They always got in the way 
 of my line of fire in Russia. This ticked me off since I was trying to get through the game on 
 veteran.
  
  But those flaw mean nothing. If you have a 360 get this game. BUT if you have a PC that can handle 
 this bad boy on high detail, get the PC version.
  
  Pros:
  -Everything (Music, Graphics, and Gamplay)
  
  Cons:
  -avoid the multiplayer at all costs on 
 the Xbox 360
  -The AI is dumb in the Russian Campain for so odd reason. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CheekSqueaker
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 26, 2007 1:03 pm PT
Review:  I have finished the single player game, and it definitely is the best world war 2 fps out there. 
 Good pace , graphics and sound - very well done. What I like the most is that the check point saves 
 come about more often than the original game, and being a fps wuss as I am, I appreciate that. 
 My favorite part though, has to be the multiplayer. The levels are really detailed and look great 
 . From bombed out cities , farm houses to desert settings , all giving you tons of areas to check 
 out and hide in. My only complaint is that getting into a game can be difficult at times, then 
 once you do get into a game you have to worry about being disconnected , or getting a server full 
 message that then forces you to try to get into another game, very frustrating at times. From what 
 I hear , there is supposed to be a patch coming out soon , and I think the sooner the better. The 
 multiplayer in this game ,at least for me, beat out Halo 2 which is great also, and once the patch 
 comes out -- golden. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 677325
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 19, 2006 6:13 am PT
Review:  This game is truly amazing! There are so many good things that can be said about Call of Duty 2 
 that it would be impossible to list them all, but I will try.
  
  Good:
  The guns and feel look amazing (especially the Thompson) , the characters have so much detail and 
 look so realistic, I have seen the PC version in action and they basicaly look exactly the same 
 also the PC version will look worse if you have a crap computer, there is loads of things going 
 on at once, and loads of soldiers on the screen at once so it really, really feels like a real 
 battle, this is simply the most realistic WW2 games ever made.
  
  I am not gonna lie there are a couple of bad things.
  
  Bad:
  The multiplayer only allows 
 you to play with eight players and has alot of lag sometimes.
  
  Overall this is easily the best of the luanch titles of the Xbox 360, and if you own an Xbox 360 
 then it is your duty to buy this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alphawolf102
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 7, 2006 1:42 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: it is your basic shotem up world war 2 game but redifines the gene of WWII games. Its 
 probably the best titles to get on the 360 because it is a flat out shooter. The game doesn't do 
 a thing wrong but yet does improve the games sticks with if it aint broke dont fix approch which 
 works.
  
  Graphics: I truely think this is one of the best looking games that came out this year. The detail 
 on the soilders is just amazing. Unfoutenly you can not say that for the envoirment. But the graphics 
 won't win everybody over and the definenlty won't turn anyone away.
  
  Sound: I have not have the chance to listen to anything in surrondsound. But the game does sound 
 good with both my regular TV speakers and on my PC version with PC headset. But note not part of 
 the review but iam saving for a 5.1 setup.
  
  A. I. : I felt the AI derserved it on spot only for me to say they are smart. they know where u 
 are and u must plan ur attack on bunker etc. They are hard and u will get mad.
  
  If you are looking for a solid game for the 360 this is one not missing anything a shooter shouldn't 
 miss but not improving on anything keeps Call of Duty 2 a great games for the 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kike_u80
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 18, 2006 10:41 pm PT
Review:  This is absolutely the best WWII game ever made.
  
  Graphics 10 - As we all know the 360 games just look awesome in an HDTVThe graphics are pretty 
 good and sharp. All the details are well done, and the characters are well designed.
  
  Gameplay 9 - Great FPS, just pressing action button you can do lots of things.
  
  Sound - The 
 sound is really great. It almost makes you fill in a war (Obviously not as being in the war, respecting 
 the heroes who died in WWII) , but for a game its really cool.
  
  Value - Its not a long game if you play the campaign once, and in normal. After beating the normal 
 campaign you will want to play again, and the hard difficulty, believe me, is pretty tight. Almost 
 finishing it! Then going to thw maximum difficulty, where as I heard, is almost impossible to beat 
 a level without being killed lots of times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smoothrj
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 18, 2006 8:45 pm PT
Review:  im so in love with this game!! i love the AI. the single player is soo intense and the sound is 
 like nothing you've expirienced before it feels like you're in the war!! (if u have surround sound) . 
 but the bad thing about this game is that they really need to fix the multiplayer potion of the 
 game which SUCKS!! i love the single player for this game and i'll give it a thumbs up. the graphics 
 are soo real, the smoke effects are awesome too! !! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
 ! ! ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcmantey
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 18, 2006 6:03 pm PT
Review:  This game is really fun online and off. The story has really climatic battles and explosions. The 
 AI is really advance, they will charge, retreat, flank, and even throw grenades back at you. Online, 
 it is fun and very easy for people to pick up. However there are somethings I dont like, the lag 
 is really bad at times, but they are relseasing a patch for it, and you can not stay with a party 
 of friends. I can live the lag bc it is every once and a while and it is gonna get fixed, but I 
 cant stand not being able to connect to a match, be with a party of freinds, and get disconnected 
 from a game bc I am owning. I reccomen this game for anyone who gets a 360 but you will probably 
 have the same complaints as I do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Basinboy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 18, 2006 5:03 pm PT
Review:  The general consensus is that PCs are greater than Consoles when it comes to games. The Xbox 360 
 and Call of Duty 2 beg to differ. Everything is just as smooth on the 360 and the controls are 
 just as seamless and immersive, proving the 360 is a very formidable and versatile piece of tech. 
 However, the online facet of Call of Duty 2 is very lacking on the Xbox 360, full of bugs and glitches, 
 not to mention that the rush from single player doesn't translate to multiplayer when only 8 people 
 can play at a time. However, this is the only area where the PC version of Call of Duty 2 is better 
 than the 360. The sound in this game is where it truly excels, making you whip your head around 
 because you could hear a bullet go zipping by your head. Get a surround sound system and a large 
 HD monitor hooked up and you'll find gaming Nirvana. In the end, Call of Duty 2's suffers due to 
 its lack of replayability, its very straightforward run-and-gun combat, and its very lacking multiplayer 
 and online. However, its positives outweigh its negatives and is definitely, thus far, the most 
 impressive and complete game for the Xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vegeta7482
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 18, 2006 3:11 pm PT
Review:  The is by far one of the best war shooters I have played. The graphics are amazing, and the scope 
 of the game is even better. With huge maps, many AI (both for and against) you'll truly feel like 
 you're in the war, and you just want to survive. One of the best aspects of the game is that you 
 are not the hero, just one of the masses, and the enemy has no preference for killing you or the 
 fellow next to you. There have been many times where I will sit behind a wall, just because I don't 
 want to be the one being shot at, then I realize its just a game.
  
  The effects of sounds, people shouting, walls blowing up is amazing. Though the game does have 
 some downsides. You'll see tanks that can blow up walls almost anywhere, and you think wow a fully 
 destructible environment, then you enter a building and can't even shoot out a pain of glass. Sometime 
 you can make life easy for yourself, by clearing a room that you will have to go to ahead of time 
 with a sniper rifle, then other times it doesn't matter how many bullets you have, the enemy keeps 
 respawning???
  
  The Multiplayer maps look great, and are designed well, but if you aren't playing on XBL they are 
 really pointless because even 4 people aren't enough. Though online play is very fun.
  
  My biggest grip is the save glitch, where you might find you have beaten half the game, then all 
 the levels which you have completed have disappeared and you must start over. Nothing can be more 
 frustrating, luckily a patch is out for that, and have yet to encouter it since.
  
  I have mostly pointed out flaws, but when you play this game it is very captivating, and the so 
 called 'feel' is something CoD2 does right. It might be part of the new system excitement, but 
 CoD2 is definitely a must have for 360 owners 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TripleSizz6ix
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 18, 2006 2:24 pm PT
Review:  Well, the game was good but not as good as the first one. Call Of Duty for PC seemed extremely 
 similar to the second one, only thing diffrent about them is the iron sights look diffrent, not 
 every NPC has the same face, and the Multiplayer sucks extremely bad for Call Of Duty 2. The originial 
 Multiplayer for Call of Duty was great up to 100 and up people servers, huge maps, (Call Of Duty 
 2 Uses same maps at first one and not the big ones either) tons of vechiles intense battles always 
 an enemy around the corner ready to duke it out. I'm not saying Call of Duty 2 is bad its just 
 they could of made the multiplayer a bit more better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Madgez
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 18, 2006 12:53 pm PT
Review:  This is personally one of my favorite 360 games. I'd have to say that single-player has been the 
 best of all times. This game is educational, and fun at the same time.
  
  I think everyone should buy this game for the 360 without a doubt. Easy controls, but isn't the 
 easiest game. If your not a fast player, you should rent this game to see how it is first. We all 
 knew that this game was coming out a few months before, and it was worth the wait. The price is 
 perfect, and the graphics are great. I give this game a 9.5 rating because the weapon sets
  and missions could've been a bit better. 
  
  I have 1 tip for you: BUY THIS GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stevo_the_gamer
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 1, 2006 8:08 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty is even better than the original. Now with the Xbox 360's power, the game looks very 
 good. The game offers some intense single player that will keep you playing over and over again. 
 You can play as the Americans, British and Russians through three different short campaigns which 
 bring history to life! br / 
  
  The gameplay in the game is very realistic if you play on the difficulty, "Veteran." The single 
 player plays around about 24 different levels from three different campaigns. You first start off 
 in training in Stalingrad in Russia while playing as a Russian Soldier, you fight through the ruin 
 city and kick German ass. After you complete the Russian Campaign, you move on to the British and 
 then yo move on to the American, which is the best out of all three.
  
  So the single player part is just amazing. You will never let down your controller. All the weapons 
 in the game fire and sound like their real world weapons. The british single player takes you through 
 Africa and Normandy. And the American single player takes you from the beaches of France to French 
 towns, and to Germany which is the most fun out of all the campaigns.
  
  The multiplayer is what keeps you playing for ages. First, when the game came out, the multiplayer 
 was plague with lag and disruptive playing but it has now been fixed with a patch. Also, when the 
 game first game out, the lobby system really was terrible but that been fixed too. You can create 
 your own match and let players join. Or you can join a ranked match and play some hardcore multiplayer.
 
  
  You can play up to eight people in multiplayer and play system link too. The only bad thing about 
 the multiplayer is the eight player total part, it should have been increased tp sixteen or twenty-four. 
 Also, another let down is that you cannot play co-op at all, a dissapointment but it doesn't bring 
 down the game's replay value which is all the way up there.
  
  Second of all, the sound; the sound in this game is the best out of any World War 2 shooter/game 
 out there. From the weapons to the characters, the sound is superb. Some aspects of the sound can 
 be misleading though, because when you are playing in the Russian campaign, the Russians speak 
 English instead of Russia, yet, they still have the Russian accents. The British and American voice 
 actors did very well, the voice acting was superb. When you play throughout the game, you will 
 be able to use a wide variety of weapons, and each of the weapons sound and feel different.
  
  Overall, a great game and it deserves a place in your collection.
  
  It is definately a 
 buy for people who love FPS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beardedd123
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 18, 2006 9:36 am PT
Review:  this game is real HD and story goes beyond what the can achieve... the story of the game follows 
 every movment that the war world 2 made... the sounds are spectacular and the grafics are true 
 HD this game takes the xbox360 to the maxium and a great game to begin playing if purchased an 
 xbox360 and the gameplay is perfect and camera due to that is first person cant never be better 
 than ever..... one game that an owner of the next generation console shouldnt miss.. if not an 
 owner then should buy big red one.. but it is what it means to be..... the next generation console 
 that has done it again call of duty 2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkstar_Sinada
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 18, 2006 7:24 am PT
Review:  With the multiple first person shooters already out for the Xbox 360, it can be hard for one to 
 choose which he wants to purchase. In my humble opinion, look no further than Call of Duty 2.
 
  
  Set in the destruction of World War 2, Call of Duty takes players through 27 epic missions, where 
 they will be fighting for their country, all while attempting to stay alive. While you can breeze 
 through the campaign in around 10 hours on normal, the real rewards come on the Veteran difficulty. 
 On Veteran, one gets a true experience of a realistic war. Two or three shots can down you, and 
 you'll often find yourself at one spot for ten to twenty minutes, slowly gunning down all resistance. 
 Crawling is a most, and smoke grenades become holy saviours. The once 10 hour game now becomes 
 nearly 30, and a truly rewarding experience. Although you will die quite often, the checkpoints 
 are plentiful, allowing you to feel progress for every little victory.
  
  The gameplay is typical WW2 shooter. Rifles, machine guns, and the occasional sniper rifle, in 
 addition to your smoke and frag grendes, make up a soldier's arsenal. On occasion you are allowed 
 to mount a turret or vehicle gun, allowing for mass destruction. Rocket launchers are placed where 
 enemy vehicles must be destroyed, or sticky grenades to disable tanks.
  
  The game allows you to play as the Russians, Americans and Britians, all in diverse areas. The 
 Russians fight in freezing snowstorms, the British in the deserts of Egypt, and the Americans in 
 relatively pleasant Germany. Much diversity is spread though-out the 27 missions, none seem to 
 repetitive.
  
  I have yet to even try the multiplayer mode, and I still believe this is one of the best FPS ever. 
 The single player campaign is the finest, with out a doubt. Definately worth picking up, and mastering.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: copunit
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 17, 2006 6:38 pm PT
Review:  
  
  Gameplay: 8
  The gameplay in COD2 for the 360 is excellent, but the dreadful word repetitive must be used. For 
 the most part, you'll be shooting at Nazis which I must say after 9 or so levels does get old. 
 It does and try some variety by throwing in commandable AA guns, but these are all scripted. The 
 one thing that brought it down was, of course MP. The graphics are good in MP, but lag makes it 
 unplayable.
  
  Graphics: 9
  COD2 for the Xbox 360 does a excellent port job from the PC, COD2 for the 360 is perfect for those 
 whos computers are not up to date. All of the elements of this game add up for a extremely immersive 
 game. The power of the 360 shows off what it can do, which makes this game run at a very steady 
 FPS.
  
  
  Sound: 9
  The sound is probably the best thing about COD2, the actors deliver their lines excellent and really 
 gives you the feeling that your right beside them while their yelling at you to get to cover, or 
 when a Nazi is in CQB wtih you and does a mad charge while screaming, trying to beat you to death 
 with the blunt end of his weapon.
  
  Overall Score: 8.7
  If you played and loved the 1st, then you'll feel right at home playing COD2. If your computer 
 is not up to date and you have a 360, then you will not regret picking this up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lonewolf7862
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 17, 2006 3:34 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is an amazing game period. the sound is great the weapons feel strong and the graphics 
 are tight. the game does everything well and makes it so that everything feels good. there are 
 a few bugs but nothing that should force you away. the game is simply amazing and shouldnt be over 
 looked. the guns feel good and strong and the experiance is great. the score does amazing work 
 and the music gives the game an stunning feel. the enemies are smart on the harder difficulty. 
 they will find new ways to blow up and kill you. the AI is tight and great but your troops may 
 be a little slow sometimes. the game is overall completely superb
  
  if your lucky enough to own a 360 own this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: latin_boi
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 17, 2006 1:44 pm PT
Review:  World War II has been the subject of hundreds of games to hit shelves. Some games games such as 
 Brothers in Arms, Medal of Honor, and Call of Duty stood out more than others. Most of these shooters, 
 however, have been best on PC only, and their console counterparts haven't done so well. Call of 
 Duty is one of those games- its PC version has outsold and outscored the console versions. Since 
 the Xbox 360 is brand new, many people had doubts about how well COD2 would fare against its earlier 
 released PC version. Not only does the Xbox 360 version of COD2 surpass the one on PC, it's hands 
 down the best WWII shooter you can get your hands on. Most WWII shooters attempt to capture (and 
 claim that they do) the true action of World War II, but don't even come close. Call of Duty 2 
 comes the closest I have ever seen to true WWII action (though of course I'll never know) . There 
 is never a dull moment while completing your objectives. There are always firefights happening 
 all around you, and the overall action of the game will get your heart racing. The enemy AI contributes 
 to this a lot. Enemy soldiers will hide effectively behind cover, communicate, flank you, surround 
 you, and throw grenades back to you -- all on the easiest difficulty. So there's no way whatsoever 
 that you can run and gun your way through each mission. You must work together with all of your 
 team members to defeat the German enemies. Speaking of your team members -- Call of Duty 2 does what 
 no other WWII game I have played has done before. Instead of being able to mow down your enemies 
 easily, you must actually work together and actually share kills with your teammates (I know, I 
 know... it's hard... but you can pull past it) . Seriously though, the German numbers are far too 
 great for you to handle on your own, so you must work with your large group of soldiers to be victorious. 
 This is one of my favorite parts of the game because it makes you feel like an ant in an antpile -- you 
 are just a nameless nobody in a giant war. Other than single player, the game features a great 
 multiplayer mode which allows up to four players go head to head during local play, and up to something 
 like 32 online over Xbox Live. The same intensity and excitement found in the single player campaign 
 remains in the multiplayer both online and offline. You'll find yourself jumping up and down and 
 yelling with excitement in nearly every match. Overall, the gameplay in COD2 is superior to that 
 of any WWII shooter I've ever seen. The action and intensity of the game will get your heart beating, 
 and it's very realistic and true to the WWII era. The graphics of the game are just mindblowing. 
 Of course it's going to look amazing since it's a next gen game, but even without HD, the game 
 looks and feels amazing. The visual effects to the game are amazing, and the overall action that 
 appears on screen is fantastic too. During a firefight, you will literally see your own men die 
 right in front of you. For example, on the Normandy mission, you must climb up these cliffs and 
 while you climb them, you will see your men get shot and fall down the cliff while you're climbing. 
 You instantly get a sense of fear about what is going to happen next. The fact that this occurs 
 nonstop throughout the entire game is absolutely amazing and it's definately makes for a great 
 experience. The fact that the only HUD visible is how much ammo and how many clips you have is 
 also fantastic because it allows for you to see virtually all of the action. To conclude, the graphics 
 for COD2 are just amazing both in its presentation and its core graphics. The sound also, is just 
 amazing. There's never a quiet moment going on while you are on a mission. You will always hear 
 bombing and gunfire in the distance, and when you're in a huge firefight it all comes together 
 to make one heck of an experience. The music in general is very well composed, and definately adds 
 to the intensity to the game. The voice acting to the game is also amazing. Members of your team 
 are always talking and communicating on where German units are. This comes in handy when you're 
 trying to defend an area and need to know where soldiers are trying to attack from. They'll also 
 yell out for smoke or frag grenades to be deployed, or call out the location of incoming tanks 
 or mortars. All of this not only helps you while in a bind during a mission, but it also adds to 
 the intensity of the game and captures the feeling of a WWII fight very well. Overall, COD2 is 
 just a mindblowing game, and just thinking about it makes my heart rate rise. The campaign is very 
 expansive, putting you in the shoes of a Russian, American, and British soldier over three continents -- Asia 
 (Russia) , Europe, and Africa. The campaign is actually very long, but eventually you will get finished 
 with it. Luckily, the Xbox 360's Achievement system allow for maximun replayability and ensure 
 that there's a challenge waiting for even the most experienced players. Also, there's multiplayer 
 online and offline that should last you a long time because to be short, it rocks. Call of Duty 
 2 is the ideal game to pick up for new Xbox 360 owners, and it's easily the best World War II shooter 
 I've ever seen, and trust me, I've seen a lot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DragN1
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 17, 2006 12:19 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is a shooter that every xbox 360 owner should try.
  The graphics in this game are very good for a launch title. The battles in this game are VERY intense, 
 especially on veteran. The sound in Call of Duty 2 is amazing!, you can hear the bullets zipping 
 past you and if you have surround sound then your in for a treat. This game has pretty good replay 
 value too. The multi player in this game is very enjoyable, but when theres 8 people in a match 
 it can get laggy. Eventually that lag will be fixed in a patch though. If your a fan of shooters 
 then this game is highly recommended for you. All in all CoD2 is the first great xbox 360 shooter. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 01casey
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 19, 2006 11:36 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2.
  
  
  During the Second World War the many lost lives and violence could only have been considered as 
 torture to the innocent soldiers. They had an idea that during the seven year period of war, there 
 was a chance that they would lose their lives, but what they didnt know is that one of the greatest 
 war games ever to grace consoles would recall their misfortunes sixty-one years later.
  
  This is where Call of Duty 2 comes in. Breathtaking landscapes, hundreds upon thousands of bullets 
 flying past your head, the sound of screaming soldiers deafening. It really is full blown war, 
 and unfortunately, youre in the middle of it.
  
  The game spans across three campaigns, starting with the Soviet army in Russia, moving on to the 
 British troops in Northern Africa, and closing on a high as the American troops on Omaha Beach, 
 moving on to Berlin at the climax. Sadly, what sounds like a lengthy game actually turns out to 
 be disappointingly short, unless you play the game on the difficulty setting which it shines most: 
 Veteran. Designed specially for the serious gamer, CoD2s hardest mode is where this game is at, 
 and should at least be experimented with if you want to experience the horror of WW2. 
  
  Whilst playing through the game, another thing that stands out like poo on a white shoe are the 
 superb details which have been put into this game. The game looks fantastic, with a very stable 
 frame rate, and can be enjoyed at an optimal standard even on a non-high def TV. 
  
  But dont forget, this is war, so you arent alone. A question which may be running through your 
 head at the minute is, Does it feel like war?. It looks like it and sounds extremely similar, 
 but what about allies and enemies? Are they up to scratch? The simple answer is, damn right they 
 are. Team-mates react to every situation, and all seem as if they have their individual feelings. 
 Sometimes though, Lets kill those Jerries, can get a wee bit repetitive.
  
  So, a definite one-nil concerning single-player, but dont forget about multiplayer. Imagine it. 
 You and your team-mates fighting in a battle, only you are all real now and have real feelings 
 over Xbox Live. How awesome this could have been. I say could, mainly because CoD2s multiplayer 
 really is an offence in the name of Xbox 360. The main reason for this is that lag always seems 
 to spoil the party, which makes it a definite What shouldnt happen on a next generation console 
 feature. If you enjoy jolting round like some kind of demented pixie, then youll probably love 
 CoD2 online. at a push.
  
  Another thing that lets CoD2s multiplayer down is the fact that the typical battlefield maps can 
 only have as many as eight people fighting in them at once. Ok, this is a great number for death 
 matches, but CoD2 is a war game, and Team Death Match/Capture the flag are the games which this 
 has been designed around. For death matches, see Quake 4 (review coming soon) .
  
  So, Call of Duty 2 is a great game to play, but a few little niggles make this a slight bit short 
 of the full package. Lets hope that Infinity Ward hurry up and release that multiplayer patch 
 (Gamer tag: The Albertros) !
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: davahsa
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 16, 2006 8:03 pm PT
Review:  Tired of FPS WWII games? Me too! Still Call of Duty 2 rules all those other FPS games hands down 
 in the single player campaign mode! True! This game is Fun Fun Fun, full of action, and sounds 
 great. The graphics are sweet and it even looks better than on the best PC out there. The multiplayer 
 is not as robust as the PC version but still can be loads of fun. And if you ever wanted to listen 
 to Creque Alley by The Mamma's and the Pappa's while you mowed down Nazzies.... than the custom 
 soundtrack supported across the entire library of 360 games will really win you over. If you don't 
 try this out than you will miss out on one of last years best overall games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stormmaster
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 16, 2006 6:56 pm PT
Review:  I could go on and on about this game. Single players amazing. Multiplayers addicting and fun! The 
 graphics, sound and gameplay are great, yet there is a few problems. Mainly the server browser. 
 You somtimes cant get into games and when you cant it really stinks. But i do have a way to make 
 custom servers (Which i might reveal....) . Plus as intense as the single player is, there is a 
 been there, done that feel to it. The single player is more intsense that CoD 1 (Im talking about 
 the one on PC, not the crap finest hour) but it just doesnt have the same feel. If this is your 
 first entry to CoD you'd give this game a ten. but even if your a veteran, this is still an awsome 
 game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: just4pool93
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 13, 2006 6:06 pm PT
Review:  This game kicks ass! The graphics are rock solid and you can see every particle of dust in the 
 air! The best graphics I have ever encountered in a video game. This game screams next generation 
 to me. X-Play was absolutely correct to give it a 5 out of 5. I think all Xbox 360 owners should 
 have this game for it. Big Red One for Xbox and PS2 is not as good as this one but it is still 
 a pretty good game. When I get my Xbox 360 my first three games are going to be Call of Duty 2, 
 Project Gotham Racing 3, and Perfect Dark Zero. Those are the best games out on it so far so that 
 is why I am getting those first. Later, I will get Halo 3 when it is released. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: narcolepticshee
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 16, 2006 2:25 pm PT
Review:  Fist impressions of call of duty 2 were not good at all. I was completely unimpressed by the graphics 
 and the gameplay wasn't anything special. How i was wrong. If you stick with this game after the 
 first couple of chapters you iwll love it the max. The visuals are awesome and are realistic enough 
 to create a convincing environment. Some textures are a bit unconvincing but the graphics are great 
 - *note i have played on a standard adn a HDTV and the graphics have improved by a vast vast amount 
 on the HDTV setting*. The graphics are especially good when you look down the barrel of the gun. 
 The whole game just immerses you into the environment.
  
  The AI is great, they react just how you would expect real soldiers to react - i suggest you play 
 through the game on easy or normal first and then go to veteran mode because for some reason, veteran 
 mode is so much more fun then easy and normal mode but only after you've played it on the lower 
 difficulty settings - don't ask me why.
  
  Multiplayer is fantastic, everything you would expect and a clever system to stop campers. When 
 you die, a thing called "Kill Cam" comes up and it shows the person that killed you's screen 5 
 seconds before you died so you know where they were sitting when they shot you, so it makes the 
 killer move on. GREAT idea - couldn't ask for anything more from the multiplayer.
  
  Better than - Condemned
  Worse than - Nothing at the moment 
::::::

::::::
UserName: topherstud
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 16, 2006 11:37 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 has just about anything a console gamer could want from a FPS. The graphics are 
 amazing, the action is intense (if you don't believe me try walking in a trench and have a tank 
 drive over you for the first time) , and the mechanics of the game are executed flawlessly. As far 
 as single player campaigns go this game is almost perfect by FPS standards. Unfortunately, multiplayer 
 has some known issues, namely the lack of ability to play with your friends. Some other gamers 
 have complained about the game's restriction of 8 players at a time, but it actually feels like 
 a comfortable number for the given maps. Most first person console shooters favor a 4 on 4 or 8 
 person free for all (Halo 2 comes to mind) so that aspect of the multiplayer is far from a disappointment. 
 All in all this game is a solid value, and the campaign alone will warrant several play-throughs 
 just to enjoy the best parts of the experience over and over again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: freshcutgrass1
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 3, 2006 12:48 pm PT
Review:  CALL of DUTY 2 is just a stunning game thats the only way to explain it.
  It does everything right and is a great title.
  Graphics: They are great on the soldiers, environment, 
 and everything. Especially the AI, they are so smart if you sit back, they will advance on your 
 position and take you out. Your squad mates too, they call out where the enemy is coming from and 
 they call out extremely accurate locations not just any old place. Gameplay: The control is great 
 and smooth especially on the 360 it definately beats that mouse and keyboard. It is so well done 
 that you forget your playing a game. Sound : This is where the magic is, hearing your teamates 
 yelling out positions, gunfire, explosions (which are done very well) , the sound of tanks driving 
 into the town to either take you out or help you. The sound is phenominal it gets you into the 
 game and gets you interested. Value: It is a great game stretching from 10-15 hours. If you are 
 a FPS veteran start out on hardened and it will be a challenge. Other wise you will blaze through 
 this game too fast, but dont think this game is short by any means. It even throws in multiplayer 
 from 2-4 players offline. But downside is no bots every map is available which there are alot of 
 them. Tilt: This is a great game for anyone that likes FPS games and is by far to date the best 
 WWII game out on the market. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: miiiguel
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 16, 2006 7:12 am PT
Review:  I like FPS's but it's not my preferred genre, however this title really got me into it.
  It has everything a great FPS must have, plus some educational value.
  The art is very well concieved, 
 particulary the smoke, wich is amazingly gives a perfect sense of... smoke, like I've never seen 
 before.
  The sound, although, not it's highest point, it doesn't disappoint (voice acting at PDZ, anyone 
 ?? YUK!!!) , very funny to hear "Communisten!"; "Fascist!!".
  The pace of game's great, and the difficulty raises steadly, and it's never frustrating nor lame 
 easy.
  People complain of multi-player, but it's not bad, but a game's core it's is solo part - MP is 
 a must add-on, but for me the game rate is based on my relation, alone, with my pace, with my own 
 sched - and in this dept. few games outstands this!
  Very well done! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KILLERDZMG
Rating: 4.3
Date: Feb 16, 2006 4:26 am PT
Review:  The single player mode is very good, both graphics and theme make the game worth the price. The 
 On-line version is very frustrating at times. Sometimes you cannot find a game to play, and other 
 times you find one and it lags so bad that you have to quit. Other times you join a game and wait 
 5 minutes for it to start and the server connection gets lost. It's nearly impossible to have clan 
 matches, as you cannot join specific games, and you cannot save spots for friends. It would appear 
 that the makers of this game either did no research in developing the on-line version, or they 
 intend to make some changes for the next version, thereby having a reason for you to buy the next 
 version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: buschschwick
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 15, 2006 11:01 pm PT
Review:  Of course this game rocks. Just look at it. The graphics are amazing putting you right there in 
 the boots of a solider. Every little bullet gets your attention by the debris it sets off as it 
 hits the crate next to you... etc.. etc. Very very realistic... almost too much. It makes you feel 
 like you are right there in the war. Gameplay is great and the re-healing health mode with no health 
 meter takes some getting used to but after that it becomes you're best friend. If you are warmed 
 up to first person shooters then start off on the "Hardened" difficulty but if not, normal should 
 be just fine. Not as addicting as some games I have played but very much worth the price and is 
 an awesome play. Another must have for the 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SkyBluNightWolf
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 15, 2006 8:28 pm PT
Review:  Okay there have been dozens of world war two fps some good some bad, but none of them did it as 
 well as this game did. Im not going to explain the story of the game if you dont know what ww2 
 was then go back to school. Unlike in the rest of this series the enemies in this game dont just 
 sit there and watch you shoot them. They will do anything to kill you be it by cornering you or 
 by grenade. The enemy actually have tactics like you. This makes the game very immersive. The graphics 
 in this game are the best that the 360 has to offer. Your fellow comrads seem almost real and the 
 weapons are beautiful. There are alot of weapons ranging between machine gun to sniper. This game 
 is as good as its computer counterpart, maybe even better. Well those dang Germans did it again. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Foxhound71
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 15, 2006 7:25 pm PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY-Well lets start off with the gameplay. When you start off you have three campaigns the 
 Russian soviet union, the British and of course the Americans (chants in the background) ! But the 
 only way to play as the americans is if you complete the british and the soviets campaign. I myself 
 didn't like this but it was definetly worth the wait because the american campaign, is clearly the 
 best. The controls are amazing thanks to the perfectly molded controller. One part that I disliked 
 about the gameplay is the fact that you regenerate health by crouching for cover which definetly 
 gave you an easier chance of survival.
  
  GAMEPLAY-9/10
  
  GRAPHICS-Next I'll talk about graphics and anyone who has seen screenshots of the game knows what 
 i'm gonna say. Once the opening cutscene stars you may imediatley run to the bathroom to check your 
 pants as these may very well be the best graphics you have ever seen running on a home console. The 
 explosions, smoke effects, facial annimation, the enviroments I could go on because thats how good 
 it looks!
  
  GRAPHICS-10/10
  
  AUDIO-Now I will talk about audio which is astounding even on monoraul.
  the screams, gunfire 
 and grenades exploding is what really sets the mood for this highly spectacular first-person shooter. Now 
 voice overs which is exactly what you would expect from the call of duty series, amazing.
  
  AUDIO-10/10
  
  VALUE-Now this is a tough one , there are a lot of WW2 games out there and I 
 mean a lot! But since there is'nt alot of "good "fps's on the 360 I'm gonna say buy it because I 
 personally think that next to conndemed this is "the" best game on the xbox 360.
  
  VALUE-8/10
  
  Foxhound71
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thecrow_fan
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 15, 2006 2:56 pm PT
Review:  call of duty 2 first came out for the pc, now it has came for the xbox 360 how does this game compare, 
 this game is by far one of the best ww2 first person shooters that i have ever played. the graphics 
 are simply amazing. the sound is awsome t realistc guns sounds the far away battle sounds the motors 
 as the blow up nerby. if this what next generation of ww2 shooters look like i cant wait for what 
 is comeing out in the near future. the mutliplayer is awsome they are some of the levels that are 
 in the campaine, the weapon are statard like mechine guns, rifles, snipeing, and a trench weapon 
 whitch is a shotgun. the people that you can pick depends on the level that you pick. say for example 
 france you have to pick from german or american troops. if you pick stallengrad you have to pick 
 russian troops. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ll_jun10r_ll
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 15, 2006 1:42 pm PT
Review:  World War 2 has now gone next gen with its latest title Call of Duty 2, from Activision. There 
 isn't alot to say about this game, its a fun game that really offers nothing new to World War II 
 games or even the shooting genre. However, that doesnt keep it from being an enjoyable game for 
 everyone. 
  
  You play the game as three seperate armies as you fight the German army.
  You'll start out fighting for the Russian army, and as you progress you will eventually unlock 
 the British campaign. In the British Campaign, where you will fight the Jerries, as they are called 
 in the Egyptian desert, where you will have the opertunity to use the tanks, note that this is 
 the only campaign that has tanks on your side, the other 2 have no tanks, not even ones that are 
 controlled by the computer, just the enemy. After finishing the British campaign, you will unlock 
 the the american campaign. Which is kinda like the campaigns one and two. Once you unlock the american 
 campaign, you will eventually tire of the game because they seem to be the same, just you and your 
 comrades will have different uniforms in each one.
  
  Once you get tired of the single player mode, you will be able to kill your friends in the multiplayer, 
 either split screen or you can go online and kill people around the world. The only problem with 
 this game is the game will lag, and when that happens you will be completely unable to play due 
 to a lack of any sort of control. However when you do get to play, you'll definately have fun with 
 the variety of games, you'll of course have the familiars, like deathmatch and capture the flag, 
 but you'll also have a few new games that aren't usually found in most games.
  
  The graphics are all very nice, most the NPC's in your group or the enimies all have a unique face 
 that will seem very familiar to you when you all fight together, however that wont stop you from 
 not knowing who is on your team and who isn't, which will allow you to kill your team and force 
 you to start again. On the harder difficulties, you will need to know who is who because you be 
 forced to shoot faster and more accurate because they will be killing you faster than than you 
 can say "Damn you German bastards."
  
  The sound has a high quality. Each weapon, every soldier, and every vehicle has a sound that is 
 similar only to another one of those thing, except each soldier, they all sound good and unique, 
 as they should, because they dont need to all say the same German insults over and over again.
 
  
  After going through this game, you will find alot of fun playing this game, with constant hours 
 of playing each level over and over again. However, to warn you, this replay value will only come 
 from the AI that the enemy has, no matter what the difficulty, the computer will challenge you 
 reflexes. This game should be worth the time playing, however, the multiplayer aspect should be 
 skipped and only played on Perfect Dark Zero, with its wide variety and 32 player games, Call of 
 Duty simply just doesnt stand up to half of what Perfect Dark offers, however, the single player 
 is worth playing and does alot of things better than Perfect Dark Zero.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TBRM
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 15, 2006 10:20 am PT
Review:  "The golden trim on the best next-gen console."
  When I finally got a chance to open COD2... wow, it was the best-looking game I'd seen yet. Graphically 
 COD2 ranks high on the list of launches for Xbox 360. The gameplay is very challenging... veteran 
 can really be a pain in the neck! Anyways, the single-player mode gives a thorough campaign of 
 various alliances during WW2. Like most WW2 games, it was fun blowing through Nazis and Japanese, 
 but the fact that you battle on several different fronts adds to the visual brillance Activision 
 achieves with Call of Duty 2. I'm going to have to downgrade Call of Duty 2 in multiplayer. Unfortunately, 
 like many other 360 launch titles the multiplayer interface was poorly designed and rushed. I think 
 as good as Xbox 360 has done with the Xbox Live format itself, it is sad that joining a game room 
 is so difficult. Otherwise, Call of Duty is a preferable on my list. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sh3mta3
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 15, 2006 10:18 am PT
Review:  This game was absolutely amazing. Everything from the graphics to the sound to the gameplay was 
 no less than superb. A lot of time and thought was spent on making this game near perfect and it 
 showed. I was completely addicted to COD2 and had just as much fun going back and playing it again 
 at a harder difficulty. IMO, the missions in Africa were my favorite. I highly recommend this game 
 to anyone, not just those who love 1st person or war games. One of the things I really appreciated 
 was always the short loading times. I have to admit, I didn't want the war to end... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asphyxiati0n
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 15, 2006 10:17 am PT
Review:  I loved this game. It was very relistic to the battles and times of the war. I mostly liked that 
 it is such a good game that I'm trying to beat it on expert now. The graphics are superb and sounds 
 are great also. I liked playing on live but the matchmaking wasnt that great. After a match you 
 had to find another and you couldnt stay in the same group. I think all live games like this should 
 use the way that bungie used on Halo 2. Other than the matchmaking in live if you have a good server 
 you get no lag. I used to get so much before but now I never get lag. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlissCntrl
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 15, 2006 9:18 am PT
Review:  The campaign is a blast, timeline is accurate, settings are very realistic. After getting through 
 the campaign the first time, there is a large draw to go through it again, even if there was no 
 need to beat it on veteran to get more of those gamerscore points. The multi player is rather dissappointing 
 at the moment, needs a pregame lobby, maybe some more game options and settings. but the game play 
 is great, very fun, no game ever ends up the same. Lots of places to hide, lots of strategy. Well 
 worth the bang, if you like world war games and fps games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GirlyPeekaBoo
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 14, 2006 11:27 pm PT
Review:  I really Liked this game, its soo addicting, great graphics, and sound, the only thing i would 
 want is for it to be longer, i was kinda bummed out when i was playin and i was like what thats 
 it, its the end already, but other than that it was great, but the you friends sometimes get in 
 ur way and that pisses me off hehe...... but i liked it, very fun, def whoever has a 360 and dont 
 know what game to get... Make it Call Of Duty2. I finshed the game in two weeks, I finished it on 
 Hard, but now Im playing it on Veteran so I can unlock my points =) hehe 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EnjoiMangos218
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 14, 2006 6:39 pm PT
Review:  They really need to get the online play in order I want a game where i can get in a game with my 
 friends in a easy manner and there is way to much lag at time due to god knos what but basicly 
 i love this game i just wish you could create your own game so you and your friends can play together 
 and maybe throw in a camping meter i get sick of getting picked off all the time cause everyone 
 like the sniper's one shot kill but who am i kidding its fun to pick people off left and right 
 but it gets a little boring 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stranger_tan17
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 14, 2006 4:55 pm PT
Review:  This game was absolutly amazing i mean the in game graphics were definatly 360 worthy. my favourite 
 part in COD2 is sniping and let me tell you there is no lack of graphics or visual eye candies. 
 when you snipe some one in the head you literally see his head explode with blood and it actually 
 looks good. if i were blind and some one was playing COD2 near me i would think im in the middle 
 of world war3 and if war is like this game where do i sign up??? haha the only down fall of this 
 game is in the xbox live component sometimes the game leggs and you cannot controll ur person or 
 what he is doing... it agrivates me that someone can get a cheap kill on me when im not even in 
 controll of my player!!! but over all this game is one of the best games i have ever played I LOVE 
 XBOX 360 
::::::

::::::
UserName: revolution12
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 14, 2006 4:40 pm PT
Review:  This game is revolutionary. Hands down its the best WW2 shooter seen too date. On the easy and 
 normal dificulty it will take you a little less than 10 hours but on hardened and veteran you will 
 definitely get a run for your money. This game is extremly immersive and what makes it so immeresive 
 is the AI. It really makes you feel like a small part of a big thing. It feels like if you werent 
 fighting on the frontlines the war would end up the same unlike in games like medal of honor or 
 wolfenstein were your doing a bunch of covert stuff alone. The multiplaer is pretty good because 
 you dont need a lot of people to have fun playing it. a 1 on 1 headquarters match is just a fun 
 as a 4 on 4 team deathmatch. The only downside is that the built in server browser isnt very good. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YoungDollars24
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 13, 2006 8:36 pm PT
Review:  This game was great. It gave me a difficulty level that would not keep me bored of the game. This 
 game was not the same run around a shoot people game that most people are use to. When you die 
 the AI will not do the same actions the next time u play. I was in love wit the realism of the 
 game. Every person looks like real humans. The environment was very realistic on every level of 
 the game. The sound of the game made me really believe that I was at war. Over all I fell this 
 is one of the best first person shooters I have played as of far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lawndart07
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 12, 2006 7:33 pm PT
Review:  Alright, if you're like me and played the demo a thousand times, waiting to get your hands on the 
 real thing, let me just say that if you don't have it yet, you won't be dissapointed when you do.
 
  The graphics are superb, the action is relentless and even though the game kinda runs on a straight 
 path, you won't get a chance to notice it. bullets are constantly flying, and the atmosphere really 
 sucks you in. You do not fight the game as a hero, or a leader. You fight alongside other soldiers 
 who fight and die. None are invinceable, which just adds to the immersion. 
  Now Personally, I've never really wanted to play the non-american stages in the other COD games. 
 fighting in the desert as a Brit., or in the snow covered levels of the Russian campaigns didn't 
 seem as, I guess, important. Yes, I know they were, in real life, but they didn't seem so in the 
 other games.
  This sequel changed that completely. You realize how much it had to suck fighing in the cold of 
 the "motherland", or the dustiness of the african desert. Their campaigns Feel just as crazy and 
 massive as the american D-day. And each level has those moments of: Holy crap, That must've SUCKED. 
 When you get over-run, you get Over-Run.
  Now, the bad. As far as the singleplayer mode is concerned, it was done right. Again, looks awesome, 
 and runs smooth. Only bad thing is that it feels a bit short, and the A. I. can be a bit dumb. Sometimes 
 you'll see a german run straight to your firing line, come right up to an allied soldier and run 
 back to find a hiding spot. Apparently, your allied buddies must think he deserves a second chance 
 cuz they won't put a round in him!
  Small, trivial stuff. 
  The Big let-down is, and if you've been reading the other reviews you know what it is, it's the 
 online play. The actual gameplay is not bad. even though, more often than not, you'll find that 
 everyone wants to be a sniper. Who can blame them though? tons of windows and plenty of hiding 
 spots. Thankfully, you'll still be able to put up a fight with the other weapons. So, yeah, it's 
 balanced. It looks great, and it runs smooth.... if you can get on the server!
  Many times, you'll be hard pressed to get on the "game session". and when you do get on, lots of 
 times the connection is interrupted, lags badly or just shuts off. it's sad, really, because it 
 IS fun. So you'll be irritated because you WANT to play, but Know that you'll either Not get into 
 a game, and if you do, it could very likely be badly connected, or, you'll finally get a good connection, 
 but 5 other players get disconnected and you're left playing 2 on 1. Oh, yeah, only 8 players... 
 Total? come on.
  Hopefully, they'll fix these problems in time. Then, the game could very well be the best WWII 
 game to date.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pribylbr
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 12, 2006 6:41 pm PT
Review:  This game is a must buy! As soon as you start the campaign you feel like you're there. Bombs exploding, 
 gun shots wizzing by your head, people screaming.... You must get surround sound if you don't already 
 have it. This game makes it feel like you're sitting in the middle of the battle field. The guns 
 sound exactley like the real guns! Everything about this game is awesome. The graphics could be 
 better, but the gameplay makes up for it. The online play will keep you interested for hours on 
 end. I'll tell you right now this is not a game to rent, it is a MUST BUY!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adrian1480
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 12, 2006 2:14 pm PT
Review:  If you don't take anything away from Call of Duty 2, you take away the old addage: "War is Hell." 
 From the very onset of the game, you're plunged into the middle of World War 2... one of the bloodiest 
 conflicts this world has ever seen. And it is painstakingly recreated in a way that is as viscerally 
 stimulating as it is easy to comprehend and grasp onto. Call of Duty 2 is an experience that simply 
 MUST be played... and VETERAN is the best way to experience the truth in that old addage.
  
  THE GOOD:
  -The controls are simply perfect. Good enough so that it doesn't distract you from 
 the game itself, which is all that you can ask for. 
  -The graphics are top notch. The character models look good. What you've heard about the smoke 
 is true: it is sensational to look at... and frightening to have to walk thorough. One can only 
 imagine how it must have been as a soldier. The environments leave little to be desired. Now pick 
 your jaw up.
  -The Sound is sensational. It is supposed to leave you feeling like you're in the war... and if 
 you have surround-sound... well... you're in for a real treat. Bullets will be heard all around... war 
 surrounds you. and you'll know it.
  -This game begs to be played over and over again... and online play helps it stay that way.
  -COD2 
 on Veteran almost becomes like real life. And when you see how easy it is to die, you realize just 
 how crazy that War must have been for those soldiers.
  -The quotes from military minds, philosophers, and former Presidents that come when you die add 
 to the old addage.
  
  THE BAD
  -The online play is shoddy at present. Rumor is that it will become better soon.. but we can only 
 speak on what is. Without having to utilize the glitch that allows for more players, the framerates 
 are terrible and the lag is often unbearable. Curious and disappointing, considering only 8 players 
 are in any game. Online was clearly not Infinity Ward's priority. 
  -Sometimes you'll notice a low-res texture on something. Only because it stands out against most 
 things which are well done does this become irritating.
  
  If you have a 360 and don't have COD2 yet, you're doing yourself a disservice. At minimum, you 
 need to rent it and beat it a couple of times. But it's worth owning. Much entertainment awaits 
 you... and a lot of respect for your grandfathers who fought in this war. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xternal
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 1, 2006 4:33 am PT
Review:  WOW! this game, no exaggerating is the best shooter i've seen - ever, along with stealth and strategy, 
 it beats socom, splinter cell and rainbow six hands down this game will have you scared in your 
 own seat, worrying if there's somebody behind you, anyway down to the 'nitty-gritty, the game in 
 itself 
  is impressive, no, more than impressive, amazing, you use yourself, you feel like you are a soldier 
 that is actually there, when you get shot you feel angry and dissappointed in one feeling, this 
 game puts you on the edge of the chair from the minute you turn it on.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics, well, i can't say they're ten out of ten, because most probably they are not although, 
 that's not to say that they are rubbish, because actually, they are great, i'd rate them around 
 8 - 9 out of 10, the little details can let it down a bit, but to be honest, in the middle of a 
 game, in a mission/live, the graphics won't even appeal to you, they look good, and it is recognisable 
 by far, but you would be too hooked up in the game to be able to notice any graphical dents.
  
  Gameplay: 
  Holy smokes, 11/10 it's so great, as i mentioned in the introductory paragraph, 
 this game is great, but it's just how great that gets you, you could sit there from 8 in the morning 
 'till ten at night, still wanting to kick that guys ass that shot you in the earlier round, anyway, 
 gameplay on missions without live: great, the missions are exciting and will keep you hooked, you 
 think 'save and quit' but you save and quit then crave it, the game to complete is pretty difficult, 
 although could be done within a couple of days/ a week on easy difficulty, before i bought it i 
 was warned it's like a world war 2 thing, but to be honest it's a revolutionary shooter that is 
 by far the best shooter i've ever seen, anyway, enough from the missions, let's get on to Xbox 
 live: on xbox live it is great, the team deathmatches are my favourite, the compass etc, it does 
 take a fair bit of strategy when your opponents have snipers in their windows and people on ground 
 with machine guns, you do need alot of strategy and stealth to get round it i've got to be honest, 
 on live you have to be looking back and forward all the time, when you first get the game you may 
 get a little aggrivated by xbox live because you get a sniper and the guys with the machine guns 
 are anihilating you, after about a week of cod2, you'll use a machine gun and be able to hammer 
 opponents close range or long, because once you get the hang, you will crave cod2, you won't go 
 an hour without it, on live you can play all different game, ranked or unranked matches, here are 
 some examples:
  Deathmatch
  Team deathmatch
  capture the flag
  Headquarters
  Seek and destroy ( maybe search and destroy)
  as you have probably guessed the one i play most 
 is team deathmatch, because the part of working in teams and using strategy to anihilate people 
 appeals to me, you may like to do thing solo, so be it, do a deathmatch, aslong as you like shooting 
 games you will love cod2 to the bone, all i can say is get it.
  
  Sound:
  20/10 no doubt about it because, without the sound the gameplay would be rated less, the sound 
 adds the atmosphere and gives call of duty a HUGE advantage over other shooters, sometimes on Xbox 
 live you would listen for peoples footsteps to tell if someone's following you, you can actually 
 get a fair idea of where abouts your team-mates are getting shot / shooting, when i bought this 
 game i was at first thinking 'should i have got P-d-z' but then i noticed, NO CHANCE, now i know 
 what the fuss is about, this is well worth the money, i'd buy it any day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tmac_daddy
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 11, 2006 5:17 pm PT
Review:  I am a Playstation fan. I like Xbox, but I am hardcore PS. However, Call of Duty is so good, that 
 it just might make me an Xbox fan. 
  
  The Call of Duty on PS2 was a dissapointment to say the least. It had no mutliplayer (split-screen, 
 I mean) , a crappy story, the enemies were stupid as a pile of rocks, and the guns made sounds that 
 sound more like a hord of angry ducks than a real gun. 
  
  The 360 version is just what the PS2 version should have been. It is really good. And I mean, REALLY 
 good. 
  
  My favorite part of the game is without a doubt the split-screen. I has so many features. You can 
 choose your weapon to start off with. You can run along rooftops, searching for that perfect sniping 
 spot, which is found many times. The level are so well done, and so well crafted, it's not explicable. 
 There are holes in the walls that you can peer out of to shoot someone, oyu can take cover behind 
 a piece of broken wall, you can climb broken stairs to reach another point, it's just spectacular. 
 It's what a multiplayer split-screen game should be. Me and my friends were having so much fun 
 on the levels that we couldn't stop playing for 10 hours straight. 10 hours of Split-Screen Action. 
 It was awesome. 
  
  The campaign mode is good because you fell the harsh reality. Your feel the explosions. You feel 
 the gunshots. You feel the recoil of your gun as it rips bullets into your enemies. You feel the 
 long walks on rugged terrain. You feel the ground shake as a grenade explodes in your face. 
  
  Speaking of Grenades, one of the best ideas in the game is the smoke grenade. Unlike most shooters, 
 where the smoke will simply explode and leave a small cloud of smoke that will disappear in a couple 
 seconds, the smoke in this one is so cool. The smoke will actually engulf you, making a massive 
 (and I mean massive) cloud. It is so effective and so useful. Usually in a shooter the smoke grenade 
 is just there to fill in a space for another grenade. Example: (Evan) "Hey John, we need to fill 
 in the Grenade spots for the new James Bond game. We already have Frags and Stunners down, what 
 else?" (John) "Well Evan, I can; t think oif any new grenades. Let throw in the Smoke." I can imagine 
 that conversation being done all across the country by game developers.
  
  My point is that designers will just put in the smoke grenade. They don't put the extra labour 
 into making it realistic. In James Bond games, the smoke grenade doesn't help, because the baddies 
 can miraculously shoot you through the smoke. In Call of Duty, they have no clue where you are, 
 and you can sneak up on them. That's why I like Call of Duty. The designers put that extra half 
 hour into making this game better, and that extra half hour into making it special. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TJM_717
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 11, 2006 5:08 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game expecting an overall good game with decent online play. It blew me away when 
 i first started playing. I first delt with the single player campaign. The single player offers 
 many different settings for war, alot not seen in many other World War 2 games. You get snow filled 
 cities seen in the Russian campaign, you get desert-type settings in the British campaign, and 
 you get of course, D-Day in the American campaign. Each campaign has three seperate parts to it. 
 The gameplay is severly intense on higher difficulties, and offers an amazing sense of realism 
 and war.
  
  Multiplayer. The multiplayer is constantly bashed for its lag and lack of amount of players. Call 
 of Duty 2 supports 8 player dreathmatch, and up to 4v4 for team-play games. When you do think about 
 it, 4v4 is fine. Quantity does not make for a better game. Those complaining about the online are 
 those who havn't discovered about the glitch. There is a glitch that allows up to 16 players in 
 a game, and it serves little to no lag. The online, if done correctly, is very fun.
  
  Overall, COD2 is an amazing and fun game whether online or off. Definitly pick this game up if 
 you have already on your Xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BWSTSW2K
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 11, 2006 3:47 pm PT
Review:  Superior to the PC version, Call of Duty 2 is both a thrilling and immersive WWII shooter that 
 is bound to please all. So much so in fact, that this just might be the Xbox 360's greatest debut 
 game - which really is saying something, especially in light of games such as Perfect Dark Zero, 
 Quake 4, Condemned and a handful of others. 
  
  Visually Call of Duty 2 is utterly breathtaking. The game may have been designed for high-end PC's, 
 but this is a game that, while visually enhanced over the PC version, is only using a mere fraction 
 of what the 360 is capable of. 
  
  Sound also plays a huge part in the immersion of Call of Duty 2. Hook this game up to a Dolby Digital 
 5.1 receiver and you'll experience sound the likes of which you'll have never heard in a videogame 
 before. Bullets will whiz by the direction speakers and make you whip your head around, explosions 
 will cause your subwoofer to create small tremors, and the spoken dialogue is both realistic and 
 intelligent. 
  
  In a nutshell, Call of Duty 2 is a must-have title, and one of the Xbox 360's best to date. Head 
 online to expand the game's life, earn your Achievements, and experience one of the best WWII first 
 person shooters ever made.
  
  Overall Score:
  
  9.4/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Austin_xbx360
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 15, 2006 4:43 pm PT
Review:  How could anyone give Perfect Dark Zero a higher score than Call of Duty 2.
  Anyone that is this stupid should just completly stop reviewing games altogether.
  COD2 is a 
 great game. What it lacks in the graphics department it makes up for it with its great gameplay. 
 There are no framerate hiccups no buggy glitches (and no same old same old gameplay as PDZ which 
 feels like it should have came out 5 years ago) . The action is awesome and i love the realistic 
 feel to the multiplayer. The only problem i have with this game is in the online department. Also 
 the only thing i agree on with the sites reviewers is the lack of 16 player online. This small 
 problem is very easy to forgive and i really believe this site should cahnge the score to at least 
 a 9.
  If you are looking for a fast, fun, and refreshing first person shooter i highly reccomend picking 
 this game up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShootersRule
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 11, 2006 11:32 am PT
Review:  I'm a big fan of FPS games, especially games with intense action, and this game gives me what I'm 
 looking for! The graphics are beautiful on a plasma, the AI is good for a WW2 shooter, and the 
 weapons are awesome!!! The rifles are accurate with a sight and I love the machine guns, the kick 
 gives you a good feeling behind a MG42!!! The game's sound effects are really good, the gameplay 
 is awesome, and I want the full experience ASAP!!!!!! Any good Xbox fan will agree that this game 
 was an excellent choice for a first-time demo!!! And this demo just greatly increased my urge to 
 buy it!!! If you're not into FPS games, just rent or borrow the game from a friend. If you're into 
 Xbox FPS games, this game will be a great experience, wether you've played the demo or you own 
 an Xbox 360 and don't own the game, buy it!!!!!
  I can't say it's the best game, but it's still amazing!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tischla
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 10, 2006 5:32 pm PT
Review:  i loved call of duty 2, played through single player once on easy to get a feel 4 it be4 playing 
 on veteran, that way i have a better idea of the levels so it wont be as hard on veteran. i suggest 
 that cuz its hard but a good challenge that is doable if enuff time is put into it. the online 
 is wat keeps it alive as long as ther is no lag but i dont rfecommend this game if u dont have 
 live cuz once ur done single player ur done the whole game if u dont have live 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mitchellm2008
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 10, 2006 12:01 pm PT
Review:  I am yet to own a 360 but my friend does. When I get enough money for one, this will be the first 
 game I buy. I've played through a good part of the Russian campaign and it was amazing. I want 
 to play it more and get better. The controls are easy and the health is awesome. I very much want 
 to have this but I don't have the money. But the whole time I played the effect was awesome. I 
 can't wait to own this game.
  I've played all the classics like Halo 2, Splinter Cell, Ghost Recon, and KOTOR, and this game 
 beats all of those. Playing this game is like being in a real war, with common threats and distractions 
 in reality like people talking, enemies yelling while charging, and many other things that make 
 this feel, look, and sound like real battles. From Normandy Beach to The middle of Mother Russia 
 in the dead of winter, there's always a battle waiting. I HIGHLY recommend this game to anyone 
 over 13.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gods_Crusader
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 10, 2006 10:58 am PT
Review:  Graphics:
  This game is awsome, the graphics are awsome, like when u throw smoke grenades it actually looks 
 like smoke, the enemies look very real. The overall visual aspect is awsome! It makes you feel 
 your actually in wwii. 
  Sound:
  The sounds are awsome, when u hear a plane look up and you will see them flying by. The sound of 
 the guns, yells of the germans when theres grenades, your seargeant yelling at McGreagor ( lol 
 funny guy ) . They sound in this game is also iunbelivable.
  Gameplay:
  The campaing is very fun, especialy when you play on veteran it really gives you a run for your 
 gamerpoints, it also makes you feel like your in war with a literally 2 bullets kills you.
  
  This game is really worth bying i highly recomend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woody4890
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 10, 2006 9:04 am PT
Review:  a great game. thats wot cod2 is. not exactly fun for all the family, but fun for a night in! you 
 take control of various soldiers over 3 different capaigns, Russian, British and American. cod2 
 houses some great battles well known in history, such as d day and point du hoc. the general feel 
 to it is great, with fantastic visuals, and a great sense of damage when you shoot things. the 
 armory is beefy, with all authentic ww2 weaponry. however, the lack of co op lets it down, and 
 so does its repetitivnes. but with a great online mode, you' ll be on it for hours! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nationyde5
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 10, 2006 8:28 am PT
Review:  COD 2 is without a doubt the best game of the launch. It has everything that a great game has to 
 have. The game play is great, it is the most intense shooter that I have played in a while, you 
 really get a feeling of urgency when you are playing it. That is something that a lot of FPSs lack. 
 In COD 2, you feel like the actions that you are doing in the game really matter. The sound is 
 spectacular, the gunfire of each gun sound realistic, and the chatter from your fellow soldier 
 is not only great ambiance, but it is down right vital, as they spout out whereabouts of enemies 
 and whatnot. The AI is smooth especially on higher difficulty settings, if you dont use your noggin 
 and utilized cover you will be obliterated. And because the AI is so good, for both enemies and 
 teammates even when you playa level again it feels like a whole new battle. My only gripe is there 
 are instance in which there are restrictions to where you can go on the map, but other than that 
 this game is impressive 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Commandofreak92
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 9, 2006 10:52 pm PT
Review:  How many WWII games are there. And how many of them are so great that they define the genre. Hmmmm 
 none that i can think of. Call of Duty 2 does just that. CoD2 combines amazing gameplay that uses 
 the Xbox 360 controller perfectly with great graphics. The game looks great all around especially 
 for a launch game. The smoke effects really stand out though. The smoke grenades create smog so 
 thick you cant see two feet. In the Russian campaign when you blow up a buildingyou will stare 
 in disbelief at the destruction.
  Call of Duty 2 also uses great AI ally and foe. Your troops will call out positions with more detail 
 then ever before. Your enemies are aggresive and will use grenades and melee to fit the situation. 
 
  If you are looking for the launch game that should set a bar for games to follow look no further 
 than CoD2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darthragar
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 9, 2006 6:00 pm PT
Review:  well i cant buy it cuz i dont have an Xbox 360. but a demo can sometimes say a lot. this game is 
 one of the best out on the 360 and the PC. the gameplay was great. and the crouch to heal may seem 
 like cheating but i'd rather call it a get out of jail free card. and the gameplay is oh so fun. 
 the graphics are a big deal about the 360. they are awesome on the 360 like many hi-def graphics 
 are. if u look at this it's one really graphic game on the 360. the rubble from the explosions u 
 can actually see. its that graphical. the sound of course hurt my ears. it was awesome. it's stuff 
 lives up to a $60 price value. its a ten. no f'in doubt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oni_Ookami
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 9, 2006 4:58 pm PT
Review:  Awsome game, I played it from the start in Veteran Difficulty (hardest dificulty) and its the best 
 Single player campaign ive ever played., No joke! 
  
  The game really has no learning curve, unless your lost when it comes to FPS's so id say youd get 
 the hang of it in no less then 30 min. 
  
  Veteran dificulty can get crazy hard and anoying because you die really fast... u cant rambo the 
 game... which adds to its realism IMO.
  
  Online is really fun as well, but wierd lag and server connection issues, plus a piss poor lobby 
 system hold this game back, A patch is in the works to fix those and if they are fixed this will 
 be a MUST OWN for 360 owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asadNAWABI
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 9, 2006 1:29 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty on 360 is world war 2 based game like many others in the market but it still stands 
 out as one of the best.
  Reason is mainly because its a true fun. Graphics are absolute sweet and give the true next gen 
 feel never ever seen on consoles. Textures, weather effects, smoke etc are truly realistic. And everything 
 is done with quite a detail.
  On the other hand gameplay is a treat to play. You really feel that you are in the midst of a battlefield 
 and really its quite amazing and you only know when you play it.
  Sound is another great aspect of call of duty. Its quite superb. When you fire a gun it really sounds 
 are firing a gun whether its a BAR, a machine gun or a sniper, all of them sound great and feel great 
 too.]
  So if u like world war games and you haven't played call of duty 2 on pc then its surely the best 
 thing available in the market. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UrbanMustang
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 8, 2006 7:59 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the best FPS games that I have played in a long time, maybe except for Halo 
 or Halo 2, not to beat down Call of Duty 2 or anything. The graphics in the game are superb, especially 
 when the players looks down their site to spot an enemy. The AI also is great. Even when the player 
 dodges attacks from a enemy the AI will make sure that the enemy will follow you and do what any 
 real soldier would (but not too aggressive though.) The sound is also one of the things that brings 
 the whole game together. Even when one of your comrads communicates to you it feels like you are 
 in a real war. All together it is an awesome game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bniesen84
Rating: 7.3
Date: Feb 8, 2006 5:01 pm PT
Review:  This game has the potential to be off the charts great, but do to the very very bad lag and the 
 lack of ranking players on skillz and killz I give it a 2 for online play and with this game being 
 used as a release date hype of the 360 I was looking so forward to the online play and it turned 
 out to be a big disappointment. However single player mode, graphics, sound and just about every 
 other aspect of the game gets a 9 or 10. Does anyone else feel this way about the online play? 
 Friends I have made over the past two months seem to share one thought in mind THE SERVER IS MAKEN 
 ME GO INSANE!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elpuertorican
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 8, 2006 4:23 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 1 was one of my favortite games of all times simply because it seemed to be a perfect 
 mix. Graphics, sound, gameplay, and entertainment were all important factorsin the game. Call of 
 Duty 2 is just like its precessor, exept for the fact that it feels like more of the same. More 
 of the same on the Call of Duty world is not bad, but if it wasnt for the difficult achievements, 
 this game would have virtually no replay value. Its still a solid and unforgettable shooter, with 
 great sound and good graphics, but after you kill the gallilionth nazi, tyou get a little bored 
 of it. Other than that, the multiplayer is solid, good graphics, and a shooter worthy to be in anyones 
 xbox 360 collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcspaden11
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 8, 2006 1:49 pm PT
Review:  This game is pretty good, the best part of the game would probably be the Americans. the Russians 
 are really long and maybe the hardest part of the game. The Brits are pretty good but its a little 
 repetitive in the desert levels with the taking the town then defending it, but its still pretty 
 cool. the American parts are cool because there the most well known parts of the way with d-day 
 and all that. i really like the last level where you capture Wallendar in Germany. i would recommend 
 this game but it gets realllly hard on veteran ive prolly died at least like 100 times thoughout 
 the game but its more meaningful to say you've beat it on veteran. all in all great xbox 360 game 
 for release games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slim_11
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 7, 2006 8:30 pm PT
Review:  As soon as I first bought my 360 I was looking forward to this game. It was the first game I played 
 and the best. I first played through on normal difficulty for single player. It was a great experience 
 and I enjoyed it a lot. Than, I kicked it up to Veteran. I have beaten 6 of those missions and 
 I must say, the game is incredible, and such a better experience on this difficulty. Now, time 
 for the bad part about this game. Online multiplayer. If you actually get a good game with no lag, 
 it is a heck of an experience. IF you get a game. They are releasing a patch very soon and that 
 will fix the multiplayer and that will improve this game so much more. I really wasn't good at 
 FPS until I bought this game. And now I usually win every time in multiplayer and if I don't win 
 I always have more than 20 kills. It is a must buy for 360, best game out right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killa178
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 7, 2006 5:54 pm PT
Review:  This game is a very good shooting game. Is so much different than the first part. It had so many 
 things the first part. The gameplay is very good, is the way i like it. I like the feature that 
 you really think you are a soldier by going in lines all of em and using a good teamate. The graphics 
 are very good and cool. They so real on the gameplay and the storyline, But in the story lines looks 
 way more better ofcourse. The gameplay was also really good, I like all the weapons especially 
 the riffle. All the shots of all weapons look so real. They look like the same shots on real life. 
 The value is good. This game should defenely be a "wanna buy game". I think this game deserves 
 a 9.7 beause this game is realy awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Conan223
Rating: 7.6
Date: Feb 7, 2006 8:46 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is great when it comes to the single player campaign. The graphics are fairly well 
 done. Call of Duty will make you feel like you're a soldier fighting World War II, the sound of 
 the bullets whizzing by your head, the "stunned" like state when a grenade goes off too close to 
 you and the intense gun fights will be a lot of fun. The multiplayer mode is fun at first but it 
 quickly becomes repetitive. Some of the guns are a bit overpowered, ie. the sniper rifle. The sniper 
 rifle will kill you in 1 hit no matter where it hits you. If you're looking for a great online 
 experience I suggest waiting until Battlefield 2 comes out. If you're looking for a great World 
 War II shooter then you should pick this up. 
  
  If you have a PC that's powerful enough to run this at a decent frame rate then I suggest purchasing 
 the PC version. It'll save you $10 and very little is different. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BiafraBeliever
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 7, 2006 4:55 am PT
Review:  The call of duty series has always been a good looking, good feeling series, with lots of intensity. 
 So imagine that graphical power on an xbox 360. Yeah, thats how awesome it is. The graphics will 
 blow you away in most cases. But there are some parts where you wish they had gone a little farther 
 w/ the graphics. The campaign is more fun than it ever has been, and the multiplayer (minus some 
 lag problems that are soon to be patched up) is the best multiplayer game on the xbox 360 so far. 
 This is the 2nd time I bought this game, I own it for PC as well. The gameplay was a little frustrating 
 for me, but after a while you get used to it. The sound of the game really makes you feel like 
 you're right in the crossfire of the battle. This game is highly addictive and extreamily immersive. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oogieboogie8
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 22, 2006 8:33 pm PT
Review:  Just amazing. The graphics are eyepopping, as you can see everything from detailed smoke and fire 
 to detailed weapons and walls. The gamemakers took advantage of the Xbox 360's system and turned 
 it to a revolutionary experience. Not only are the graphics amazing, but the gameplay is just plain 
 fun. It includes intense World War 2 combat and a lot of different kinds of weapons. The missions 
 are super fun, and watching a German tower blow up is cool, too. The sound. Wonderful to hear. 
 The dramatic music is wonderful. The voice acting is just a big wow. The different types of soldiers 
 from different countries have accents. The Germans of course, speak German. The people talking 
 is just amazing, making the experience even better. I dont have this game, and I don't have a Xbox 
 360, but I have played this game. Not only from those store demos, but the actual game. I have 
 played the game to understand it outstanding performance, and I wish to get this game. It spans 
 27 missions, 3 campaigns. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coachz
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 6, 2006 9:06 pm PT
Review:  Has of today this is my first time playing Call of Duty, and I am glad I bought it. There is now 
 doubt that Call of Duty will go one making better games. Like I said before, this is my first Call 
 of Duty game and I was not disappointed. The graphics are sharp but there is some touching up needed 
 to be done, the sound quality is great and the game play is an experience to play. I havent played 
 on-line yet but I heard that it is just as good as playing campaign. Once again this is a game 
 that is worth buying for the XBox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nick109thou
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 6, 2006 4:00 pm PT
Review:  This is by far the best war game that I have every played... the graphics are very real and the 
 game just sucks you in. There were times in this game when I thought that I was actually in the 
 game. The sound is the main thing that just brings you in... you here peaple constently yelling 
 for ammo or everyone yelling as you charge into battle. The gameplay is good. This game is the 
 smoothest game I have played on the 360, the framerate is amazing.. online is the downside. YOu 
 can not host rooms and have your friends join. (I do private chat and when I ge tinto a match I 
 tell them to join) you have to just join a random match.. but they can join that, its just hard. lol... the 
 game has a new patch witch decreases lag for better overal fun.. so if you have a 360 you should 
 go buy this now... hell if you have a graphics card that can support it buy it.... the game will 
 still be a blast even if you dont have 100% VISUALS on you pc... just get it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninjabreakz
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 6, 2006 3:00 pm PT
Review:  I went into my local gamestore the day I bought the 360 (roughly a month ago) and asked the simple 
 question, "What is the best game my new machine?". To my suprise, 3 of the men behind the counter 
 turn around to shout "Call Of Duty 2!". I suggested Perfect Dark Zero and all three of them shaked 
 their heads with dismay that I even muttered them words in their shop. I am not going to slate 
 another title, after all, this is about COD2, but if anyone could explain why PDZ is so bad, please 
 inform me, I would be most grateful!
  
  Now I am not saying that this is the best GAME (it's one of them for sure) on the 360 but it's 
 definately the best shooter: It's addictive, immersive and includes stunning visuals and sound 
 effects. The gameplay has different skill levels (easy through to hardened) and the gamer is rewarded 
 gamerpoints for completing it on the harder levels so it is worth playing the single player campaign 
 again after finishing it in easy or normal modes.
  
  The multiplayer modes are good fun, but I was dissapointed that there was only 8 players maximum 
 in a gaming session although I have been informed by Activision that the patch is being worked 
 on to improve this. Despite this, the battles online are fun: There is nothing better than crouching 
 under a train in snowy Moscow waiting to snipe your enemy.
  
  Overall, a superb game with awesome graphics, great controls and immersive gameplay. The best shooter 
 (at time of writing) on the 360. BUY IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hotapplepie
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 6, 2006 1:35 pm PT
Review:  let me just say that this is, in my opinion, the best single player game I have ever played. The 
 shear amount of tremendouly overwhealming intensity that is occuring all around you, non stop, 
 just blows you away. You can get lost in this game for hours and never want to come back out. Saying 
 that, multiplayer is its downfall. Sadly, lag, and not being able to join a game KILLS this games 
 value quite abit. But once the patch is relased to fix that, ahh snap, this game is gonna be tight!
 
  GAMEPLAY
  This is most deffinatly the best part of this game, and this game does it better than any other 
 game I have ever played. Like I said, this game is nucking futs. (thats from Dicky Roberts movie) 
 If this isnt the most intense game you have ever played, PLEASE show me the game that you go more 
 of a rush out of. My most favorite level is the D-Day level. You start out on a boat and the captin 
 is talking to you. You look over and see one of your squad makes throw up (ewww) . As you get closer 
 to shore you can see people in other boats geting mowed down as they step onto the beach. The living 
 people shoot ropes to the stop of the giant cliff thats standing in your way. As your team approaches 
 the shore, fire rings around your head, killing at least one of your squad makes. You get your 
 head down untill you hit land. The boat door opens and all hell breaks lose. People are being shot 
 down all around you. As you step ahore, you get shot and fall down. One of your squad picks you 
 up and carrys you to safety. You still see hundres of men dying. The shear chasoity is amasing. 
 One your back on your feet you are givin a sniper rifle and shoot down some Germans. You head up 
 the cliff, and well thats all for now. 
  GRAHICS
  This game is quite a beautiful game. The facial animations are great and they are just plain fun 
 to look at. Everything looks amasing. The best thing is the smoke. You have seen nothing untill 
 you see the smoke in this game. I peed my pants when I first saw it, just a little though. 
  SOUND
  Great, period. Great music, gun sounds, enimy and alied chatter, overall just plain great.
 
  VALUE
  Oh man, multiplayer just plain sucks, most of the time. When you get a game with no lag, its simply 
 awsome, but thats only aout 30% of the time. The single player is long, and geting all the acheivement 
 points, for me, is nearly impossible. Hopefully the patch for multiplayer comes soon. 
  
  Overall this is how I wantws to kick start my next-gen awsomeness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seram
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 6, 2006 11:54 am PT
Review:  I've played many shooters in my time, but only a few have managed to exceed the intensity and fun 
 gameplay of Call of Duty 2. You experience WWII from 3 different angles, and use each countries 
 realistic weapons. The atmosphere of this game is very nice, especially when the storm clouds are 
 hovering above you, lighting reflecting light off of your rifle, thunder scorching through the 
 battlefield, it's pretty cool.
  Ok, fist off, the graphics are cool. They aren't the best, regardless of what people say, but a 
 lot of times you'll see scenery that maeks you stop and admire it.
  Sound. The sound is the star of the show. Often there is and orchestra playing in the backround, 
 the guns make very convincing sounds. When you fire any smg, it's very convincing, and feels very 
 powerful. And actual machine gun is twice as cool. The rifles are very realistic. When you fire, 
 you'll see a small burst of smoke fly out of the barrel, and you'll feel very powerful when the 
 loud noise of the bullet launching happens. When you're one the battlefield, an enemy will barely 
 miss you with their sniper rifle, and you'll hear the deafening noise of the bullet passing your 
 ear. When a grenade goes off, you'll go into a shocked state where everything becomes grey and 
 you'll turn slowly, hearing the echoes of gun fire and screaming.
  Gameplay. The gameplay is incredible. You'll be taking cover, and watch your ally get shot right 
 over your head and fall on top of you, or in one case watch a momb go off and see all your friends 
 being burned alive by the fire of the bomb. When you add the sound, graphics, and the intense WWII 
 battlefield action, you get the best launch game on the 360 console.
  Call of Duty 2 is by far the best 360 launch game. Intense, thrilling, sometimes sad, and the orchestral 
 score. It's all amzing to experience. If you're still looking for a great shooter, or great game 
 at all for the 306, it's here. It's Call of Duty 2.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CTAWATER
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 6, 2006 5:18 am PT
Review:  From the moment you put in the game and start the first mission, you'll be in for a treat. Call 
 of Duty 2 is a great game even if you don't really like first persons. The presentation is awesome 
 and the enemy AI can really dish out some damage if you play like Rambo in all the stages. The 
 sound is excellent, top notch. I love it when me and the rest of my squad are in a firefight and 
 my computer controlled comrade next to me is giving me suppressive fire and telling me where the 
 hell the damn nazis are, it's great. COD 2's graphics are good but they could be better. Some of 
 the textures and backgrounds don't look that great but you hardly notice because there is so much 
 stuff going on around you. Some of the missions are repetitious and slow and some of them are extremely 
 fun. D-day, absolute best! If you're looking for a game that knows how to present a solid story 
 and excellent gameplay, look no further. Watch out Perfect Dark, COD 2 is taking aim. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robboh
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 6, 2006 10:39 am PT
Review:  ...... is Call of Duty 2, this game makes Medal of Honor look like a tea party.
  
  Gameplay - The game begins with a brief training session which is cleverly interwoven with the 
 Russian campaign, after a couple of minutes you are thrown right into full on combat against the 
 Germans. the Russian portion is pretty intense, the British even more so, but once you make it 
 to D-Day with the Americans, boy it kicks off, and the carnage keeps on getting upped a notch to 
 the bitter end, Hill 400 has to be seen to be believed it is unbelievable, amazing. Multiplayer, 
 while only been 8 players on Live, is great fun, lots of modes play and well designed maps to play 
 them on. The controls are very well done in CoD2, excellently mapped to the 360 controller, the 
 only things that are missing is "lean" which is in the PC version. I would like the option to throw 
 grenades back at enemies as they and your friendly AI soldiers can, and lastly the game needs blood 
 and gore, i. e. a grenade should blow limbs off, bullet holes should be seen and blood should not 
 disappear. The game has 4 difficulty settings, my first time through the game was on the 3rd setting 
 - Hardened, and it wasnt easy, wasnt frustrating , it just gave me a challenge.
  
  Graphics - It looks very nice, but i wouldn't go so far as to say amazing. Everything looks great 
 though, from the lighting, to weapons, to smoke (amazing smoke the best i've ever seen) . It looks 
 the same as the game running on a high-end PC with the graphics settings cranked all the way up, 
 and the parts than slowdown on the PC version, i. e. infantry charges, vehicle levels are really 
 smooth on the 360. One of my few gripes though is when soldiers are killed by grenades the ragdoll 
 effects are a bit OTT.
  
  Sound - WOW, the audio is even more hard hitting than the gameplay, just listen to the mortars 
 landing in the background, or the rattle of the MG42, exceptional. The vehicles sound nice too. 
 Music and voice acting is good, but not up to the level of Brothers in Arms.
  
  In my opinion, this is the third best WWII FPS ever made, first and second place going to Brothers 
 in Arms (RTH30 & EIB) and the original CoD (PC, NOT Finest Hour) . The gameplay isn't ultra realistic 
 like BiA, but it isn't too run and gun either. The multiplayer should be at least 16 players on 
 Live (not a measly 8) , but apart from that - one hell of an achievement.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jellodude
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 6, 2006 1:48 am PT
Review:  First you load up the dvd, then you're introduced to the world of COD 2, this games is awesome 
 from it's really cool intro scene from the last moments when you're watching the ending... Sol 
 lets start being more explicit, from the second mission you're going to be drooling after the scripted 
 moments and the huge battles that happen around you, I was amazed when I was being followed by 
 soldiers in halo and halo 2, but this really makes you feel like a part of a squadron, you'll see 
 your mates fall around you and some help you in great ways, you'll see landscapes that will leave 
 you astonished and you hear some sound effects that will make your hearth beat like crazy, this 
 game has some of the best graphics I've seen around in any game, the story is really well scripted 
 and as I've said, there are some moments that'll leave you shocked, this game deserves to be sold 
 in millions and better yet to be enjoyed for years, a sure buy if you ask me, really good 2 to 
 play online! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: necrones
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 5, 2006 9:57 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 brings us probably the closest we'll ever get to actually fighting in WWII. Seamless 
 graphics, amazing sound, and down-right brutal gameplay really brings it all to life. 
  
  That being said, the game doesn't do anything that hasn't been done before. It does just everything 
 really really well. The storyline is pretty much a documentary on WWII and is not particularly 
 involving. Because you switch from Russian to English to American in the game, you don't really 
 experience your typical game plotline and there isn't any real character development. You're just 
 plopped in the middle of things and are immersed in the fighting "experience" rather than the story. 
 That's probably what they were going for though, so its alright. 
  
  CoD2 is definately worth owning. The game isn't meant to be revolutionary or provide you with an 
 unforgettable storyline, but it is meant to immerse you in the battlefields of WWII as completely 
 as possible, and this it does extremely well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: barbierian205
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 5, 2006 7:08 pm PT
Review:  What can I say, Call of Duty 2 is an amazing game. Lets start with the best aspect of the game, 
 the gameplay. Its a technically flawless game. The levels are great, the action is pulse pounding, 
 the objectives are tough, The enemy AI is brilliant.... The list goes on and on. The tactical smoke 
 grenades are a nice touch, and they are something new for a WWII FPS. The action in this game is 
 some of the best I've ever seen. There is always a sense of urgency (especially on veteran) because 
 you know you could always die by the mind blowing  enemy AI. Stay 
 in one place for too long, they will flush you out with grenades. Throw a grenade at them, but 
 make sure you're always ready for it to come right back at you via some daring Nazi soldier. The 
 level design is flawless and these missions are just a joy to play through. No dumb objectives, 
 no impossible situations (although there are some mind blowingly hard ones on veteran) just pure 
 hard nosed WWII combat. This is the FPS genre at its best.
  
  CoD2 is probably the cleanest looking game on the 360 so far. The graphics won't immediately blow 
 you away, but the environments all look good and the character models are nicely detailed. It does 
 get iffy in some spots where some debris doesn't look so good, but the majority of the game looks 
 very nice.
  
  The sound is another high point of the game. The best part of the audio is the constant chatter 
 coming from your friends as well as your enemies. It really captures the chaos of war as your friends 
 call out enemy positions, taunts, expletives and current objectives. The weapons are also nice 
 sounding, especially the Thompson SMG and the BAR heavy MG. The sounds of combat are also nicely 
 done; you can hear the planes flying overhead, mortar shells bearing down on you, and the chatter 
 of machine gun fire in the distance and it adds a certain mood to the game. 
  
  This is probably one of the best values on the 360 to date. A mind blowingly awesome Single player 
 campaign comes together with some great multiplayer to make one of the best all around games I 
 have EVER played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kash_1095
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 5, 2006 4:51 pm PT
Review:  This is the best world war 2 game ever
  Great Graphics
  Great Gameplay
  Great sound
  GREAT EVERYTHING!
  
  IF u have an XBOX 360 get this now!
  
  This is the best world war 
 2 game ever
  Great Graphics
  Great Gameplay
  Great sound
  GREAT EVERYTHING!
  
  IF u have an XBOX 360 get this now!
  
  This is the best world war 2 game ever
  Great Graphics
 
  Great Gameplay
  Great sound
  GREAT EVERYTHING!
  
  IF u have an XBOX 360 get this now!
  
  This is the best world war 2 game ever
  Great Graphics
 
  Great Gameplay
  Great sound
  GREAT EVERYTHING!
  
  IF u have an XBOX 360 get this now!
  
  This is the best world war 2 game ever
  Great Graphics
 
  Great Gameplay
  Great sound
  GREAT EVERYTHING!
  
  IF u have an XBOX 360 get this now!
  
  9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sinnicks
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 5, 2006 3:22 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 was my first romp through a WWII shooter game, and I think I picked a good one to 
 do it with. Playing as three different personalities added some nice variety to the game play and 
 allows you to appreciate the fact that it took many different countries to win the war against 
 Germany.
  
  The game play in CoD2 is pretty linear but you will not notice as there is always intense action 
 taking place for you to take part in. Graphically CoD2 looks like a true next-gen game. The characters 
 look amazing and the environments will literally put you in the middle of Europe. One of the most 
 impressive aspects of this game is the sound. Voice acting is top notch and the music aids in generating 
 an atmosphere of victory and defeat. 
  
  Call of Duty 2 is one of the best 360 titles to date. A great single player campaign with varying 
 difficulty and multi-player will help you keep fighting the good fight makes for excellent replay 
 value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shaunLEGEND
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 5, 2006 4:37 am PT
Review:  I've never been in war but this game is as close as I ever want to be. Let's get this out of the 
 way right now, this game is intense. You will feel like you are in the middle of war. The level 
 of immersion is really top notch.
  
  Along the way, you will notice little details that help to bring you into the Call of Duty World. 
 Sometimes your headshots will end up hitting helmets and you will see your enemies go into a shocked 
 animation as if they realized they were so close to dying. 
  
  The storyline & scenarios are varied enough to never seem dull or repetitive.
  
  The voice 
 talent is excellent. I think I will forever hear Col. Price yelling at MacGregor in my head.
  
  I would say that my favorite part is the challenge. PLAY THIS GAME ON VETERAN OR HARDENED DIFFICULTY. 
 It will be hard at first but eventually an extreme sense of accomplishment will fill you as you 
 complete levels you previously thought were impossible.
  
  Although the game is linear, it doesn't feel that way. This is something I noticed on my second 
 play through (yup, it's that good) . Searching for alternate routes and using different weapons 
 completely alter your chances of survival. 
  
  I must admit I was disappointed at the ending though. Like a lot of other people, I felt the ending 
 came out of nowhere and felt abrupt. I really think I just didn't want the game to be over. I mean 
 don't get me wrong, the game is a good length. It's just the ending just felt out of place. You'll 
 see once you beat it. 
  
  The biggest disappointment is the multiplayer aspect. Unfortunately the game suffers from severe 
 lag online. This isn't your connection but unfortunately a fault with the game. At the time of 
 this wrting (2/5/06) , a patch is being worked on to address this issue.
  
  It's really surprising considering how well the single player campaign shines, that this game was 
 allowed to ship with the multiplayer in its current state. Well there's always room for improvement 
 in the next COD installment.
  
  WWII shooters...... been there...... done that... right? Well, not quite. With Call of Duty 2, Infinity 
 Ward proves that there is still life left in the genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ice274
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 5, 2006 4:27 am PT
Review:  This game has so many different details which all make for a great game.
  The gamplay is perfect and i love being stuck behind crates with 2 machine guns waiting for you 
 to make the slightest move. Having to pop up and down to take 1 shot before having to crawl back 
 down to cover.
  Its just amazing.
  I love having to take cover unlike so many games which are just run kill rinse repeat. The feature 
 of having a regenerating health bars is a great addition meaning no medpac hunts.
  The weapons are perfectly balanced for different jobs needed such as clearing building or just 
 picking off targets with rifles.
  It is just amazing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kgfreak
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 5, 2006 4:50 pm PT
Review:  Fun fast-paced missions that tell the stories that most people dont know about WWll that needs 
 to be told. The only downsides to this game are that the story could be just a bit longer and the 
 multiplayer over xbox live could stand to be less laggy. But overall this game is a kick butt hardcore 
 WWll game that any FPS fan should own. I espescially like the vibration on the controller because 
 for every round fired it shakes so even if your laying down supression fire the controller really 
 brings the gun to your hands. The kill-cam is wonderful, what more could you want than to see if 
 the headshot some guy got on you was BS or not. Now this game will not blow you away with eyepopping 
 graphics but the sound and the "on the edge" feeling that is WWll will. I love this game and I 
 know you will to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sircalmar
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 4, 2006 6:58 pm PT
Review:  Let's see. As I have stated in other reviews, I am NOT a fps fan as a whole. There are a few games 
 that I have loved in the past (Mercenaries, PDZ) and many more that I have hated. My primary reason 
 for liking or disliking is a combination of being able of 'Can I play it without having to spend 
 6 hours a day on it?' and is there a story that can be a bit of fun.
  
  COD2 is my first foray into the WW2 shoot'em'ups just because of that reason. I picked it up because 
 it is one of the few 360 titles out there at launch.
  
  Graphically, the game is amazing, there is a scene early in the... russian campaign (I believe) 
 where you are running through trenches and the tanks drive overhead. I actually had to duck! It 
 was wonderful.
  
  The sounds effects are on the same level as the graphics, with just about everything sounding how 
 I could picture it.
  
  Gameplay was ok, not being a fps fan I had some difficulties adapting to it. I was able to after 
 a while though and was able to fight my way through each campaign without to much difficulty.
 
  
  Story... well... it's ww2, I think I knew the story from the beginning ;)
  
  If you like fps's... then don't read my review ;) If not... give it a rent, it is fun and looks great. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GreyFox9269
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 4, 2006 2:23 pm PT
Review:  This game is truly mind blowing! I fell in love with it by just looking at the opening trailer! 
 The game plays really great whether you're a Russian conscript, a British soldier of the Armored 
 Division or an Army Ranger it just plays out beautifully. The graphics are pretty good without 
 HDTV and with it gets its next-gen title. The sounds are also an integral part in the game too. 
 Whether its the tanks treads rolling, gunshots, your breaths, etc its all brilliant. My only gripe 
 about the game is that the realism is shot because when you get hurt all you have to do is duck 
 for cover and wait until you regain your health (kinda like Halo's shields) . This was the only 
 thing that kept the gameplay from reaching the rank of 10 on gameplay. Other than that the game 
 is truly an amazing piece of art. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mtk2k
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 4, 2006 11:04 am PT
Review:  An awesome game to say the least, great levels, graphics, weapons, story, etc. Playing online is 
 kind of sorry though. No ranking systems, and this makes the games not competitive enough for my 
 taste. The game runs kind of short too. A few more levels would have been great. Definitely not 
 the greatest but definitely not the worst shooter out there.. The game play and graphics make up 
 for these mishaps. The graphics are some of the best I've seen, ever and the game play is exciting 
 and fun. All in all Call Of Duty is a game you should buy if youre looking for a fun, easy to 
 learn, exciting game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: twinsnakes007
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 4, 2006 9:17 am PT
Review:  Everything about it is good. The single player is very addictive. The weapons look awesome and 
 feel great to use. The graphics are insane. The multiplayer is awesome too. The sound is as if 
 I'm standing in the middle of a battlefield. Playing it on the harder difficulty settings makes 
 it even better. All levels are great, and put you in very challenging yet extremely entertaining 
 situations. The online multiplayer is good too, but tends to lag sometimes, but the offline makes 
 up for that. Playing 4 player is very addictive and could go on for hours at a time. I recommend 
 this to anyone who likes war movies or shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SirRocky
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 4, 2006 8:21 am PT
Review:  Not much different about COD 2 than COD 1. Obviously there is an improvement in graphics. But everything 
 else is mostly just more of a good thing.
  
  That's not to say its bad, its just more of the same. I loved COD 1, and I also love COD 2, I just 
 would've liked to see more changes.
  
  Once again the game drops you in the middle of the war and makes you feel like you are really a 
 part of it. Surprises wait around every corner, your pulse will race as you are pinned down by 
 german MG42 emplacements. 
  
  I am not happy with the way health/death was done in COD 2. If you get hit too many times, your 
 screen gets a reddish/blood haze to it and you need to take cover until it goes away (or risk getting 
 shot again and dying) . I think it decreases the realism and at the same time, gives players an 
 easy way to avoid death in many circumstances. On top of that, in one mission you could theoretically 
 be shot 100's of times and never die because of it.
  
  Just to clarify, I've been playing the game on the medium difficulty setting (I believe its veteran 
 or hardened, not sure though) . I know on higher difficulties you can't get shot nearly as much, 
 but again, as long as you know how to hide when the screen turns red, you can make it through the 
 worst of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Legolas_Katarn
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 11, 2008 12:19 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay Single Player:
  
  Charging through the streets with your allies, taking fire from enemy snipers, an ally throwing 
 a smoke grenade so you can get a flank on a tank and place an explosive on it, and jumping on a 
 machine gun to quickly mow down a group of charging enemies are all common things in CoD2.
  
  The game plays like the previous CoD games with a few differences. You can change your stance 
 from kneeling to standing, or you can go prone to increase your accuracy. You can carry two weapons 
 at a time and switch them with the push of a button. The shoulder buttons throw the different grenades. 
 Right trigger fires and the left trigger will bring up the gun so you can use the weapons sight. 
 There is also a button for a quick melee attack. 
  
  Some of the more noticeable changes are the inclusion of smoke grenades that can be used to stay 
 out of the view of your enemies. Also the health pack system is gone replaced with a system where 
 you can get hit until you die, but if you continue playing without getting hit your health will 
 slowly return to normal. While it might seem like they are copying Halo it is much more realistic 
 than hunting for health packs.
  
  The game has four different difficulty modes. There really isn't much of a difference except that 
 you can take less hits, the enemies throw more grenades at you, and they throw grenades back on 
 the harder difficulties. You can raise your gamerscore by 1,000 points by beating the entire game 
 on the hardest difficulty mode.
  
  The game's campaign is split up into 10 different missions; each having parts to it. The first 
 mission has two parts, the last is just one, but the other missions have between 3-4. The game 
 should take around 10 hours to beat, longer if you raise the difficulty level. You have three campaigns 
 as the Russians, then four as the British, and three as the Americans. It is shame that there is 
 no German campaign. You will not be seeing Omaha Beach or the Battle of the Bulge in this game 
 either, which will be a problem for some people.
  
  One interesting thing about Call of Duty games is that you are almost never fighting alone. You 
 always have a group of people with you. The allied AI is decent they will help you kill enemies 
 and throw grenades back at them. There were only two problems that I noticed. One is that they 
 sometimes won't follow you up the stairs in buildings leaving you alone to clear the upper floors, 
 which can be annoying especially on the harder modes. Also, they sometimes get in your way or don't 
 move away from your grenades and if you hit or kill one it is usually game over.
  
  The game has a good selection of weapons. They have the colt, luger, and a revolver for pistols 
 as well as a Russian one in the multiplayer. Different machine-guns Tompson, MP44, MP40, and BAR. 
 Bolt action and automatic rifles and a shotgun that is available only in multiplayer. 
  
  The gameplay is more realistic then most shooters you will need to take the time to aim and shoot 
 instead of just holding down the fire button. A few hits will kill you. And you will find yourself 
 fighting in places that make sense rather than fighting enemies that seem to be randomly scattered 
 across the map.
  
  A feature that I found interesting was that whenever you finish a level or when you die you are 
 treated to a quote about war from a historical figure. 
  
  Gameplay Multiplayer: 
  
  The games weaker side. This game supports only up to eight players and the lag usually drops that 
 down to four. It has a bad menu system where you will be lucky to get into a game with your friends. 
 Another unfortunate thing is that you do not get to choose what map you battle on. You do however 
 get to choose what type of gametype you want to play. You have the regular Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, 
 and Capture the Flag modes. In addition to those you have a Headquarters mode that plays like a 
 game of Territories would on Halo 2 and a Search and Destroy mode that has one team planting a 
 bomb on one of two locations and the other team defending.
  
  At the start of each map you get to choose what side you want to be on which ranges from American, 
 Russian, German, and British. Each side has their own guns, you choose the one you want to use 
 at the start of the game and can swap at any time as well as pick up guns off of dead enemies and 
 allies. One cool feature that they keep from the original CoD is when you get killed you get to 
 see it happen from the view of the player who killed you, or you could just skip it and respawn 
 with the push of a button. Some good news is that they seem to be working on a patch for multiplayer 
 to fix the lag, hopefully they will kill two birds with one stone and improve upon the game options. 
 
  
  Graphics: 
  
  The graphics are amazing in this game as is the level of detail, especially if you have an HD-TV. 
 Weapons and vehicles look realistic, as do most character models. The game runs even smoother than 
 it does on the PC.
  
  Sound: 
  
  Great sound effects and memorable music. Actors do a great job and could make you feel as if you 
 are really there in the battles with them. Most of the weapons sound realistic from the blast of 
 a shotgun to the roar of tanks crashing through nearby walls. Voice actors usually do a good job 
 making their characters sound excited, nervous, or terrified depending on how the battle is going.
 
  
  Value: 
  
  The games only real flaw. It costs more than the PC version but in one rental period you can easily 
 beat the game, probably even on the hardest difficulty. Except for the SP there is not much of 
 a reason to buy the game because the MP only supports up to eight players and usually lags it down 
 to around four. Also the MP menu system is not very good, you will find it hard to get in games 
 with your friends and you can not choose the map you will fight on.
  
  Tilt: 
  
  It's a great FPS. It is just a shame that it was not longer, that there was no German campaign, 
 and that they did not have a better Multiplayer. I felt that they could have done better in some 
 areas. For instance, while there are many different villages to fight in some of the buildings 
 seem strangely familiar. 
  
  Difficulty: 
  
  Four different levels of difficulty. For the most part I found the game to be pretty easy except 
 when it is on the hardest difficulty mode.... then it is of moderate difficulty.
  
  Learning Curve: 
  
  This game has excellent controls. While they might seem a little strange 
 at first if you have not played a CoD game you will quickly get used to them.
  
  Pros: 
  
  Great graphics show what the 360 can do. Runs even smoother than the PC version. Has Xbox live 
 support. Great selection of weapons. A varied campaign. Memorable music and sound effects. Voice 
 acting makes the experience come alive. Allies fighting beside you make you feel part of a bigger 
 war. No more health packs.
  
  Cons: 
  
  $10 more than the PC version. A laggy multiplayer with poor options. A short campaign may only 
 make it worth a rent. On harder difficulty the enemy soldiers don't really seem better they just 
 seem to focus all fire and grenades, most I've had was seven at a time thrown at me, on you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Madformadness
Rating: 4.3
Date: Feb 3, 2006 4:41 pm PT
Review:  Fanboys, fanboys. Get over it, this is just more of the same utter crap. I love action and shooting, 
 and game where you aren't a one man army, but this games AI is stupid, and overpowered at one moment, 
 then the next you take eight out in ten seconds. The weapons have little difference, except ammo 
 quantity, and look. The game lacks many awesome weapons in WW2, and the dialouge is stupid, and 
 repetitive. 
  
  "They're in the house" then you hear "In the house they are", or "THE HOUSE! GET THEM!". Creative. 
 I grow tired of peopel raving on the graphics. They aren't god, and the people are still all pixelly. 
 The gameplay itself is LAME. It's not even fun. Especially veteran. Throw smoke, run in, kill. 
 Or better yet, run forward and crawl and your team will come and shoot for you. I beat this game 
 without killing anyone on many missions. This game is a waste, and if you want something fun, with 
 a great multiplayer, go perfect dark, but for story COD2 is neat. This is stupid, laggy, and a 
 broing game all around. The learning curve isn't long, it take about 30-60 minutes to realize you 
 need to use grenades. All the time. This game has me friggin stunned that this many people like 
 this game.
  
  If you disagree with anything I have said, message me, but the verdict is that this game SUCKS 
 all around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: egghawk23
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 3, 2006 4:30 pm PT
Review:  Man I can't beleive I thougnt those Medal of Honor games were good. They suck! Not like Call of 
 Duty2 were the AI is better than ever, the graphics are the greatest I have ever seen, the sound 
 is perfect in every way, and the battles are wide and highly interactive. I just love how there 
 are three different campains, Russian, American, and British. And I love the smoke grenades, the 
 grenade-o-meter (it tells were the location of the grenade is so you can scurry away. Better weapons 
 the missions are so much fun like when your in a rusty pipe in the Russian campain where there 
 are certain areas where you can secretly fire hell down onto Germans in half trackes. So basicly 
 if you have or are getting an X-Box 360 and your a big fan of shooters take my advice, GET THIS 
 GAME!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Solid_SnakeMGS2
Rating: 5.3
Date: Feb 3, 2006 1:48 pm PT
Review:  This game has great sound and graphics, I will give it that. But the levels.... A lot of them look 
 identical to each other which kinda starts getting boaring after a while... It is a good game but 
 far to easy and a little disapointing. Instead of this, I'd say go play Halo or dig out your old 
 N64 andplay Goldeneye again because those are some of the best first person shooters I have played 
 to this date. They were revalutionary while this game... just isn't. If you LOVE first person shooters 
 then I defenetly recomend this to you, however if you don't like person shooters I would say that 
 this will not change your mind and to skip it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FPS-Army
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 3, 2006 8:34 am PT
Review:  Well, lets take this in steps shall we? Combat, AI, Level Structure, Graphics then Story. Note: 
 I am not a fanboy, just in love... with COD2
  
  Combat is intense, grenades everywhere, hunkered down snipers, random tanks reducing your allies 
 to apile of goey coagullated blood. None of this power tripping "I can take three shots to the 
 head without flinching," kind of combat that we would seen in other games of this genre. If you 
 are stupid in combat, you die. Its beautiful because in a lot of FPS I've played (yes I'm looking 
 at you Serious Sam, you waste of a BlockBuster rental) all that really matters is how big your 
 gun is, not how you use it (this boys and girls is an innuendo) . ALSO, the lack of health bar, 
 good call. Since there wasn't a green bar floating above everyone's head in 1942, why should there 
 be now? Health packs = gone for the better. 
  
  AI, its about time i had smart NPC allies that don't die right off the bat running infront of enemy 
 crosshairs. I am glad that I don't have to tell people that its best to find cover when there is 
 a barrage of bullets coming our way. I am glad that when a grenade falls near my AI friends that 
 they are smart enough to GET THE HELL AWAY FROM THE EXPLOSIVE DEVICE! I also like the fact that 
 my enemy IS SMART, instead of running headlong into my bullets or simply hoping left or right they 
 actually have TACTICS! I'd have to say my very favorite part of that is when I dismantle someone's 
 spine and they try to crawl into cover. Or when one of my bullets visits an enemy head, then all 
 the enemies around it put there heads down "SNIPER!" But I think more indepth conversations with 
 the AI are needed, to really get the feel that I am talking to a real, intelligent being (BULL$#!^) .
 
  
  I'm going to go on a hunch here and say that if I went to Stalingrad during the German occupation, 
 I woulds probably see a sight similar if not identical to that depicted in COD2. I'm pretty sure 
 the level design is one of the best I've seen in a long time, I'm also pretty sure that each level 
 is amazing. I'm pretty sure that each moment I'm running from German bullets that I look around 
 and reflect. Instead of repititious enemy spawning and some random end-of-level climax I'm getting 
 something more akin to... reality? I don't think I'm going to have to take on Hitler, Eichmann and 
 friends all my lonesome-no boss battles pour moi.
  
  The graphics are good, above and beyond most if not all Xbox titles, truly nice to the eye but 
 there is one thing. It is not really on par for all the potential of the Xbox 360. We can tell 
 that this, no doubt beautiful, is a PC port. Its good, but what I am saying is that it is not ridiculously 
 good looking. It does not instantly blow me in a way that is unreasonable for any developer to 
 produce. Sorry guys, but this hasn't attained god status. I guess you'll have to settle with just 
 being freaking awesome.
  
  The story, is, a text book case of suspension of disbelief. It is what makes good story telling, 
 fans of Lamen. You play through the role of several different allied soldiers, through historically 
 important campaigns. The dialogue is scripted like *positive remark*, its ridiculous. People kill 
 for their fallen brethren, curse the names of their enemies and scream about the holes that now 
 have riddled holes in their body. Good accents too.
  
  As I said before, I am not a fanboy, I only really played the other CODs in passing (Carenten Multi 
 in a cybercafe for 12 to 14 hours) , but this. This is the gem of WW2 FPS. This is where the bar 
 is set now, and I hope that The Outfit can clear this. I dubb this the age of GOOD FPS.
  -FPS Army out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wbrink99
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 3, 2006 2:11 am PT
Review:  This is a great game. It's been awhile since I have played games, so it's taken a while to get 
 used to all of the buttons, but now that I'm used to them, I really enjoy this game.
  The graphics are great. It's very realistic. When I started playing the Normandy scenario where 
 we storm the beach, I felt like I was in Saving Private Ryan. It looked that good.
  The sound is very realistic also. I felt like I was really getting shot at.
  I also liked the 
 bit of trivia through the use of the history channel shows. It gave a good preview of what was 
 to come in the next scenario.
  Once I finish the regular level, I'll switch to the veteran level and make sure to put on the surround 
 sound.
  I can not wait to get my high def television.
  I highly recommend this game to anyone. One of the best shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: disturbed00
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 2, 2006 11:48 pm PT
Review:  wow.. just wow.. this game is absolutely perfect. everything is flawless.. the ai.. graphics.. sound.. i 
 mean.. the graphics are phenomnial. the sound is.. almost TOO realistic. the a. i is so smart its 
 not even funny.. i mean.. what game does the computer actually throw your gernades back at you!? 
 come on! the ONLY thing i can complain about is the online play.. which basically lags HORRIBLY 
 95% of the time... ive played few matches without lag.. and that sorta kills the whole online bit. 
 when the online does actually work its great fun though.. single player is flawless.. online.. could 
 need some help. if youre looking for a GREAT addition to your 360.. or a great WW2 game in general. 
 buy this game. or die. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firedupemblem
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 2, 2006 8:27 pm PT
Review:  From the humble beginnings of gaming there had always been an effort to put the gamer in a different 
 world, a new atmosphere. Call of Duty 2... dare I say, perfects this to the maximum. This game is 
 everything you've wanted.... AND MORE. 
  
  First off graphics- the graphics in this game are second to none. Most other games pale in comparison 
 to such a successfully polished game. If you have this game in HD (which you SHOULD) this is one 
 to behold. The insane level of detail in every soldiers face is just amazing and each one's movements 
 are fluid and proper looking for the most part. A 9/10 for graphics
  
  Second now is the sound-perfection... thats all I have to say.... a 10/10
  
  The gameplay- wow... too 
 much to say... so many different THINGS to say. This is a must have... 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Agent_Kaliaver
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 7, 2006 7:48 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty2 (also known as CoD2) made by Infinity Ward has come to the Xbox 360 and you wont 
 want to miss it.
  
  Call of Duty2 is the sequel to the much-loved Call of Duty for the PC. Surprisingly it has come 
 to the Xbox 360 and this is no small rip-off port of a PC game but a well-honed game that you WILL 
 want to play for hours upon end.
  
  Call of Duty2 is a World War II First Person Shooter. Call of Duty2 also has a nice single-playe 
 game that cne go from easy to hard in nothing flat. Throughout the single-player you will be playing 
 as three great nations. You will be playing as: Russia in the great snowy city of Stalingrad, Great 
 Britain in the African front, and the United States in the French nation and rushing the beaches 
 of Normandy yet another time. With three great nations to play, they all combine to make three 
 different campaigns which all make a total of twenty-seven missions. The Russians go through three 
 fronts all with sub mission in them, but while playing as these Russians dont just think it will 
 be a slaughter fest of Russians, but you will be taking down German command posts and defending 
 city hall from a German offensive. Now as the British you will be not only going through desert 
 raids and killing Germans left and right but you will be trying to escape a town from a German 
 assault and doing a flat out tank battle. As the Americans you will be moving from the beach to 
 scale the walls of Du-Hac and take over a town, just in turn start rushing to the beach in a last 
 minute defensive. You will also be stopping mortar strikes and defending an outpost from a German 
 attack. Aside from the missions in the game there is no general story besides staying alive and 
 defeating the Germans to end the second World War. The fingers will be bleeding when you finish 
 this story especially if you go onto trying it on veteran mode for the achievements.
  
  Before each front of each countries mission you will be shown actual clip of war footage and read 
 through the soldiers diary. Then the action starts and it will be intense, the Germans are also 
 relentless and if you hide back they will spring around corners to take you and they wont stop 
 coming. Besides from killing of German soldiers left and right you will have to destroy airplanes, 
 tanks, howitzers, and call in either air strikes or naval barrages to destroy boats which changes 
 up the game in a pleasantly nice way. Now what you will be killing all the Germans with is up to 
 you. You can either stick with the two guns youre given at the beginning or you can take guns 
 either from fallen comrades or enemies. There are also spots in the game when they will give you 
 certain weapons because trust me you will need them at that time. At these times they give you 
 certain weapons be ready to either defend or do a full scale assault. When they do these defenses 
 and assaults it really changes the game from just run and gunning to now you have a real objective 
 and you dont want to see your comrades get gunned down before you eyes. Now with all these people 
 one screen at one time sometimes it will get chaotic but it also makes this game stand out from 
 other World War II shooters and it is what makes this game great.
  
  The single-player may seem a little short unless you do the extremely hard veteran mode for achievements, 
 which will take you two to three times longer than the normal mode. Now to get out of this single-player 
 style of run and gunning Germans you can go online via Xbox Live and play with up to 8 other players 
 in deathmatch or objective games. With a new update to Call of Duty2 it makes playing in online 
 so much easier and fun. With the more automatch system of grouping in Call of Duty2 you won't want 
 to see the style Perfect Dark Zero took one bit. You will be able to choose what maps you prefer 
 so then you wont (sometimes matters about what others prefer) play the maps you hate. While playing 
 Call of Duty2 online it can feel like an all out brawl and can get intense, but then you will have 
 some slower games were every person gets a sniper rifle and finds a hiding spot and sits. With 
 these two very different strategies during game you will find that certain maps are better for 
 sniper or all out machine gun, yet even on a sniper map if you work out your smoke grenades and 
 move from house or corner to corner you can always gun people down nicely with a Thompson. Now 
 if you think 8 people isnt enough for a multiplayer game just wait you will end up to loving it 
 and if you still dont then you can always get friends with Xbox 360s and play a system link game 
 of up to 16 people.
  
  With these single-player and multiplayer being this good you might think that the graphics are 
 poor or the sound is. You will find yourself to be wrong (you can still have a different opinion 
 though) , Call of Duty2 pulls out some nice character models that you may mistake for being real 
 and the best looking down the barrel of your gun to aim I have ever seen in gaming. Plus the sound 
 doesnt let up, with gunshots being heard from distances in a city to the explosion of a tank and 
 even the guns shooting and bullets whizzing just pass your helmet. To also make this game seem 
 more realistic when you get hit your screen will turn slightly red and then when you get hurt bad 
 enough you screen will blur and being red all over, and thats when you find a good hiding place 
 to recover. Yep there is no life bar and no med kits in Call of Duty2 just a somewhat regenerating 
 health with nice effects. But when you want to see a screen blur you need to get a tank to shoot 
 right next to you so you start moving slowly, cant hear except a loud ringing, and a extremely 
 blurred screen. With all these good effects and realistic sounds you will feel like youre in the 
 action of these intense action game.
  
  All in all Call of Duty2 is the fastest most intense shooter for the Xbox 360 to date and it doesnt 
 seem to be letting up any time soon. If your tired of World War II shooters or you think a port 
 from the PC to Xbox 360 will suck then go rent it. If you love shooters and dont mind it being 
 the 100th World War II shooter made then it is a must buy even if your going for the PC version 
 they are both close to each other just a different controller.
  Call of Duty2 gets a good score for being a good game, go check it out!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spyderfan1212
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 2, 2006 2:31 pm PT
Review:  Many months ago i first played Call of Duty at Target. I was blown away and happy it lived up to 
 the orginal CoD unlike the other mediocre console releases. When i got my 360 this was the first 
 game i popped in. i put it on the easy difficulty and played all the way through. Lately i've bin 
 playing on the Veteran difficulty and i have to say veteran is better than easy, i'll come back 
 to that later.
  
  SP:
  
  Gameplay. While in combat you hold two weapons. Doesn't matter what kind, only two. You also hold 
 some frag and smoke grenades. In CoD2 you have alot of allys helping you fight. You always outnumbered 
 though and in easy it doesn't feel much like a sqaud shooter beacuse your so strong and you'll 
 just mow down german to german with ease. in veteran however you'll be forced to saty in cover 
 and have accurate shots, you life depenmds on it. Your allies are your best friends. IN veteran 
 you'll be forced to give covering fire, flank and make accurate shots. A couple shots at once will 
 kill you so you'll find youself using smake grenades. Also it's just a good challenge that will 
 raise you gamerpoints. You'll play as American, Russian, and British. the American campagn like 
 the oringal's is the best, due to D-Day and the American's weapons are more fun. The game runs 
 riduclously smoothly, meaning very. The character models are very nice and the fog of snow and 
 the heat waves of the desert are all nicely done. The weapon models are fantastic. Even though 
 this game is "T" this game is griity. I mean it makes war fell so violent so horrible and it's 
 "T". Something i thought couldn't be done.
  
  I give Call of Duty's SP a well deserved 9.2
  
  MP: ONline multiplayer is extremely fun, that 
 is if you can get into a game and it's not lagging. The first night i played i only had one game 
 that had lag. I had so much fun. But some night's it won't even let you into a gamer for some reason. 
 idk it's weird. 
  
  Gameplay: Two teams playing in either DM, TDM, CTF, HQ, or S&D.
  
  DM- a classic free for all deathmatch
  TDM- 2 teams who fight to the death
  CTF- two teams 
 fgiht to retrieve the other theam's flag
  HQ- A radio is randomely placed somewhere on the map, the teams have to ry and caputer the radi 
 for a set amount of time, when you die you have to wait unitl reinfocement come in (every 45 seconds)
 
  S&D- One team try to blow up another team's equipment. When you die you out for that round. You 
 can win by elimnating the other team or if you the team trying to blow something up than you can 
 win that way also.
  
  The gameplay is fastpaced and the maps a put together well. First you pick a team than you pick 
 a weapon tha belongs to that team. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eubankspsp
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 2, 2006 8:48 am PT
Review:  This game is one of the best games on xbox360 I encourage all who get a 360 to get I think it is 
 even better than Halo . the stages are cool it like you are in the war for reall the sound is straight 
 jawdroping the gaphics I think are the highlight of this game when you but it you will not be disapointed 
 at all. Although this game is every thing a person would want out of a first person shooter I think 
 that is game as well as all xbox 360 games cost to darn much and there needs to be a beter selection 
 of guns. It would have been cooler for them to let the players ride the vehicles, but all in all 
 this should been the first game every xbox 360 owner should have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ros68417
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 2, 2006 5:17 am PT
Review:  Overall I would recommend this game as a one player game. Druing the regular one player game the 
 harder levels are defenitely much harder and more challenging. The best campaign in my opinion 
 is the AMERICAN campaign with the invasion scenes which are spectacular. In addition to this, I 
 would add that once the XBOX live version comes into play I would defenitely flunk it since it 
 is always slow and the player options are minimal. The Live portion of the game seems to change 
 completely destroy the good rating I have already given to the one player version. In the XBOX 
 Live version, it can take up to 30 minutes to be able to simply join a game and once joined the 
 server of the game can suddenly disconnect and say that it is full. Also, the lack of player matchmaking 
 options is a LIVE downfall. 
  
  In conclusion, the one player game is good and challenging in the harder levels and the LIVE Multiplayer 
 version sucks. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: richiedbond
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 1, 2006 6:08 pm PT
Review:  I love this game, Everything about it is just fun. There is nothing I hate about it. If you like 
 first person shooters and you are one of the lucky ones to have a 360. Buy this game, It is totally 
 worth the money, it is the best out there by far. I mean the Graphics rock, the Game play Rocks, 
 There is plenty of blood (ok that is kind of gross but still) do I need to go on? I will though, 
 I haven; t played a lot of 360 games yet (I just got mine) but as I said before nothing compares 
 to this game. At least until Oblivion... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jaclarks
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 1, 2006 5:15 pm PT
Review:  COD2 is probably the best XBOX 360 launch title. Ive already played the game through more than 
 once, spent hours on mulitplayer, and i am not at all sick of the game. The only non perfect part 
 of the game is the graphics, the are too many textures for things like debris and trash, which 
 just look cheap. This is mainly on the winter levels, but occurs throughout the game. Multiplayer 
 is awesome, and it has matchmaking, which makes it even better! The levels are pretty good, and 
 you even get the ability to choose your own weapon before each match, which is cool. I would highly 
 recomend this game to anyone looking for a good FPS or war game, cus it is the best currently out 
 for the xbox360. Now we can only hope that the sequal is going to be as good as this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flangdango
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 1, 2006 5:04 pm PT
Review:  CoD2 as you may know is the sequel to CoD and lives to the hype heres the brakdown
  
  PROS: amazing SP great cinimatic feel non-stop action normal is fun and all and gets you used to 
 the game but when ur rdy vetran is the frustratingly hard at times but it last long (from all the 
 deaths) and gets you some achivements
  
  
  CONS: MP is horrible, ghastly whatever you wanna call it, its just terible i personaly have got no 
 lag but others have and leave the game witch lowers the players in not very exicting but (idont 
 wanna be starting rumors) there is a patch coming to fix this wich might make my CON a PRO then 
 this game would be perfect in my eyes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jesseandnikki
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 1, 2006 1:55 pm PT
Review:  I really don't know where to start, so I'll break it down in a simple format:
  
  Graphics
  The best I've seen for 360 yet. The way the snow gathers on your allies' uniforms and 
 the misty breath your allies produce in the cold. Everything is really immersive. Smoke grenades 
 are actually useful and realistic, along with explosions.
  
  Sound
  The sound is really good also. Guns sound realistic, and even the voice acting is done well. The 
 only problem is that when you want to play music from your iPod or other mp3 device, you can still 
 here the original soundtrack to the game behind that, so that gets annoying.
  
  Gameplay
  Genius. I played Call of Duty for Xbox but didn't really think it lived up to any hype. Medal of 
 Honor European Assault also seemed like a Call of Duty ripoff, but CoD2 actually delivers on gameplay. 
 Everything you do immerses you in the combat. Physics are real especially when blowing things up. 
 Controlls are also placed very well, from throwing different grenades, to switching weapons, and 
 crouching... the controll setup makes everything easy to access.
  
  Multiplayer
  Absoluety Amazing. I havn't experienced this much fun online since Halo 2, and I know they're different 
 games, but I just mean in general. Everything from SinglePlayer is there and 4 on 4 matches is 
 satisfying, although people make it out to be too little. I think everything in MP is perfect.
 
  
  Overall
  If you have a 360, don't rent this game. Buy it. It's worth it, trust me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tctctctc
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 1, 2006 1:40 pm PT
Review:  Call Of Duty 2 is, in my honest opinion, one of the best war games I have ever played, but I say 
 this from playing this game not on Xbox Live. Veteran setting is seomthing to try out, as it is 
 makes this game the value it is if you really want diffculty to test your wits as well as your 
 patience. The graphics in the game, I think, is the best of any Xbox 360 I have seen or played 
 yet, from explosions to smoke and fog dispersions, they are incredible.
  
  As far as online play, it is equally awesome in graphics too, but very inconsistent when there 
 is a great deal of lagging, and many disconnects from the host during gameplay. This gets very 
 irritating quite a bit, especially if you have good gamer scroes going, and it stops because of 
 these issues.
  
  But because of the quality of the game, I can over look this somewhat, and say that tgis is a game 
 one should have if they like the realism of WWII, and that of a FPS; it is another must have game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guitarfreak6688
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 1, 2006 4:30 am PT
Review:  My neighbor got the 360 for xmas. A few days later he bought 2 more wired contollers and CoD2. 
 I enjoyed the game so much, i bought CoD1 for my slow PC barely capable of running it.
  
  Ever since, i've been playing whenever I could. All the guns have great sound Fx and all of them 
 have their accuracy limitations, just like in WWII.
  For example, the Thomsen which was an allied gun (British and America had it, at least those 2 
 countries) and in the game, it has a great rate of fire, but you have to be 10 ft away. The sniper 
 rifle is great, and my usual weapon.
  
  The graphics.... are unspeakably good. I'd say almost better than Halo (yes, Halo) and I haven't 
 even played on HD.
  
  I don't even know what else to say except that its probably the best game i've ever played. I recommend 
 it for anyone... the best part is for all you with paranoid parents, its only T.
  
  Have fun!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomsten
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 1, 2006 3:44 am PT
Review:  to tell the truth this is so f***ing fun it is so intense if you have this game put try this on 
 the russian mission were you charge at city hall crawl all the way you never will see so much carnage 
 in your life it's the best game ever graphics are good, gameplay is like no otherseen before, the 
 sound is the highlight of the game never before have you heard so realistic sounds of sniper fire 
 or a thompson machine gun fireing all around you, also it's one of the games you just have to play 
 over and over again because how good it is the only down side i would say is the online play is 
 fun but very laggy somtimes well if you don't have this game already you better get buying now 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slackattackjack
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 31, 2006 9:44 pm PT
Review:  The game also can be some what annoying because of the constant lag and terrible server setup but 
 I really think this game could be the next halo (everyones got to have it) . But if the new patch 
 changes things up then maybe it just might be everyones favorite game. The other thing that bothers 
 me is that it has no ranks whats the point in ranked games if theres no ranks this is a major down 
 point . The last major thing is the computer game has clans why cant we able to have clans to test 
 our abilities as a team and climb the ranks to the top the best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: binarytag
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 31, 2006 7:32 pm PT
Review:  I absolutly had a great time playing this game. You will spend a lot of time playing this game.... 
 This is truly the best 360 game yet... The graphics were amazing, alot of neat weapons to choose 
 from. Really cool maps, the sound in this game gets kind of anoying at times. This game could have 
 been more challanging but..... who cares. You really dont have to understand war to be able to 
 play this game. Everybody would love this game. I hope to see more Call of Duty in future. I cant 
 wait to see what they have in store for us. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halo2maniak
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 31, 2006 4:27 pm PT
Review:  Now I know that there has been a lot of WW2 games to come out in the last 10 years but this is 
 actualy a good one. This game has good gameplay and great visuals that realy get you in these epic 
 battles. There is even on where what look like hundreds of germans charge you while you comand 
 the artilery. They even got the tank play beter and the controls actualy make sense. Hey and here 
 is something that is amazing and new to games, you team mates actualy say things that are important 
 and are useful. Well there are some downsides like the graphics not being as good as some of the 
 other launch games and the campaign feels a little short but you want to play the same levels aover 
 and over again. Well I would strongly recomend this game to enyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wargasm666
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 31, 2006 11:54 am PT
Review:  The Call of Duty series has definitely taken the crown as the best WWII shooter franchise on the 
 market for me. The series always provides AMAZING visuals, unbeatable sound and VERY solid game 
 play. COD 2 is yet another addition to the series that wears the crown proudly. 
  
  One thing that always puzzles me about the mass of WWII games is how do they come up with the ideas 
 to make the game play good this millionth time around? More often then not, they usually dont 
 but the Call of Duty series always seems to make killer game play out of the same old WWII scenario.
 
  
  COD 2 (IMO) brings the series into the next-generation with amazing visuals and the sound quality 
 follows right along with it. The graphics in this game are simply gorgeous. The Russian campaign 
 really impressed me with the snow flurries falling, the smoke and bullets flying all around you. 
 The smoke in this game should be the new staple for how to do smoke in all games. Everything down 
 to the wood grain on boxes and puddles on the ground is highly detailed. 
  
  The sounds of COD 2 are the best around in gaming period. The amount of pure chaos that can happen 
 onscreen with everything blazing in your ears is something that has to be heard (especially on 
 surround) .
  
  Without going on and on about this game, I highly recommend it as a game to own. 
  
  On a 
 side note:
  This game is a beast to run on a PC and can make even one of the best PCs out there struggle. 
 The 360 version (to me) runs VERY nicely. I have a pretty top end PC (AMD 4000, 7800GTX oc, 2 gigs 
 OCA Platinum etc) and it has a hard time on that for some reason. I dont think you are missing 
 out on anything with the 360 version besides the mouse and keyboard.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kizzle28
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 30, 2006 8:14 pm PT
Review:  When I first picked up my Xbox 360 on launch day, I snatched up the last copy of Call of Duty 2, 
 narrowly escaping a long wait for the latest next-gen system. I had never played COD but I do love 
 first person shooters, so I figured this game could be a safe bet. I am glad I picked this up. 
 COD2 turns out to be one of the finest experiences I have had the privilege to be involved in. 
 Its sound, ambiance, AI, graphics, and it oozes of quality. This is probably the most complete 
 game I have ever come across. Anyone who has an Xbox 360 or PC should pick this game up. In the 
 360's case, everything (no, really) is excellent. Musical score is fantastic, voice overs are very 
 good, gun sounds, and explosions are all spot on. Graphics are crisp, clean, and next-gen, while 
 its gameplay is great. With all this greatness come some flaws. The online component is lackluster 
 but, even so, this is a mere blemish to how good this game is... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eric_51
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 30, 2006 4:53 pm PT
Review:  When you play call of duty 2 you feel that you are in the war unlike the previous WW2 shooters. 
 CoD2 is a much better game because in terms of gameplay and realism it is the best thing since 
 MoH: AA.. While the Xbox360 only has up to 16 players online i really prefer the PC version first. 
 But the only drawbacks are that you only have slowdowns in gameplay and also the online play (16-x360-32-PC) might 
 be a little off. If you are going to buy this game then buy it now!!! This game gets a 4/5 stars 
 on my rating or on gamespot's rating style. 8.5 out of 10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xbox360addict
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 29, 2006 11:53 pm PT
Review:  Whather youve played previous call of duty games or not call of duty 2 is a great FPS the action 
 is frantic and it genuinely feels like a real war. This is a very atmospheric game with people 
 being gunned down all around you and bullets flying other (and sometimes into) your head that all 
 add to the crazinesss of this game. Call of duty 2 is also very fun and there are very memorable 
 moments such as dday and well most of the british missions. Call of duty is a very good launch 
 game with great visuals frantic batles and fun gameplay. Anyone with a liking for FPSs should definitely 
 give this on a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PRliger04
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 29, 2006 8:31 pm PT
Review:  I have just come back from war and I have didn't have to leave my couch. This game raised the bar 
 for all first person shooters and all war games that will ever be released. I found myself feeling 
 as though i really was there. I got mad at my soldiers when they would throw a grenade as i tried 
 to rush into a building. I would get excited after planting time bombs on tanks. This game did 
 it all for me. It didn't matter if I was Russian or American I had a mission to complete and with 
 the graphics and sound displayed by this game it felt so real. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_of_Cheese1
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 29, 2006 6:24 pm PT
Review:  Welcome to World War II! Call of Duty 2, which I belive is the best WW2 game in existance, You 
 fight against those dastardly germans (no offense to any actual germans, just the ones in this 
 game) who will stop at nothing to kill you again and again and again. Playing as the Soviets (die 
 you stupid facists!) , the British (this ones for my sister you damn jerry!) , and the Americans 
 (dont make us nuke you! [i made that one up] ) . Prepare to love those walls, debris piles, and smoke 
 grenades because you will not survive otherwise. If you see a German, who probably has a machine 
 gun and will kill you badly if dont have a good trigger finger (especially on veteran mode) , and 
 then duck back behind a wall or something, he will either A: Come and Kill you. B: Get some friends 
 to come and help him kill you. or C: throw a grenade in after you. The graphics are great on the 
 next-gen, and nothing feels better than killing one of those nazis in cold blood in blood that 
 actually looks like real blood! especially in High-Def! To wrap it up, CoD2 is a solid game that 
 you cant go wrong with unless you just hate the genre. I fully recomend this game to anyone who 
 has a pc or Xbox 360 to play it on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cplater
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 29, 2006 12:58 pm PT
Review:  Even if you've played Call of Duty on other systems, this one is a must own! It is one of the most 
 visually appealing games of all of the launch titles. The single player normal level seems just 
 right. You should be able to pick this one up, and get through a few missions without much trouble. 
 In addition to the awesome graphics, you'll be presented with a compelling story line that helps 
 raise the level of enjoyment of the game as a whole. You won't have much time to just look around 
 at the environment, but when you do, you will be amazed. I'll have to admit, the one part of this 
 game that I've had some trouble with is even starting a game in the multi-player mode, so I can't 
 begin to comment on that portion of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: e-pro
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 29, 2006 11:14 am PT
Review:  For those of us who remember MoH: Frontline on ps2, this game is the logical extension. With an 
 incredible graphical presentation and high octane intensity, Call of Duty 2 is easily the best 
 WWII first-person shooter to date. A breeze on eassier difficulties, and intense stealth action 
 on the veteran level, this game is just flat out fun. Could use a bit more blood though...
  
  Call of Duty 2 seperates it self from the rest of the first person shooter pack, and makes 
 a great launch on the xbox 360. Few games of this nature deliver on so many levels. Buy it NOW!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattykovax
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 29, 2006 10:36 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is the game i have been waiting for on consoles forever. The Graphics and gameplay 
 are PC worthy, but I have my handy controller. 
  The game puts you in WWII obviously, but switches it up with three different campains, as three different 
 factions. The first has you fighting the germans as russian infantry, through the snowy streets 
 of Stalingrad, trying to push the invading waves of the nazis out of the motherland. The second 
 has you playing as british forces fighting the nazis on the Afrikan front. The third is the americans, and 
 the famous invasion scenarios of normandy and the hills. The non-american campains help keep things 
 interesting and different from the oversaturated genre of WWII games. And the developers do a really 
 good job of making the american missions, such as D-Day which has been done to death, actually feel 
 new and refreshing.
  
  The gameplay is ahead of what i have seen on the last generation of consoles. The teamwork and 
 strategy of the nazis, especially on veteran seem realstic, even to the point of doing things that 
 you would not expect a computer to do. They will flank you, use grenades to draw you out, use teamwork, and 
 actually outsmart your attempts to get them out of cover.
  As for your allies, they actually do things instead of being fodder, and there are points where they 
 will do most of the work while you just try to stay alive.
  The controls are very Halo like, with only two weapons carried at any point, but also the abilaty 
 to pick up any weapon on the field of play. 
  The game is no run and gun, as you will have to learn to use both your allies and cover while pushing 
 forward, this becomes even more pronounced on veteran, where smoke greanades become a handy option 
 also.
  
  The graphics are some of the best I have ever seen, and that includes PC games. The character models 
 have new levels of realism, as do vehicles and weapons. You can see the mist coming out of both 
 yours and the enemies mouths on the cold levels. The only flaws are the enviroment textures, that 
 do not always seem to be as detailed as they should, and sometimes look flat.
  
  The sound is amazing, though I do not have surround, it still was very helpfull in immersing me in 
 the action.
  
  All in all this is one of the best games I have ever played, and hands down the best console FPS 
 i have ever played. For the first time I felt like i was actually just a soldier in a larger war, instead 
 of some super warrior that was just going to win single handedly. Therre is a lot of replay value, as 
 the first time through it took all my attention just to take in the details, and a second play was 
 in order just to enjoy it all. 
  
  A must buy, the best 360 game available at the moment.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: strider762
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 29, 2006 10:06 am PT
Review:  Imagine being a soldier in World War II. Some people had this experience and lived to tell the 
 tale while many were not so lucky. Call of Duty II gives you the experience of World War II by 
 bringing it right to your living room. With its great graphics, realistic shooting, and decent 
 single player storyline Call of Duty II fulfills the need for a first person shooter on Xbox 360.
 
  Call of Duty II features single player, multiplayer, and online play as to be expected. The single 
 player mode is a challenging mode even for experienced players, with an AI that can be made to 
 be easy or nearly impossible to beat. Multiplayer mode on the console if fair if you have 4 player 
 of a system link but is sometimes dissapointing if there are a low number of people. If a multiplayer 
 campaign mode was added I believe that the game could have been more successful. Online play can 
 be annoying at times, much like a lot of games for the Xbox so far. However, it is solid for the 
 most part.
  The gameplay for Call of Duty II has been improved and for the better. You'll almost begin to sweat 
 as you see your teammates get mowed down by the opposition right before your eyes. Much time will 
 be spent just waiting for an enemy to pop out from behind a corner and pump you full of lead. This 
 kind of realism is what makes the gameplay in Call of Duty II so good.
  Both the graphics and the sound are excellent in Call of Duty Ii. The buildings are crisp and soldiers 
 are very detailed. Bullets whizz past your head with cutting the air with a very nice sound. The 
 graphics and sound basically make you feel like you are really there and Call of Duty Ii even with 
 its superb gameplay would be nothing without these two areas.
  One of the changed aspects of the game is the damage meter. Instead of having a health bar your 
 soldier just becomes hurt when he is hit by fire. At this point you must hide or be killed. Sometimes 
 the new change can be too easy but for the most part it works. If your soldier becomes red you 
 usually are going to be peppered with bullets so get out of there quick.
  All in all, Call of Duty II sets the bar for first person shooters on Xbox 360. Its graphics are 
 so far unmatched and the shooting is smooth. I recommend this game to anyone, but especially fans 
 of first person shooters. You won't be dissapointed by Call of Duty II for the Xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: for_the_horde
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 29, 2006 4:43 am PT
Review:  I have never digged in to a Call of Duty title before. Until, my 360 arrived and i was sure this 
 was the game to buy
  I went o my 3local major game stores, GAME UK, HMV and VIRGIN. I am 14 and no-one in the stores let 
 me buy it. Luckily, I went into WHSMITH and got it, as they don't really know about game ratings...
 
  
  The moment you start playing the crisp, sharp graphics stun you. The smoothness of the AI is incredible. 
 The gameplay is the best I have seen. It is just so intense you are always searching for cover. 
 There is no other WWII game around and it is amazing. There are lots of guns to pick from each 
 with there own sights.
  
  The campaign is huge and will last you an extremely long time. There is a Russian, British and 
 American campaign. Each major mission has tons of little missions in them. Well, they aren't really 
 little, they are very hard!
  
  For those gamers who want to stack up gamerpoints, there is always VETERAN mode which is crazy!
 
  
  Overall, I think this game is the best game on the X360 and definately worth 50. A great game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metkillerjoe
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 28, 2006 5:37 pm PT
Review:  Awesome game. Made me wanna quite sometimes, but in all, it was good. This is really the most intense 
 one out there.
  
  I started at Regualar difficulty. I got this game because a lot of people around me were playing 
 it and enjoyed. I picked up a copy and started playing and I was really astounded at how well everything 
 went; I have a low end Geforce card and there was no lag in the graphics, AT ALL (but there was 
 a crap load of artifacting because I had overclocked it) . Right from training the the Red Army 
 you are immersed, and really, you just have to play the game to see how intense it gets. It gets 
 intense fast, but you don't realize it until you have 5 enemies with mausers in front of you and 
 you are about to die. Then you go into cover and see all of your comrades dying, getting hit, taking 
 cover, and last and least, shooting.
  
  Even if you aren't the type of person for WWII FPS, I really suggest this. The gameplay could not 
 be better. The graphics and sound I really am biased on because I couldn't actually test the best 
 available.
  
  I am not gonna lie; it will get boring sometimes because you will be able to predict the AIs movements, 
 but this can also get annoying because you throw and grenade and then, as it sails through the 
 air, you just realized that the enemy will just dodge it. There are no bosses in this game (which 
 I adore because I was never really liking that boss concept in the old school games) , but there 
 are massive tanks which you sometimes have to get extremely close to and defeat with sticky grenades. 
 
  
  I could say a million more things about this game, but really, those would just be spoilers. Get 
 the game. Play it. And Enjoy. Really, that is the only way to enjoy this intense WW2 shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: havokmaster
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 28, 2006 2:58 am PT
Review:  Call Of Duty 2, in my opinion, is one of the best FPS's of the millenium, and one of the best WW2 
 "simulators" of all time.
  
  The first time you put that baby into your disk tray, prepare to be blown away. Great graphics, 
 better sound, it's a complete package. The realism in the game is one of the best parts, the intense 
 action makes you feel like your really there. On easy/normal, you could fly through the game in 
 a few hours, but on veteran, that's where the real challenge is.
  
  The multiplayer is top class, minus the mediocre but soon to be fixed online play. There is a great 
 selection of maps and weapons, with about 15-20 each.
  
  Overall, this is a must buy to anyone, and I mean anyone would like this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: admiral_picard
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 27, 2006 11:43 pm PT
Review:  Honestly, I liked CoD ok. It was decent, and different. This, is the same as the first, except 
 this time, it's impossible to play. You will see the annoying and irritating quote screens a million 
 times unless you're the master of FPSes with this one. The graphics are good, the sounds are good, 
 but the gameplay is just irritating. The physics are all screwed up, and I can't tell you how many 
 times I've been killed by a tank or a grenade that was not even near me. If you love being infuriated 
 by dying every 2 seconds, then by all means, get this game. Elsewise, get BF1942, and download 
 Forgotten Hope. May not be as flashy, but it owns this piece of crap on physics and reality. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ALCANADA777
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 27, 2006 8:22 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 on X-BOX 360 has by far the best world war 2 game to date, with a single player 
 experience that gives you many different experiences that you cant get in any other world war 2 
 games. The different invasion point of the d-day says it all and sets this game apart from all 
 other world war 2 games by putting it on the cliffs and not the same old beach. And even though 
 the online multiplayer is an overall terrible experience the overall gaming experience is a wonderful 
 one and probably the best game on 360 to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: btorture
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 27, 2006 5:16 pm PT
Review:  COD 2 is the most no-brainer of the 360 launch batch. This should be the first game you purchase 
 for just about anyone. With variable difficulties and a solid presentation, any gamer who's ever 
 played a shooter can gleefully trod the beaten WW2 path here. The single-player missions are all-killer, 
 no-filler. Several people have commented on the quality of this game, and so I'm going to detail 
 just why this is not a legendary, HALO-quality game.
  
  First, many versions of this game (including mine) were released with a game-save glitch that prevents 
 saves from happening after the middle of the British campaign. When called about this glitch, I 
 was given a code to open up all missions at the mission select screen:
  
  Hold L + R bumpers (the new quasi-triggers on top) while
  
  L, L, R, R on the D-pad, and then 
 quickly
  
  Hit Y, Y. 
  
  If you can do this in under 5 secs. then a horse will whinney and open everything. What this doesn't 
 fix is the XBOX Live points you'd normally receive for accomplishing mission objectives, which 
 makes the whole thing possibly a waste of time for you. It still won't save, either.
  
  Now that has only happened to a certain percentage of the discs, but what about the other universal 
 problems? Well, as quality as I think the single-player is, it's not the most original game around. 
 Several scenes feel like revisions of the MOH games, but that makes sense, given the history of 
 the publisher. You will get sick of hearing your Tommies yell, "It's an MG-42!" as well. These 
 are minor hitches on your way to killtastic carnage in this rewarding game. The single player had 
 better be rewarding. It's probably the only thing you'll ever be playing on this game. 
  
  The multiplayer, in addition to feeling like a simplistic afterthought, is simply broken. After 
 hopping on XBOX Live early morning on launch day, I was excited to play against some other hardcore 
 killnauts like myself. Thoughts of such were shot to ribbons, however, as soon as 8 of us tried 
 to do a simple deathmatch. Everyone quit after 3 minutes of being stuck in one place, lurching 
 back and forth incessantly. This has been the story everytime I revisit the online mode of COD2. 
 Ah, the pathos.
  
  I still love this game, but I love it like that freckly-faced girlfriend who gave really good foot 
 massages. I'll keep hooking it up until something hotter happens by. I'd advise you to do the same.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: erikgus
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 27, 2006 1:08 pm PT
Review:  To start off with, I never did get into Call of Duty. I tried it, but got frustrated with the first 
 level, and just never gave it a chance. After playing Call of Duty 2, I am kicking myself and hoping 
 for a 3rd installment. I traded in a christmas gift of xbox Madden 06 and decided last minute to 
 get CoD2 instead of Madden for the 360, and it was the best choice I made this year. The audio 
 and visual aspects are great. The action is fast paced and in your face. The soundtrack and sound 
 effects are great, including blood splatters from Nazis so you know when you hit em. The effects 
 are so great, I actually shot the helmet off a Nazi last night without killing him, and when he 
 turned to see where his helmet went, I shot him in the head killing him. It should go without saying 
 that this game probably isn't for kids, but if you are old enough to be playing it, you should 
 be. This is one of the best games out for the 360, and a definite must have for you collection. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xhybrid_bombX
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 27, 2006 12:07 pm PT
Review:  i think this game has really good online play and really good graphics this game is awsome go by 
 it right now...... of u dont have a 360 go by it first and then by this game 
 
  
  0_o I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I II I IIIIIIIIIII I I I I I I I II I I I I I I I I I I I I I 
 I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I II I I I I I I II I 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reo_Ai
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 27, 2006 12:06 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is one of the best shooters I've played in I don't know how long. The first thing 
 the game does to you is grab and pull you into an immersive type of gameplay. The first thing I 
 noticed is the constant back round changing while you are completing objectives. You see the planes 
 flying above you, rumbling through the sky, bombs going off in the distance, etc. This itself makes 
 you believe you play a very small part in this war-zone around you, and that the game is not centered 
 or focused on just you shooting the bad guys. You'll find that the enemies aren't dumb, although 
 not necessarily smart either. You can still sneak up on them, and retreat while not having to worry 
 about them coming after you. However, open up a blind spot and they will get it. The major thing 
 that dissapointed me was the graphics. While still pretty mind blowing, you can still see the common 
 video game issues. Of course guns can still go through walls (if thin enough) at times and soldiers 
 in tight spaces with somewhat blocky movement. This could also be an A. I. issue. The sound in this 
 game are awesome, especially if you have a good speaker system. The sound is loud and clear, and 
 very "large". A plane going overhead will drown out gunfire, and when in a quiet house, you can 
 still hear the stuff going on out side. Overall, Call of Duty 2 is a great game and likely to be 
 considered one of the best games you will ever play.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rancid125
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 27, 2006 7:19 am PT
Review:  The game is awesome. One of the best games out right now for the xbox 360. I just love it, it's 
 pretty life like... accept for the fact that you have a health bar like halos... which is totally 
 stupid for a war game. Anyways, yeah this game is totally a must have game for the xbox 360 and 
 if you don't like it, then you have some serious issues. The graphics are amazing, also. I just 
 love it!!!!! The grenades, bombs, pretty much the explosions just look as real as they come... 
 so yea. Pick it up today, or be bored on your xbox 360, atleast untill another war game comes along. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sammo1b777
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 27, 2006 6:12 am PT
Review:  I just want to say first off that this game blow Perfect Dark out of the water!! Perfect what"??? 
 is more like it. Call of Duty 2 is the best medal of honor game that has been made and is a must 
 have for the xbox 360. There are many missions like 27 out of 3 campaigns. And on perfect dark 
 there are only 16 and they are all so short. The graphics on this game are equisist along with 
 the gameplay. I really love this game. Its worth every penny especially if you have a HD televesion 
 and surround sound. It just can't get anymore realistic. perfect dark was ok but Call of Duty 2 
 was awesome!!! Perfect Dark eat your heart out!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingSwampy
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 27, 2006 5:35 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 or COD2 is the best World war 2 shooter ever released and the best game you can 
 buy for your XBOX360. Everything from the graphics, sound effects and the AI of the enemies and 
 your allies is great and really makes you feel like you're in the hell of war. Your allies and 
 the enemies also shout out things in the heat of battle such as Potato masher!! when you throw 
 a grenade and what window a sniper might be firing from, it's all very clever.
  
  There is a lengthy single player campaign that spans 27 missions which lets you play as the Russians, 
 British and Americans in a variety of settings such as tank fights in the deserts of Africa, house 
 to house fighting in the streets of Moscow and the D-Day beach landings. There is also different 
 levels of difficulty and playing on veteran will separate the men from the boys and is the best 
 way to appreciate this game.
  
  All the guns you would expect in a game like this are present and look and sound very nice when 
 fired, they are also extremely accurate. You can also use grenades and the very nifty smoke grenade 
 which blankets the screen in a thick layer of smoke and makes it impossible to see two feet in 
 front of you, very nice.
  
  There is a online mode for this game and it has one major problem which has ruined it for many 
 people LAG... lots and lots of it. When the game runs smoothly it's a lot of fun and Infinity ward 
 are working on a patch to fix the online problems. You can only play 8 players online at present 
 and while it would be nice to have more it's enough to make this a good game online.
  
  All in all this is a great game and if you like FPS or WW2 shooters you owe it to yourself to pick 
 up this game, best XBOX 360 game so far.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spankman
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 26, 2006 9:11 pm PT
Review:  When the Xbox 360 came out, there weren't many games. There still aren't that many. But do you 
 remember when the first Xbox came out? You can't remember how many games were there. Because you 
 were too busy playing this game called "Halo". Well Call of Duty 2, for me, was that memorable 
 game that is keeping me sane until the second wave of games comes out in the spring.
  
  The gameplay in Call of Duty 2 is pretty good. Sometimes you get freaked out because you are being 
 shot from all angles and you're about to die. The problem with this game is one that really needs 
 to be there. We complain if it's there and we complain if it's not. The health system. When you 
 are shot, you go through a few stages of health. First your vision gets a little blurry, then your 
 controller starts vibrating. Then the sound around you fades away and you can hear your heart beat. 
 Finally, there's all this, plus a red border around the screen. That's all good, but my problem 
 is that if you hide long enough, you recover 100% and can go back into battle, only to get shot 
 again. It's something you really can't get around. Besides that, the gameplay is excellent. It's 
 as close to war as you'd want to get (according to some game reviewer who I forgot the name of) . 
 And whoever said that was right, it's plenty realistic besides the health. The controls feel pretty 
 natural, and the AI has a wide range from nearly blind (aka Easy mode) to the guy who gets 2-shot 
 kills (called Veteran mode) . The fun of the game could be playing on Normal mode, where you go 
 in Rambo-style, get a few good laughs, get shot, and also kill some Nazis. Or you could play on 
 Veteran mode, and have to hide behind a wall to wait for the opportune moment, and the pop out 
 and shoot the enemy between his eyes. It all depends on how you like to play.
  
  The graphics in Call of Duty 2 were not spectacular, but not craptacular. They were definitely 
 good, and there were many cool effects and lots of on-screen action all at once. The problem is 
 that with all the hype, the Xbox 360 didn't quite make a first impression that I won't forget. 
 I remember when we first turned on the Xbox (1) and it showed that cool intro with the floating 
 green ball of whatever it is. I was shocked. I couldn't say anything. The last system we had was 
 N64, and it was terrible compared to the Xbox. But the Xbox 360 didn't leave such an impression 
 yet, which includes Call of Duty 2. The graphics were pretty good, not "HOLY COW THAT'S CRAZY GOOD!"
 
  
  The sound in Call of Duty 2 was excellent. The guns were very realistic, and with the surround 
 sound support, you can tell where that n00b with bad aim is on Xbox Live just by listening to him 
 spray bullets. The grenades, explosions, guns, and even voices all sound excellent. Once in a while, 
 a soldier will comment during battle, and your buddies often tell you what to do. For example, 
 "Get a smoke out there!" or "He's in the gray building, second floor!". Sound really brought out 
 the scary feeling of war.
  
  My last remaining complaint lies within Xbox Live. The game I was playing before Call of Duty 2 
 was Halo 2, which I have to say had an excellent online system. It was brand new and original. 
 Call of Duty 2... wasn't. The time it takes to join a game is painfully long, playing games either 
 gives you unbelievable lag (it's always saying my ping and everyone else's is at 999. That means 
 that I have the worst possible lag it can measure) or it's nice and smooth. Each game can only 
 hold 8 players, which is kind of good because is prevents insane constant shooting like in Halo 
 2 or the Terminator (movie) . But even with 8 people, the lag and time it takes to connect to the 
 game is really awful.
  
  I'd also like to point out that there are many historically accurate guns, lots of footage during 
 the single player mode from the Military Channel, a branch of the History Channel. And everything, 
 as I just mentioned, is historically accurate. My dad is a real history buff, and he likes to watch 
 me play (he's an old dude, he can't play himself) and talk about how he watched the History Channel 
 special on the level I was playing.
  
  All in all, I say if you're looking for a shooter, and you either don't want Perfect Dark or just 
 want another game, then buy this game. IT ROCKS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BikingPhil
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 26, 2006 6:38 pm PT
Review:  This game is a must have for Xbox 360 owners. If you don't have this game you need to buy it. The 
 game is very accurate to history add is also a very good game. It has excellent AI and it has great 
 audio especially if you have surround sound. The graphics for this game are also very impressive. 
 Also with about 25 levels you will be playing for a while. The Veteran mode is also a must try 
 feature of the game. If you play in Veteran mode this is how it really was in the real war. This 
 is a great game but no game is perfect. The downfalls to this game are that this is not an easy 
 way to get Gamerscore points. You need to beat the missions on Veteran difficulty to get points. 
 If you play on Normal mode you get 200 points for beating the game. But if you beat the game on 
 Veteran difficulty you get 800 points. The online play for this game is also a slight downfall. 
 About 75% of the time your match will lag. This is a major setback to such a great game. If there 
 was no lag during online play I would give this game a 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vodka100
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 26, 2006 12:30 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty 2 is a fun game and worth buying. The multiplayer is ok, but it seems to get a little 
 old on xbox live. Call of duty 2 has great single player campaigns but after the first 4 or 5 it 
 seems pretty repetitive. I would highly recommend Battlefield 2 when it comes out, but in the meantime 
 this game is suitable. In my opinion call of duty 2 was designed for single player. Its cool to 
 see your comrades fighting beside you and picking off the guy that was just about to shoot you. 
 Call of duty 2=great single player Battlefield 2=Great multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: happierthanU
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 26, 2006 10:49 am PT
Review:  Amazing- One of the best ive seen! The graphics aren't that perfect but definitely one of the most 
 highly addictive games i have seen on the market. Only GTA: SA, Half-Life 2, and Counter-Strike 
 get even close to it. But not quite game of the year status. Read on-
  
  The graphics are highly detailed but the not the fanciest. As for being the game of the year is 
 quite questionable. COD2 has a big challenge. As you may know, this year marked the greatest year 
 for gaming since pong came out. Not just because of the 360, but because of these very impressing 
 titles: Splinter Cell: Chaos theory, Doom 3, Madden 06, NCAA football 06, Half-Life 2, and GTA: SA. 
 And its 360 competeters Condemned, Gun, Madden Next Gen (06) , and creepin in might be Quake 4, King 
 kong and Kameo. Just a suggestion but nothing that serious. But don't get me wrong, its is probably 
 the best game on the 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sgrewal16
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 25, 2006 11:17 pm PT
Review:  one word to describe this game.... INTENSE.... this game is really intense...
  
  awesome campaigns..... decent storyline... the graphics and its realism is outstanding but most importantly 
 its so fun to play....
  
  hearing the Germans screming in their native tongue is cool.... and the guns are pretty good too....
 
  
  I love how the Russian campaigns follows basically the storlyline of Stalingrad and of course a 
 civilian who has just joined the Soviet Army! The voice over is great..... the accents are really 
 believable. The British campaign at first seems dull but it seriously picks up some action... and 
 i mean it kicks it up a notch.... and last but not least the D-Day invasion on the beaches of Normandy 
 (Omaha) in this instance....... looking at this you could see how the introduction of Saving Private 
 Ryan was as real as we were gonna experience it.... call of duty 2 brings that and more!
  
  I believe the sound in this game is just dead on.... i mean when i was playing this game in the 
 living room my mom thought my tv was gonna explode cuz it was so loud and authentic.
  
  great game...... only drawback is the offline multiplayer is kinda of an half ass effort........ the 
 online multiplayer of course rocks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MadDuck2021
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 25, 2006 5:09 pm PT
Review:  Wow, I mean wow, Call of Duty 2 was a game I couldn't stop playing when I first bought my 360 (for 
 some strange reason, I owned the game before the 360) . I am a big fan of World War 2 games, and 
 this one is no let down.
  
  The game starts you off in training. A good thing too, because I've watched people try the game 
 without it and it's pethetic. Anyways, you are a Russian in a ruin snowy town. After a few missions 
 (hint: the missions are few, but they are long. Don't worry though, they have intermissions between 
 sections where you can save.) you will begin the British campaign. They have to most missions. 
 Finally you play as the Americans. You must beat all the British and Russian campaign missions 
 first, but it is worth it. The American campaign is fun and the most exciting part of the game.
 
  
  If you don't have an Xbox 360, then I feel sorry for you. I'm sure that this game, if you don't 
 like it, will not be the last game for the 360. Overall, Call of Duty 2 was a game that you just 
 can't pass up. As for all you haters out there, don't take this the wrong way, but I don't care 
 what you say. Don't listen to me and go play you "PS2" and your "Game Cube" and leave us Xbox junkies 
 alone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bradberry9
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 25, 2006 4:13 pm PT
Review:  The first Call of Duty was one of the single greatest single player experiences on the PC. The 
 2nd Call of Duty hardly offers anything new. The repetitive clearing of buildings and defending 
 lame locations just begins to wear on you, especially on the veteran level. There were very few 
 memorable levels, however there were lots and lots of repetition with situations and tactics. I 
 still stand by the first CoD being the better Call of Duty. Smoke grenades are not enough merit 
 gameplay changes.
  
  The sporadic assistance of your AI also caused some annoyance for me. At times the British would 
 do absolutely nothing to assist you, how is that realistic war? And at other times the Americans 
 would basically clear levels for you.
  
  This game was highly overrated as it offers nothing new, even from the original Medal of Honor. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GeneralGrey
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 25, 2006 3:36 pm PT
Review:  After pushing the Nazi War Machine out of Stalingrad, scaling the cliffs of Point Du-Hoc, and out-figting 
 the Desert-Fox, I can very easily say that this is the best war game I have ever seen. The sound 
 is completely immersive and the various shouts of inarticulate combat rage combined with the bullets 
 and explosions create an amazing and thrilling environment. The graphical acheivements are equally 
 impressive. I don't believe that I have seen the frame-rate drop once and the smoke-grenade effects 
 are awesome. The maps are creative, huge for the most part, and, although they are actually quite 
 linear, they really don't feel that way.
  OVerall, this game is an amazing acheivement in video-gaming and I believe it has set the standard 
 for future WWII or just war games in general. Well worth the 60 bucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Russian8
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 25, 2006 2:15 pm PT
Review:  let start off by saying the graphics were superb and the people looked so real at times that it 
 was hard to even look at when a comrad was torn to shreds by a Nazi machine gunner.
  
  the gameplay was the same as any other war game move around shoot and save the world from the evil 
 invading armies of the nazi's. so the gameplay was actually the same.
  
  the action and presure of life or death was more real in this installment then any of the others. 
 and that and the graphics are what saved this game from another shameful war hereo game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vagabond_gamer
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 25, 2006 5:51 am PT
Review:  OK when i first picked up Call of Duty2 i was like, God not another crappy WWII game. Oh how wrong 
 was I. This game SHOULD BE reminder to all people just how fun it could be to play this era in 
 games again. I mean when you first go through the russian campaign and you see the realistic AI 
 and the sounds of bullets and mortor shells splashing around it realy sets the mood. I wet my self 
 when i saw the british desert levels, truly a beautiful sight to behold. If anything this truly 
 makes me wanna stick around and see what this baby (xbox 360) can do! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eXists
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 5, 2006 8:46 am PT
Review:  The Good:
  - On Veteran, feels like you're there
  - Challenging AI
  - Sound is very well done
  - Great visuals and cut-scenes 
  - Fast loading times compared to 
 other games
  - Hard to get Achievements
  
  The Bad:
  - Limited Replay value
  - Limited areas / Should be more open
  - Missing Online Achievements
  - Online has limited 
 number of players
  - Online not as good as PGR3 
  
  Gameplay: What you expect from a WWII game, but the context design really puts you in the middle 
 of the action like never before. So it's not really next-gen but it's a start.
  
  Graphics: Looks next-gen, especially the desert missions with the Brits but could be better. The 
 Smoke effects are very well done.
  
  Sound: Probably the best feature of this game, it makes you feel you're part of a much bigger event, 
 not going alone in a dark corridor.
  
  Value: Once you've played it on Veteran it has limited replay value. Online is not so good, pretty 
 standard.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: A more open world with the ability to jump over more obstacles and attack enemies 
 from all directions. Better online options, more players. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bupp
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 24, 2006 6:53 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty was arguably the best WWII shooter ever made. It was very intense and one of the most 
 entertaining FPS's I've played in a while. Call of Duty 2 faithfully lives up to the CoD name by 
 adding great graphics, fun multiplayer, and another intense single player campaign. The constant 
 barrage of bullets and grenades really make this game about "as close to war as you'd ever want 
 to get." The three campaigns -- Russian, British, and American are all equally amazing and fun. 
 There are many memorable moments such as scaling the wall of a cliff on a beach entering Europe. 
 There is also a level in which you are situated at the top of a silo and are picking off Nazis 
 with a sniper rifle. This level was very fun, as sniping is my personal specialty. The only drawbacks 
 are that it's relatively easy and an experienced shooter can breeze through it pretty quickly. 
 That's not to say that you shouldn't get it, in fact, if you like FPS's at all, then you really 
 have to get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kramerica1991
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 24, 2006 3:29 pm PT
Review:  did everything right. THE BEST THE BEST THE BEST THE BEST THE BEST THE BEST THE BEST THE BEST THE 
 BEST THE BEST THE BEST THE BEST THE BEST THE BEST THE BEST THE BEST THE BESTTHE BEST THE BEST THE 
 BEST THE BEST THE BEST THE BEST THE BEST THE BEST THE BEST THE BEST THE BEST THE BEST THE BEST 
 THE BEST THE BEST THE BEST THE BEST THE BEST THE BEST THE BEST THE BEST THE BEST THE BEST THE BEST 
 THE BEST THE BEST THE BEST THE BEST THE BEST THE BEST THE BEST THE BEST THE BEST THE BEST THE BEST 
 THE BEST THE BEST THE BEST THE BEST THE BEST THE BEST THE BEST THE BEST THE BEST THE BEST THE BEST 
 THE BEST THE BEST THE BEST THE BEST THE BEST THE BESTTHE BESTTHE BEST THE BEST THE BEST THE BEST 
 THE BEST THE BEST THE BEST THE BEST THE BEST THE BEST THE BEST THE BEST THE BEST THE BEST THE BEST 
 THE BEST THE BEST THE BEST THE BEST THE BEST THE BEST THE BEST THE BEST THE BEST THE BEST THE BEST 
 THE BEST THE BEST THE BEST THE BEST THE BEST THE BEST THE BEST THE BEST THE BEST THE BEST THE BEST 
 THE BEST THE BEST THE BEST THE BEST THE BEST THE BEST THE BEST THE BEST THE BEST THE BEST THE BEST 
 THE BEST THE BEST THE BEST THE BEST THE BEST THE BEST THE BEST THE BEST THE BEST THE BEST THE BEST 
 THE BEST THE BEST THE BEST THE BEST THE BEST THE BEST THE BEST THE BEST THE BEST THE BEST THE BEST 
 THE BEST. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andyt66
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 24, 2006 3:29 pm PT
Review:  Im going to take an unusual approach to this Call of Duty review by talking about Medal of Honour 
 rising sun... thats right a couple of years back I brought the World War 2 shooter and was so dissmayed 
 by the lack of depth, challenge even a hint of AI and style that not only did it become one of 
 the few games I ever returned but it actually totally put me off historical shooters for a long 
 time...
  
  Eventually time passed, wounds healed and with the arrival of my new 360 in light of favourable 
 reviews I purchased Call of Duty 2 and i'm pleased to say that my memories of painful disappointment 
 were finally put to rest.
  
  Call of Duty 2 puts you in the regulation boots of several soldiers throughout the chonology of 
 the second world war you'll join the Russian front playing out battles in the battle for Stalingrad, 
 Tackle the african campaign with a unit of British soldier, and tackle the D-day landings and further 
 with a squad of american infantry. Through the different battles you'll team up with different 
 memorable characters as you fight back the against Thrid Reich forces in a challenging and fairly 
 lengthly single player game.
  
  The intensity of Call of Duty 2 is like few other first person shooters ive ever played. The high 
 end graphics... combined with intense effective use of sound really build the atmosphere of the 
 game, the feel of battle is so intense that it feels like being as close to real life combat as 
 I feel comfortable being. The feeling of tension is really built by the games play mechanics, pressing 
 the left trigger allows you to look down the scope of a rifle, the tension builds as enemy soldiers 
 appear in you're sights... this is further intensified by the way you're health is structured... take 
 a few hits (the number depends on the difficulty you are playing on.) and you're dead... thankfully 
 if you stay out of fire for a few seconds you're health will regenerate... ok not all soldiers have 
 amazing healing powers but it's a system that works well and it's a refreshing change from collecting 
 health packs.
  
  Let's talk difficulty at this point because this game can be pretty harsh at times, but this is 
 a good thing, Call of Duty manages to say consistantly challenging without verging on anything 
 too frustrating... however crank the game up to veteran difficulty and you will find yourself in 
 a real battle zone where one good shot means death and you have to make every move carefully as 
 though you're virtual life depended on it. 
  
  Add to that online multiplayer a load of gamer profile achievements to unlock, this is one of the 
 finest FPS games i've played in a while and certainly one of the top 360 launch titles available.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: aaron_anvil
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 12, 2006 2:08 pm PT
Review:  This game is definately next generation, the graphics are awesome on single and multiplayer on 
 xbox live. the game play is second to none aswell, you dont move to slow, you can change weapons 
 and aim easily, its just brilliant!
  But then you go on xbox live to kick some ass, but it keeps saying server is full or you get into 
 a game and cant move coz the connection is funked! i hear they are sorting the problem out, well 
 lets hope so because without the annoying lag this game is easily the best iv played on 360 so 
 far!
  
  OOOO it seems lag might be fixed. . . . . .il just shut the hell up lol! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djdizz
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 24, 2006 2:14 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty 2 is a great game for the 360. you would think ww 2 games would get boring since there 
 are so many but this one is actually pretty good. The graphics are absolutely gorgeous especially 
 if you have an HDTV. (I played it on a regular tv and it didn't even look half as good) . As far 
 as gameplay it couldn't be better the A I is crazy I saw my self throwing grenades to later have 
 a crazy german pickit up and chuk it right back at me. the sound is crazy at times I actualIy found 
 myself yelling at my team mates thinking I was actually in war .I've been playing the game and 
 beat it twice and I'm still hooked on it so this is definently a must have for xbox 360 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PyroHzrd
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 24, 2006 1:04 pm PT
Review:  If it wasn't for the laggy online this would be the perfect game and I doubt I'm the only one who 
 thinks this. 
  
  I started Call of Duty 2 on the 'Regular' difficulty and it was enough to see the stunningly beautiful 
 graphics and hear the ultra-realistic sounds. Once I completed it (didn't take a week) I had a 
 go on the 'Veteran' level... and this is hard. Really hard. One shot in the head (helmet or not) 
 and you're dead. Two body shots, whether it's an arm, a leg or the chest, you're a goner. I've 
 managed to scrape my way through the first couple of missions after hundreds of deaths and I'm 
 now on the last Russian mission.
  
  When you're not looking at the visuals in the game (the guns look so real) , you start to see the 
 teensy flaws. Not big flaws, just the odd German standing on thin air, that sort of thing. Another 
 bad thing (this may just be me) is that on some of the levels on 'Veteran' it is near-enough impossible 
 to finish. One example of this is in a mission where your job is to plant a Sticky bomb on a moving 
 tank which is fully equipped with turret and fully-automatic machine gun. This took me about 7 
 hours to complete. I was starting to get annoyed after the first 5 hours and during the last 2 
 I was on the verge of fetching a knife and cutting my wrists.
  
  Call of Duty 2's Online feature has raised alot of eyebrows since its release on November 22nd. 
 Most servers are laggy and frequently disconnect you and even if you do finally find a decent game 
 it'll most likely be swarmed with campers. The minority are fine, allowing you to 'pwn teh n00bz' 
 in a ranked Deathmatch in the middle of France.
  
  If you are someone looking for a decent single player game, buy Call of Duty 2. If you want a very 
 realistic, intense game then this is the one for you. If you're a Live person, have a re-think. 
 It's not a bad game; the online just needs tweaking and Activision/Infinity Ward will probably 
 release a patch soon to fix the various problems. When/if this happens, you'll have picked up a 
 game that is both good online and offline. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tempest91
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 24, 2006 8:42 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 lives up to its game of the year predecessor with all of its epic single player 
 and extremely addicting and immersive multiplayer. The problem here lies within its multiplayer 
 interface for the Xbox 360 for which I am deeply disappointed. The game has a flawless short but 
 very fulfilling single player campaign, then jumps to its laggy severely flawed multi-player mode 
 that has nearly turned my away for good many times. If not for the very addictive gameplay when 
 everything is in sync I probably would leave the game for good. The matchmaking is very clunky. 
 There is no way to have friends travel from game to game or even join your game without way to 
 much matchmaking trickery. These things make for very frustrating multiplayer. Also the system 
 link for some reason allows for only one person per system as well as the xbox live setup only 
 allows for one person per system. These things don't come close though to cancelling out the very 
 addictive gameplay which, just as it advertised is the closest to war as I ever want to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordTyphon
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 23, 2006 6:56 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty, what a great franchise. It's held strong now for several years with the only visible 
 disappointment being those several companies who decide to bank on the name. Infinity Ward has 
 finally gotten ahold of it's franchise and finally put out a title worthy of the name. With that 
 said, lets get to the truth.
  
  GRAPHICS AND GAMEPLAY: 
  Call of Duty 2 (XBOX 360) is a good step into the next gen. era for FPS fans. It delivers solid, 
 immersive gameplay that will leave you drenched in your own sweat after each battle, which is where 
 the game shines the most. I cannot remember a game in recent memory that has the immersion factor 
 that this title does. Simply put, if you never been to war, this game will give you the chance 
 to experience it. Of course, there are downfalls. A few of the high end PC gamers will argue with 
 the fact that the game doesn't deliver the polish that blistering edge PC's can deliver to their 
 version of this title. Realize this, however, this is a 400 dollar (300 for you cheaper gamers) 
 system, not a 2,500 hunded dollar computer. To this end, the game delivers excellent graphics, 
 especially the smoke effects.
  
  SOUND:
  This subject is a two-edged sword. I found myself a bit disgusted with the sound at times, and 
 thoroughly impressed at others. When the Flak-88 cannons explode in your face you are slammed with 
 heart pounding bass (Granted you must have that 1000 Watt surround sound system) . However, the 
 gun fire sounds are still in the stone age. I''ve got an M1 Garand in my collection, I can tell 
 you that the two guns do not sound alike (besides that little ping after an empty clip) . The overall 
 ambience and background music is well used and I found myself enticed to keep them around. Overall, 
 you can' always ask for more, and I suppose this is at least a worthy attempt, regardless that 
 I think they could''ve spent a few more bytes of hightened sound clips.
  
  VALUE:
  In terms of value, this game delivers far more bang for your buck than similar FPS titles. Fighting 
 the war (especially on veteran difficulty) will give you between 8-15 hours of battle hardening 
 enjoyment. Add in multiplayer, and you''ve got a good title worthy of the purchase if the game 
 were worth 50.00 US. 60.00 US may be asking for a bit more than it's truely worth.
  
  MULTIPLAYER:
  I think the game falls a bit short in this department. With next generation technology 
 should come next generation gameplay. Well, the game delivers in the solo department but it falls 
 short here. Until recently, there was no way to build you own game room, no lobby, not even a chance 
 to make a decision to whom you play with. You are simply catapulted into war and must make a good 
 stab at that flag with either total idiots or total A-holes. Beyond that point, the game frequently 
 turns into a battle royal of the sniper rifles adding to a visible unbalancing issue within the 
 game. I've notice several weapons not being used online. Granted, a shotgun and smoke grenade in 
 the right hands can make short work of a sniper, the game falls short in this department. In its 
 entirety, the game is under cooked compared to its competitor PDZ (perfect dark zero) with fewer 
 game modes, less weapons, and blander gameplay.
  
  CONCLUSION:
  The truth is, this game is worth a 50 dollar admission price, but not that extra 10 we've had to 
 accept. To FPS fans your gun toting fingers will be satisfied for several hours but you'll most 
 definitely feel underwhelmed when you hit LIVE. Both the sound and graphics are worthy, but look 
 hard and you'll notice several lacking factors within. Grab the game, love it, and trade it in 
 for the next big FPS.
  
  THE TRUTH:
  A Worthy attempt, but look hard enough and you''ll have reason to gripe. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thechedude
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 23, 2006 5:36 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the best WWII Game i have ever played. Sure Veteran might be very hard at times 
 but still, Act and live as the soldiers that died and fought for your country. If you want medium 
 or high medium go Hardened difficulty, If you beat the game on veteran (hard) or hardened you get 
 200 Gamerscore points. Beat every mission on veteran and get 60 Gamerscore points. Activision did 
 a great job making the game. But still. The people of WWII are the ones we should thank.
  
  
  This Game contains scenes that should be seen by children under 12.... for blood and language. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Crowing
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 23, 2006 5:04 pm PT
Review:  Call Of Duty have well-established themselves in the line of making VERY GOOD war games. I loved 
 this on the PC and I recently bought it for the 360. I must say that this game is truly amazing 
 no matter which system you play it with (except for cell phones that is) . The action is fierce, 
 the scripted events are wild and the battles are intense. The only downside to the game in my opinion 
 is the current online play. I say current (as of 1-23-06) because it's very laggy, and when it's 
 laggy its literally impossible to play. You get thrown around the map like a ragdoll until you 
 get a black screen. But this game is worth the money for the campaign alone. If you have a 360, 
 this game is a requirement. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warfighter101
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 31, 2006 8:39 pm PT
Review:  This game captures the essence of what a WWII shooter be like. There were times in this game where 
 I was actually scared to get out from behind cover to shoot my weapon. This is truly an amazing 
 experience that should not be missed. The online is fun when one is able to connect into a game 
 and have a not laggy one. This game is extremely accurate and is a great second installment of 
 Call of Duty. This game hits the bullseye on what one's expectations should be for military shooters 
 and will be hard to be beat out by others. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Espurs117
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 23, 2006 3:59 pm PT
Review:  This game is simply amazing. It was made perfectly in every way. The campaign mode is so fun and 
 youll enjoy it every time u play it. The difficulty settings are set just right for you. I must 
 warn you however you might get a bit frustrated while playing it on the Veteran mode, it is so 
 hard but so rewarding when you finally beat it. This game is a higly repetative game. You'll Find 
 yourself playing it over and over again. My favorite part of this game is the online play however. 
 This is so fun the maps are designed perfectly for this type of game, there is never a secure spot 
 to where someone can just sit and snipe, so it makes it fair for other newbies or non sniping people. 
 The one problem this game has is also with its online play. The lagging is really annoying and 
 it happens alot more than you would want it to come out this is the only game with such problems. 
 Not to worry thought a patch is in place so pretty soon this bug will be fixed (hopefully) . Overall 
 this game is amazing and i enjoyed it much more than Brothers In Arms because i can actually go 
 thru the game alot of times. The Ai in this game is pretty good. So just go out and buy this game 
 its so dam fun whether u play the campaign mode or play it online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: emorring
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 23, 2006 3:11 pm PT
Review:  I love this game! As a viewer I am able to see everything and not just focus on whats in front 
 of me as the player has to do. I help my boyfriend out by telling him to watch out or babe a grenade. 
 But I also like the realism of this game, the graphics are awesome, and the surround sound is great! 
 I highly recommend this game on Xbox 360, even on regular Xbox it was good, but the improvements 
 makes it even more exciting! This is one game I hope to play myself when I become good at games. 
 My boyfriend is the player and i am the observer. Call of Duty 2 has peaked my interest in war 
 guns game even more. I like Rainbow 6, Brothers in Arms, and Ghost Recon, but this version of Call 
 of Duty has really blown me away. So enjoy to those who purchase it ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deadmaninc024
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 23, 2006 2:04 pm PT
Review:  it ain't the best thing out there... in my opinion it ain't better than PDZ but it's ok... i mean 
 the multiplayer sucks, but the single player is cool... lots of action.. you almost never get a quiet 
 time and it makes you always remain aware of what you're doing and what you have to do... and what 
 not to do..
  it's the best game released for x360 before DOA4 came out.... the graphics are pretty cool... i mean 
 the guys faces look cool.... and the performance by the xbox 360 is amazing... you just try to throw 
 a smoke grenade on xbox or PC... and no matter how fast your PC is it'll slow it down... but that 
 doesnt happen with the 360 it runs smoothly and flawlessly... at least mine does 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Twist96
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 23, 2006 4:53 am PT
Review:  Having completed CoD2 on Normal I just think it's a bit repetitive as a shooter, with exceptions 
 to the tank driving, artillery barrages and other good set-pieces etc. etc., its a bit samey really 
 with the shooting which makes up the most part. Sure, it's all intense combat, and thats funky 
 an' all, but I found it repetitive after a while, y'know, shoot, sprint to a hay stack, duck, reload, 
 pop a single shot out, etc. etc... plus there is a lot of repetition with your comrades shouting 
 "Jerries!" or "The Fasicts!" all the time. Its intense but it's too much, I'd like to see some 
 stealth elements in there or something, not like a Tank or something. 
  
  HOWEVER Veteran is WHOLE NEW LEVEL. No wonder they're basing Achivments on it! Its certainly more 
 of a strategy shooter at this level, and at the very least there are no load times each time you 
 die, lol. But I'm enjoying it far more now, but I almost feel like the Germans are cheating with 
 Hand Grenades. All of them have at least 4 on them and yet none of my team ever throw grenades, 
 it makes impossible. But they are just AI, so its up to the player to win the day. And that is 
 HARD.
  
  The vehicles are a little hard to control, but a nice addition nonetheless.
  
  Graphically, for the most part it looks great, but I noticed issues, albiet nothing that got in 
 the way of play, mind you, but they annoyed me. I saw a lot of texture pop-up on various stuctures 
 where a low-res texture was replaced by a hi-res texture as you approached it. The texture pop-up 
 is closer than I realised in some sections, like the black edges of tiles in German Bunkers being 
 filled in (albiet very smoothly) about 4ft in front of you. Very noticeable when you're looking 
 for it. This certainly is a PC game. You can literally take one forward and one step back and see 
 the textures switch back and forth. On the British campign where you snipe the Mortar crews off 
 that tall tower, I saw roads which were literally flat grey thourgh my sniper rifle, comparing 
 to the decently rendered German soliders running on it . Dissapoiting. I also saw some pixalleted 
 textures in general, particlualry in the last mission of the American campaign where one lion plague 
 on a post literally looked as pixellated as a PS1 texture up close, although that's only the example 
 I've seen in the whole game of that, however other bland textures are there. However, there is 
 plenty going graphically for this game as well. Shadows off NPCs (Though not off your character) , 
 incredible lighting effects in dark areas and by the sun, and theres a clever sort of transluent 
 overlapping "rough" texturing that goes over other texutres when you look right close, which makes 
 brick look like brick and soil look like soil, etc. etc. The houses are a bit dark inside, but 
 the only adds to the tension when a German suddenly comes up from the dark and smacks you in the 
 face (only for you blow him away with your B. A. R) Plus it all runs at an extremly smooth frame 
 rate, I literally haven't suffered one hint of slow down, even on D-Day or through Tiger tank assualts 
 with Pansershreks going off and billions of particle effects, not to mention the draw distance 
 on some levels. When your commander shouts "enemy on the horizon", its literally, on the horizon. 
 BOOM, headshot. Satisfying moment. The weapon models look fantastic, the B. A. R, the M1 Garand and 
 the mounted weapons included all look great. The particle effects are incredible- smoke, fire, 
 snow.... all look fantastic.
  
  Unfortuneatly, I cannot test multiplayer, but any Multiplayer defineatly adds value.
  
  Oh 
 yes, the Audio. Whereas other war games put general "war noise" in the background, CoD2 doesn't 
 need this, as there are literally hundreds of bullets, bombs, mortars and screams going off around 
 you. You very rarely get a moment of peace. Even the "PING" of the M1 is there.
  
  In conclusion- CoD2 is a cliche' in its concept, however it captures the intensity of combat extremly 
 well, with dozens of soliders firing at you and drawing you out with grenades etc. etc. Its a bit 
 repetive, but what it does, it does it extremly well with good controls and a sense of firepower 
 from your weapons. Unfortueatly, unless your going straight in at the knife edge with Veteran or 
 Hard mode, the Normal Campign will only take you about 8-10 hours to complete. Its repetitivness 
 limits the immediate replay value for me, however I will certainly go back to Normal Mode to play 
 an extremly well refined shooter with tense action, and I will go back to Veteran... well, lets 
 just say I'm still on Veteran. ;-) As for certain graphics issues, I can only assume it was built 
 for P. C, and some elements were made to scale back, and this continued with the 360. However, in 
 CoD's graphical flaws, I have seen moments in similar Xbox 360 games which don't have these issues, 
 but I believe this is simply from it being built for mid-range PC's.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: baseballa9872
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 22, 2006 11:05 pm PT
Review:  The bottomline for Call of Duty 2 is it's an absolute masterpiece. Nothing I have ever played has 
 been so intense, well-presented, or just plain awesome. Call of Duty 2 immerses you into a new 
 world of world war II gaming, and the XBOX 360 makes it all possible. Call of Duty 2's graphical 
 power is a force to be reckoned with and runs as smooth as butter. The animations, character modules, 
 environment, and uniforms are all brilliant. Sometimes you forget that you are actually at home 
 sitting in front of the TV and not in the snowy cities of Russia, barren deserts of North Africa, 
 or the lush hedgerows of Normandy. The sound also does nothing to help you maintain your consciousness 
 of where you really are. Everything to the guns, artillery fire, yelling of soldiers (both enemy 
 and allied) , and the moving of vehicles is absolutely amazing and makes you want to duck your own 
 head in the heat of battle. The enemy A. I. has also been boosted considerably. The first thing 
 they will try to do when they spot you is to find adequete cover, not just stand out in the open 
 and shoot like in other games. They also react to your every move by falling back or even trying 
 to flank you. They also respond to suppressing fire and grenades that land in their vicinity. Call 
 of Duty 2 isn't short, but it isn't long either. The Russian, British, and American campaigns that 
 are offered should only take about 10 hours to complete, but you will definitely want to play this 
 game at least twice, it's that good. The online mode is fun and cool... when it works. It will take 
 a few frustrating minutes to get into a game after several failed connects. Then there is the great 
 chance that the game will lag considerably. Otherwise, its a good addition and will pad a few more 
 hours onto the games lasting time. The single-player mode is really the main attraction, and its 
 a great one. If you can get your hands on an XBOX 360, buying Call of Duty 2 should be the first 
 thing you should do. Playing it and savoring its masterful gameplay should be the second. Call 
 of Duty 2 should not be missed and has become an instant classic in not only the World War II gaming 
 world or the first person shooter gaming world, but in the entire gaming world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CaptainCrazy
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 22, 2006 7:34 pm PT
Review:  I don't know which horse has been beaten to death worse, the GTA rip-offs or the WWII first person 
 shooters. This genre is already well overdone on the original Xbox and it takes a really stellar 
 game to stand out in the crowd these days. Call of Duty 2 manages to do WWII combat better than 
 any other game out there and that's why it is still a great game. 
  
  For those who have played many WWII shooters on consoles or the PC, you won't find anything ground 
 breaking in this game in terms of gameplay or story. What you will be treated to is the most realistic 
 immersion into a warzone you've ever experienced. This is achievable due to the Xbox 360's brute 
 graphics processing power and amazing 5.1 surround sound support. There is no other shooter as 
 visually or auditorilly astounding as this game. 
  
  Every texture of the environment is rendered in incredibly high detail giving you an amazing high 
 definition treat for your eyes. Character models still don't look really life-like in the face 
 but there is still just so much detail in everything else. Tanks, jeeps and artillery guns are 
 full of every little detail so even up close they look like the real thing. I believe the most 
 impressive and innovative graphics feature though, is the realism of smoke and dust. This game 
 makes full use of Xbox 360's power to produce huge amounts of realistic smoke from explosions, 
 grenades and other smouldering ruins and this is no easy task. You will also see a lot of sand 
 and dust kicked up in the desert missions. Perhaps they made use of smoke a little too much because 
 I was dissapointed that I couldn't see very much of the actual flames from explosions. There are 
 occassions where you will see the fireball but sadly, the developers still haven't managed to make 
 a good fireball effect. I guess this must be very hard to do becuase I haven't played a game yet 
 that had realistic explosions. One final note about the graphics; the game runs buttery smooth 
 at 60fps 99% of the time. No PC can put out graphics like this and run at rock solid frame rates. 
 Now if the developers had made the graphics overall look a little more realistic then I would have 
 to give it a perfect 10.
  
  The missions are action packed from beginning to end. There is nothing sneaky or covert about COD2. 
 You are immediately thrown into an insane, chaotic battle with many of your comrades fighting alongside 
 you. Above are plains dog fighting while artillery shells explode all around you. The screams and 
 frantic yells of allies and the enemy can be heard constantly as bullets and tracer fire zip by 
 your head. This is just my way of giving you a small description of a small part of what the action 
 is like. 
  
  Most of the fighting takes place with you in the thick of the action surrounded by allied soldiers 
 fighting with you which helps to give you the feeling of being part of a large scale assault. But 
 the downside is that your helpful little buddies always get in your way. For example, you're ducking 
 behind some crates for cover while peaking out to shoot at the enemy then suddenly you realize 
 you can't move back to cover because an ally has sat down right beside you. I think they should 
 have just let you be able to push them out of the way so this creates some frustrating moments.
 
  
  One of the more interesting aspects of the game is the absence of a health bar. It may seem strange 
 or scary but really it is much better than the standard health system. When you get shot the screen 
 flashes red in the direction you were hit from so there won't be any cheap kills where you can't 
 find your killer. Also the whole perimeter of the screen will glow red when you are almost dead 
 giving you a few seconds to duck into cover and while you are resting you regain your "health". 
 This feature eliminates the constant watching of your health and encourages you to take risks because 
 there is always time to recover if you happen to get shot up really bad. Even if you die your respawn 
 area is not far from where you died thanks to the many checkpoints.
  
  On the downside I was dissapointed that this "next-gen" game doesn't have many destructable areas. 
 There is the odd crates and barrels you can destroy but not much else which is a real shame and 
 detracts from the realism the rest of the game provides. Thankfully some variety is thrown in, 
 in the form of vehicle missions where you take control of a tank or ride on a jeep. Here you can 
 finally get to blow up lots of other vehicles and objects and some of these missions are extremely 
 fun.
  
  The sound perfectly matches the caliber of the graphics. With a 5.1 surround sound system you will 
 be literally ducking for cover as you swear there is a tank about to roll right into your living 
 room! Big booms and deep base from explosions will shake your boots and the loud crackle and sputtering 
 of weapons fire will jolt you out of your chair. There is just so much going on visually and audibly 
 in this game that it all comes together to give you the most intense WWII shooter anywhere.
  
  Sadly I do not have anything good to say about the online play becuase, well, I could only 
 log in once and that was only for a few minutes until I got disconnected. Everywhere you go you 
 will find people complaining that they cannot log into an online game at all. Activision wrote 
 an apology at www. xbox. com and gives empty promises that they are working to fix these issues. 
 As far as I can see they totally dropped the ball on the online component. There is hardly any 
 options for customizing online games as well. Maybe the game was rushed to meet the launch deadline 
 and multiplayer had to suffer but I sure hope that they come up with a good fix for the disconnect 
 and lag issues soon.
  
  As it stands, COD2 is one of the best single player games on the Xbox 360. It has great graphics 
 with some surprisingly good use of smoke and other environmental effects. The action is frantic, 
 fast and fun to play and the sound will knock your socks off. Just don't expect much when you try 
 playing on Xbox Live just yet. If you are hoping for some great online action then check out Perfect 
 Dark Zero. COD2 can't quite shake off that compromised launch game feel but it is still a very 
 good accomplishment and showcase for the Xbox 360 thus far.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: damned_beast
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 19, 2006 7:45 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty I had a felling was going to be good when I first saw it, but could it be better that 
 brothers in arms? YES! The campaign is really fun and really replayable. The online kick all others 
 game ass the games graphics are really really good. This game is the best game to date, in my opinion 
 even know I have only just played it because I dont have an xbox360 but I will buy one just for 
 this game because it kicks ass. If you want a kick ass multiplayer and good campaign game this 
 is the one for you, so if you have a xbox 360 go buy it ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Halo2_fan391
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 21, 2006 9:46 pm PT
Review:  The ganeplay is incradibly smooth and since its on the 360 the controls seem so great and the sound 
 is insane as well as the graphics. just getting to shoot in this game is so fun. Multi-player is 
 regulr kill your oppenent and the same old CTF crap but online is very very fun. There are quit 
 a few weapons at your arsenal including the capability of controlling turrets and a whole bunch 
 of other stuff. I would definatly recomend this game to any 360 owner. I played this game for around 
 20 minutes and I was totally blown away so keep that in mind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acpd
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 20, 2006 11:45 pm PT
Review:  I think the game is very easy to catch onto, it's take's a good half hour or so to get it down 
 but once you do it's an awesome game graphic are realistic as hell and the game play is just right. 
 online has to be the best part about this game the fact that you can talk everyone is awesome all 
 over the world. This game all around is just great, it's has somthing for everyone even if your 
 this is your first first shooter game. hopully ghost recon advance war fare for x360 will be as 
 good or even better this call of duty two. And hopefully live up to the hype that they're proclaiming 
 it's going to have 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 8bitantichrist
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 20, 2006 11:14 pm PT
Review:  Out of the gate as one of the best 360 launch titles, COD 2 delivers everything you could want 
 from a WWII game, and a few things you maybe never thought of. After the somewhat lackluster Finest 
 Hour, COD 2 pounds at your nerves like a sledgehammer as mortars detonate within mere feet of you, 
 bullets whiz by your head as you frantically move to the next cover, and the deafening discharge 
 of your weapons turn your ears to mush. The Sight Aiming feature is back and good as ever, and 
 although newbies may find it tricky at first, vets will be pegging headshots from the get-go. The 
 authenticity remains intact, whether it's the factory stamp on a Mosin-Nagant or the notorious 
 recoil of the MP40. The Nazis are among the smartest enemies in any game, as they seek cover, use 
 covering fire to advance, and flush you out with grenade after grenade. On Normal and Easy, they'll 
 drop like flies, but once on Hardened and Veteran, you'll really need to work for each kill, and 
 you'll feel more gratification after beating it. The graphics are clean and smooth, if a bit underwhelming 
 compared to Condemned and PGR3, but the framerate is unwavering and the textures are tear-free. 
 The Campaign is fun and challenging, taking you from the devastated streets of Stalingrad to the 
 dusty Tunisian desert then to the finale in France and Germany itself. Ammo is never in short supply, 
 and grenades are easy to throw accurately. I was surprised how many times I was able to bounce 
 a grenade off a wall, through a door, and have it land right at a Nazi's feet. The only complaint 
 I have with grenades is that you can't prime them first, which results in your enemies often finding 
 new positions before it can go off. Adding to the feel of confusion and choas are your squadmates. 
 They'll call out enemy machine guns, suppress targets, and even throw grenades back at their owners. 
 They also like to curse. A lot. Simply put, Call of Duty 2 represents a huge step forward for the 
 series, and first-person shooters in general. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UncleSally14
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 20, 2006 7:54 pm PT
Review:  I just finished Call of Duty 2 for the Xbox 360 and I must say that I am impressed. Having played 
 the original on the PC, I thought I knew what to expect. However, playing this game on a 56" HDTV 
 with incredible 5.1 speakers blew me away. I haven't played the game on any other TV or with any 
 other speakers but I think that to properly experience this game, you're gonna need a nice home 
 theater setup. It also took me a little while to get into this game. The Russian, and British levels 
 really didn't have much spark to them, but once I unlocked the American missions, the game really 
 opened up. The last 6-7 missions are absolute video gaming bliss. Multiplayer fails in comparison 
 to Perfect Dark and PGR 3 though, but definitely a must buy for any fan of WWII or first-person 
 shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gAmEmAn69
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 11, 2008 1:26 pm PT
Review:  I have to say that there are plenty of WWII games on the market today... many of them are substandard... others 
 are simply great..... But there are a few out there that are revolutionary.... The only 2 WWII games 
 that I thought to be an era of change in the FPS WWII franchise history was Brothers in Arms.... and 
 This game... Call of Duty 2.... What a game... I mean this game is highly detailed, and every aspect 
 of the game will have you hanging on the edge of your seat, with fast-paced action, that will get 
 you as close as you ever wanted to get without being drafted and enrolled into active duty. Call 
 of Duty 2 features high definition graphics, accompanied with amazing sound effects, and superior 
 environmental details. 
  
  Graphics
  This is one of the first Xbox 360 games to be released, and I must say that it is impressive. The 
 character models are highly detailed as well as the envrironments.... The most astonishing part 
 of the game is the actual realism that has been taken in effect with the weapons and smoke effects.... I 
 have never seen another WWII game focus on such diverse environmental effects as this game does.... When 
 you toss a frag or smoke grenny onto the soil, you get just what you would expect... Recoil from 
 the frags, and a crap load of smoke that will make it nearly impossible for you to see with the 
 smoke grenny's...... Another amazing part is the weapon details as I mentioned earlier.... Each weapon 
 is unique.... and are integrated with the Axis and Allies according to how it was in the actual 
 war.... Each weapon has its own unique sound, and dramatic effect depending on the firepower of 
 the weapon being used..... All of these added up equals one hell of a great FPS... Oh yea, and this 
 game is supposed to be rated "T".. and there is more blood in it than Brothers in Arms!....... minus 
 the swearing of course.
  
  Sound
  This is where they seperate the boys from the men.... The sound is in high definition, and sounds 
 even more fantastic on a plasma screen, or high def. enabled television..... I have only one thing 
 to say about the sound.... Any more realistic than the zipping of a sniper bullet past your left 
 ear, and having the entire area you're in slightly muted after throwing a grenny has to be illegal!
 
  
  Control
  The new Xbox 360 ergonomic controller will make you feel at home with Call of Duty 2's simplistic 
 control scheme... Everything is right where you need it, when you need, and however you need it.... All 
 you gotta do is strategize and press the buttons and DO!... DONE!...... There is no slowdown in gameplay, 
 which is a good thing, since the Xbox 360 eliminates a slowdown in the framerate.... with the exception 
 of Xbox Live and the inconsistant lag that it emits.
  
  Replay
  Once you clear all of the 10 missions and assignments, there will be some things to go back for 
 such as higher ranking medals, and some achievements to make you obtain a higher score on your 
 gamer card.... Other than that there is a shiet lot of replay value over Xbox Live.... there is some 
 slowdown and noticeable lag on some servers, but overall it kicks ass once you get the hang of 
 it. 
  
  Overall
  Overall, I enjoyed this game better than any other FPS WWII game on the market in a while... The 
 amount of realism and immersion that goes into this game is outstanding, and deserves to be commemorated 
 for its amazing effort in bringing us such an addictive, enjoyable, and kick ass WWII game in a 
 long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Frank__i
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 20, 2006 5:01 pm PT
Review:  Well, now that we all got our new xbox 360, which i must say is amazing, its time to look for good 
 games to go with the console. But the choice is simple my friends : Call Of Duty 2. This is by 
 far the best WWII game ever made, and let me show you why :
  
  Gameplay : the gameplay in Call Of Duty 2 is great, no doubt about it. if there's one thing that 
 i love compared to other WWII games , is that you actually feel like your in the battle because 
 :
  1 - You have people fighting along with you ( who actually help compared to some games where they 
 just follow you and seem to do nothing)
  2 - the maps are huge
  3 - the enemy can attack from anywhere, so you need to stay aware of this
  4 - this is one of 
 the smartest ai i have ever seen 
  Also , never have i enjoyed passing a game at its hardest difficulty so much. Pass this game on 
 Veteran and you'll actually feel like your in the real war ...
  
  Graphics : the graphics are amazing and well balanced. Its not like if some things look better 
 then other, its all just so amazing to look at. The player models are very well made, the environements 
 and breath takin and dont even get me started on the gun models ...
  
  Sound : sound never felt important to me, but like every aspect in a game, it counts. And the sound 
 in call of duty 2 feels real. Im not ganna say that its phenomenal or breath taking : It feels 
 like your actually in WWII. I know that's what i want ...
  
  Value : i dont think i need to tell you the value of this game considering how great it is, but 
 theres just one problem ... the multiplayer. Its works badly on xbox live and it only supports 
 8 players. This is a single player game , so if your looking for a multiplayer game, its still 
 good and im pretty sure that there going to make a patch, but youve been warned
  
  Well, thank's to Infinity Ward, i now have the best WWII game to date. I still dont understand 
 how gamespot could give this 8.8 , and i still dont understand how people can say that the xbox 
 360 launch line up as no interresting or good games, cause if your looking for a good game on your 
 xbox360 , this is the one to get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: socomgamer27
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 20, 2006 1:58 pm PT
Review:  omg this game is amazing. the enemies are so intelligent compared to other games. They'll even 
 beat the living crap out of you if they get close enough. Also u got to make sure u get cover or 
 u r going to die. Just wait til u amp up the level difficulty then u got a real hard game here. 
 The graphics almost made me cry (no) and they are the best in any game i have played so far on the 
 360. online is very entertaining for a while, but lag issues and no lobby system really bog it 
 down. a patch is coming out to make it great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Clinton015
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 20, 2006 6:49 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is simply the best WWII game made to this date. Realistic gameplay and situations 
 and a unique campaign tha lets you fight on all fronts. I right this review after beating it on 
 Veteran mode and I still don't think I have mastered the game. The Thompson, M4 carbine, an Springfield 
 aremy weapons of choice. D-Day is captured with stunning brilliance as you storm and unknown beach, 
 and Crossing the Rhine has never been more real.
  When XBOX 360 needed a killer app CoD2 delivered with awesome gamplay and stunning visual effects 
 that make it that much more real. With the speaker on and an HD TV it is by far the closest anyone 
 can get to WWII without a time machine, or Call of Duty 3. It's online still waits for patch so 
 i can't really review that for now, but it is the greatest historic shooter I have ever played.
 
  One of the small things that really got me was the way your allies interact so personally. They 
 would call eachother by their names, (Just everyday soldiers, not characters) On rare occassions 
 they oul mak jokes and even get upst when ohers died.
  The only complaint I have is that you didn't get to be teh Americans sooner....... but it all turned 
 out in the end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halofans
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 20, 2006 3:17 am PT
Review:  Two years after Call of Duty, the amazing war game appears. Call of Duty2 on xbox360 really packs 
 a punch on the market. It has lots of stuffs to feature in Call of Duty2. It has smoke grenades, binoculars, and 
 more.
  First thing I must say that the graphics looks really solid. Just look around, the environment loks 
 real. The smoke effect is really great, even ,better than it does on the PC. Also, the game is very 
 exciting. It can keep you glued on your seat for hours (although it feels just like a few minutes) . The 
 sounds are great too. When you are firing the MP40 or Thompson machine gun, it looks really like 
 you are holding and firing it. Thanks to the vibrations.
  In Call of Duty2, you will play as three soldiers in three campains. In the Russian campain you will 
 play as a privite, battling the germans in a snowworld. In the British campain you can drive tanks. Really 
 exciting. In the American Campain, you will encouter some of the hardest missions in the game.
 
  If you want to buy a xbox360, you are going to buy this game. If not, you will miss some good things. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trojan-Tuba
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 19, 2006 5:46 pm PT
Review:  This game is another WWII game but this ones on the next-gen consoles. This is a definite buy. 
 This is the best game on the 360 (so far) . 
  
  You start out as a Russian solider in training when you are rushed into battle. You play a couple 
 of levels as a Russian then you are a British solider. Later you will be a good old American. And 
 then you will switch between British and American for a while. Then the game is over. It's short 
 I know but the multi-player keeps it interesting.
  
  Graphics are the best I've ever seen. If you have surround sound and you play it in a dark room 
 in the middle of the night. You can really get your adrenaline going. I cried playing the game, 
 not because of the graphics or anything like that, I cried because of all that I saw. The action 
 and to people dying right next to me. I knew that that all happened that made me cry, or at least 
 tear up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blou847
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 19, 2006 5:42 pm PT
Review:  This is the best shooting game since Rainbow Six 3......... the first one not that crappy Black 
 Arrow. It has a great campaign with a choice of three different countries different campaigns. 
 It has the one of the best multi player setups of all time. There are a good selection of great 
 maps (with the exception of one surrondedby mines : ( The online is also a great addition with no 
 problems. Its a great game if you love any WWII shootersI honestly can't believe it got a lower 
 score than Perfect Dark Zero (one of the worst shooters ever made) . The only thing that is ridiculous 
 is the fact that you can mow down people with a trench gun (shotgun) from fifty yards a way. Plus 
 if you rad the date it was made (1897) you may realize that trench warfare wasnt invented intill 
 WWI about a decade later. A minor flaw though. 9.8!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dsa777
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 19, 2006 4:43 pm PT
Review:  I played this through to start off with on the normal level , took no time at all and the Rambo 
 wade in technique worked nearly all the time.
  I began playing it on the veteran level for the XBOX 360 points and what a different game it becomes,
 
  You have to tactically think ahead , the AI becomes more apparent and I really enjoyed it so much 
 more.
  I think to get the most out of this game try it on the hard level first and it's a gem.
  The 
 graphics are excellent and show off the 360, have a surround sound system hooked in as well and 
 it is overwhelming, bullets and explosions having real positioning.
  The AI is good ,not stupid and repetitive as in some games although the germans can get a little 
 gung ho on occasions.
  I would have no reservations in recommending this game to anyone , just make sure you play it through 
 on the hard level to get the most out of it.
  Good stuff! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KennyCompton
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 19, 2006 4:50 pm PT
Review:  Tthis game is just like watching saving privait ryan i mean its better. And your in first person 
 its the best game i have ever played. I was shocked when it came out out because I thought it would 
 be like the Call of duty Finest hour game which sucked so dont buy it but its totally differnt. So 
 Iwould if you have an xbox 360 you should add it to ur games. The only Game might beat it is Brothers 
 in Arms but i dont think it will. So just saying its worth 60$ so go and buy shoot by 2 just make 
 sure u by this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simon754
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 19, 2006 2:49 pm PT
Review:  excelent game very close to perfect score. i enjoy xbox live games but dont get me wrong this is 
 very good online BUT.. you cant select your own levels or for how long you play them ect so its 
 abit disapointing with the amount of x-live capability and also tends to lag alont with 7 or more 
 players. the single player is great alot of fun and all levels are brill. the game doesnt take 
 very long to complete on easy but harderned mode is very difficult. despite completing this game 
 it keeps me coming back for more ( (online) ) 
  
  GREAT GAME best x360 game so far 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterC2009
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jan 19, 2006 2:32 pm PT
Review:  When I first ever heard of this game, I thought it was like all the others. When I got it, and 
 played it, I was a changed man. The game has graphics that will have your eyes popping. It is so 
 realistic, you feel you are actually there. Although this is probably no surprise, you may be surprised 
 to hear that the online is, in some cases, better than Halo 2. It has a great online set-up, with 
 the only downside is that there are no clans. The controls are fairly easy, unless you are a devout 
 Halo 2 player, like me. You can get in tanks on campaign mode, all that stuff. The game is complete 
 ownage, and I have played too many hours to count, and I am still getting a kick out of it. It 
 is well worth your money, with a high replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: falker27
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 19, 2006 11:44 am PT
Review:  I can't explain in words how great this game looks. I have a high def tv and surround sound, I 
 have yet to see a game with this good of graphics. When I had my entire family watching me play 
 on Christmas. Everyone was in ahh about how good this game looks. I think it has really good replay 
 since you can play in online. I haven't played this game much online but so far it looks awesome. 
 
  
  The one bad thing about this game is on multiplayer it will not let you find a game to join. So 
 if you have a friend online you can't play with them. It only lets you choose quick match. I am 
 hoping that they fix this and make choosing things online alot better. Other then that I would 
 give this game a A+. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rem12g
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 19, 2006 10:12 am PT
Review:  I enjoyed this game for my first 360 game collection. The graphics were great on my HDTV. It had 
 some great detail on the characters and game play. The sound on a my stereo system at times made 
 feel like it was real. The game was easy to pick up and play. The only thing was this game was 
 short, but all in all the game was fun to play. The AI at times was fun to watch. A fellow soldier 
 would run by me when a grenade was lying on the ground and watch him blow up. I haven't tried out 
 the multi-player yet, but hope to in the future. Looking forward to some of the games coming out 
 in March and Halo 3 this year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pcpicasso
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 19, 2006 9:16 am PT
Review:  This game is great start for the 360 system. If you have the 360 hooked up to a HD monitor or tv 
 and surround sound system (as it should be) you are in for a treat. The graphics and sounds are 
 incredible. In the heat of battle you can hear the Germans coming up behind you and bullets whizz 
 over your head, an experience similar to the opening scene in Saving Private Ryan. The game play 
 is easy to pick up on but mastering it will take a little work. The prospect of playing through 
 as part of the army of three different nations is appealing and each one provides new weapons and 
 challenges. The only downfall for this game in my book is the lack of a 
  co-op mode and the shortness of the game. It took me about 10 hours to beat it all the way through 
 the first time, and that is a little quick for 60 dollars. I have not been able to try it out on 
 live but I am looking forward to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AV145
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 19, 2006 4:38 am PT
Review:  Amazing game in terms of single player especially on veteran which provides a good challenge. Online 
 is amazing, except the lag is HORRIBLE. Id say 2 out of 3 games is just amazing lag which just 
 ruins the game and makes u not want to play it. but when u do get a non laggy game its brilliant 
 and always fun. The achievments on it are real good for any one who cant get enough of those points, 
 it makes u want to play more especially because the points can only be gained through the hardest 
 difficuilty which is very hard! Then theres the length of the game, it lasts you a good couple 
 of days if you are doing it on a medium difficulty, but with the hardest it will be a very stressful 
 but at the same time fun around 4 days of playing, for the average gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_SeAsOnS
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 19, 2006 4:16 am PT
Review:  From start to finish, Call of Duty 2 keeps you on the edge of your seat. This exceptional shooter 
 provides the most intense, jaw-dropping, heart-stopping battles of your lifeand will leave you 
 shaking afterwards.
  
  Its not easy for a sequel to live up to its nameespecially when that name in question happens 
 to be the 2003 Game of the Year. But this one does it. Everything about Call of Duty 2 enhances 
 and intensifies the experience from the original. World War 2 shooters just dont get better than 
 this.
  
  Throughout the game you will play as a soldier from each of the Russian, British, and American 
 armies as you battle Nazi Germany. They all play the same, with the only difference being the locales 
 you fight in and a few of the starting weapons. The plot is fairly basic; everything from street 
 fights to D-Day, but its delivered in such an intense way that these situations feel completely 
 new. There isnt a whole lot of background or story surrounding your characters, but thats the 
 beauty of the game: you arent a one man army; you have to work with your team and coordinate your 
 attacks to survive. 
  
  The controls should be familiar to any first-person shooter fan. The only major difference is that 
 your two grenade types -- smoke and frag -- are assigned to the left and right bumpers, respectively. 
 You can jump with A, and achieve both a crouching and prone position with B, which will become 
 vitally important on the harder difficulty settings. The firearms are all fairly standard; youve 
 got your assortment of vintage sub-machine guns, rifles, and sniper rifles. Sub-machine guns are 
 the strongest close-range weapon, while rifles and sniper rifles are better for picking enemies 
 out from medium to long range. The game has a great feel to it; every move you make, every shot 
 you fire, it all feels like a real war, and that your life is really on the line. The only issue 
 I had with the controls was a small hit-detection problem with enemies climbing over ledges. This 
 is hardly noticeable in-game, but its there.
  
  The graphics in Call of Duty 2 are a step-above all other shooters currently on the market. Everything 
 from the earth-shattering explosions right down to seeing the soldiers breath in cold airCall 
 of Duty 2 nails it. The most remarkable aspect of the graphics, though, is the scale of the battles. 
 Very often youll find yourself tasked with defending a small bunker or apartment building, while 
 waves of 10 to 40 Germans come at you at a time. Its truly a sight to see, and with all the battle 
 cries and gunfire, you really feel like youre in the war. The graphics are not without their flaws 
 of course; some low-res textures and ugly backgrounds, but in the end they form a cohesive, real 
 look.
  
  The sound, like the rest of the game, is fantastic. From the epic and inspiring orchestral riffs 
 to the cries of glory and devotion, this game will blow you away. The soundtrack is subtle, but 
 kicks in at the right moments with the perfect instrumental music to enhance the situation. But 
 its the dialogue that steals the show. Your teammates will constantly be screaming for cover fire, 
 giving directions, or calling oaths to their family members. Your enemies will chatter tooin their 
 typical Nazi, frantic way. Not to mention that the lip-synching is absolutely spot-ona rarity 
 in games. 
  
  One moment, very early on, will seal the deal for any gamer on the edge about the quality of this 
 game. Youre with a small Russian troop holed up in a battered apartment building. Everything goes 
 silent as your commander tells you to reload your weapons and take up positions. You see smoke 
 grenades going off in the distance. Your commander then launches into a dramatic speech, along 
 the lines of For your comrades! For your family! And for the Motherland! GET READY!. Shortly 
 thereafter, dozens of Germans come running through the smoke, all cheering as they dive right into 
 your troops heavy layer of gunfire. Its truly breathtaking.
  
  The game isnt terribly long, clocking in at about 8 hours on the default difficulty setting. But 
 for the real thrills, play through on Hardened or Veteran. Not only will it have you fighting for 
 every inch, but it delivers the chaotic war experience like no other. The multiplayer aspect of 
 CoD2 may be the only part that disappoints. Limited to 8 players, the maps are too big, and unexplainably 
 laggy. A patch is supposedly on the way soon to alleviate this oversight.
  
  Needless to say, Call of Duty 2 lives up to its predecessor. This exceptionally high quality game 
 delivers the most intense and exciting gaming experiences in recent memory. If youre a WW2 fan, 
 a shooter fan, or just someone looking for a great time, pick this up, you wont be disappointed.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rcwadsworth
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 19, 2006 2:53 am PT
Review:  call of duty 2 the reason (apart from halo3) you should buy a 360
  
  Master of all wwII games, sound graphics and a with a minor moan about game play this is the best 
 looking game so far for 360 and thats in standard def!!! I turned up my sound system wow what a 
 nosie i have heard nothing like it in all my born days and i have been playing games since 77
 
  if was a film it would be saving private ryan meets the longest day and bad of brothers (most 
 of the vioce actors were in BOB)
  
  Stunning there isn't any better yet but until then ets play!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OMGFINE
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 18, 2006 7:20 pm PT
Review:  This game is great... It's single player is fantastic... it's sound & voice acting is superb, I 
 love aiming through the crosshair, it's a nice change... At points it makes me feel like I'm holding 
 & aiming the gun... In my opinion, it's the best World War II game ever... But the multi-player 
 is just plain fun... I'm always the germans... & everyone uses a sniper rifle, but I do them one 
 better, I use a Kar98k... Blows them away... But theres something about the whole thing... Even 
 thought it only supports 8 players & it lags a butload, It's still intense action filled & is just... 
 Fantastic... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TDawq69
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 18, 2006 5:03 pm PT
Review:  i played this at my friends house first on 4way split screeen and it was rape... of course i won 
 haha but i think that the graphics are okay but good for recent games and that the weapons are 
 pretty decent i like most of em and i like the landscape/levels and the russia/german/etc. team 
 options but most of it seemed to be as a very well thought out game and that it definately has 
 the potential to be a very very very good online game like halo 2 was. hopefully it does since 
 halo 2 is kinda getting boring.... just waiting for halo 3 right? lmao
  
  i havent played story mode though i have seen it played and it looks like it rapes and that it 
 would be good which is nice to see since most good multiplayers often dont have good single player
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJ-Doom
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 26, 2006 7:57 am PT
Review:  
  From start to finish, Call of Duty 2 will take your breath away. This exceptional shooter provides 
 the most intense, jaw-dropping, heart-stopping battles of your lifeand will leave you shaking 
 afterwards.
  
  Its not easy for a sequel to live up to its name, but this one does it. Everything about Call 
 of Duty 2 enhances and intensifies the experience from the original. World War 2 shooters just 
 dont get better than this.
  
  Throughout the game you will play as a soldier from each of the Russian, British, and American 
 armies as you battle Nazi Germany. They all play the same, with the only difference being the locales 
 you fight in and a few of the starting weapons. The plot is fairly basic; everything from street 
 fights to D-Day, but its delivered in such an intense way that these situations feel completely 
 new. There isnt a whole lot of background or story surrounding your characters, but thats the 
 beauty of the game: you arent a one man army; you have to work with your team and coordinate your 
 attacks to survive. 
  
  The controls should be familiar to any first-person shooter fan. The only major difference is that 
 your two grenade types -- smoke and frag -- are assigned to the left and right bumpers, respectively. 
 You can jump with A, and achieve both a crouching and prone position with B, which will become 
 vitally important on the harder difficulty settings. The firearms are all fairly standard; youve 
 got your assortment of vintage sub-machine guns, rifles, and sniper rifles. Sub-machine guns are 
 the strongest close-range weapon, while rifles and sniper rifles are better for picking enemies 
 out from medium to long range. The game has a great feel to it; every move you make, every shot 
 you fire, it all feels like a real war, and that your life is really on the line. The only issue 
 I had with the controls was a small hit-detection problem with enemies climbing over ledges. This 
 is hardly noticeable in-game, but its there.
  
  The graphics in Call of Duty 2 are a step-above all other shooters currently on the market. Everything 
 from the earth-shattering explosions right down to seeing the soldiers breath in cold airCall 
 of Duty 2 nails it. The most remarkable aspect of the graphics, though, is the scale of the battles. 
 Very often youll find yourself tasked with defending a small bunker or apartment building, while 
 waves of 10 to 40 Germans come at you at a time. Its truly a sight to see, and with all the battle 
 cries and gunfire, you really feel like youre in the war. The graphics are not without their flaws 
 of course; some low-res textures and ugly backgrounds, but in the end they form a cohesive, real 
 look.
  
  The sound, like the rest of the game, is fantastic. From the epic and inspiring orchestral riffs 
 to the cries of glory and devotion, this game will blow you away. The soundtrack is subtle, but 
 kicks in at the right moments with the perfect instrumental music to enhance the situation. But 
 its the dialogue that steals the show. Your teammates will constantly be screaming for cover fire, 
 giving directions, or calling oaths to their family members. Your enemies will chatter tooin their 
 typical Nazi, frantic way. Not to mention that the lip-synching is absolutely spot-ona rarity 
 in games. 
  
  The game isnt terribly long, clocking in at about 8 hours on the default difficulty setting. But 
 for the real thrills, play through on Hardened or Veteran. Not only will it have you fighting for 
 every inch, but it delivers the chaotic war experience like no other. The multiplayer aspect of 
 CoD2 may be the only part that disappoints. Limited to 8 players, the maps are too big, and unexplainably 
 laggy. A patch is supposedly on the way to alleviate this oversight.
  
  Needless to say, Call of Duty 2 lives up to its predecessor. This exceptionally high quality game 
 delivers the most intense and exciting gaming experiences in recent memory. If youre a WW2 fan, 
 a shooter fan, or just someone looking for a great time, pick this up -- you wont be disappointed.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elveon
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 17, 2006 7:07 pm PT
Review:  The most intense and sometimes scary war game i have ever played. 
  The bullets cracking over your head , grenades sending sand and debri into to your screen , the 
 scare of runing into a cloud of smoke and finding a Krout ready to strike you down , its all of 
 these subtle details along with the amazing and inspiring story of WW2 that make this game one 
 of the most amazing FPS i have ever played. All of the textures on the soldiers are amazing , if 
 a soldiers coat is wet your going to know its wet . Though some of the textures can get ugly on 
 the levels , you barley notice it because your to caught up in the intence fire fights. The enemy 
 A, I is absolutely perfect , enemys will flank you , take pot shots at you from cover , bombarde 
 and overwhelm you with grenades , prety much anything to destroy you. The game offers you three 
 campaighns American , British and russian , personaly my favorite is the Russian campiaghn but 
 the amaerican is the most cinematic. The multiplayer is fun and exiting , the graphice barely change 
 at all , but there realy is nothing special about it , standard game modes and ok maps , they didnt 
 take it to the next level. All in all the game is a must own for the Next-Gen console , its the 
 reason why you buy a 360. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chiefinator
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 17, 2006 6:48 pm PT
Review:  This game is what you would think to be too redundent, but it was actually a great game that had 
 a fresh almost new approach to old war games. With this game there are around 10 missions all of 
 which should be played on a harder difficulty which truely makes the game worthwhile. One thing 
 I really liked about the HUD is that alot of it, like the ammo and the amount of grenades, fades 
 out but when changing weapons it comes back. It also has 3 different countries to fight from: Brittan, 
 Russia, and The United States. All of which have a very, very fast pace to them. There aren't any 
 real squad controls in this game other than the men find cover quite well and really only follow 
 you. These AI aren't too bad when it comes to killing the enemy. There are no vehicles other than 
 rides in boats and a few cars. The graphics are insane and have some of the best lighting effects 
 of all the launch games. I highly recomend this game even if you are new to the genre or haven't 
 liked past "Old War Games". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: secily
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 17, 2006 5:12 pm PT
Review:  I am sorry but this game both demo and retail version are abysmal, horrible horrible horrible. 
 I have seen this game play much better on the pc and to be honest the xbox 360 has so many flaws 
 and with how it clamps and conforms graphics on the screen where you can see texture bleeding where 
 you see white lines around the gun and where on the pc version you dont. not to mention the pc 
 has more multiplayer and more freedom to do things that the console will never do. do yourself 
 a favor, save the money for that xbox 360 and just buy a brand new pc custom built. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kevin_Kaniff
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 17, 2006 4:57 pm PT
Review:  Sorry for the sarcasm but there is a plethora of World War II games. Call of It looks good. The 
 weapon selection is kind of limited but i guess they were in WW2 also. If WWII was fought with 
 360 controllers and through a tv, this game would feel just like the real thing. At certain moments 
 i felt like i was really killing nazi's from my living room. The game is fun and i do like the 
 wide range of gameplay and the different campaigns. The only thing i did not like about this game 
 is that it was fun the first three times i finished it... but the fourth time was just midly entertaining. 
 Kaniff out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tina661
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 17, 2006 10:21 am PT
Review:  i had my doubts about this game. Not that it wasn't a good game but that it wouldn't necessarily 
 be a game for me. On a whim I rented and boy was I in for a surprise. COD2 not only looks impressive 
 it is also exciting and fun. I usually grow bored of games rather quickly but I was dying to play 
 each and every night of my rental time. The vibrations that are sent through your controller that 
 coincide with the bombs and grenades add to the experience. I often found myself clutching to my 
 controller firing at the enemy. A pleasant surprise was the AI. Your squad is actually helpful. 
 They don't just go and run in the middle of the field and get shot. They take defensive tactics 
 and provide descent cover fire. A definite plus in my book. My only grip about the game is that 
 its kinda short.
  All and all COD2 is, in my opinion, one of the most solid offering currently available for the 
 360 and comes highly recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Webcamera
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 17, 2006 8:56 am PT
Review:  When looking at the line-up for the 360, there were only 2 games I was really interested in, being 
 Call of Duty 2 and Perfect Dark: Zero. I was opting for the latter, but when I bought the console 
 the store had no copies of the game left. So I picked up CoD2 instead. And I wasn't dissapointed.
 
  
  Like all WW2 games, CoD2 drops you in the middle of major battles between the Allies and the Axis. 
 But where other titles often go wrong, this game succeeds. Instead of being a 'super soldier' (MoH: 
 EA, by example) , they throw you in the combat boots of some unknown fighter that probably has never 
 held a gun in his entire life.
  
  You start the game as a recruit of the Soviet Union, learning how to use your weapons and grenades. 
 Just as you finish your 'Potato Assignment' all hell breaks loose. You get to blow up a German 
 base, hunt down some Panzers,.. The usual routine.
  After you finish the Soviet campaign the game focuses on the British, and some time later on the 
 American side of the war. You'll fight your way trough the infamous D-Day, the charge for Hill 
 400, and even the crossing of the Rhine river. Enough to keep you entertained for a few hours.
 
  
  The Multiplayer rather experiences some difficulty. There's no Pre-Game Lobby, and some serious 
 lag over the Xbox Live network. For the rest, it's just your default Multiplayer modes like Deathmatch 
 & Team Deathmatch. Nothing to get excited about, in my opinion.
  
  Calll of Duty 2 may not be the prettiest game on the Xbox 360, but it sure does manage to capture 
 the chaos of war. Bullets whizzing by your ears, allies and enemies screaming bloody murder after 
 being hit by a bullet... It's as close to war as you'd ever want to get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dracula_16
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 7, 2008 10:34 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is a world war two themed first person shooter that has you playing as russian, 
 british and american soldiers throughout the single player campaign. 
  
  The first thing that'll impress you are the graphics. Almost everything you come across in Call 
 of Duty 2 is immensly detailed even when viewed closely. It really speaks for itself when even 
 the potatoes [in the training mission] look good enough to eat. I guess the only ugly looking thing 
 that I found was the grass but that's a very small portion of what you see when you're blasting 
 germans in the face.
  
  The audio in this game is rock solid -- I don't think I could really pick it apart. There are a 
 lot of funny lines that your allies will shout in battle such as "Hitler plays with dolls", "Your 
 sister said to say hi" and of course "Kiss my New York ass". Also, when you're playing the russian 
 or british campaign it's really cool how your allies speak in accents -- it's a nice touch. You 
 can even hear the germans talking to each other in german although I didn't have a clue as to what 
 they were saying. 
  
  The gunshots sound just as good as the voice work; every gun has a really loud roar that pierces 
 through dialogue and ambient noise instantaneously.
  
  There are times where you'll likely cuss at your tv in frustration but with lots of practice and 
 patience you'll do just fine in single player. I suggest starting at the Easy setting. (that's 
 what I did) This'll aloww you to get the feel for the game and figure out which tactics work best. 
 After easy, go to normal, hardened and finally Veteran. If you can beat the first three difficulties 
 then you'll do fine in Veteran; all you need is patience and you have to learn from your mistakes. 
 
  
  Playing on Veteran is really cheap at times. Your team mates will warn you of incoming grenades 
 by yelling "grenade!"' but they'll go charging right into it and get blown to high hell. They'll 
 throw grenades back in between getting blown up which is pretty useful. The enemy AI is the biggest 
 culprit, though. Let's say that you and your allies are charging up a hill and there is a german 
 behind a machine gun at the top of the hill. The german will ignore everyone except for you. Does 
 your character have a pink helmet or something? why else would they only target me? If you play 
 the game on Normal or Hardened it's much more fun. 
  
  
  Now on the to the Multiplayer. I'm not gonna lie here, it sucks for the most part. It lags like 
 hell most games. If you somehow manage to get into a lag-free game and everyone on your team are 
 talking and working together then it's very fun. Call of Duty 2 will make a great first game for 
 your Xbox 360. Thanks for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: qwestmaster
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 16, 2006 8:07 pm PT
Review:  hay i think this games singel player campain is preety sweet and fun on any level i mean the ai 
 is preety good and the objectivs are divers and vared. 2nd the xbox live is fun and easy to use 
 except for when someone leaves a mach and the sever goes balistick. other then that a fun long 
 lasting lunch title. also i like the wepons they are realistick felling and sound grate not to 
 menchen the the texsters they also look preety good. the only thing that holds this game back is 
 its a ww2 shooter theas are fun in all but im sorry between the ps2 the xbox and the pc they have 
 been done to death. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EssaregeeX
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jan 16, 2006 7:09 pm PT
Review:  After playing this game, I actually lost interest in world war II games, theres just something 
 about it, something hard to describe. The controls feel somewhat twitchy - they also feel like 
 your hands are made of rubber, something of a elastic.
  The guns fire relestically, enviornments look good, but for some reason the gameplay is so bland 
 - after playing I felt like I didnt want a 360 anymore.
  If I had a one word defenition for this game it would probably be "Meh..."
  Its probably just 
 be, but I dont even want to play this game, or own it.
  Dont get me Wrong, but I feel like crap after playing this game; and Ill say it again, dont get 
 me wrong, but this is just my opinion, and this game has nothing much at all to offer me, its just 
 another average game that I wouldnt play anymore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Magnum200
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 16, 2006 5:05 pm PT
Review:  Great first person shooter I accidentally rented at the movie store and two days later ended up 
 buying it. Its realisticness is why I was so drawn to it . The graphics are great and controls 
 are way better than any other first person shooter I have ever played. The missions are mapped 
 out extremely well and makes it funner to play. The game rocks thats all I can say It has three 
 different campaigns which gives it major replay value so if you are really into first person shooters 
 you will love it and if you aren't rent it and i think you will still love it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mastergamerjohn
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 16, 2006 4:08 pm PT
Review:  the best game yet for the XBOX 360 AWLSOME GAME this game is cool because the looks is so awlsome 
 this game is so alwsome the sound the gameplay and the value all is alwsome i like it a lot. so 
 get it lol !!!!!!!!!
  
  but if you like a good warworld 2 game this is for you. the sound is so good because you will hear 
 the airplanes above you head and the gunfire is great and i dont know the review they done on hear 
 on gamespot sorry gamespot but i think you all need to re do it lol but no hard feelings lol :) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: morgoth18
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 16, 2006 3:48 pm PT
Review:  this game does have the best story line and the online is good to if it works. the sniping in it 
 can be cheap alonth the shot gun, but fun in the same. all i can say is........ GRANADE!!!!
  sory i dont feel like writing any mor so i will say this is an awsome game over and over again. 
 this is an awsome game this is an awsome game this is an awsome game this is an awsome game this 
 is an awsome game this is an awsome game this is an awsome game this is an awsome game this is 
 an awsome game this is an awsome game this is an awsome game this is an awsome game this is an 
 awsome game this is an awsome game this is an awsome game this is an awsome game this is an awsome 
 game this is an awsome game this is an awsome game. that is enough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterdeath31
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 16, 2006 2:06 pm PT
Review:  COD2 is hands down is one of the most fun, entertaining, and intense games ever made. From the 
 graet graphics to the sounds of bullets wizzing past your ear this one is awsome. The single player 
 in lengthy (especailly if you play on a harder difficulty) and lots of varyed environments. There 
 is three separate campains: Russian, British, and American and all three offer awsome levels with 
 in tense fighting. This game can be hard or easy it just depends on weither you play on the incredably 
 difficult "Veteran" mode (Wich I beat but takes persistance) . The only real problem with the single 
 player is that some of the levels in the British campain are not at the same level of intensity 
 as the rest. The multiplayer would be graet even at 8 players if there wasn't lag.... but there 
 is. It has been fixed a bit but not entirely. The multiplayer won't impress but it will entertain 
 for awile. What it comes down to is this if you are a player who loves a good FPS and like WW2 
 games .... well than this game was created for you. This game is good even for people with out Xbox 
 live. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rincon
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 16, 2006 12:41 pm PT
Review:  For the x-box 360 it would be hard to find a more enjoyable single player experience, unfortunately 
 if your like me and thrive on a solid online game, Call of Duty Two is a major let down. 
  
  The good, and when its good its really good, would be the graphic sound and game play. Never 
 has a console game looked and sounded so good good. The way its designed you feel as if youre 
 really in the war torn countries as you battle against the Germans. The building detail, smoke 
 effect sound and overall look of the game is really amazing. This is really a great game with a 
 great single player experiences that keep you on the edge of your seat.
  
  The Bad and when its bad its bad would be the online play. Connection issues , dropped games 
 and a poor lobby system take away from what could have been an incredible fun multiplier game. 
 I hear talk of a patch but after contacting Activation myself, they indication that this was not 
 their problem and it would not be addressed. 
  
  Agan if you are in it for the single player exexperiences, this is a great game with a lot to like 
 but if tou want an multiplayer game, im sorry to say your in for a big letdown.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: swedish-marine
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 16, 2006 10:00 am PT
Review:  Everyone must by now be fimiliar to the Call of Duty series for either PC or Console, if not you've 
 missed something. 
  
  When you start up the campaign you'll play as an Russian Soldier, and you'll go through some very 
 basic training and pretty soon after that you're into combat with the Germans within the boarders 
 of Russia. 
  
  The game plays VERY smoothly with an excellent rock-solid really high frame-rate that doesn't slow 
 down becuase it's alot happening on the screen, it stays constantly the same frame-rate. Even if 
 the graphics might not be the best around the launch line-up but it has graphics that obviously 
 just works, you will not think about it becuase everything looks natural in a good way without 
 all those effects you'll see in games as Perfect Dark Zero such mad details like moist walls and 
 see the water drip from the walls and all that, but that's not needed in Call of Duty 2 becuse 
 everything is balanced very well with sounds and invoiment so it doesn't need anything more to 
 make you belive that you're on the battlefield. 
  
  The sounds is terrific even if some sounds could have been a little like the previous games, then 
 I'm thinking most of the Thompson which in CoD2 has a little too Movie-like sound, something taken 
 right out of an action movie or something. But still, all sounds works terrific and the voice-acting 
 is great too and it's an whole bunch of it basicly all the time. But the bad thing about the voices 
 is that the Germans are the only ones that doesn't speak english, just to make them feel unhuman 
 compared to everyone else in the game (Hehe, just becuase you're not speaking english doesn't mean 
 you're less a human, but it feels like the game is pretty much built up like that)
  
  Also the A. I is good too but they're probably better performed by your allies rather than on the 
 enemy, they will react on many different things and they will hide behind crates and objects but 
 it's usually very predicteble where they are and what they will do, like when they will show up 
 their head and try to shoot you and then you're right there with an Lee-Enfield and just shoot'em 
 but... If you think like that I recommend the harder modes of the game. 
  
  Even if the single-player campaign is a little basic with all the objectives as you'd except, Kill 
 them, destroy that, repair that, but just becuase of the AI, the envoiments and the excellent voices 
 you'll play it through just to... finish it basicly and have fun becuase it's a lot of it, like 
 when you start the training and one of your comrades asks the Sargent why they're not having real 
 grenades instead of... Potatoes they're throwing around in practive purposes. 
  
  The Single-player in Call of Duty 2 is the best WW2 experience possible, and also the Multiplayer 
 is real fun even if you're only playing splitscreen becuase the frame-rate is solid also there 
 (but obviously slower than in regular screen-modes) and it runs smooth enough even there to get 
 a whole lot of fun with many maps you've seen in previous games and many new from the new single-player 
 game. Yet, I haven't tried it on Xbox live so I can't say anything about it but... if it works 
 as awesome as Perfect Dark Zero online, then you have it all there... Awesome singleplayer, great 
 LAN multiplayer and probably just as great Xbox Live functionaliy and experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cgw798
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 16, 2006 8:05 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 has a terrific campaign and good multiplayer as well. You fight as three different 
 people through the course of the story, first as a Soviet, then you're British and finally American. 
 Each part takes place at different places at different times during the war, but you are always 
 fighting against the Germans. The game is very immersive and extremely realistic. The gameplay 
 and graphics are incredible. Some shooting games just don't get the control right (i. e. Perfect 
 Dark Zero) and others do (i. e. Halo 2) and this is one of those games that does. The sound is amazing, 
 making it seem even more like you are there, and your teammates and enemies have thousands of different 
 lines and exclamations that they say. Call of Duty 2 is $59.99 but well worth it, and I highly 
 recommend it if you own the Xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XxX_pIhC_XxX
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jan 15, 2006 1:40 pm PT
Review:  call of duty 2 can be described in 1 word... amazing with astounding graphics and amazing sound 
 it will be a 10 on my list. Some of the missions are lengthy but, thoughen up little soldier there 
 will be better missions to come in the future. The online game play is also amazing at some times 
 there is lag and action replay people. When i was waiting to get my 360 these 2 idiots were saying 
 how they were not gonna buy call of duty 2 and im like wtf!?!?!?!? are you crazy and there like 
 finest hour sucked and im like well ya it did but, who cares call of duty 2 will own the poopy 
 out of CODFH. If your into fps's then call of duty is your game but, if not go buy king kong. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: random_joe6657
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 15, 2006 12:59 pm PT
Review:  call of duty 2 is amazing in every way. but the problem is it dosent seem fun on easy. being able 
 to run around shootin nazis being nearly unkillable. so you shoud start on vetren. vetren is the 
 hardest difficulty and it most realistic. you have to play smart useing smoke, frag grenades, cover, 
 teamates and have a good aim. it gets really hard at some parts but you will find a way to do it 
 right.
  
  gameplay- 
  call of dutys game play is great with easy controlls, smart A. I and good guns that look reallsic 
 and have good aim. the cover system works great in this game all you have to do is get behind somthing 
 and you good to go. you can pick off nazis form cover but they can get you easliy if your not carful 
 enough. useing grenades and smoke are easy because they are in the right bumper and left bumper 
 spots and they are pretty dead on if you good with them. the smoke gives great cover for an assuslt 
 or just to move up to better cover. but that can work against you as the germans will use it as 
 there advantage to move up on you. there are some anoying things call of duty 2 like if a german 
 is shootig someone else and they see you they will go for you instead whitch can make it very hard 
 at some spots. somtimes the A. I will be stupid and rush you at close quaters and make them easy 
 to pick off. sometimes your men will push you out of cover so they can have it which will get pretty 
 anoying.
  
  graphics-
  
  the graphics in call of duty are good but nothing outstanding. its just the way they put it together 
 like the smoke from gun muzzles and bullets hiting walls that blinds you, its great. the enviroments 
 look awsome with snow falling in the russian missions or sand flyng up as you drive the tank in 
 the british missions. what i like best it how the blood sprays when some one gets cut down in fornt 
 of you. or when you get shot and the screen gose really blury and the great look with hdtv.
  
  sound-the soundin this game is awsome with surrond with bullets wissin by your head and grenades 
 blowin up. all of the men screaming at each other and some of the best music for a 360 game i herd 
 so far.
  
  this game is a must for a 360 owner if you cant get it rent for as long as you can
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leroysavage
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 15, 2006 6:09 am PT
Review:  HUGE explosions, sneaking around in a cloud of smoke, bullets wizzing past your head. Tanks taking 
 out the WALL you're hiding behind, only to leave you dazed and lying on the ground with Blurry 
 Vision and a deadened sense of hearing.
  
  The Music and Sound Effects are all top notch. The levels are Huge, with numerous goals and many 
 different paths to get to them, and the ENEMY isn't satisfied with just popping their head up for 
 you to snipe...... They Flank You, Rush You, and they're always moving around to get to cover and 
 to a new position to get a better shot at you.
  
  Even when you shoot them, (Unless it's a head shot) They're still trying to pick their gun back 
 up to SHOOT AT YOU SOME MORE. 
  
  I know if I was shot, I wouldn't just sit there bleeding.....
  
  Kudo's to the COD2 team, and 
 your staff of War Historians who were really allowed to give their input into a game and a Gaming 
 System that can finally handle it. 
  
  CALL OF DUTY 2, is a must play. Not just for War Game Buffs, or FPS Fanatics..... but for everybody. 
 Even Your Teenagers.
  
  WAR is not a glorified "Run and Gun"....... And it's good that everybody has a better idea of exactly 
 what our "Servicemen and Women" endure for our country. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trunks35
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 15, 2006 1:24 am PT
Review:  I have never even slightly liked the COD series... im sorry but really how many times to we need 
 to find out how the war ends.. we already know. But After finishing the rest of the 360 games I 
 desided to give this one a shot.. And wow I felt stupid for not picking this one up on launch day. 
 Its easily the best looking game for the 360 and the controls are great. I really enjoyed the campeigns 
 in this because your not just the americans your the brits, russians and germans also. The game 
 is fairly long and provides some really challanging points in the game during the harder modes 
 of the game. So I reccomend this game to anyone who hasnt tried it yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: videohead20
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 15, 2006 12:35 am PT
Review:  What a great release game. I was very hyped up about this game the first time I played the demo 
 before launch day. I just want to start this off by saying that this is a must buy if you are looking 
 for a good challenge.
  
  First the good. I really liked the graphics. They were bright, clear, detailed, and smooth. I didnt 
 have any issues with skipping or lag. Thats a good +. The controls for this game, once you got 
 used to the new controler, were also smooth and had great reaction time. The AI wasnt to shaby 
 either. Your guys stayed with you when you wanted them to and the enemy for the most part was smart 
 and put up a good fight. The challenge level for this was very high as long as you didnt play it 
 on easy. The acheivments are all fun to try and get and add to the replay value. I also liked the 
 online multi player.
  
  Now the bad. I know that this is a WW 2 simulator but please give me a little substance. Sometimes 
 the enemy could be a little too good. I like a challenge but sometimes it seemed like they knew 
 all. Also, sometimes you could get lost and run around aimlessly for a good amount of time. Now 
 about the online multi player. About 40% of the time there was lag and the game had to be reloaded. 
 Finally, the tanks were fun but very hard to drive and shoot at the same time. But then again I 
 am spoiled by Halo.
  
  Over all I love this game and suggest it to all who come into the store looking for a great FPS. 
 So, go ahead and give it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DanStepanik66
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 14, 2006 8:29 pm PT
Review:  call of duty 2 for the 360 might be the most mind blowing console game on the market as of right 
 now this game really give you a sense and ambiance of war . the only thing i can see wrong about 
 it is the $60 price and semi easy campaign (on normal) this is a game i could see myself playing 
 for awhile. so if you have a 360 go buy this *note i did not play perfect dark zero so i dont know 
 if its better* but all i cant say this game was mind blowing and the live feature is awesome but 
 only having 8 ppl hurt the score that and the price is the only thing keeping it from perfect 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kenjaminhoppe
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 14, 2006 8:25 pm PT
Review:  This is got to be the best launch game for the Xbox 360, hands down. The graphics are great, the 
 sound is second to none, and the game play is the best. I don't know how they made yet another 
 World War II game without it felling too "been there, done that," but they did a great job making 
 this game feel fresh as well as familiar. The Veteran difficulty is hard, but so much fun. The 
 on-line play suffers from a lot of lag and it would be nice to have more than 8 players. But, this 
 game is well worth the buy for the single player game. There are so many "holy 5h1t" moments. The 
 only part of the game that gets a little dull is the tank missions, but they are a nice break from 
 the rest of the game. Anyone who enjoys first person shooters should get this game. It is one of 
 those games you could play over and over again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crimson_Raven
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 14, 2006 5:53 pm PT
Review:  I finally Completed the game on the Veteran setting and whew that was hell. Man let me tell you, 
 the game was fun and exciting all the way through on the regular setting. But If you think you 
 got what it takes to be a WWII War Vet, than try it on the Veteran setting. It took me at least 
 an hour per level for all that dying and getting blown up, and it only got harder towards the end 
 of the game.
  
  I never thought I would be playing a game that was a port from the PC that actually looked and 
 played like the PC version. Just to warn you, this game is highly intense and its the most popular 
 360 title on the shelves. It does'nt really show or show off the power of the Xbox 360 just yet, 
 Its just a great clone from the PC version, only you get to play it on the 61" Plasma w/ true 5.1surround 
 sound.
  
  If you own a 360 or looking to get one, this is a must buy for your collection.
  The multi-player 
 is just OK for this one, but this game is really all about the single player. If your anything 
 like me, play the regular setting first and get the feel of the game, then go in on the Veteran 
 setting and die over & over & over, you get the point.
  
  I rated Call of Duty 2 a 9.0 just because it is a superb game but not a total Next-Gen game.
 
  
  If you are a war buff like myself or you just wanna get your WWII Nazi hating killzone on, then 
 this is the game for you.
  
  Thanks for reading my review, Please check out my others.
  -Crim
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Damien7157
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 14, 2006 5:04 pm PT
Review:  This is the game i play the most on the xbox 360. The sounds are awesome, graphics are great makes 
 you wanna go buy a hdtv if u dont already have one. This game is great just wish i could get to 
 the American campaign withoutthe stupid save glitch erasing everything XD. But some people are 
 very lucky and dont experience it. I guess im very unlucky its happened 3 times already. Its worth 
 it even with the glitch thats how great i think this game is i think everyone who has the xbox 
 360 should go out and buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woody998
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 14, 2006 2:57 pm PT
Review:  Call Of Duty 2
  
  COD2 is a first person shooter that got released as a launch game for the xbox 360 and is also 
 released for the PC. The most attractive point of the game is that you are going to need an amazing 
 and expensive PC to play it on. The 360 version has solid framerates and graphics that match the 
 PC without having to shell out on expensive components for your PC. With the exeption of the online 
 play lacking due to lag and only 8 players allowed in one game in total the 360 version of the 
 game is deffinetly the better of the two. The game sets a high standard for other first person 
 shooters to come on the 360 and what is even more amazing is that its a launch game.
  
  First off is the campaign mode. This is amazing fast paced and although it only offers the same 
 thrills as the original its hard to stay mad at such an amazing first person shooter game. The 
 first of the three campaigns all is the Russian one where you fight as a russian soldier defending 
 Moscow from the invading German soldiers. The British campaign sets you off as a soldier fighting 
 along the trenches and warswept ruins of north Africa where you fight against Field Marshal Rommel 
 and his army. The British campaign also makes you go to France to the wartorn towns such as the 
 famous Caen. Then lastly its the American campaign which prooves to be the most difficult and somewhat 
 challenging of the bunch where you start off landing on the beaches of france (no not omaha) and 
 climbing the coastal cliffs. Nearing the end you will realise there is not much difference between 
 the Campaigns at all exept for the change in enviroment.
  
  The game succedes in creating a relalistic war scene and gives the feeling of a war going on all 
 around you and seems like there are hundreds of allies and enimies close by when there is only 
 but a few. Tanks drive over the trenches whilst you are in it and you hear the battlecrys of opposing 
 forces up ahead and the frightened soldiers screaming and the expresion on their faces even look 
 like they are panicing and scared. The game is mainly made up of dog fights on foot and shooting 
 Germans which is a slight downside as it would have been a great addition to the game if there 
 had been the oppertunity to fly planes or something like that. Grenades play a big part in the 
 game as you have to work with your various team mates and cant go running ahead , so sometimes 
 you have to throw a grenade of two around the corner and watch out for opposing grenades. Also 
 smoke grenades come inhandy for not getting seen by enimes with mg42's and such.
  
  The xboxlive part of the game however is dissapointing and only offers the standard deathmatch 
 and capture the flag modes although I am a fan of Capture the flag and also Headquarters which 
 is a great new game mode that two different places on the map are able to be captured by one team 
 and they can set up a Headquarters there and therefor it becomes harder for the other team to take 
 over and the other team must take over the base before the team with the base's points go too high 
 due to the fact that the team with a base gets points over time for doing so.
  
  Excluding the buggy online mode COD2 is a solid launch title with exelent graphics , sound , gameplay 
 and with many tricks up its sleeve. It sets a high standard for First person shooter on the 360 
 from now onwards and is a must for any fan of action or first person styled games.
  
  Graphics 9/10
  Sound 9/10
  Gameplay 8/10
  Value 7/10
  Tilt 9/10
  
  8.4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CarltonWolf
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 14, 2006 1:42 pm PT
Review:  If COD2 is the introductory game for the XBOX 360 long time gamers like myself are in for a real 
 treat in the near future. COD2's audio and visual is far surpassed any military FPS that I own 
 or have played. I would say to anyone that was looking for a military FPS to purchase this game. 
 In my opinion the D Day level is one of the most exciting levels in the game. I love the actual 
 footage that is included with the game. It is a gentle reminder that war was not like it is today. 
 Good luck and straight shooting......... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Schrader_
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jan 14, 2006 1:29 pm PT
Review:  I have played through this game on Veteran even though my Gamertag won't show it. The Game did 
 not Save my Achievements, which I had three comming. Along with that it deleted all of the missions 
 that I had completed. So now I am unsure if I can still even get some of my mission achievment 
 without playing the entire game over again... not cool. Along with this dissapointment. I restarted 
 my 360 to find that it now said that I had completed Crossing Rhine on Regular. . . . Now thats 
 a piss off. not only does it delete my GameSaves but lies about what I completed. . hmmm.
  
  Along with that the XBL Lobby system is horrible. And your lucky to get into a game that doesn't 
 lag.
  
  The Develepors have a lot to make up in my mind, and the better be a patch coming out soon to right 
 these wrongs that have been made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSJAssassin
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 14, 2006 12:55 pm PT
Review:  COD2 is a nice looking fps. If you are not a fan of WW2 shooters than you may not like it. They're 
 aren't many new features and the inability to lean and peak is a negative. It will not bother anyone 
 new to the game, but may to people of the previous installments. Single player is great but can 
 get repetitive. There are a few glitches throughout the game and I found the game freezing on me 
 after somewhat long or short periods of play. The control and feel of movement and the open environments 
 are great. Smoke grenades can be very annoying because of the large amount of smoke that is released. 
 The sound and quality is very nice. The game is somewhat challenging especially on veteran. The 
 multi player and online play are very good and offers a fair amount of maps to play on. The graphics 
 look great but nothing spectacular. The killcam is cheap for online play but can be useful. The 
 achievements mainly consist of completing the game on veteran. I started this and after I beat 
 a few levels some of my progress was gone and aslo on one of them it never gave me an achievment 
 I was supposed to get.. so this game can be very agrivating in single player. There are a wide variety 
 of great looking guns to use, also.
  
  This game is a buy for fps fans and good to your collection. You may want to rent it first but 
 only for a night or so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rangers1690
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 14, 2006 11:12 am PT
Review:  when the game starts the graphics and textures blow you away, but as you progress everything else 
 working together creates one of the best games ever made. the sound and power of the guns makes 
 it feel like you are really shooting them, the animations are perfect, the game play is perfect, 
 the AI is perfect and the game as a whole is almost perfect. the only downfall was that i completed 
 it in 2 days so the single player value is not great but the multi-player mode saved that cause 
 it makes you want to play it again and again. this game is a must have for anybody, it doesn't 
 matter if you don't like war games you will after you play this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: n1ghtmare454
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 14, 2006 9:48 am PT
Review:  the gameplay in this game was just amazing, but when u really needed the a. i.'s help they werent 
 there, and when you would be fighting enemies everyone of them would be shooting at you. your guys 
 would just run around in circle around the enemies and theyd still be shooting at you. but that 
 is only on the difficutly veteran which is the hardest, so i recommend playing the game on hardened 
 and you should love it. the online for this game is the best part tho, as long as you can find 
 a room where the host doesnt have a bad connection. sometimes the game will wont let you in a room 
 unlees you go into the ranked matches and only do quick-match though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CaptainLunchbox
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 13, 2006 5:29 pm PT
Review:  The game starts off with a little training mission, showcasing the game's easy-to-learn controls, 
 and then throws you into the heart of conflict. Think of every crazy, "did you see that?!?" moment 
 in every WWII shooter or movie you've ever seen combined, and playable, all in one game. it's that 
 intense. The intensity is heightened by the game's stellar graphics and sound. The A. I. in this 
 game is unlike any other, both for your teammates and for the enemies you encounter. in the single 
 player campaign, you won't ever feel like you're going it alone. Your squadmates are numerous, 
 and almost always useful. they throw grenades, lay suppressive fire, and call out enemy positions. 
 The enemies also bark out orders to their own, and will grenade your position if they feel you 
 are too comfortable in your cover. I do have a few gripes, however. The online multiplayer can 
 get laggy, and the campaign objectives can become repetitive (i. e. repair comms lines 1 through 
 5) . All in all, a stellar, cinematic, and fun to play game. A recommended purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeter356700
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 13, 2006 1:19 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing from the graphics right down to the multiple story lines from the russians 
 and british then on into the americans. Xbox live multiplayer is great although it does run sluggish 
 from time to time with lag issues. The missions are difficult but not insanely so and each one 
 offers a great challenge. if your looking for the ultimate challenege play the levels on veteran 
 difficulty. This game will give you a great inside look at what the war was really like and what 
 it must have been like to be there. All in all this is the premier launch title for the 360 and 
 i would highly recommend it to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamefreakwill
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 11, 2006 6:00 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is very fun and realistic. The graphics are great the the levels are tough and fun.
 
  
  The Russian campaign is the funnest. Stalingrad ls fun to be a part of because it was the mother 
 of all battles. The Russian Levels are so fun and outragously awsome!
  
  The British and American campains are fun and great to play over again. You will want to try it 
 on Hardened though for a real challenge. If u don't like this game, you have issues.
  
  The overall review is perfect. This shooter really turns gamers on WWII shooters. Get this and 
 it will be a blast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fritz311
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 13, 2006 5:37 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is one of the best games that has even been made, for any platformwere talking 
 xbox, playstation, dreamcast and the pc. The graphics and gameplay are superior to any other WWII 
 we have ever seen. This game truly is bringing in the next generation of games.
  First off, everyone wants to know how the graphics are. is the game just a port from the PC etc. 
 Well I can tell you that these graphics are simply amazing, even if your not using an HDTV. I personally 
 am using HD so it looks even better, but none the less the game still looks amazing. All the guns 
 look authentic, the characters have a lot of life to them and the environments look outstanding. 
 When they say As close to war as you will ever want to get they mean it. Graphically I am very 
 impressed with this game so far and look for more great things from this franchise in the future.
 
  Now lets talk gameplay. Call of Dutys gameplay brings to life what we have been missing in war 
 games since the days of Medal of Honor Allied Assault, which is just a great feel to the game. 
 Weither you are storming the beaches of Normandy, defending the fortress of Stalingrad or taking 
 over Africa the game just feels very real. You are not going to find a more realistic first person 
 shooter than Call of Duty 2. 
  The sound is the next thing that will notice that is amazing about this title. Weither you are 
 firing your gun or bullets are whizzing past your head, the sound makes you feel like you are there. 
 Along with the graphics, the sound really compliments them. You hear explosions in the distance, 
 or right by your head. The talk of your teammates really brings the game alive. 
  All in all I would give Call of Duty 2 a 9.5. This is one of the best games ever made and is well 
 worth the $60 your going to dish out for it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: THEWINDWAKER10
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 12, 2006 9:13 pm PT
Review:  World War 2 shooters have really become a joke now days. One cant walk into a game store without 
 possibly seeing one. So when a World War 2 shooter comes out, its generally ignored by many, no 
 matter how good or bad it may be. However, Call of Duty established itself back in 2004 as a great 
 shooter. Many so-so console spin-offs later, Call of Duty 2 arrived in late October 2005 for the 
 PC. With the Xbox 360 launch right around the corner, Call of Duty 2 was also set to be a launch 
 title. Lucky for gamers, Call of Duty 2 didnt follow the path of many other WWII shooter PC-to-Console 
 transitions and is a very good game.
  
  First thing many notice about Call of Duty is its graphics. The Xbox 360 is the first next-gen 
 console available on the market, meaning that its graphics and power have been updated. A great 
 example of this is Call of Duty 2. CoD2 looks amazing on the Xbox 360, and when compared to the 
 PC version, looks just as good, even better in some places. The amount of detail is what really 
 catches the players eye. Each character, each building, each everything, has a level of detail 
 to give it a realistic look. The character models each look different, each character having wounds, 
 facial hair, or something to make them stand apart from the other characters. 
  
  The levels themselves are huge and very well modeled. Firefights leave bullet holes in the walls, 
 furniture, and anything else that can possibly be shot. The levels are also furnished with tables, 
 chairs, cows, and anything else that could possibly be used for cover. Every one of these is also 
 incredibly detailed, although some of the objects cant be shot up, like the dead animals and some 
 of the metallic objects. The graphics are all meant to bring realism to the game, like grenades 
 leaving marks on the ground and enemies staying dead. CoD2 sucks the player in for one of the most 
 realistic, adrenaline pumping experiences theyve experienced yet.
  
  CoD2 really makes the experience feel real. Between the sounds of grenades falling, to bullets 
 flying by, CoD2 is sure to make even the nerdiest of gamers feel ready to join the army. There 
 are situations where players have to really have to use cover and take risks to complete their 
 objective. One mission has players crawling through a pipeline above German troops, surprising 
 them with fire from above. Another mission has players reliving D-Day, in a way they havent before. 
 Players must climb a rope to reach the top of a cliff while their comrades are falling down, nearly 
 killing them. CoD2 is full of these moments, as well as many others that will have players adrenaline 
 rushing as they run across fields while a smoke grenade fills the enemies vision.
  
  One of the focuses of CoD2 is cover. Mainly provided by whatever can be found, cover comes into 
 play many times (more so during harder difficulties) and is key to finishing the game. One of the 
 better covers is smoke, which can be provided by parts of buildings, smoke grenades, and even regular 
 grenades if used correctly. Although it seems rather odd that in clouds of smoke, the enemy sometimes 
 has the upper hand. Many times during the course of the game, enemies will come running at players 
 through the middle of the smoke and begin to attack them. This can be rather annoying, many times 
 ruining the whole point of the cover.
  
  Although its not just the enemy AI thats intelligent. The AI in the game is surprisingly smart, 
 finding cover, throwing grenades and calling for cover when needed. This also applies to the enemy 
 AI as well. Theyll get cover, throw smoke grenades and do everything the opposite AI would do. 
 Its really a Taste of Ones Medicine type thing. The AI also uses tactics and provides cover 
 fire. Although there are a few times where the AI slips up. Theyll stand up under machine gun 
 fire, or stand right on top of a grenade. These occurrences, are more often than they should be, 
 as the AI is so smart the rest of the time.
  
  Of course, the AI are all there to contribute to the main gameplay, which revolves around WWII. 
 As in Call of Duty, players play as different factions; Russian, British and American. Playing 
 through each of the ten missions will take players roughly ten hours on the regular difficulty, 
 but to unlock the other achievements, players will find themselves playing less of a game and more 
 of a war. On harder difficulties, the game is much more tactical. A harder difficulty doesnt really 
 add much, but it gives it a much different feel. Cover takes a whole new feel and the machine gun 
 takes the back seat.
  
  Of course on a regular difficulties, CoD2 is a lot of fun to play. One will find themselves running 
 through an abandoned building, mowing down Nazis. Another one of the downsides of CoD2 is that 
 the enemies generally consist of two skins. Although theyre randomly generated, it tends to get 
 old. While in the real war they all had uniforms, they varied. In CoD2, there are only two or three 
 skins for each campaign.
  
  Although unlike the skins, the gameplay is varied. Many shooters just have players going around 
 shooting the enemies over and over again to a story. CoD2 does that to a degree, but it also throws 
 in tank missions, artillery strikes and 88 guns. Each of these variations is awesome to play and 
 bring even more of a unique. As well as campaigns, the difficulty is somewhat varying. Of course 
 D-Day is going to be harder than the training (which is also a mission) , but even the missions 
 themselves have varying difficulty, making some of the segments kind of frustrating, especially 
 on harder difficulties.
  
  Part of what makes the experience is the atmosphere in the game. This is due to the look and feel 
 of the game, as well as the great textures. The game is incredibly chaotic and fast. There are 
 things blowing up everywhere, people are dieing everywhere (sometimes flying, thanks to the rag-doll 
 physics) and yet one still has a mission to complete. One of aspects that needs to be noted is 
 that CoD2 is at the high end of the T-rated spectrum. Theres no gore or decapitation, but there 
 is plenty of blood spilled by both Germans and Allies alike. While the blood doesnt pool on the 
 ground, shooting an enemy will send blood flying, sometimes for a long period of time depending 
 on the amount of bullets the enemy has taken. 
  
  The health system has been reworked this time around, borrowing the shield idea from Halo 2. Players 
 dont have a shield, but they must go behind cover after taking a few shots. While this feels like 
 cheating death, health would be a huge problem, as damage is being dealt left and right. The health 
 system is much better than finding health packs or using bandages. It makes for an overall less 
 frustrating and adrenaline pumping experience, as players vision will have a red blur around it 
 and their hearts will pump after taking severe damage.
  
  Everything in CoD2 looks amazing. Of course, whats even more amazing is the sound. Commands are 
 constantly being given, bullets are flying by, grenades are falling, guns are shooting and its 
 almost an overload of great effects. The guns especially feel really powerful, making the whole 
 experience that much more realistic. The Allies commands and talking is very crisp and well done, 
 as well as synced very well with characters mouths. Each character has their own personality, which 
 means some have different accents, letting players feel like theyve got to know their fellow soldiers.
 
  
  The sound effects are also outstanding. Footsteps let players know enemies are coming, and the 
 sound of clanking grenades on a hardwood floor gives the signal for players to clear the area. 
 Theres no reason at all to use the 360s built in Mp3 player over the game, because it would take 
 away so much. Every item in the game has their own sounds, even some items like pianos playing 
 notes when ran into or shot at.
  
  A lot of the feeling though is lost over the multiplayer experience. While its all still there, 
 the game takes a different feeling, that of a Deathmatch (as it should) . CoD2 supports up to four 
 players on one console, eight via Xbox Live and 16 over a system link. Playing on one console can 
 be dull at times, as the levels are so large and expansive that sometimes it takes players a while 
 to find each other, and it becomes more of a hassle when only two or three people are playing. 
 However, over Live or via system link, the game gets a little faster paced and enjoyable. While 
 Live only supports eight, smaller levels can be fun, while larger levels can still be an annoyance. 
 
  
  Because of Xbox Live, CoD2 has a decent value to it. Players will find themselves playing the game 
 months after they first pick it up. There are five modes available through multiplayer; Deathmatch, 
 Team Deathmatch, Capture the Flag, Retrieval (where one side must capture a flag and the other 
 must defend it) and Headquarters (where teams must make a HQ and the other must try to destroy 
 it) . Each of these modes is fun, but as usual, Deathmatch is the most fun out of the bunch. Although, 
 no matter how fast ones internet is, CoD2 lags. Some games its fine, but others the game slows 
 down to a rate where getting kills become harder than it needs to be.
  
  If one plans on buying an Xbox 360 and theyre a fan of First-Person-Shooters, they owe it to themselves 
 to pick of Call of Duty 2. If they own an HDTV, theyre in for a real treat. Even if they dont 
 Call of Duty 2 is a great game, with fast and frantic gameplay that makes one feel like a part 
 of the war. There are a few moments in this game that will have players talking about them for 
 years, but the multiplayer doesnt quite make it worth its $60 price tag. If the price tag turns 
 one off, it should still be considered, as it doesnt slow down in some places and looks as good 
 as it would on a high-end PC. Of all the Xbox 360 launch titles, Call of Duty 2 should be on every 
 gamers wish list, as its not only a great WWII FPS, but a great game in general. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackNumonerian
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 11, 2006 2:14 pm PT
Review:  
  Wow! Talk about in your face action! The first time I layed eyes on this game I was sucked into 
 WWII all over again, but in such a fantastic way! The way they start you off in the russian missions 
 are just great, getting you straight into the action after a bit of training. The graphics were 
 crystal clear, especially on the american missions! I loved taking my bonoculars and looking at 
 the fellow troops and scenery to really see the detail in it all. 
  
  The next thing that hit me was the gameplay. The AI in this game was just amazing. I hardly believed 
 my eyes when I saw the germans getting back up and trying to shoot me after being shot in the chest! 
 They took cover, threw back grenades and when the difficulty was higher, the intellegence was better! 
 
  
  The only thing that I thought was bad was the length of the game itself. I beat the game in about 
 3 days. Although the game was awsome, it could have been longer. it just felt like opening a jar 
 of cookies and then drooping them on the floor... all over before you know it. Other than this slight 
 problem, I have to say that Call of Duty 2 is going to be a best seller for a long time!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MilkinHer
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 11, 2006 1:58 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 truly brings WWII back to life! Obviously I wasn't arround when the real war was 
 going on but this game makes me feel as though I am in combat as I play. Before I bought this game 
 I had high expectations for it. After buying it I was NOT disapointed. Call of Duty 2, although 
 it is just one of many FPS WWII games is the first to capture the nature of war in its genera. 
 This game will not allow you to stop playing it. With incredible AI and something (s) always going 
 on around you this game gets a perfect score. Just don't blink while playing... you WILL miss some 
 action! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamermon
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 11, 2006 1:05 pm PT
Review:  This game is the bomb. It is like the other call of duties where it proceeds through WWII. But 
 on the xbox 360 it's like never before. Its graphics are better then Call of duty Finest Hour, 
 by a long shot. The sound is good it has the gun shots and artillery in the back ground like most 
 WWII games. Follows the WWII time line and the levels are more detailed. you could sit there and 
 play for hours on end and still maybe not always be successful but u would still have a lot 'o 
 fun. I recomend not using cheats, it spoils the game. You will like beat it in a day and won't 
 have much fun. I recommend getting this as ur first or at least second xbox 360 game. If your unsure 
 rent it first but i guarantee you will love it! :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OtisTheBunny
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 19, 2006 8:15 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Extremely smoothe, and features some of the most intense and cinematic sequences ever. 
 The health system is very forgiving and all the weapons feel very true and balenced. Great A. I. 
 makes for a lot of challenge. No detructible environments really hunkers down the potential this 
 game could have. Graphics: some of the best particle effects ever. overall just a great looking 
 game, especially with an HD TV.
  
  Sound: Best part about this game. amazing voice acting, guns, everything, this game has state of 
 the art audio. Value: It will probebly take you around 15-20 hours to get through the campaigns, 
 depending on what difficulty you try, but its the awesome online multiplayer that will keep you 
 coming back for a long time. Tilt: superb presentation and a showcase for what a next gen experience 
 should be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CloudKoF
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 10, 2006 4:12 pm PT
Review:  I loved this game even though I haven't been the one to really enjoy WWII or games based on real 
 wars. They just don't keep my interest, but in Call of Duty 2 the storyline and actionpacked levels 
 just kept my attention throughout the whole entire game. The different countries you play with 
 makes it that more interesting. Then i played the multiplayer, and fell in love with it even more. 
 They hit the nail on the head on levels and fun with every game. Only one thing I don't like is 
 how complicated and annoying it is to play with friends. Why in the world is there not a room you 
 can join and invite a friend before you try and start playing a game. Blah!, is what i say to that, 
 but that's it. Great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nightmare-JD
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 10, 2006 2:15 pm PT
Review:  This game is beyond excellent. I have never been into war games but after playing Perfect Dark 
 Zero I turned to this and boy I am still addicted to it.
  
  The sound in 5.1 is amazing, and still excellent in stereo. The bullets wizzing from one speaker 
 to another are so perfectly tuned in. In some levels it caused be to jump.
  
  Long lasting, total fun, Excellent Multiplayer, excellent frame-rate, I could go on forever.
 
  
  The graphics are unbeleivable, better than the PC counterpart. The best part is when you have it 
 running through a HDTV. The detail is breath taking. The smoke effects are so realistic.
  
  The game is hard but not too hard. Usually when a game gets too hard it becomes not fun to play, 
 but this one makes you determined to get through it. I am still playing it, I have it one pause 
 just now as I needed to write this review to let you all know. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TransAm-Jeff
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 10, 2006 7:48 am PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying that I've played CoD2 on the PC since it was released in October. I 
 was dissapointed in it on the pc because of the multiplayer. That's usually all I play with FPS's 
 on the pc. Normally I won't even mess with the single player campaign. 
  
  I decided to give it a shot on the 360 though and it was amazing. I was awed by how great the graphics 
 were compared to my PC. Now I don't have a top of the line pc so I cant run the game at max settings 
 which is why it was such a drastic difference to me going from pc to 360.
  
  Gameplay was surprisingly efficient. I'm a keyboard/mouse guru when it comes to FPS's. It was very 
 easy for me to get used to the controller though. I think partly because of how great the 360's 
 controller design is.
  
  The game was great. Ifinity Ward outdid themselves with the SP campaign of CoD2. Graphics, sound, 
 voice acting, all were top notch. The intensity of the Hill 400 missions were unlike anything I've 
 played through in a FPS. 
  
  This is a must have game and THE action game for the xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xploded
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 10, 2006 6:30 am PT
Review:  When I bought this I thought: "Well, this should be an ok game." But I was really wrong, this game 
 is one of the best launch games its a MUST HAVE to anyone who ones the console. This is not a let 
 down or a cash scam, it is totally worth it. If you are not connected to xlive then you should 
 still buy it. All the time you aint at a party and have some spare time, go play call of duty 2. 
 If you already have Perfect Dark Zero, then you will like this game as well. This game is seriously 
 well done 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rennie1
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 10, 2006 12:28 am PT
Review:  First and foremost, HDTV is the only way to go with this game. You simply cant get anywheres 
 near what COD2 has to offer without it, so be advised of that sorry but its true. I, myself had 
 never even seen much less played a game in high def  but this one will amaze. It may indeed cause 
 your vehicle to take you shopping for a new tv  seriously.
  
  
  That said, my review is based on the game running as the designers intended  at 720 progressive 
 scan. surroundings and requirements. The game simply looks stunning.
  
  Detail
  - forget anything you have ever seen before  the detail here is just about off the charts
  - 
 every crack in the road, every shell flying out of your gun to smoke that looks more real than 
 real
  - dust ricochets off of the wall creating particle effects like none other  and all of this happens 
 in numerous places simultaneously on screen without so much as a stutter 
  
  Smoothness
  - this is the first game Ive played that floats along at a cool 60 (yes, 60) frames per second
 
  - the game engine never slows for a second 
  
  Gameplay
  - guns, realism, huge battles, variety  parts are driving, others are manning huge WW2 artillery 
  totally well done
  
  Try it at 720 P on a high end LCD  and youre there - 
  Every gamer deserves this game - Ill guarantee you one thing  go to any walmart and try the game 
 for 10 minutes in high def  youll be buying it.
  
  Its a must have and a masterful job done by designers
  
  Negatives
  Pretty much none  but 
 I must say - split screen co-op would have been so sweet, it brings a tear 
  - slightly funny character running animations and some goofy summersault rag doll physics one in 
 a long while  but thats debatable  the negatives are pretty much non existent  swallowed up 
 by the positives
  
  A must have xbox 360 title 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aceman101
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 9, 2006 7:29 pm PT
Review:  If you love first person shooters, then you will love call of duty 2 for the X-box 360. The game 
 takes you into the heart of ww 2, into some intense battes might i say. Some people say that the 
 ww 2 has been done way to much, but this game gave it some more juice. The gameplay is so fun, 
 so is the sound and the graphics. This is hands down one of the best 360 games to come out, it 
 is one of the games that you must have. If you do not have an X-Box 360 then get it on the PC. 
 Anyway it is an amazing game that should not be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: s1980kr
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 9, 2006 2:13 pm PT
Review:  At times you may forget its a game, I am sure war is alot worse then this, but this has to be the 
 closes you are going to get without actually being there, controls are smooth, graphics are amazing, 
 sound is amazing must have at least 5.1 it not you are doing yourself wrong!!!!! Wasn't that big 
 on First Person Shooters and until I seen it on the 360 when the Kiosk were first hook up in stores, 
 but now I can play it on in the comforts on my own home, COD 2 has set the bar for FPS as well 
 as War games period, a must own If not gamefly at a minimum but you may want to keep it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: qwertyuiop65656
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 9, 2006 2:07 pm PT
Review:  This game blew me away.... I have yet to find a game on the 360 better than this I mean they hit 
 the nail on the head. This is one of the first WWII games with GOOD GRAPHICS thats right you heard 
 me. I remember for other call of duty games the single player was done once you beat it. I did 
 nt want to play it again. Now i will finish a level go eat come back and start it over. I have 
 the glitched game that resets your file after the 88 ridge level yet i still am perfectly happy 
 to play the levels all over again because the AI seems to make the game new every time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: homer101
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 9, 2006 1:48 pm PT
Review:  very good game recommend it to people who like first person shooters a very crazy game i don't 
 know who wouldn't like a game like this one very good graphics, game play, and sound when i first 
 got it i played it like the whole day not very hard and also not very easy it was just right everything 
 is just so intense it actually feels like your in the war and the controls were very easy to learn 
 and very easy and the graphics look even better on hd so if you don't have an hd tv I suggest you 
 go get one 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Master_v12
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 9, 2006 11:30 am PT
Review:  I never imagined this game would be soooo good when i picked it up. I played thru the Regular difficulty 
 campaign and I loved how the enemy never stops coming at you. They keep coming and coming untill 
 you push them back. This gives an amazing feel to the linear parts of the game. The enemy AI is 
 also very responsive to your position and the situation. What worked one time may be instant death 
 the next time you try it. I just love this game over all, only once or twice did i see something 
 that bothered me just a little bit but nothing too obvious. A must have for all Xbox 360 Owners 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kayjack
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 9, 2006 10:22 am PT
Review:  Let me first start off by saying how much I appreciate infinityward and activision for makeing 
 such a great fps for the next generation of gameing. This game has the overall presenation ofa 
 feature film. The sound is so intense and realistic it litteraly pulls you into this massive war 
 and the feeling of being scared (a. k. a crapping your pants) . You feel as though your this insignificant 
 little part of this huge undertakeing. One other thing I enjoy about the sound is the dialogue, 
 from the points and tactics your team mates call out, to actuall voiced over german voices (which 
 I think includes some where in the hundreds of actuall german phrases.) . Now about the graphics 
 and gameplay . Flawless. Thats all I have to say. Flaaaaaawless.
  My big issues for the game though sit in the online, nothing as of single player but the online 
 two words, god awful. I will explain.
  Though at time the online can be fun as hell!!! it can as well be a huge pain in the ass. I get 
 nothing but constant lag issues and connections interupted. I would love to see activision or whom 
 ever runs the online based servers fix this . One little patch people thats all , one freaking 
 little patch to fix server stability.
  Anyways my overall scoreing for this game is hands down
  A 9.7/10
  (p. s fix the online) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fenix1022
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 8, 2006 8:54 pm PT
Review:  I like the war simulator series of games. Day of Defeat, Battlefield, and so on. Call of Duty is 
 also a growing series. Now this game is not a game that I have had an enormous experience with, 
 but I have picked up the basics of what it has to offer.
  
  The graphics are fantastic. There is nothing that I can really say is wrong with it. The sound 
 is pretty good and give you a decent sense that you are in the middle of battle. The controls are 
 decent to pick up and the Xbox 360 controller is a bit better than the original system's.
  
  The problem that I have is that the single-playe mode seems a little too directed. I feel like 
 most other war games have a more open battlefield that gives you the ability to explore more, rather 
 than simply follow a path. I have also heard that the multiplayer is still a little limited.
  
  I would say that you should wait for the rerelease of the 360 and then get this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Inquisitor_Cid
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 8, 2006 3:56 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of my favourites on the 360. Every bit of this game is perfectly engineered. From 
 storming a German HQ as the Soviet infantry, to fighting incredibly tense head-to-head on-line/split 
 screen death-matches. The only downfall was on the Normandy mission, you just walk on to the beach 
 and up the seawall before encounter a German. The background track of explosions and various war 
 noise make for an enveloping experience. A truly amazing experience. Every minute as enjoyable 
 as the last. I found that some of the VO wasn't as good as it should be it was of little concern 
 as wave upon wave of German infantry are storming your position. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Axe84
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 8, 2006 3:13 pm PT
Review:  This is the FPS game of the year, no doubt.
  I have never been an FPS player, I have tried alot of them.
  But never have I been so eager on 
 playing an FPS game. From I first saw it on my TV I have been playing it, almost non stop.
  Sound: With the perfect sound of CoD2 where you are standing by the wall, you can clearly listen 
 the foot steps of your foes coming nearer. 
  Controls: The controls are easy to learn. I'm a newbie on the FPS front on the consoll and I learned 
 it after the training.
  Music: What music? This is war man, not a symphony.
  Graphics: I'm playing on a regular TV and the graphics are terrific, the way the sand ruin your 
 sight over dessert, and the smoke and fire that emerges from the ruined cars in the city. The surroundings 
 from trees, bushes and buildings. Tried it on a HD LCD TV and this is going to be my next purchase. 
 
  Story: You play as three soldiers Vasili Kozlov the russian, John Davis the brit and David Welsh 
 the yankee. Going from winter in 1943 to the famous D-Day. The D-Day is with no doubt the hardest 
 one. And when you get to veteran on the difficulty level you'll see how intense this day was.
 
  Online: A downfall was the online gaming. This is war so you should be able to join alot of people 
 online, but noooo only 8 can play together on the 360. And you might encounter alot of lagging 
 if not getting on the right server.
  But all in all this is a terrific game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VigoSOC
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 8, 2006 2:54 pm PT
Review:  What a great game. The graphics are really nice and the action flows very smoothly. The missions 
 are very intuitive and I never found myself being "lost" despite the open ended nature of it. Also, 
 there is a good bit of comic relief in the game, especially with the German propaganda to surrender. 
 I feel that the rumble support in the game was extremely well implemented and firing the weapons 
 feels really cool. The action went at a great engaging pace from beginning to end. Excellent particle 
 effects and sound seem to add to the immersive experience. I'd have to say that any fan of FPS' 
 should find this very rewarding and will probably find themselves playing this at least a few times. 
 Go for it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acdc125
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 8, 2006 2:52 pm PT
Review:  Just another WW2 game. Thats what most people think, after seeing COD2 is maybe the 200th WW2 game 
 out for consoles. But man, after playing this game, I'll sign up for this duty anyday. First off, 
 this game is not about busting into a room and machine gunning everything in sight. Its about knowing 
 when to shoot, and when to cover. Instead of the standard life bar, you have no set health. If 
 you get shot up, a red, bloodlike ring appears around the edge of your screen, and one more shot 
 and your dead. But if you cover, it goes away, and your good to go. This game delivers somm true 
 "OMG" moments, like the first time you hold off a area with a small assisting group against five 
 waves of a huge number of enemy's. This game is intense. The enemy A. I. is amazing, with enemys 
 flanking, charging and tossing smoke grenades to stop your movement. On the topic of smoke grenades, 
 they are some of the best i've ever seen in my life. The graphics are good, but after playing Perfect 
 Dark Zero, you feel let down by the polygonal textures and character models. The multiplayer is 
 extremely weak, offering offline no bots, and a laggy online mode. On a scale of 1 to 10, 10 being 
 greatest, I'd give it a 9 out of 10. 
  
  Pros: Excellent A. I, Well designed levels 
  
  Cons: Multiplayer, Textures and character models
  
  WTF?: British commander has a beret and 
 mustache 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maui00
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 8, 2006 1:13 pm PT
Review:  I've been a fan of Call of duty 1 and i'm gonna say that this game is one of the best FPS shooters 
 ever to become a instant classic.
  
  GAMEPLAY- high intensed fps shoother. Incredible enviroment. Nice WWII action. 9/10
  
  GRAPHICS- 
 amazing. not much to say here 9/10
  
  SOUND- even better than Halo 2. its phenomenal. 10/10
  
  SINGLE PLAYER- the most heroic gameplay 
 ever 10/10
  
  MULTIPLAYER- mmhhhh not so good to say. Dont get me wrong. Imagine Call of duyt 2 online without 
 lag. MAN!!!. that would be great. 6.5/10
  
  WARNING!!- theres been a problem with the game called the "save glitch". after you completed a 
 level, the game automatically delete all your progress and you have to start all over again. This 
 glitch happens randomly and your never know when she'll hit. It happend to me twice. 
  
  Overall- incredible game, phenomenal sound, nice graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seifer_Of_SeeD
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 8, 2006 11:50 am PT
Review:  For some, Call of Duty was the PC FPS for the past couple of years. It got so many awards and was 
 wildly popular, but alas I never played it. It came out during a time where I just was not really 
 into PC gaming so I just let it go by. When the 360s launch titles were announced though, I was 
 very excited to hear that Call of Duty 2 would be available. Here was my chance to get in on what 
 tons of other people had discovered, that the Call of Duty franchise is one of the most realistic 
 genre shooters to date.
  
  Story
  
  Being someone who studied history in college I was very anxious to see where the developers took 
 us in this game. Thankfully there is a great representation of the battlegrounds during WWII. You 
 experience conflict in the African desert, the shores of Normandy, the streets of the former Soviet 
 Union, and the European countryside. In each of these missions you assume the role of the average 
 grunt fighting the Germans. You arent controlling a squad, or telling anyone else what to do. 
 You get your orders, check your ammo and you are off to the races. Personally I would have liked 
 to have seen maybe a couple mission sets in the Pacific or Italy, but maybe the next time around 
 we will get that. There is not a central storyline to this game at all. It is just going from battleground 
 to battleground following orders and killing your enemy. But it is the beauty of the battlegrounds 
 that make this game so amazing. More on that later though. The only thematic element that prevails 
 is fight Germans, kill Germans, and win the battle.
  
  Gameplay
  
  I thought the gameplay in this was great. It was very easy to pickup and learn the controls, and 
 then get down to business. You go from being on foot, to using stationary weapons, to driving a 
 tank and it is all pretty seamless. The one weird part of it though was this. You spend a majority 
 of the British desert campaign driving a tank and chasing the Germans across Libya. When you get 
 out of the tank it feels weird controlling your character. Almost as if suddenly you have forgotten 
 how to play the game. It really took me a while to get used to being back on foot. I found this 
 to be very weird.
  
  
  
  
  
  The realism of the game is what is so compelling. The weapons that you use are a very accurate 
 representation of what the Allies and Axis had during this time. It was a fun change for me to 
 play this game. Most of the shooters I play are either real world or other worldly games, so this 
 older type of weapon set really forces you to be more skillful during play. No night vision, thermal 
 vision, or 10x scopes on all your weapons. From time to time you will find a scoped weapon and 
 my advice is to hold onto that thing no matter what. If I had to pick I would have to say the best 
 weapons to play with would be the German MP44, the American Springfield scoped rifle, and the BAR. 
 For those uninitiated in the world of firearms, the BAR is the Browning Assault Rifle. John Browning 
 was one of the founders of the American firearms industry that helped keep our servicemen alive 
 during this period. The BAR was considered the support gun for a platoon. Heavy and with some 
 lethal knockdown power, this is a good option to keep on you during gameplay. My grandfather was 
 in France and Germany with Pattons 3rd army 65th division, and he used to tell me about when he 
 had to carry the BAR for his platoon. He always wondered whom it did more damage too, the guy firing 
 it or the person being fired at.
  
  OK enough nostalgia. The gameplay is not without issue though, specifically the AI of your squad 
 mates. Could the developers not have given them a modicum of common sense? I cant tell you how 
 many times I had to restart a mission because some squad member walked right in my line of fire. 
 Friendly fire is not tolerated in this game, so be very careful about this. It is very frustrating. 
 As the game progresses it gets better, but the opening levels are chock full of this. Also at times 
 the game is very bad about helping you find your next objective. While fighting street to street 
 in France, you sometimes will get to a checkpoint and your squad just stares at you as you try 
 to find the path to your next objective. You see it marked on your map, but cannot find the way 
 to get there. This drove me insane on a few occasions. So pay attention during gameplay. My other 
 gripe with this is the game is really short. I felt like I really just blew through this game, 
 and was left wanting a lot more at the end. The online component makes up for that some, but I 
 will talk about that later.
  
  
  
  
  Graphics
  
  Visually this game is amazing. I got to play it both in HD and non-HD formats and both were just 
 outstanding. Towards the end during the American campaign, you are on top of Hill 400, and the 
 Germans call in an artillery strike. If you run into the doorway of the bunker, keep looking out 
 into the open. The artillery strikes, smoke and particle effects are insane. Dirt is flying everywhere 
 from the shell hits, and if a platoon member is caught in the open, well then your get a very visceral 
 showing of why War is Hell. As you race across the desert sands you are treated to a stunning 
 sight. What it must have been like for the members of the Armored divisions to be chasing Rommels 
 Panzers in this location I can only imagine. I found myself stopping and just looking around at 
 the rock formations in the distance, how the light played off the sands and the clouds in the skies. 
 I also got my self wrecked a few times because of that. But isnt that part of the fun of having 
 this job? I would have to say yes.
  
  Audio
  
  One time, during a history lecture on WWI I heard something I will never forget. A professor was 
 discussing the tactics of trench warfare, and what our fighting men had to endure. He talked about 
 the standard issue M1 rifle and how when the clip was finished it flew out of the rifle with this 
 ping noise. This noise let the Germans know when Americans were reloading and when to rush the 
 trench. For some reason this factoid has stayed with me over the years, and when I was playing 
 this game it came rushing back. During some missions you do start with the M1, and the first time 
 I heard that ping I got scared. That is just a small example of the audio realism in this game. 
 The whistle and while of mortars being launched and coming down on you. The grumble of a half-track 
 rolling into your perimeter, or the sound of an 88 Flak gun firing do an amazing job to instill 
 that cramped fear that I would say can only occur during the heat of battle. One of the coolest 
 parts of the audio is the playing of music stored on your MP3 player or 360 hard drive during the 
 game. During the desert tank run, I popped in that classic British metal group Iron Maiden and 
 chased the Germans while Run to the Hills was blaring. The ability to play custom music in every 
 game is so cool.
  
  Depth and Fun Factor
  
  For a history buff like myself this game is loads of fun. Picking up various weapons to see which 
 side had the firepower advantage was great. I am going to keep that judgment to myself, but I encourage 
 you to try and find out. The crazy AI and lack of direction at times did not take too much away 
 from the game, because you are stuck with your platoon. I found myself going lone wolf a lot and 
 flanking the Germans to finish the section objectives. If you are going to play like that, just 
 stock up on ammo before you go. As for depth, well as I said the game was really short. I was really 
 let down when I realized the game was over. It was as if I was just getting into it, and getting 
 really good, and then they take it away from me. But what makes up for this is the online component. 
 If you played this on PC you know Call of Duty has a HUGE online community. The 360 version always 
 had servers packed with people wanting to play and I never had trouble finding a match. The one 
 thing I didnt like was that you couldnt set up a private server on your machine and just invite 
 your friends. All matches are public, but hey I guess it is good to play together and make new 
 friends.
  
  Overall Comment
  
  Call of Duty 2 was my first 360 game and it is always going to have a special place in my heart. 
 You can tell a lot of quality went into making this game and that the developers set the bar very 
 high. Bad AI and shortness of the single-player does take away from the title, but overall it is 
 a solid outing. WWII buffs will enjoy the realism, and the younger generation will get a great 
 appreciation for what our grandfathers went through during this time of history. Call of Duty 2 
 from Activison and Infinity Ward is available now for Xbox 360, so what are you waiting for?
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: spikekane21
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 8, 2006 9:45 am PT
Review:  My first impressions of the game were not great, the graphics on my standard TV didin't look as 
 good as I expected, but as soon as you plug it into a HDTV all my doubts disapeared. Ok so not 
 the greatest graphics for a next generation console but there good enough.
  
  As for the gameplay, its simple yet effective. The 360 controller suits this game perfectly with 
 the triggers. It can be a little furstrating first time you play but within and hour or two your 
 shooting headshots naturally. It really does put you into the second world war, allowing you to 
 play as the allied forces. In tanks and on foot its a pleasure to play. 
  
  This game will keep you playing for a while, you will want to finish the war on hard mode! The 
 sounds are realistic, although the shouting out from other members of your army can get repetitve 
 after you have heard 'Kill those facists' more than 50 times in one mission. The patriotic music 
 after you have completed a mission makes it feel worth it.
  
  Overall an addictive first person war shooter, which is realistic although does have a few flaws, 
 but the multiplayer and online mode really do make this one of the 360's must have games for launch. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark-Hero1991
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 8, 2006 3:34 am PT
Review:  Call Of Duty 2 is an outstanding game which lives up to the hype. The visual achievements of this 
 game are the use of smoke, explosions and the beautiful scenery. The sound of the game is outstanding, 
 if you have surround sound hook this game up and be blown away by the use of sound, bullets will 
 be flying past your head with true precision of sound. The gameplay of this game is absolutely 
 fantastic, the true realism of the game will make you think you are truly in the war. The value 
 of this game is alright and will have you playing for at least 20 to 40 hours if you complete all 
 of the difficulty settings. The achievements in this game are set out beautifully by making you 
 complete the game 100% on every difficulty to earn all of the 1000 gamerscore the game has to hand 
 out. Finally if you have a high definition television and you also have surround sound hook this 
 game up to both of them and you will feel the intensity that the soldiers had to face in the second 
 world war. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SeriousRU
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 8, 2006 3:32 am PT
Review:  Very good stuff. Imagine you are sitting in cinema and hold in hands weapon. You don't trying to 
 cover you just going and shooting at all sides. It is really great. But it is only on first and 
 second difficulty levels. On the higher levels it just a hell: you dying every minute and you wanting 
 to say "F*CK" but you just turn off the console. But after a hour it will be not so insane. You 
 will be feeling that you are real soldier, you will crouch at every cover It is like a real war. 
 A great sound and graphics help to make this illusion. When I have been playing "Call of Duty 2" 
 about 2 hours on Veteran I understood the real price of life and how easy man can loose it.
  
  I think that this game must buy every owner of Xbox 360 (if he have not PC-version of course. 
 They are absolutely same) .
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mars188
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 7, 2006 10:37 pm PT
Review:  well the game looks great awsom sounds are great as well, the game plays very well, the trouble 
 is me myself been there done this, i dont know why we cant have a war game in the last days of 
 war war 2. i am talking about jan 1945 up to hitler last stand, why cant we have a war game the 
 hunt for hitler, its like now we get the same thing over and over, yeah the game is great, but 
 its like yawn, its worth a rent to me , but to spend 59 bucks for one more war game that we have 
 been through like 10 times, to me its like madden football sure great looks but the same play still 
 can win 35 -10, and now with war games the same 1942- 1941-1944, maybe the game companies dont 
 know the war went to 1945, but call of duty 2 is the best out there dont get me wrong its great 
 just been there done that, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazygamer55
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 7, 2006 9:37 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is one of the intense and realistic shooters I have ever played. The gamplay is 
 really fun and will become more entertaining as you go deeper into the game. The A. I. is fantastic 
 I have never seen any A. I. as smart as the one in Call of Duty 2. The graphics are phenomenal and 
 show the real power of the xbox 360 and the framerate never slows so the action is always exciting 
 and intense. Once you pick up the controller you can't put it down. Call of Duty is a must get 
 for the xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: railszach
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 7, 2006 6:42 pm PT
Review:  From the beginning of this game you are transfixed by the intense sounds of the battlefield, the 
 believable AI and the beautiful graphics, if this thing came with some type of smell-thing you'd 
 actuallt think you were fighting world war 2!!! It does fights right out of the history books like 
 d-day and puts you in the skin of an American, a Brtish fellow, and a Russian. It also features 
 an online mode that it seems almost every 360 shooter is doing these days, which is by all means 
 a good thing to have, all and all a good game and recommended purchase 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackadder89
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 18, 2006 2:52 am PT
Review:  So Call of Duty 2 blasts onto Xbox 360, and it's a very welcome addition to the launch line up.
 
  As an FPS it succeeds comfertably, and as a Call of Duty game. 
  You go through the campaign as three sides: Russian, then British, then American. In my opinion, 
 whilst the shortest, the Russian campaign is the most exciting. But that aside, let's focus on 
 gameplay.
  
  On this front it isn't very varied, but does what it aims to do very well. Run around, blasting 
 Nazis, and do it without getting yourself killed. There is little variation, however you do get 
 to go in the odd vehicle, or man the odd anti air gun.
  
  The best part of the game, without doubt are the set peices. There's little more exhilirating in 
 a game than charging across an open field at a German bunker, or having to hold a farmhouse from 
 an onslaught of Nazi infantry. The Russian campaign boasts the most patriotic one, with screams 
 of 'For the Motherland!' all round.
  
  The graphics are just as god as the PC counterpart, and the framerate never takes a plunge. Whilst 
 the graphics are good, they could always be better, especially when looking at Perfect Dark and 
 Fight Night; Rag doll for the bodies would have been nice too, as they sometimes get stuck in walls, 
 which really detracts from the realism of the experience.
  
  The game's main story lasts about 12 hours on the medium difficulty, and has a little more of a 
 challenge in store on the higher ones. The multiplayer however, is quite bad and you shouldn't 
 be buying this game to play it online. 
  
  Overall, it isn't the best of games, but is well worth having in a collection, to come back to 
 every so often. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spazzx625
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 7, 2006 12:10 am PT
Review:  First off, I have to get this out of the way: I am NOT a fan or World War II shooters at all. I 
 don't like playing them, I don't really find them all that interesting and most of them aren't 
 worth the time it takes to play. That said, I LOVED Call of Duty 2. Besides the multiplayer, there 
 is honestly little to complain about, save maybe the difficulty. This is a game for any fans of 
 FPS games, but only if your computer won't play it, because the multiplayer on the Xbox 360 is 
 lacking.
  
  Gameplay:
  Pretty much exactly what you'd expect. You take the role of several different soldiers throughout 
 the different campaigns and you plod your way through each of the missions. There are 13 campaigns 
 total, but each is made up of several missions, which makes for a pretty hefty game. There are 
 very few instances where I felt like I had already played this mission, which I have found to be 
 the case with other WWII shooters. Weapon choice is mostly preference, but there are definite advantages 
 and disadvantages for every weapon you find. Enemy AI is quite possibly the finest I've ever seen 
 in any other game. They will do everything to kill you. They are unrelenting and will give you 
 quite a hard time even on normal difficulty. That brings me to the Achievements for playing Veteran 
 difficulty. Be warned, Veteran difficulty is a deathwish. It is insanely difficult, but also quite 
 satisfying when you do finally accomplish it. In short, the gameplay isn't necessarily groundbreaking, 
 but definitely great.
  Online is a totally different story. While I didn't get lag every time, it seemed like 8/10 matches 
 I was totally bogged down to the point where I couldn't even really move. This does not make for 
 a fun live experience, especially after playing much Perfect Dark Zero. Also, the omition of creating 
 your own game and inviting people (and the max 8 players to a round) really hinders the experience... Even 
 if there wasn't lag. Considering how great the single player campaign is, the multiplayer is a 
 big blemish on an otherwise beautiful package.
  
  Graphics:
  Pretty self-explanatory... They are breathtaking. I brought my dad in to watch some of it and he 
 was amazed at the detail and realism that goes into everything. The environments look real, the 
 weapons look great... well, damn near everything looks perfect. I noticed no frame rate issues (except 
 online) . My only complaint about the graphics is the radar/map thing doesn't look so hot. It can 
 be kinda hard to read at times.
  
  Sound:
  Oh good god... If there is one thing that tops the graphics of this game it is the sound. One of 
 the most memorable moments for me is in the very first mission where you are making your way through 
 a trench and tanks start rolling overhead... while they cue the orchestra. Gave me goosebumps. Aside 
 from that music and the music in the load screens, I never noticed much else... but honestly, it 
 doesn't matter. The guns, people, vehicles, explosions, background noise are all frighteningly 
 realistic and vivid. If you don't have a good surround system, you are missing out on a nearly 
 cinematic experience.
  
  Value:
  The singleplayer campaign is fairly long and has some replay value if you decide to go back and 
 attempt to play on Veteran. I think most players should be able to beat everything in around 10 
 hours, give or take. I'm not even gonna say that multiplayer adds much to the value, but if they 
 fix the lag or at least bump the max players to 16 (or more) it will greatly increase the experience. 
 It could probably serve well as a rental if you have the time to sit down and plow through it, 
 but there is replay value available if you are a fan of the series, or a fan of FPSes. I have not 
 regretted buying it myself.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt:
  This game has completely renewed my interest in WWII shooters. I can honestly say that I am looking 
 forward to Call of Duty 3. I can only hope they will patch the multiplayer, as that would make 
 the game so much more enjoyable... However, singleplayer is worth the cost of admission. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpUnKy06
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 6, 2006 10:37 pm PT
Review:  every one wants an X-box 360 but not every one can afford one. But although not that many people 
 own a X-box 360 but everyone still plays the X-box 360 like there own. And along with the new generation 
 of video game console came the game Call of Duty 2 which was a big hit along with the new X-box 
 console. Although there have been many reports of a bad shipment incedent which had screwed up 
 the X-box 360's which then resulted in "scratched" hardware which messed up the X-box 360 in different 
 ways like when people played games the graphics where all screwed up which made it seem like the 
 games where screwed up but it was actually the system. Also because of this the results where a 
 crap load of angry people returning their X-box 360's after spending all that money..... and not 
 being able to play Call of Duty 2 on their X-box 360. its such a shame because the graphics are 
 way better compared to what we have now. Well if you have played the first one then you already 
 know that this game is a war game. Well i dont have much to say because i dont own it or a X-box 
 360 and havent played it as much. 
  
  Peace
  -in case anyone says that my info is different please tell me-SpUnKy06 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thepeach101
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 6, 2006 7:45 pm PT
Review:  This game is incredibly impressive, especially in its single player perspective. Although it isn't 
 that long, it can still last you quite a bit, especially since it isn't always the same.
  
  Controls
  They're pretty good, with the grenades actually well placed... They fell pretty good... 
 All I think they could have placed better would be the melee attack.
  9/10
  
  Graphics
  These Graphics are actually very good, for current gen games.... They are very good, don't get me 
 wrong, but they could be better.
  7/10
  
  Gameplay
  Where this game leads all.... Lots of fun
  Single Player 9.7/10
  Multiplayer could be better, 
 though it can be fun.... its a little too easy to kill someone 8/10
  
  Longetivity
  Could have been longer, but, if you replay it in veteran, which will take some time, unless you're 
 really good, then it will take some time to beat.... It's still a lot of fun to replay levels.
 
  8.8/10
  
  Overall
  9.1/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmanndriver
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 6, 2006 5:53 pm PT
Review:  From the amazing graphics to the stunning sounds "Call of Duty 2 "is one of the best WW2 games 
 that i have ever laid hands on. 
  The way the AI's move, shoot, and plan is above and beyond what i would expect to get from this 
 game. But when you've been shooting Germans for 4 hours straight you expect the game to deliver 
 and it did. 
  The only downfalls of this game is the how laggy the online play is and how few levels there are. 
 I expect to see more levels soon though. The biggest improvement that i would like to see in this 
 game would be less laggy servers. That's why i gave it an 8.9 out of 10. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lghtsbr
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 6, 2006 3:48 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2, a FPS based on the events in WWII is one of the greatest games I have ever played. 
 It looks great, has a nice asortment of weapons, and the online play is to die for. Althought this 
 game is great, it still could've added a few extra things, that to my knowledge, wouldn't be too 
 hard to incorperate. Firstly, this game should have 2 player campaign, 2nd player could just be 
 a soldier, no one special, like 1st player (Davis) . The map assortment was perfect for the multiplayer 
 modes, but I felt there could've been 1 or 2 more. Lastly, this game should have bots enabled for 
 offline, or even online multiplayer play. 4 people in 1 arena all day can get boring, and with 
 this games suggesting you need 'tactics' then having 4 friends to play against hard difficulty 
 bots would be something fun. Otherwise this game moves us forward in WWII gaming, and had some 
 great voice acting, besides, its just plain fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killab2oo5
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 6, 2006 3:14 pm PT
Review:  This game at the moment is simply the best game on Xbox360. The story is deep and engaging, the sound 
 effects and voice overs are perfect, the graphics are somewhat photo  
 designed GREAT. You can drive tanks, and use all diffrent kind of weapons, and get to be in a ton 
 of enviroments, very inovative game. The whole enviroment of the game is simply astonishing! Being 
 able to play it on the oh so powerful 360, with the perfect controller is great. The online play 
 could've been alot better though. This game is a must buy. Can't wait for the next one on the 360, which 
 will be using more than just one of the Xbox360's cores, which means better graphics and sound. This 
 game is perfect,10 out of 10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Madskillz999
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 6, 2006 12:51 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 takes you into the trenches of World War II, starting with the frozen tundra of 
 Russia under attack. High realism levels really draw you into the combat. 
  
  You start out as a raw Russian recruit, in the freezing winter of Moscow, trying to learn how to 
 use a rifle and stave off the impending Nazi take-over. You only get a few moments of training 
 before you're sent out into combat to defend your home town. 
  
  The graphics are a really nice mix of realistic scenery and helpful gameplay. Items you need will 
 glow gold so that they're easy to find. A compass on your display will point your way to important 
 objectives. Your ammo, health and other indicators are easy to find. 
  
  But in the meantime, your main screen graphics are really quite impressive. From the brickwork 
 on the buildings to the smoke-grenade haze, from the uniforms on your friends and enemies, the 
 quality on a HD TV is quite impressive. The widescreen view lets you keep an eye all around you 
 while you move your way through hostile territory. You try to focus while you hear the screams, 
 calls, bullet blasts and grenade booms landing all around you. It's like being in a warzone, which 
 of course it is. 
  
  Your teammates are all around you, and they do their best to help you out. Like you, many of them 
 are raw recruits and not very good at things. As you move forward, they get more skilled, as do 
 you. You learn how to pause before aiming, how to use cover and to approach your objective with 
 stealth. 
  
  I do wish that you could have more than 8 simultaneous players online during Xbox Live. The single 
 player games are great, but of course they don't last forever. When you get through them, the next 
 step is to start playing online to face a "real challenge" with live players. The game would be 
 SUPERB if it let you play large squad on large squad. Maybe that could come with future upgrades. 
 Still, at least playing with 8 people lets you keep enjoying the graphics, the gameplay and the 
 skill set. It's always far more challenging to play against live players rather than playing against 
 a computer set. Computers are great for training, but live players are where the long term enjoyment 
 of a game shines through. 
  
  Highly recommended for war game lovers, especially those who enjoy squad-type combat. If you hook 
 up with a team of like-minded online players, this could provide for countless months of online 
 fun, as you face your squad against other highly skilled teams. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Goodfella1992
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 6, 2006 12:19 pm PT
Review:  I own Call Of duty 2 Myself And I have Won the entire game In only A day, The graphics Are pretty 
 good, But, I saw some screenshots of Ps3 First Person Shooters, And the graphics are Killer, They 
 look Much better Then any of Xbox 360 Games, I've Already put a preOrder with Sony And I should 
 Be getting Myne Some time in March, And I dont Know Why Xbox Is Making All of these SciFi First 
 Person Shooters, I like Shooters to be realistic with real weapons, Not some funny looking gun 
 thats shoots Blue and red Lazers, They should make More historic and Modern shooters in my opnion, But 
 Overall Im pretty Happy with Call of duty 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcgillmaine01
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 6, 2006 12:11 pm PT
Review:  COD is one of the best games to launch with Xbox 360. It has the one of the best story modes to 
 date. And has great MP (without the lag) this game has set the bar for other shooters.
  
  The Game play in the "HD" era should be on another level. COD is at that level. The Overall feel 
 to this game is War. I say that because most games are just run n gun with the "war" theme. COD 
 really puts you into the time zone and whets going on. The AI is very good. Yes this could be labeled 
 as "run n gun" but to a limit. If you play on hard you will see real life things going on. The 
 computer will try and flank while pinning you down with gun fire. So many things go on that makes 
 it feel like a real war. 
  
  The Graphics are at there best. Using to power of the 360 COD is all eye candy. From the movement 
 of everyone to the stages looking so real. What more can you ask for. You see snow, sun rays, and 
 dirt from bullets. It's just a great looking game.
  
  Sound has become a must with games, and if you have a nice setup you will get the best out of this 
 game. You will hear where the enemies are coming from and you will always hear something going 
 on in the back ground. Great sound in the voice dept from VO's to solders telling you where to 
 fire at.
  
  COD has 8 players MP on live. Which I thought should have been more. But it does well. Only thing 
 bad bout this game online is the crazy amount of lag. 9 out of 10 times you will run into some 
 lag. It gets so bad at times where you cant move. And if there's no update in the works then this 
 could be bad in the long run. But if you get passed the lag issues. Then you have a great game 
 on line. Then there's always the good ol' split screen with 3 other people.
  
  Overall this is one of the best games on 360 and it a must buy for any fan of shooters or War games.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: casteye
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 6, 2006 8:57 am PT
Review:  i played call of duty 2 on xbox 360 like a week ago, and I have to share the magnificent time I 
 had playing it with you. Call of Duty 2 is a remarkable first-person shooter, with stunning details 
 and graphics. I was immediately hooked, when I first put that sleek 360 controller in my hands, 
 and I know you'll be too. I thought that, with all the amazing grafix for this game, it would be 
 mind-blowing. and very good detailed. all i can say is that i loved this game more than any other 
 game. i would recomend this game to anybody becouse its just that good.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: w0lftrap
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 6, 2006 7:29 am PT
Review:  This game by far lives up to everything ive ever dreamed of in a WWII game. Great story, definitly 
 grabbed the constant fun in every level.... the replay value is awesome because of Xbox Lives new 
 Achievments .... and theres nothing cooler than being blown through a wall by a panzer then realizing 
 your still alive and crawling to safety. Or running through a ventilation shaft only to see bullet 
 holes flying through it and your buddys being shot to ****
  By far the greatest wwii video game out there to this day. had to love the mission where you running 
 under serious fire to blow up that building on russians... DDay with the americans. Pure Gold here 
 everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: southvike22
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 6, 2006 1:27 am PT
Review:  True story- Almost everytime i played Call of Duty 2, about every 30 minutes my eyes started to 
 hurt, nothing to the point of the E. room but most definitly something of a distraction. At first 
 i had no idea what was going on, i had not had this happan to me ever when playing a video game 
 in my life and ive played thousands !!!!!!
  I wasnt sitting to close to the telivision and the room wasnt but the least dark..... suddenly i 
 realized what was going on !!!!!! I wasnt blinking at all once so ever ...... and not blinking 
 means my eyes were very moist the reason my friends is the simple fact that this is in a class 
 of gaming that can only be discribed as the better portion of history.
  Not closing my eyes was wierd for the fact that for the 4 trillion other WW2 video games i have 
 trouble keeping my eyes open. So why is this any different ?????? 
  Its not just the wow factor i get from next gen. graphics. From cities to rural villages, the scale 
 of each leval is impressive, although close up and indoors things look like a great great xbox 1 
 title. The game never looks bad by any means but its not a great game for the graphics.
  No what makes call so special is the a. i. they make great use of thier surroundings and take advantage 
 of any oppurtune moment they might have to take you down. Same with your a. i. teamates they are 
 the smartest ive ever had they actully dodge grenades that might not seem like much but oh can 
 you can 10 games that you can say that for ??? Its the little things that really make it shine 
 and oh how bout that online its on par with halo in terms of depth and fun yes if your still reading 
 this kick yourself in the ass and go buy this game worth the 60 bucks of admission !!!!!!! 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dethshoot
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 5, 2006 4:21 pm PT
Review:  Another great launch title. World War 2 is the theme of many, MANY games. The Call of Duty series 
 are one of the only ones who get it right. When I finished Call of Duty 1 i thought there would 
 never be a better WW2 game, then I played this. The intense singleplayer, fun online, immersive 
 graphics all packed into one game. Single player leads you over many big battles. The best is probably 
 Hill 400. The only dissapointing thing in this game is the ending. Other Call of Duty games ended 
 with a big battle. This one... ok size battle. That doesnt matter though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: md123
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 5, 2006 1:03 pm PT
Review:  Summary of plot-Basically this is a WW2 shooter, where you take the role of three different soldiers 
 over 3 campaigns. 
  
  Gameplay-The game contains three campaigns which are Russian, British and American each of them 
 you are a different soldier. The game plays pretty much like any other shooter in the sense of 
 aiming etc. Although with it being more of a simulation the realism of the game is top priority 
 and boy is it realistic. Those who are familiar with shooters will find this easy to pickup and 
 should really go for the Hardened difficulty and if they feel up to it they should really go for 
 Veteran which will test your skills to the max as you can not get shot too many times before you 
 die. One thing which sets this out as unique is that in the Call Of Duty series there are no health 
 packs whatsoever, in this game once you have been shot a few times the screen will go red and you 
 must gain cover and wait until the screen clears and you will be fine, you may think this makes 
 the game easier but as I have said I would recommend going on the Hardened difficulty as you may 
 not even get to cover!. The realism is again highlighted in the way you must look down the site 
 of the gun and that you must hold your breath in order to get steady aim whilst sniping. The AI 
 in this game is very good too as enemies will get to cover, perform suppression fire, throw grenade 
 etc to keep you on your toes. 
  
  Graphics-The graphics are beautiful, one of the best looking games out on the 360 at the moment. 
 Explosions and smoke look as they should, especially the smoke as once your in it you can't see 
 anything, of course your enemies can't see anything either . Enemies/Allies and the enviroments 
 are very sharp. On a HDTV this game must look an absolute dream. 
  
  Sound-The sound is as you would expect from a WW2 shooter real weapons and their sounds are very 
 well reproduced, enemies/allies speak in their countries language which all adds to the effect 
 and realism of this game. The musical score fits in well with the game also as the music you hear 
 you would usually expect to hear in a high budget movie. 
  
  Good Points-Fast, Beautiful, Realistic, a rather lengthy campaign (on the higher difficulties especially) , 
 real weapons and sounds. 
  
  Bad Points-Unfortunately there is a maximum of 8 players online and it does tend to lag a lot, 
 although these may become fixed in the near future. 
  
  Score: 9/10 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hsconnection
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 5, 2006 11:59 am PT
Review:  With the launch of any new console, you run the risk of having some pretty shabby looking launch 
 games to go along with it. Some of these launch games lack depth, content, and replayablility to 
 say the least. This is because the games are rushed thru stages of development to meet a deadline 
 they aren't necessarily ready for. As a result of this, the quality of the game suffers. As a consumer, 
 you might feel that some of these games were made just as a cash crop rather than for customer 
 satisfaction. Thankfully, Call of Duty 2 for the Xbox 360 does not really fall into this category.... well.... ok, 
 it does a little.
  
  COD2 certainly gives you a first impression of what to expect games to look like on the 360. Among 
 all the launch titles out there, COD2 really packs in the value of your buck in many ways. It separates 
 itself by having quality gameplay, top notch sound, and visually stunning effects and environments. 
 The game features an objective based single player campaign that stretches on 3 different WWII 
 fronts. You'll start out fighting the Nazi's on the side of the Soviet Union. Some of these missions 
 will have you reliving some of the better moments from the film Enemy at the Gate (like sniping 
 Nazi's while walking thru a train yard via abandoned pipeline) . Other campaigns will lead you into 
 Africa playing as the English and the US allied D-day invasion of France. These 3 fronts give you 
 a nice variety of environments that really shine on the 360.
  
  COD2 offers a forgiving range of difficulty settings that can easily adapt to any player. The "Easy" 
 difficulty can be played thru tactical-free by just running and gunning your way to your objectives. 
 This give the game an arcade-like feel by allowing you to take huge amounts of damage before you 
 die. Playing on Veteran difficulty will change the way you play the game by making the player make 
 tactical smart decisions and taking cover at every turn. One stray bullet can end your life. This 
 difficulty setting is geared more toward tactical shooter fans. This range of difficulty doesn't 
 change enemy AI or their bullet tolerance but rather changes the amount of damage your character 
 can take. This is great because COD2 can be liked by run-n-gun or tactical shooter fans alike. 
 Not many FPS's can pull this off but COD2 does it very well.
  
  The single player campaign has very few flaws or shortcomings to really complain about. Sometimes 
 switching positions from walk/run, prone, and kneeling can be kind of awkward. You have one button 
 to toggle between the 3 and sometimes you will go prone when you mean to kneel. Problem is, this 
 can be the difference between life and death so it can get aggravating when you try to go prone 
 but you notice you did not hold the button down long enough. Also the overall game tends to still 
 run in a "linear" fashion meaning you still cant free-roam the WWII battlefields to devise your 
 own battle strategy to meet your objectives. Running in to a pile of rubble you can't climb or 
 a closed door you can't open takes some creativity away from your gameplay experience. As a 360 
 owner, you'd have hoped that games would abandoned this kind of "invisible wall" type of mentality 
 but COD2 proves that it still exists. 
  
  On a good note, firing weapons in COD2 is very satisfying. Great sound affects and awesome visuals 
 contribute to some awesome gun battles during the campaign. As you don't have a huge assortment 
 of weapons on hand, you have plenty of them to keep you happy. There is nothing you haven't seen 
 before in any of the weapons on hand but you've never seem them look so good before! Smoke grenades 
 play a big role in mission success as they really do hinder the enemy. You wont find the AI shooting 
 you thru a smoke screen like its not even there as one might fear. COD2 does an excellent job making 
 smoke an added tactical option in times of distress and besides, the smoke looks great!
  
  You'll find that the game will take an average player about 8-10 hours to play thru on an easy 
 difficulty. Double that for the veteran difficulty due to slower gameplay (for tactical reasons) . 
 This might seem like a short campaign but it's really not. The replayablility of this game is there 
 with many of the missions being memberable and unique from one another. You never get that feeling 
 of repetitiveness in the environments. Once you complete a mission you can go back to it at anytime 
 and choose to play it on a different difficulty setting. 
  
  The online multiplayer experience in COD2 is anything but satisfying however. Playing and meeting 
 with your friends and configuring your own game types are totally lost. You pretty much choose 
 your gametype from the likes of Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, CTF, and a couple other objective 
 based games then your thrown into a random pre-game lobby. Players can't even stay with party members 
 after a match. You are simply just tossed back into random rotation again. The game itself plays 
 great once your playing but with only 8 players allowed in a match at one time, you'll find yourself 
 wishing for bigger battles and more teammates and enemies. 
  
  Everyone once and a while lag becomes an issue. When lag sets in this game becomes unplayable. 
 With a game like COD2 online, accuracy is everything. The lag makes your character bounce around 
 the screen and makes aiming horrendous. Hopefully this will be patched and/or fixed in the future 
 but for now lag remains to be a huge problem online. Sometimes the lag is so bad you won't even 
 make it into the prename lobby and gives you a fat "Cannot Join Server" message. This happens more 
 often during peak nighttime hours when lag is at its worst. If you can find a lag-free game and 
 have fun with the random people your introduced to in the pregame, then this game plays great online. 
 Environments and characters still look just as good online as they do in the single player campaign. 
 I'm not understanding why developers aren't taking notes from the success Bungie has had online 
 and model their online multiplayer games like that!
  
  Another beef I had is the lack of online Co-op play. This seems to be a perfect game to run thru 
 with a friend over Xbox Live. When going thru the game in single player mode you are constantly 
 escorted by endless waves of fellow soldiers to help you out giving the player that "hey, I'm a 
 small part of a big team effort" feeling. Maybe I'm crazy but co-op play is what WWII shooters 
 are all about! When are they going to get that part right? Hopefully Activision gets it right next 
 time and pursues online play possibilities a little more seriously.
  
  All in all, COD2 is a great game and probably the best out of all launch titles that came out with 
 the 360. If your a FPS fan of any kind you probably want to buy this game. The only thing that 
 makes this game a rental would be its shortcomings in the online multiplayer games. This really 
 does hurt it's overall value and a big reason why you might just want to rent it. Even still, COD2 
 has some great eye candy and satisfying action that can be replayed and enjoyed time and time again. 
 If you can handle some frustrations online and see thru it's minor deformities, COD2 is a great 
 FPS game to check out.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SteelersDJM
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 5, 2006 11:27 am PT
Review:  Madden 06 was my 1st 360 game. After di-secting Madden and getting to the roots I bacame quite 
 disapointed in this game after the great graphics had worn off. So I said to myself its definatley 
 time for another game. I decided on COD2. First I went to my local GameStop... Sold Out... Then I 
 traveled to my local Wal-mart... Sold Out.... Then I called Electronic Boutiques.... Sold Out.... Finally 
 I found a copy at Best Buy and I've been playing ever since. The 1st thing you want to do when 
 you slap in COD2 is turn the difficulty setting up to Hardened or Veteran. This makes the game 
 so much more fun and challenging. The gameplay is fresh with the missions changing locations. The 
 graphics and sound on the 360 are A+. This game really makes you feel like your in a time machine. 
 The price should be $49.95 no doubt, like all launch titles should be. I haven't seen a game yet 
 that can justify the $59.95 price tag. All in all this is a fun game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IG_Nic
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 5, 2006 4:57 am PT
Review:  World War II is to games as love is to songs - it's everybody's favorite subject. Game developers 
 love it because they can cram their products full of violence and market them to teens, and gamers 
 love them because they can scratch their mass-murderer and hero itches at the same time.
  
  We, on the other hand, are not their biggest fans, but still have to admit that Activision's Call 
 of Duty 2 is a very good shooter. So cinematic it should come with popcorn, the game immerses you 
 in exciting and intense confrontations with Nazis while everything  people, planes and buildings 
  explodes around you. The production values are unrivaled and the ambience is impressive, but 
 we've still seen this flick a hundred times before.
  
  That doesn't mean you should pass on the Milk Duds, though. This may come from the same cookie 
 cutter as its predecessors, but it's got frosting and sprinkles like you wouldn't believe and is 
 sure to sate your anti-anti-Semite sweet tooth.
  
  You'll begin as a Russian soldier defending Stalingrad, then switch to a British officer in Africa, 
 before baking the last of Germany's goods in Europe, American style. Each force has three big campaigns, 
 between which are some bland news reels and little journal entries urging the story along. Not 
 that it matters much - simple objectives here and there root your unhealthy obsession in something 
 vaguely wholesome and heroic, like repairing telephone wires and destroying weapons caches, but 
 ultimately, the entire point and plot is to kill Nazis.
  
  Unending carnage plus great graphics, minus plot and character makes this game feels a lot psychotic. 
 A touch of morality or humanity  like your chatty squadmates in Brothers in Arms or even Call 
 of Duty 2: Big Red One  would have gone a long way toward lightening the tone of this relentlessly, 
 realistically violent game. I guess war is hell, but wars also have more rhyme and reason than 
 just murdering the enemy in droves (uh, current conflict notwithstanding) .
  
  The Call of Duty games are famous for carrying players through Nazi haunted houses of such visceral 
 thrills and dazzling effects, they forget they're moving along a track through a predetermined 
 route. After running through bombed out buildings or bunkers, you inevitably come to open fields 
 or train yards where Axis and Allied forces are embroiled in huge firefights. These pitched battles 
 have always been a mainstay of the series, but now they're bigger than ever before. You and what 
 seems like legions of your troops will attempt to travel from one end of a battleground to another, 
 taking cover and thinning the German resistance in your way. If you hang back and snipe enough 
 Nazis, your troops will eventually take ground by themselves, or you can charge up and secure a 
 point after which your fellows will follow.
  
  The controls are basic. You move and aim with the mouse and keyboard, shoot with one button, aim 
 down your sights with another, and can easily toss smoke and frag grenades, crouch, lie prone, 
 stand, melee attack, and reload with simple keystrokes. Unlike the Xbox 360 version, you can lean 
 around corners to take shots at foes without exposing yourself. The scheme is complete, if a little 
 too familiar.
  
  The new video game vogue is the Halo health system, and Call of Duty 2 picks this trend up and 
 puts it to fashionable use. If you take too much damage at once you'll die, otherwise all your 
 health will regenerate. Of course, there's no shield meter in the bottom corner; instead, you'll 
 know you're close to death when the screen starts flashing red and your guy starts breathing heavily.
 
  
  When you aren't pressing the attack and advancing your territory, you're defending it, and this 
 is where the game's weak A. I. really starts to drag its knuckles. The Nazis, for all their organization 
 and proclaimed brilliance, can't launch an attack up a flight of stairs or through a doorway to 
 save their lives. Oh, they'll pitch a grenade if they see you waiting for them, but if that fails 
 (and it always does thanks to your handy grenade warning indicator) , they're screwed.
  
  Your mates seem much more capable, but that's probably because they have you climbing stairs and 
 entering doorways for them. You're conspicuously on your own even though you're routinely surrounded 
 by up to a dozen friendly soldiers. You can't give commands, yell warnings or otherwise influence 
 the behavior of your allies in any way, shape or form. They're pretty good about warning you, though, 
 and will call out if they spot a grenade or a sniper.
  
  Aside from attacking and defending, Call of Duty 2 mixes in some unusual sequences and mini-games. 
 You'll crawl through piping and assassinate hapless enemy soldiers, drive tanks, call in artillery 
 strikes and even scale cliffs while bullets rain down around you. These sequences provide needed 
 and refreshing breaks from the constant firefights, keeping the game well-paced and easy to enjoy.
 
  
  Once you've played through the campaign missions, which should take a reasonable ten hours, your 
 offline tour of duty will probably be over. Call of Duty 2 is playable a second time because, well, 
 killing Nazis is endlessly fun and satisfying, but it isn't very challenging, and most of the immersive 
 magic wears thin on a second trip. That's when Call of Duty 2's online play enters the fray.
  
  Other than Deathmatches and Capture the Flag, the match types don't gel particularly well with 
 many of the maps. In one, you're supposed to stand in your opponent's base for a set amount of 
 time while you supposedly set up a bomb, except that you aren't actually standing in anything that 
 looks like a base, just some random piece of war-ravaged earth the game decides belongs to the 
 other team. It's far from exciting multiplayer content, but the fact that it looks good and runs 
 smooth with up to 32 players on a server certainly makes this version recommendable over the Xbox 
 360's 8-player matches.
  
  The graphics, on the other hand, are exciting. The environments are richly detailed with no noticeable 
 repeating textures, motes of sand and snow float and flicker throughout, explosions look convincing, 
 and the soldiers are practically photorealistic. On top of that, the framerate is solid and fast 
 and the animations are incredibly varied, especially the death animations. These guys die like 
 Shakespearean actors, dragging themselves across floors with their fingernails, taking last ditch 
 shots at you, and then arching their backs dramatically upon expiring. Did we mention this game 
 was rated T for Teen?
  
  Well, we should, because this is actually one of the most violent, disturbing shooters on the market. 
 From start to finish, the game is a million bloody, convincing death throes, one after the other. 
 You'll almost feel sorry for the Nazis.
  
  And they even scream in pain and let out realistic death rattles! It's hard to say Call of Duty 
 2 sounds as good as it looks, but it sure doesn't sound any worse. The guns, voices and music are 
 all top notch. This game's presentation is terrific.
  
  But instead of rising above the teeming masses of World War II games and declaring itself far superior, 
 Call of Duty 2 seems content to chill with the proletariat. It delivers unbelievable graphics and 
 more cathartic chaos than you can shoot a luger at, but has something of a dumb head on its shoulders, 
 an overly simple control scheme and busies itself providing greater densities of the same old content 
 without doing anything new. Here's hoping they make some significant changes, but keep the same 
 cinematic feel and pacing, for World War III. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaveyBoy123
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 5, 2006 2:03 am PT
Review:  Call Of Duty 2, From Infinity Ward and Activision, Will Have You Throwing Your Controller In Frustration, 
 While Checking Behind Your Back In Fear Of The German Infrantry. Being one of the first x360 games 
 on the market, you would expect so so graphics, and shaky gameplay, but that is not the case with 
 this game, well, except for some minor graphics, such as debres on the ground, witch are jaggy-central.
 
  One of the major things that 360 reps braged about on this game is the AI, and in my opinion, 
 its not that great... for your allies. apperantly sitting and shaking in fear over a live granade 
 will not kill you. but on the plus side, they are good aims, and can wipe a room clean of the nazis 
 so you dont have to get mowed down, and revert back to a checkpoint.
  The realism on this game is great, accept for the fact that on normal you can take 50 shots from 
 an inplaced gun, MG42's, and not die, but die fron a few body shots of a germans mp40. another 
 unrealistic part of this game is the health system, if you get filled with led from an MG42, you 
 can justs take cover and heal up with out medpacks. o. O freaky.
  over all, this game is a must buy for xbox owners. your in for a hard fight on verterin difficulty, 
 youve been warned
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: User_13
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 4, 2006 7:21 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 for the X-BOX 360 is one of the most amazing 360 titles out there right now. Call 
 of Duty really delivers in other spots the previous COD titles seemed to lack in. The must-play 
 shooter for the 360 packs quite the punch.
  
  Lets start with the gameplay. The gameplay really has improved in COD2. Your character moves a 
 lot smoother than in other COD titles, and your allies have received a brain jolt, because theyre 
 now way smarter than previous allies. The A. I. is relentless in their attacks, your allies will 
 do everything in their power to stop them, and the game runs smoothly on the 360. There are some 
 bits of lag on the PC version though. Your allies are very useful in combat, calling out enemy 
 positions and doing a very good job at taking them out.
  
  Your allies can sometimes be stupid though. Ive had a few instances when my allies tried to throw 
 a grenade at the enemy but ended up throwing it at me instead. Sometimes your buddies will just 
 charge across the street in the path of incoming enemy fire and get mowed down. There are none 
 if very rarely friendly fire incidents, which is very good.
  
  There is no health bar in COD2. You really never know when youre really hurt until the edges of 
 your screen turn red. Red means take cover or you will die. After taking cover and sitting for 
 a few seconds, your health just goes right back to normal, which isnt too fun, but it gets rid 
 of some annoying health bar indicators.
  
  The physics are very good in COD2. If you shoot a German soldier in the leg, hell react to it 
 in a realistic way, and really look like hes in pain. Enemies dont just stand there like bullet 
 magnets; they take cover, use grenades, and lay down suppressive fire on your position when youre 
 not popping up to shoot them. Its very fun to play on the easier difficulties because, obviously, 
 its easy. The game actually does get pretty tough when played on the top two highest difficulties 
 though, and even the last difficulty says you wont survive.
  
  The graphics really use the 360s power, and this is arguably the best looking 360 title out now. 
 The faces are very detailed, as are the weapons. Smoke grenades actually look really good in COD2, 
 and provide a very big smokescreen for you to advance through, or for your enemies to hide in. 
 The environments are stunning, and you may find yourself just stopping and looking around at the 
 beautiful looking environment when youre not under heavy enemy fire.
  
  The sound really is the best part of this game. The explosions echo across the battlefield, bullets 
 zip in every direction, and soldiers yell out enemy positions. The Germans yell wildly as they 
 attack you, your allies may even do a battle cry here and there. Yes, the muffled sound is back 
 when you are near an explosion, dont worry.
  
  So, overall, its a must-buy for all FPS/war fans. This game will delight all with an itchy trigger 
 finger. Hey, even if youre looking for a new game to play for your PC or 360, give COD2 a look. 
 Its worth playing and really is fun when played online. The 360s first war game is definitely 
 a game of great prestige. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: flipboy25
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 4, 2006 6:39 pm PT
Review:  Man this is the best world war 2 game i have ever played. i just wish is was longer. the U. S campaign 
 could of have been longer i thought. but i would give this game a 10. I love the ai in this not 
 only the enemy ai but the team mate ai is great they cover you and kill . not just get in the way. 
 the smoke in this game looks so real i could not believe it. you need to have a HD tv for this 
 that for shure. the onlie is great too. a little bit of lag but its always a problem. it would 
 of been nice ot have more than just 8 people a game. it would be so sweet to have a big 12 on 12 
 battles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RandomTask221
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 4, 2006 5:43 pm PT
Review:  I don't feel like typing, so I will make this short. The online is VERY amazing, it might be the 
 best single player game I have ever played... ever. Yea, its that good, and it makes you feel like 
 you are actually there. That is the good part of this review, so if you don't have Xbox Live, stop 
 now and go and buy it because after this sentence, I'm gunna bash the online. 
  
   Of No 
 
  
  Ok, Like I said, the single player is great, very amazing. The online side of this game is simply 
 horrible, wile the single player is the best I have ever played, the online of COD2 is the worst 
 I have ever played out of ANY online game. The features suck, just simply suck horribly. There 
 is not create a match, so playing with your friends is a joke, because its impossible to find a 
 room with no people in it and invite your friends without it filling up in 2 seconds. The Lag is 
 just unplayable and that is one reason I don't play online anymore, its not just regular lag, its 
 extreme harcore lag with no stopping at all. 
  
  Single Player = Buy this game now.
  
  Online = If you are just buying it for this, DON'T! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: garand13
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 4, 2006 5:14 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty: 2 for Xbox 360 and PC and other various consoles, is the top of the line. The graphics 
 on the 360 are incredible, even if you don't use a Hi-Def TV. Same with CoD:2 for PC. The story 
 line is very very creative. It is very realist, but not so much that it isn't just as fun. The 
 AI is very smart. There is a wide variety of weapons. Xbox live and multiplayer for PC is very 
 interactive and very addicting. The top-of-the-line graphics, the sound, the game play, and overall 
 intensity will blow you away. Unless you like being very bored and hate video games, this game 
 is a MUST if you have Xbox 360. BUY IT. I highly recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skillz0
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 4, 2006 5:01 pm PT
Review:  Graphics are incredible. It could be better but quite good for beeing one of the first games in 
 cataloge. The playabality of this game keeps you entertained for hours. Really entertainfull. I 
 really recommend this game. The only thing is a bit not on the same level is the online play. Could 
 be lot better in that case needs a bit of more action. But except for that is amazing. In that 
 way you can't waist the oportunity to play this 2nd world war  
 All........... NOTHING ELSE TO SAY NOTHING ELSE TO SAY NOTHING ELSE TO SAYNOTHING ELSE TO SAYNOTHING 
 ELSE TO SAY NOTHING ELSE TO SAY NOTHING ELSE TO SAY NOTHING ELSE TO SAYNOTHING ELSE TO SAYNOTHINNOTHING 
 ELSE TO SAY NOTHING ELSE TO SAY NOTHING ELSE TO SAYNOTHING ELSE TO SAYNOTHING ELSE TO SAY G ELSE 
 TO SAY NOTHING ELSE TO SAY NOTHING ELSE TO SAY NOTHING ELSE TO SAYNOTHING ELSE TO SAYNOTHING ELSE 
 TO SAY 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kbray
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 4, 2006 2:00 pm PT
Review:  This is my first xbox 360 game review and i have to say that i love the 360. This game is awesome. 
 The graphics, to the explosions and the overall general atmosphere of the game sets the game platform 
 one step higher. No other WWII game has ever reached this level of atmosphere, and thats what sells 
 this game. Bullets flying, explosions, people dying all over the place all around you, all the 
 time. Its a true sight to behold. Once you play this game for the first time and you actually feel 
 like you are under attack, its a true gaming experience. I highly recommend this game to anyone 
 13 years of age or older, it has a true adult theme to it. COD2 has good replay value, the artificial 
 intelligence is really good. All in all this game is a definite must play for any fan of the genre, 
 and in my book its truly an excellent first wave title. Anyone who misses or disses this game DO 
 NOT know what they are missing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameSnake89
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 29, 2006 9:06 am PT
Review:  This game is a great game its fun and fast. the graphics are good and the scale is good to. some 
 of the levels are a bit unsatisfying and i think even tho the scale is good i would have liked 
 to see a lot more people in the battle to make it truly epic. Next, i was very disapointed with 
 no co-op and the multiplayer is laggy but, if you get a good game it can truly be fun. the sound 
 in the game and its very easy to get into and a very good ww2 game in a crowded ganra. If you have 
 Hd and sround sound and you turn that suker up you have the most aswome exsperience EVER 
::::::

::::::
UserName: speedygride
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 4, 2006 10:30 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 tops it predecessor in every way. The gameplay mechanics, sound, visuals, and just 
 about everything else is amazing. Yeah, there are a lot of WWII shooters out there but this game 
 does the best in giving you that feeling (or what i would assume) it would feel like actually being 
 in the war. The AI is incredible with both your team and the opposition realizing to take cover 
 and use higher ground, etc. This game really pulls you in to the whole experience and for a genre 
 that is getting as tired as this one, this game really keeps you playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hbkbryan
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 4, 2006 10:22 am PT
Review:  Very good game but not as good as it seems single player better the  
 Very good game i recommend it!!!!!!!!!! Get it if you dont have any other war games it is also for 
 gamecube which made me happy but the muiltiplayer is a little diappointing. Very good  
 ... . .. . .. .. . .. ..  . . .. .. 
 .. . . .. . ... GREATGREAT GRAET GREAT GREAT d fds fds fd s fd fds fds fgs fd s ff g gr e gf d 
 g fdfddgfgdfgd gf e gd f fg f dh h f hgghfd h hgf hg hfd hg gf h df h td fd fg g gfd d f dreyh 
 hjk j k k gj i h n gh g h j e w s a d a f a sf ds 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lordkintendo
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jan 4, 2006 8:30 am PT
Review:  playing this on the Xbox360 was a waste of my time. its the same thing over and over. same with the 
 PC version and the online play was a boring reiterating experience that was nothing to rave about. i 
 had a good time playing this for the first 2 hours then it was same old same old. the sound was 
 fantastice and really brought you into the game and made you feel like you where in it and graphics 
 where good on Xbox360 and PC but the movement of the people was stupid. it looked as if they had 
 sticks up there buts and when i shot them i didnt really like the animations. good game but not 
 for the price, i would wait for the price to go down to $30. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GBHopkins
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 4, 2006 5:11 am PT
Review:  Besides the length of the game (6-8 hrs) Call of Duty 2 is fantastic. The game seems to have good 
 replay value, because the action is so fast paced you are not on a level long enough to get to 
 know its layout.
  
  The gameplay is fun and you get a sense of teamwork with your fellow soldiers. They seem to watch 
 your back and saved me in many occasions.
  
  As a FPS goes this is a really fun game and I recommend anyone to play it. You may want to rent 
 it due to how short it is, but as I said it does have some replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackLaser2
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 3, 2006 11:32 pm PT
Review:  What a fun fun game. My friend got xbox 360 for the 'holidays' and this was the first game he bought. 
 Wow is it great. The graphics look amazing and say a guy jumps out and shoots you. You will wet 
 yourself out of fear. It is almost eerie when you die or get snuck up on. The game features an 
 interesting concept that you don't actually have health. This may seem dumb, but if you think about 
 it, these are long levels, if you had limited health you wouldn't make it anywhere. Intensely realisticand 
 the best shooter I have eveer played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: donut349
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 3, 2006 7:51 pm PT
Review:  In Call of Duty 2's 27 missions, you will be put in the shoes of different soldiers fighting in 
 Allied fronts/skirmishes. Before each mission you play, you get a bit of a "history lesson video" 
 to find out more of the mission and its importance.
  
  You start off in the Russian Campaign fighting off the invading Germans in the snowy urban setting 
 of Stalingrad and Moscow. This is where you get a brief tutorial with just the basics, even throwing 
 "potatoes". After the Russian Campaign, Youre able to play the British. 
  
  In the British Campaign youll be put in deserts of North Africa fighting Field Marshal Rommel's 
 soldiers. Then, after the British you play the Americans. 
  
  You will be doing a D-Day landing on sheer cliffs of Pointe du Hoc. As you land on Pointe du Hoc 
 artillery and machine-gun fire is rained down upon you bringing chaos to you and the soldiers around 
 you.
  
  You can blow through this game in 10 hours... on Regular. But you get more of an experience when 
 you play on the hardest difficulty. Also your not thrown in a mission and expected to go "Rambo" 
 on the Germans, If your allies die more come as back-up, the same rules go for the Germans (unless 
 you advance) .
  
  The Graphics for this game are amazing. At one point of Russian campaign youre prompted to crawl 
 in trenches where you actually see German Tanks driving over the trenches. The smoke grenades are 
 another great example for the graphics, they also are good use. You can toss one between you and 
 a machine gun nest or block the view of a sniper.
  
  The sound affects are remarkable for this game as well. The sounds of "bullet ripples", frag grenades 
 going off, Alarms in the distance, and Airplanes from above, sound amazing!
  
  This is one game you should own if you have or are currently planning on getting a XBOX 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elements_poster
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 3, 2006 4:41 pm PT
Review:  
  Call of Duty 2 is a great game. with the amazing graphics, Great sound, and extremely smart AI, 
 you will feel like your really participating in these historic battles instead of playing them 
 from your couch. first the graphics are incredible with the detailed faces, and animations you 
 almost shed a tear when seeing one of your men picked of by a sniper, or shred to bits by a enemy 
 machine gun. also the explosions and smoke effects are the best I have seen to date. the only gripe 
 i have in the graphics department is with all the hype of "Next-Gen" technollogy (make no mistake 
 the graphics are next gen) you would think they could of added some rag-doll physics to add to 
 the realism instead of killing someone and have them go through this animation often leaving parts 
 of thier body floating off a secound story balcony (this rarely happens, and does not dis-value 
 the game to much) .
  Now Gameplay, it is nothing revolutionary in the Fps department but it is solid non-the less, they 
 have added smoke grenade's and tank missions help to break up the Fps feel abit, but where this 
 game really shines is in the AI and (scripted) cinamatech moments, the enemy and ally AI is awesome 
 with them retreating and advancing, and even flanking eachother. you could litarrelly not move 
 and have your own men complete and objective for you. also the cinamatech moments add a feeling 
 of caos to the battles with your men blowing machine gunners out of thier garriosoned sand bags, 
 or falling over in the d-day invasion and watching men beside catch on fire and fall to thier death. 
 the sound in this game also adds to the realism, by having your men not just shout babble but actual 
 information on enemy positions which can be helpful. and also explosions, the enemy's screams as 
 you and your men pile flack into thier skulls :D, and bullets wissing by all make this games sound 
 some of the best game noise effects to date. All in All this is an incredible game and one of the 
 best launch games for the 360, if you own a 360 and are contemplating perfect dark zero, drop it 
 now!, call of duty is much better.
  the only gripe is the online play can be unstable at times, and iv noticed matches with 10 people 
 or more seem to get extremely laggy, but if you happen to join a game with a good amount of people 
 and very little lag, then prepare to have tons of fun. so in conclusion if you own a 360 and by 
 the time you read this your looking at pretty much launch games, and dead or alive, i suggest buying 
 this game to really impress your playstation owning friends.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pspownertheone
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 3, 2006 10:45 am PT
Review:  This game is down right amazing, graphics are top of the line, gameplay is very addictive, and 
 the game has very high replay value. The online mode didn't impress me that much, nothing like 
 perfect dark zero, in call of duty only 2-8 players can play which isn't using the 360's online 
 capabilities, but there is some fun elements in the online mode as well. I would definetly recommend 
 buying this game, it's perhaps the best game launched for the 360 at this point, and most of all 
 this game is not that hard to play i beat the single player campaign in under 6 hours, so it's 
 not extremely hard like other WW2 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beachedwhale29
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 2, 2006 10:11 pm PT
Review:  The gameplay online and off is great, except for some lagging issues online. I believe a patch 
 is coming out. But the Single Player is also fun. Very intense game and Veteran difficulty is tough 
 for any gamer looking for a challenge. Buy this game! Best launch game IMO! You cannot go wrong 
 with this game. Trust me dont let people on forums tell you otherwise. CoD2 is an amazing experience 
 that you do not want to miss out on. Otherwise you are wasting your money on anything else. There 
 are plenty of different weapons, for all the sides, British Americans Germans and Russians. The 
 game feels like the movie Enemy at the Gates if youve everseen it. Its amazing, the guy you are 
 on the Russian campaign is even named Vasiliy just like from the movie. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: platinumrug05
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 2, 2006 7:35 pm PT
Review:  Now, i am not one to review another World War 2 game and expect it to be any different from ALL 
 THE OTHER one's that i have played. But after playing CoD2, i have to change my mind. You start 
 off in the Russian campaign, then go to the British campaign, and then finally the good ol' United 
 States campaign. I normally play a new game on easy, but for this one, i put it on regular, just 
 to give myself a challenge. And boi was it one. The Single Player spans all the campaigns i just 
 mentioned, with either two or more missions inside each campaign. But you play as a different person 
 spanning all those years in the war. The Gameplay is simply awesome, the controls feel just right, 
 and everything is just so damn cool. Loading a weapon looks cool. Graphics are probably the best 
 i have seen so far for a 360 title. As far as FPS standards go, Perfect Dark 0's are really sharp, 
 but these are just astounding. The Audio in this game, is just, WHOA, mindblowing to say the least. 
 When one of your squadmates says something like enemies advancing to the east, or something of 
 that nature, you better listen in, becuz your teammates respond to actions happening all around. 
 So it is best to take their advice when they say something.
  Value in this, go get it. It's an excellent game for your 360, if you haven't got this game yet, 
 and you're a fan of FPS games like i am, you are doing yourself a BIG FAVOR by getting this game. 
 Reviewer's Tilt, excellent game, good rock solid multiplayer online functions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gators_horns
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 2, 2006 7:21 pm PT
Review:  C. O. D. 2 is the best in the series or on any platform. It is as addictive as any game I've ever 
 played and by far my favorite shooter. You get to select your poison on the difficulty and once 
 you finish the game you won't hesitate to start it over. The controls are very easy and the 3-D 
 enviroments are rich and realistic. The action moves at a pace that keeps the game play fresh and 
 exciting. From calling in artillery to firing anti-aircraft guns to driving a tank you get to do 
 it all. Most of your time will be spent in a squad sized element in close combat with the enemy 
 in some of the most realistic action in a shooter to date. So whether you are running and jumping 
 from foxhole to foxhole or low crawling beside a fallen comrade remember to keep your head low 
 and your powder dry. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DryvBy
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 2, 2006 6:11 pm PT
Review:  I own the original on the PC. I could still load that game up and play it because it wasn't just 
 a typical shooter that has Nazis. It was a great and revolutionary shooter for me. Being able to 
 pin down your enemies actually between your sights or just hiding like a coward while you're team's 
 excellent AI killed the Nazis for you is what I consider realistic. I got this game right after 
 I got my XBOX360. I like how the game really took over after the first one, just resuming gameplay. 
 The graphics are a little better, but nothing much (although the originals are still really good) . 
 They did some airbrushing on the screen shots it looks like. Now, the sounds, make up for that. 
 The sounds actually bring the game more to life than the visuals with every boom and every tracer 
 flying past your head. 
  
  Behind a solid engine and sound system, the story is very captivating. You start out as a Russian 
 soldier who is working his way up the ranks. The snowy weather in abandoned buildings really add 
 to the mood. Most of your snipers will hang out here. I love how the game starts out and sort of 
 shoves you into the game. You actually grow to know your fellow men. Then it ends, and you're a 
 British troop. In the original, I didn't like being the British but the game really put you in 
 good steps of how it was like for the British soldiers. And then, we come down to the good ol' 
 Americans. When I first saw us going up Omaha, I just shook my head thinking "Not another 'Saving 
 Private Ryan' scene again.". Then, they did something different. They went up another side of the 
 beach! You actually get the climb up ropes while your men fall down cliffs, and just go in gun-ho! 
 Towards the end of the game, you actually feel like it shouldn't have ended. But, it all must end 
 sometime.
  
  The multiplayer mode is the same as before. Axis vs Allies. I thought I was going to have a boring 
 time playing 7 other players online but I actually had a ton of fun. There's usually no lag. The 
 best thing about the multiplayer is the The instant replay feature is great too. I like seeing 
 how the opposing team ended up slaying me. The maps are terrific too. The game modes are the same 
 as most games but the fact that they added a few different capture points in the capture modes. 
 Other than that, just a fun overall game.
  
  The things I don't like is the lack of download ables. Why can't we download more maps later? I 
 want more and more and more (because gamers are greedy and for $60 a pop, we have the right to 
 be!) . So far, I've yet to see a good reason to own Xbox Live's Silver Service. It's free, but where 
 are the game mods and downloads??! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AParkedCar
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 2, 2006 5:49 pm PT
Review:  The only WW2 shooter I'd played through before COD2 was Medal of Honor Allied Assault for the PC, 
 and I must say WW2 shooters have come a long way. The AI in COD2 is great and feels next gen, the 
 graphics are great, the gameplay is great, and the game is very exciting. My first title for the 
 360, and a great one at that. The game isn't as long as I expected it to be, but still decently 
 long. The game's environment is rather immersive, and as a WW2 history fan, it recreates the the 
 battles fairly accurately. Gamespot doesn't give enough credit where credit is deserved. 
  
  *The multiplayer is really laggy sometimes and fine at others, and doesn't have the most depth, 
 just a warning. 
  
  "Jesus Saves!" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: outsidethewall
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 2, 2006 4:31 pm PT
Review:  Well, the Xbox 360 has finally launched, and like a good launch, it's lineup is chock full of ports. 
 One port, originally on the PC, is Call of Duty 2, Infinity Ward's latest offering in the Call 
 of Duty franchise. And it really is a terrific offering.
  
  The game, like all other Call of Duty titles (except for Big Red One) puts you in the combat boots 
 of three soldiers: A Russian, a Brit, and an American. You'll fight all over the western theatre, 
 from the bombed-out ruins of Stalingrad in the Russian campaign, to the desert towns of North Africa 
 in the British campaign, and finishing with the picturesque French countryside in the American 
 campaign.
  
  One of the first things that struck me when I started the game was the sound. It is absolutely 
 amazing, and really makes you feel like you are actually fighting in the war. The sounds of the 
 guns are all excellent, as is the voice acting, which is a good thing, considering how much your 
 allies will be talking to you, thanks to the new "Battle Chatter" system. Basically, battle chatter 
 works like this: as soon as the first shot is fired, your allies will keep telling you enemy locations, 
 when to throw a grenade, etc. It's all quite useful, especially when there are enemies lurking 
 in buildings, sniping at you.
  
  Another new feature in the game is the Halo 2-esque health system. Basically, if you get shot too 
 many times, the edges of the screen will turn red, and you'll see the veins in your eyes. When 
 this happens, all you have to do is take cover and wait a few seconds for your screen to go back 
 to normal, and your health will be at 100%. It actually works very well, as long as your willing 
 to forgive that it's pretty ridiculous.
  
  The AI in COD 2 is absolutely spectacular. Your enemies will flank, take cover, throw grenades, 
 toss back your grenades, advance on your position if you have very few allies, and more. It actually 
 feels like you're playing some objective-based multiplayer mode, the AI is that lifelike.
  
  The graphics in the game are pretty nice, although the textures are a little ugly, and the 
 fire effects and explosions are pretty terrible. However, one thing the graphics do VERY well is 
 smoke effects. Whenever you throw a smoke grenade (or "portable concealment" as some soldiers will 
 call them) , a massive cloud of excellent-looking smoke will cover the ground, enabling you to move 
 safely.
  
  Unfortunately, I haven't been able to try out the multiplayer yet, but I do know that it carries 
 the garden variety of multiplayer modes like Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, and CTF. 
  
  Bottom line, if you're looking for a shooter, or all-around great game for your shiny new Xbox 
 360, check out Call of Duty 2. It's definitely worth a purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hawaii_Dragon
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 2, 2006 4:20 pm PT
Review:  Great game, good start for the 360. The campaign is breath taking but online play sucks. I played 
 alot of live games and about 3/5 lag to a point where you cant even play. Also online is a little 
 unbalanced, if you wanna get a massive amount of kills quickly my advice to you is to pick up a 
 shot gun and run around the map shooting at any movement you see. Trench gun wreaks havoc at ranges 
 that no shotgun should. Or you can be gay about it and use a sniper rifle, find a good camping 
 spot sit back and wait. The last tactic which seems to be a favorite among many is to have a really 
 bad connection and walk around shooting people in the head while immune to all metal projectiles 
 particularly bullets, oh yeah and the occasional frag. But its still a great game if they improved 
 online it would be almost perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: louthar
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 2, 2006 4:06 pm PT
Review:  This game is an excellent use of the first person shooter genre no matter if its sci fi like halo, 
 or other WWII themed shooters. This game is just plain fun. I'm just about finished with the game 
 and there are a variety of things to do besides just run and shoot Nazi scum. You can ride vehicles 
 and shoot Nazi scum, and look through your binoculars and call down air strikes on Nazi scum.
 
  
  In my opinion this game is more fun than Halo in the respect to the single player missions. In 
 my opinion there is no better game in the first person genre than Call Of Duty 2. However this 
 game didn't get a 10 because of its less than perfect online interface. It is very frustrating 
 to play online with this game. If this issue gets resolved, then this game gets a 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DNOMYTE
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 2, 2006 3:48 pm PT
Review:  Holy crap this is the mother of all games, when i first played it i couldn't stop. this amazing 
 historic FPS makes you appreciate what went down in WW2. the graphics are simply amazing. I would 
 play this game over and over again. if you buy an XBOX360 this is the game to get. great multiplayer, 
 awesome single player, great weapons , awesome graphics, this game is perfect in every way possible, 
 the thing that will have you begging for more is the unbelievable sniping call of duty 2 has to 
 offer..... how brutally beautiful. Call of Duty 2 and the XBOX360 is the start of something groundbreaking. 
 i cannot urge you enough to buy this game, just t play call of duty 2 is enough reason to buy a 
 360. Call of Duty 2 is perfection in every way imaginable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: judgementday666
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 2, 2006 3:03 pm PT
Review:  I have played three hours of this game and it was so much fun i had to run up stairs and tell everyone. 
 the game play is so great. there is over twenty guns i have seen so far and the enemys are super 
 smart, for AI. expect to really have to think to get through a level. the enemy is great at ducking 
 re- loading and throwing grenades. also, your allies are just as powerful as you. making it seem 
 less like a halo juggernot type game. you can die just as easily as everyone else. i must go back 
 and play some more. buy this game! 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Code
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 2, 2006 3:02 pm PT
Review:  Ok iv heard plenty of people say this is the best Xbox 360 game out now and no its not that great. 
 The game looks great in graphics smoke effects are gorgeous amd very usefull smoke grenades show 
 off this smoke as you walk throught it you will notice its made of layers of vision like with real 
 smoke you can see only so far infront of your face this game makes it like that. The sound is fantastic 
 with a real feel of your in war and action as you take cover and hear the sound of gun fire and 
 explosions off in the distance and grenades blowing up around you it reall is exciting and keeps 
 you pumped. Gameplay sadly is were this game fails in comparison to games such as Perfect Dark 
 Zero (which is the real best game on 360) the game does a good job of keeping the heat on you with 
 constant fire that never lets up for a second and the endless amounts of enemies that will kill 
 you plenty due to this games diffcualty. But some of the bad thing are that the graphics sometimes 
 dont look as good compared to others such as its PC counterpart. The gameplay gets boreing after 
 about 6 missions. Overall this is a good game but doesnt deserve more than a rent due to its repetiveness. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 3ateeji
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 2, 2006 2:45 pm PT
Review:  In This game.. your not playing for survival or for the beating the game.. your playing to or fighting 
 to stay alive.. its as if you actually in the game!! its oo intense that wen u get shot its like 
 ur actually feeling the bullet !.. i shud know cuz of the MILLION tymes i played the veteran difficulty.. 
 
  
  w8'll u hear dis ;) ---
  
  The Other day i invited my frends over for a lil' game of survival!! ;p.. (a regular deathmatch) .. 
 while playing the Moscow- Russia stage.. we have this little rule of only playing it with the sniper 
 equiped!.. 
  u stay in ur position waiting for the perfect moment to burst ur frends head off ;) ... and wen 
 i got my buddy down he started screamed soo loud!!! making it sound as if he got shot.. the shooting 
 is so affective cuz of the loud sound it projects cuz think about it.. ur playin in a silent battlefield.. 
 ur moving slowly.. den... BANG!!!!!!!!.. hahaha.. u shud of seen emm.. anyhow... i really really 
 really recommend dis game! and i hope i'll get to try it online sumtyme.. heard its much better.. 
 cuz no one else can see wer ur hiding unlike in multipayer :)
  
  hope u didn't fall asleep! and hope u liked my lil' review :D
  cheerz!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Silver_Fire
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 2, 2006 1:24 pm PT
Review:  The sequel to Call of Duty is here, and it rocks!
  Although veterans of the original and shooters in general will be able to jump right in to this. 
 It pulls off some really cool stuff that make this extremely enjoyable. The AI is very smart here. 
 They will do many military maneuvers like flanking and your allies will call out enemy positions, 
 which is very helpful. The new Halo like health system can make the game a bit easier, but it saves 
 a lot of frustration by eliminating the need to backtrack for health packs. The graphics are amazing, 
 and the frame rate is solid. The weapon feel and sound is perfect.
  The multi-player is fun, but only 8 people? I've also heard of lag, but have yet to experience 
 it. The sniping missions are more of a chore than fun due to the scope drift and the difficulty 
 of finding targets, and the tanks are hard to control.
  Overall, this is a excellent shooter that shouldn't be missed.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GhostNC360
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 2, 2006 12:30 pm PT
Review:  COD 2 is an outstanding game. The graphics themselves are beautiful, the gameplay is magnificent, 
 and the accuracy is superb. Just the fact that the creators interviewed veterans to get the story 
 line is inspiration enough to get the game. The multiplayer is great as well. Whether you are on 
 Xbox Live or just having a death match with your buddies , it's just great. The only thing I have 
 a problem with is their ability to get rid of bad connections. It does seem like people get booted 
 in the middle of games a lot. I would like to see them set up games based on connection as well. 
 Over all the game has very few problems with it. It is absolutely a must own for every Xbox 360 
 owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: b_wilcox
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 2, 2006 12:00 pm PT
Review:  You can try really, really hard, but you won't find a better game for the XBox 360's ballyhooed 
 launch than Call of Duty 2 (CoD2) . It's a marvelous showcase for the potential that next-gen consoles 
 are said to have, and it is probably one of the finest war games available (and this is from a 
 guy who doesn't normally enjoy that genre) .
  
  Graphically, it's superb, but it's the finer touches that impress the most. Soldiers for both the 
 Allied forces (you'll play Russian, British, and American campaign missions) and the enemy Germans 
 gesture and maneuver realistically, and the artificial intelligence is top-notch. The game's soundtrack 
 and audio effects are among the best ever heard in a console game. Infinity Ward's commitment to 
 an accurate, harrowing representation of war is clear in every facet of the game.
  
  The multiplayer portion of the game is an exciting and well-done aspect as well. CoD2 is an atmospheric 
 experience in every way, but on XBox Live it truly shows its polish.
  
  For all the hype about Perfect Dark Zero -- and with all due respect, it's a fine game as well -- there's 
 nothing better than Call of Duty 2 for the XBox 360's first few months on the market. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: malowqb16
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 2, 2006 9:03 am PT
Review:  This game is probably my favorite game so far on the 360. The Game is just amazing in all aspects. 
 The campaign is soo fun, and people say its too short, but after u beat it, you can easily play 
 it again on a harder difficulty. VETERAN difficul; ty, is the most realistic WW2 game ive played. 
 Its tough, but its alot more diffucult and more realistic, and the AI is amazing. As for online, 
 its very very fun as long as you dont have any lag. There is a wide variety of guns and places 
 to fight. It is all around a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arkangelsa
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 2, 2006 8:39 am PT
Review:  gameplay:
  this games gameplay is sum of the best i have ever seen it just feels right, unlike most fps your 
 not a one man army this game makes sure if you just run in with out your team you wont cum out 
 alive.
  the down the site aiming works well and all the guns feel just right.
  all the missions feel good and well planed out you never feel bored with the game its just has 
 you sweeting every time you turn a corner.
  sum of the best i have ever played in a fps
  
  graphics:
  the games guns look amazing you think they are real and the maps feel just as 
 if you were in the war.
  simply put amazing lighting amazing maps.
  
  sound:
  one sentace.
  run for your life coz if you have a home cinama, you will be blown away by the 
 guns and hole sound is great. bullets sound real.
  
  value:
  not the longest game i completed it on hardend and i did it in about 7 hours.
  online play is 
 good and has sum replay.
  
  tilt:
  best fps in my books on the 360 any one will love this and all in all its an amazing game!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: concrete_sledge
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 2, 2006 3:18 am PT
Review:  One of the 360's more serious games COD2 gives the player the chance to kill germans in 3 different 
 armies involved in WW2, Russian, British and finnaly American.
  The overall graphics of the game are relatively stunning, but unless you are willing to play the 
 game on a harder difficulty-as said before i know-the game becomes painfully easy.
  In my opinion the player should have been given slightly more freedom. by freedom i dont mean GTA 
 freeroam style, i mean more freedom to use tanks and armored cars more. However the tank missions 
 where fun butmade easy with the use of binculars meaning you could park your ank quite a way from 
 the battle and purely snipe enemy tanks after looking through our binoculars.
  
  Overall the game offers alot, leading from its remarkably realistic battles and scenary, to fun 
 gaming and an online multiplayer game thats is more intense than thought possible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mamalykhan
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 1, 2006 9:39 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the games that comes every 5 year, Its one of the best WWII games or one of 
 the best games ever. Unlike some other games your soldier friends help you in anyway they can. 
 The missions are amazing, like in one missions you 100 or 200 soldiers fight each other. It's crazy 
 and that's one way the game is really neat. The multi player is fun. Everything about the game 
 is good. The Game play, graphics, sound and settings are great. I would recommend this game to 
 anyone who likes World War games, shooting games or if they like to play a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kaioshen
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 19, 2007 8:18 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 redefines all WWII shooters, from the amazing smoke to the blazing bullets that 
 just miss you, this game absolutely rocks. There are three campaigns you must complete, first it's 
 the Russians, the the British, and then Americans. They are all amazing and fun from start to finish.
 
  
  The gameplay is is awesome, bullets flying at you from all directions, enemies flanking you, you 
 flanking them, it's just non-stop action. The controls felt just right to me, I just hopped in 
 and starting firing away, although the game does take you through a little traning process, but 
 too bad it doesn't last that long, cause it's pretty fun.
  
  The graphics, wow, the graphics. They are amazing! Everything looks so good, and if you have HDTV, 
 it'll look even better. But for the people who don't have HD, it still looks really good. Actually 
 there really isn't a huge difference between HD and normal, except for a little more crisp, and 
 anti-aliasing. The smoke will still look as beautfiul as it is without an HDTV, so don't worry.
 
  
  The sound is good, nice and clear. The music is very well done, you get chills in your spine whenever 
 it plays. The sounds of the guns are awesome, very clear and they sound great.
  
  Replay value isall the way up there. Nothing will ever be the same twice in this game.
  
  Call 
 of Duty 2 is a very good shooter, and I reccomend it to anybody who likes FPS's or WWII shooters. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cdangel
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 1, 2006 8:50 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is flat out the best FPS war game out there. No other games comes as close to drawing 
 you into this conflict as this series has for the past year. COD2 features a large array of missions 
 and weapons, all acurate to actual seneros in WWII. Missions can start to get reppettive though, 
 it's always capture this wait there, blow up that tank over, and over. It can get a little boring, 
 but then some huge gun battle will ensue and you'll be right back in the action. The mutiplayer 
 is pretty good, standard online games, deathmatch, team deathmatch, nothing special. The sounds 
 are great, realistic gun noises, artilary shell, explosions, those Germans franticly yelling at 
 one another, it's just a great expirenece. 
  
  Call of Duty 2 isn't a particualy special shooter in the overcrowed genre of WWII games, but it 
 does manage to stand out amongst the others as the best, a worthy purchase for and shooter/WWII 
 game fan. 9.0/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dawarrior030
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 6, 2006 4:17 pm PT
Review:  i love this game. even though im not so great at army games this game is just pure fun to play. 
 it has amazing graphics and i love the gameplay. this game is kewl because u can play in a couple 
 different words. this game is a definit buy and blows out every other army first person shooter 
 game. i rlly enjoyed playig this game and is rlly fun. it is kewl that when u are hurt or have 
 low health that u can take cover and it is restored. this game is very realistic war wise. If u 
 rlly want to experience the true army first person shooter expeerience then play this game!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 peace out 030 4 life!!!!!!!. i find this game hard because im horrible at army games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: socom11fan
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 1, 2006 4:16 pm PT
Review:  Out of all the war games I have played, there has never been one that is as realistic, intense, 
 and fun as Call of Duty 2. The graphics are on point with great player models, realistic explosions, 
 and smoke filled air. The sound is incredible with bullets whizzing and explosions it feels like 
 your there in the war. The singleplayer mode is great and will have you playing through more than 
 once. The multiplayer to me is kind of an disappointed because only 8 people can play and its not 
 very exciting. Overall this game is tight and is a sure buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WTA2k5
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 1, 2006 10:46 am PT
Review:  Inifinity Ward has made their sequel to the 2003 Game of The Year superb in all aspects, which 
 is why Call of Duty 2 has gone above and beyond the call of duty.
  
  The gameplay for the most part follows the: "if it ain't broke, don't fix it" rule. But a few things 
 have been taken out, such as sprinting, and leaning, while these aren't huge parts of the game 
 that have been taken away, in some situations you wished you had them. What's been added is the 
 absense of a health bar, which will give you a pop-up reminder when you have been hit to much, 
 as well as the ability to throw a smoke grenade any time you want so there won't be as much surpressing 
 fire. The singleplayer plays great with plenty of moments where you will say "OMG that was crazy," 
 which is what the Call of Duty games have been known for doing. Unlike the original, your enemies 
 in Call of Duty 2 won't be as focused on killing just you instead of your entire squad, if you 
 run into a room full of enemies, then you won't be singled out, and your teammates will have to 
 share some of the pain, but your allies aren't dumb at all, they'll throw smoke grenades when you 
 don't have any, and they'll take out enemies. Which brings me to another point, the A. I. in this 
 game is outstanding, your allies will do everything they can to help, and your enemies will do 
 everything they can to kill you. Your enemies will flank, and charge, and sometimes, in their last 
 dieing seconds, when they are on the ground, they will pull out a pistol to try to put a bullet 
 in you.
  The singleplayer is lengthy and is varied, from your standard assault missions, to defense, to 
 tank missions. The multiplayer is good too, there are plenty of game modes, and it shares the same 
 intensity as the singleplayer, but its hard to find a match that isn't laggy.
  
  The graphics are amazing, the effects like explosions and smoke are great, and the player models 
 are all very detailed, you'll see snow on the jackets of the characters, you can tell when the 
 character's clothes are wet in the rain. Everything about the graphics is awesome.
  
  The sound is another amazing part to this game. You have constant battle-chatter, where your allies 
 will tell you almost exactly where an enemy is, and all the guns sound different, and the explosions 
 sound great to, as well as some great orchestral victory music. In surround sound, you'll feel 
 like you're playing a war movie.
  
  The replay value is really good, you can beat the game to get achievement points, and you'll always 
 want to go back and play your favorite levels, and beat the game on the harder difficulty for more 
 achievement points. Also, you can play for points in the ranked multiplayer games. And if you have 
 enough patience to find an un-laggy multiplayer match, you will enjoy it a lot.
  
  Call of Duty is a great series, and this one is Call of Duty x 2, a truly immersive experience 
 that any Xbox 360 owner should pick up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilrush
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 1, 2006 9:02 am PT
Review:  This is an instant classic and one that definetly stands out in a genre that has been done a hundred 
 times already. COD2 has a feel to it that puts you straight in the battlefield and especially in 
 HD, this game shines. It plays smoothly, even in intense combat situations; which there will be 
 many of. This game is incredibly fun and addictive online. Also, it has not 1 but 3 single player 
 campaigns, plus 4 player split screen capabilities. Overall, this game is awesome. It has tons 
 of replay value with its three campaigns, split screen, and xbox live combat. The "looking down 
 the sights of the gun" effect is pretty cool and adds to the realism. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 96Chris
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 1, 2006 5:51 am PT
Review:  Put quite simply this is the best ww2 game I have played yet. The game has great sound and looks 
 pritty good aswell, even though soometimes a characters head might go through a metal barral when 
 they drop to the floor dead. One problem with it is the multiplayer split screen as there aren't 
 many things you can do, but this dosen't realy matter because most of the time you will be playing 
 on the campaign. The only time on the game that can be annoying is when you have to drive a tank 
 as the controlls don't make any sence. Overall this a great game and I recomend you to buy it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: erickzelaya
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 31, 2005 11:54 pm PT
Review:  The bullets cracking over your head , grenades sending sand and debri into to your screen , the 
 scare of runing into a cloud of smoke and finding a Krout ready to strike you down , its all of 
 these subtle details along with the amazing and inspiring story of WW2 that make this game one 
 of the most amazing FPS i have ever played. All of the textures on the soldiers are amazing , if 
 a soldiers coat is wet your going to know its wet . Though some of the textures can get ugly on 
 the levels , you barley notice it because your to caught up in the intence fire fights. The enemy 
 A, I is absolutely perfect , enemys will flank you , take pot shots at you from cover , bombarde 
 and overwhelm you with grenades , prety much anything to destroy you. The game offers you three 
 campaighns American , British and russian , personaly my favorite is the Russian campiaghn but 
 the amaerican is the most cinematic. The multiplayer is fun and exiting , the graphice barely change 
 at all , but there realy is nothing special about it , standard game modes and ok maps , they didnt 
 take it to the next level. All in all the game is a must own for the Next-Gen console , its the 
 reason why you buy a 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IamTehN00bness
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 31, 2005 11:21 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 for the Xbox 360 is definitely one of the better games on the 360. The single player 
 is rock solid and gets very hard on higher difficulty settings. Unfortunately the multi player 
 is the complete opposite of the single player. It can be fun but if you get into a game with 8 
 player's the lag is unberable. There is also no create-a-match options or some sort of lobby. I 
 say rent it first because, while the single player is good, you can easily beat the default difficulty 
 settings. Even if you bring the difficulty up you can still beat this game in a rental period (especially 
 if you get it from blockbuster who has the no late fees) . It doesn't really matter if you have 
 Xbox live or not because the multiplayer isn't very good. Fortunately Infinity Ward is working 
 on a patch to fix the lag on Xbox Live ( I think ) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattpeyman
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 31, 2005 9:41 pm PT
Review:  Great single player game play with outstanding sound, a. i intelligence and just plain fun. Call 
 of Duty 2's single player is a great game for any person because of the difficulty setting. It 
 has three wars to fight. These are all a blast because the gameplay never get old and there isn't 
 much repetion because they always put you in new and orgnial situations. COD2 online play is the 
 most fun i have had in along time. This is because of the fact that you have so many modes to choose 
 from and you can play ranked games to try and be the best at it. In the end do not over look this 
 game because you will be missing a great game. 
  
  In conclusion COD2 delivers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aeronautical
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 18, 2006 10:10 am PT
Review:  Graphics and Sound
  
  Being on a next-gen system, CoD 2 definetly won't disappoint. Many snow-filled levels have so many 
 elements and particles flying around, and the frame-rate stays solid throughout. The environments 
 are large and many scripted moments still add to the excitement. The character modeling is quite 
 good, for once people look like people! But... While the modeling is good, the character animation 
 is horrible. They jerk, stand absolutely still; basically they don't have human-like movements.
 
  Sound is very good from most standpoints. Each gun has their specific sound when reloading and, 
 of-course, shooting. I was able to hear shooting around me and I don't even have surround sound! 
 I was most impressed with being able to hear the ricochet of bullets off metal. The music is historically 
 correct and comes at the right moments, mostly when you finish a level.
  
  Gameplay
  
  All the controls for CoD 2 are mapped logically, very easy for anyone to pick-up and go. The left 
 and right bumpers let you throw the gas and frag grenades, and it makes it very easy to do.
  The level design can be pretty simple at times, but it definetly isn't repetitive. You won't be 
 following roads, mainly through broken buildings that adds to the "surprise" factor.
  
  Overall
  
  CoD 2 is a must for anyone looking for an intense and thrilling first-person shooter. 
 The story mose is rather short, only about 10-15 hours, but you will remember those hours for the 
 rest of the generation. It is a taste of what will come later for the Xbox 360. If you have a 360, 
 I highly recommend for you to buy it. Xbox-Live is sure to add a lot of replay value to it, but 
 that is when they fix the lag with a fix in the near future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CCHitman
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 31, 2005 8:24 pm PT
Review:  From the time you insert this game in your 360's disk tray, you'll be hooked. You might groan after 
 hearing about yet another WWII shooter, but it has never been this fun or polished since Medal 
 of Honor first made the genre popular. For the first time, the chatter of your teammates is not 
 just filler, and will give you useful information about the actions of your enemies. Speaking of 
 the enemies, they have perhaps the smartest AI ever in a game. The sound and graphics immerse you 
 in the action, all the way through the campaign spanning from the Russian defense of Stalingrad 
 to the very familiar American landing on Omaha Beach on D-Day. Go out and buy this game. It will 
 be the best $60 you ever spent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: E2ESQUARE
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 1, 2006 6:46 pm PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying that I am not a fan of war games, WWII especially. To me, they are all 
 the same and try desperately to replay the events in a tragedy that was never meant to be a videogame.
 
  That said, COD2 is an above average shooter that has some great moments and some huge flaws.
 
  
  First things first. The campaign is an interesting experience, mainly because of the tweaked difficulty 
 settings. I found Veteran (hardest) was not at all a difficult mode in one respect: its a puzzle. 
 Enemies have predictable reactions and even when you die in 2 shots, through simple trial and error 
 you can easily beat each mission in 15-20 tries, roughly 2-3 per checkpoint. It felt less like 
 veteran mode and more like "guess where the enemies cant shoot you or you die" mode. Veteran is 
 also the most fun mode because it puts things into perspective. You REALLY DO die if you get shot 
 twice with little to no body armor. On all of the other modes, I found I was able to get uncovered 
 and mow down enemies with any SMG or rifle and even if I got shot 10 times I still wouldnt die.
 
  Settings aside, the games storyline follows the major WWII battles chronologically from germany 
 to Africa and Russia and eventually you end up in Normandy. Overall, its one of the most correct 
 and complete WWII games availible. Still, the game only has about 8-13 actual missions, each of 
 which only take 10-20 minutes to go through. The entire game can easily be completed in a week, 
 and once you have beaten it, unless you didnt play it on veteran, theres little reason to go back 
 and play through again as the only achievments come from veteran difficulty.
  
  The multiplayer is barely worth mentioning as it is an insult to every person who worked on this 
 game. It takes all the values, plots and even control of the game and flushes them down the toilet.
 
  Offline the multiplayer is just a fragfest where one shot kills and turrets mean invincibility. 
 The maps are almost all the same: Random combinations of smoldering cars, busses, buildings and 
 other debri in squared and 2 tiered areas. Sniper rifles and lucky grenade throws replace the thrill 
 of the single play as all it boils down to waiting for someone to kill someone else so you can 
 pick off the survivor with a grenade.
  Online the game could have been a step up from offline, but a weird glitch that causes lag from 
 hell turns the game into a clip show running at about 3 frames a second. Even if you are lucky 
 enough to find one of the few games without the horrible glitch you are likely to find that you 
 are just playing another Metal of Honor type multiplayer with only about 5 guns, frag grenades 
 and no intensity, just snipers that pick off stragglers.
  
  Technically this is both the best and the worst that the xbox 360 has to offer. The sound of the 
 guns and the bullets wizzing by are spectacular. If you close your eyes, it really does sound like 
 are fighting your way into a bunker filled with Nazis, or that you are in a ditch as sniper shots 
 near miss your head. This is the pinnacle of videogame sound.
  Graphically this game looks a bit washed up for a next gen game. When compared to Perfect Dark 
 Zero and PGR3 this game looks very inferior. Textures in the environment look okay from a distance 
 but badly blurr at a closer range. Sand, grass and dirt are almost always a solid color or a repeating 
 pattern with little or no detail. Buildings look great with buringing siding and posters on the 
 walls, but even then the details are blurred. Characters are modeled well but the low graphic detail 
 causes them to block (look square-ish) up. Explosions boil down to small red and orange puffs with 
 lots of smoke, simmilar to the explosions in Rainbow Six 3. Smoke is the best looking feature in 
 the entire game. It swirls, blurs vision and surrounds. When you use a smoke grenade, it gives 
 you a great idea of what it would be like to use one in real war: great snipiing protection, excellent 
 cover and very difficult to see at any range. The other great looking feature in the game is the 
 guns. They look ugly when fired, but the models are detailed and the reloads are animated. Overall, 
 this game looks more like a solid xbox game than a next gen xbox 360 game.
  
  When I finished COD2, I decieded that I would probably never play it again. I had its moments but 
 it just pailed in comparison to the other next gen games, especially the spectacular first party 
 titles. If you love WWII or millitray games than you cant go wrong here, but if you just want a 
 next gen game or are a shooter fan then you need to check out Perfect Dark Zero. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gaijin79
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 31, 2005 3:12 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is a great WW2 first person shooter. Whether you are filling the shoes of a conscripted 
 Russian private running through the ruins of Stalingrad, or a British tank commander leading your 
 Crusader tank crew in a headlong rush at some German Panzer IIs across the next ridge, every mission 
 is different and exciting. The visuals are not as jaw dropping as I expected the Xbox 360 to 
 be, but they are superb and are as good as any other console shooter on the market. And, when you 
 hear the German planes coming in for a strafing run, you will want to hit the dirt.
  
  This is not a Ghost Recon game (i. e. if you are looking for gritty realism look somewhere else) . 
 You can take multiple hits from an MG-42 and keep running. If you take too much damage, all you 
 have to do is duck behind a corner for a few seconds to recover. But, this game is immersive. Since 
 you do not have to worry about being killed by one lone shot, you are free to charge that German 
 trench line and be a hero. Also, you can actually pick your head up and appreciate the incredible 
 environments. Not entirely realistic, but incredibly fun. I found that the health/damage system, 
 which is the same as the shield system in the Halo series, worked great in that I wasnt constantly 
 watching my health or looking for power-ups. I was free to enjoy the action.
  
  The only down side is that the missions are relatively short and seem to fly by way too quickly 
 (this is why I rate this game low for value) . Also, you cannot control your squad mates, and sometimes 
 you will watch the computer controlled soldiers make some questionable tactical decisions.
  
  I knew I loved this game when I got into a snipers duel during the Russian campaign in defense 
 of Stalingrad. I was crouched down in the ruins of a factory looking for muzzle flashes to tip 
 me off to the location of my opponent. From there it only got better. This game, even more than 
 the Medal of Honor series, makes you feel that you are in a WW2 movie. For any one with an Xbox 
 360 I highly recommend this game. If money is an issue, a weekend rental is enough to finish the 
 game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: T1K1F1SH
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 31, 2005 3:03 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 really is the best WW2 shooter I've ever played, and I've played almost everyone 
 out there. Medal of Honor, the other Call of Duty games, Brothers in Arms. This beats them all. 
 The game play is at the very core to shoot every Nazi you see. However what makes it interesting 
 is the incredible AI and fun/intense mission objectives. The AI on both Axis and Allied sides is 
 incredible. The Nazis will not only take cover, use suppressive fire, throw grenades at you and 
 smash you in the face with their guns they will actually send soldiers to attempt to flank your 
 squad. Another great thing is that your NEVER alone and when you are your squad usually comes to 
 find you. The Allied AI has also improved in the sense that they do everything the Nazis do but 
 are on your side. They also are pretty helpful sometimes. One time I was in a North Africa level 
 with the British and I was reloading my Thompson and Nazi comes around the corner and I was already 
 low on health and I thought I was gonna die but then one of my buddies ran up to him and smashed 
 him in the face with the butt of his rifle. Also the mission objectives are very intense, even 
 in the first level, provided you are playing on a difficulty level that suits you. Even on the 
 first level when your in the Russian campaign and your advancing on an enemy building first the 
 Nazis put up a smokescreen and then charge at you, this game can have A LOT of enemies on screen 
 at once, you will repel their assault then charge at them and they will fall back to their field 
 HQ which you will advance on and once you clear out all the soldiers outside you will find out 
 that the rest of the Nazis have boarded themselves up in the upper floors, and this was great when 
 a Russian solider asks, "Lieutenant, shouldn't we ask them to surrender?" and then he replies," 
 I'll ask them to surrender once I've blown them to hell! Get some engineers up here and set up 
 some explosives!" and then you proceed to set charges on support beams and destroy the building 
 which is spectacular watching it collapse. This is all in just the first level.
  
  Graphics, the graphics in this game are ridiculously good, they are in my opinion better than the 
 PC version ( I don't own it but have played it ) , especially the smoke and particle effects. Unlike 
 most games with smoke grenades this game actually creates a thick smoke and its easy to write a 
 whole book on smoke grenade tactics. Also when grenades go off you see shrapnel in the air and 
 in the Russian levels after a grenade goes off you see snow melting from the heat of the explosion! 
 All of the weapons have a real look the metal on them isn't perfect and has some wear on them as 
 well as the guns with wood. The sound is also amazing in stereo but in surround it really puts 
 you into the experience. Also your buddies and enemies constantly chatter between each other although 
 you can't understand the German ( unless you speak it of course ) you know they are gonna do something 
 but you do when they are announcing your position. The replay value is pretty high since you never 
 get the same experience twice and the enemies do something different every time.
  
  Well to sum it up if you have an Xbox 360 buy this game, and if you still aren't sure, rent it. 
 You won't regret it. 9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leastmanjr
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 31, 2005 12:39 pm PT
Review:  This game is easily my fovorite game for the XBOX 360. I have NBA 2K6, Perfect Dark Zero, and Condemned. 
 They are all pretty good launch titles, but they still can't compare to Call of Duty 2. If you 
 have an XBOX 360, you should have this game. The graphics are the best in this game than any other 
 title. The new blood splatter effects in the game make it feel like youre truly in the game. It 
 is far too often that a game with superb graphics plays like junk! Not with this game! The controls 
 react as good as the graphics are good. If I was to say anything negative about this game, it would 
 simply be that you cannot peak around corners. They would have made it a perfect WWII game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kiitana
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 31, 2005 10:01 am PT
Review:  I had to give this game a perfect review. That's all there is too it. There has not been a game 
 that I have played to date that I have felt deserves a 10/10 more than this one. This game truly 
 pulls you in and doesn't let go. I highly recommend it to anyone who enjoys shooters or WWII games.
 
  
  Gameplay:
  The controls are tight, the AI is excellent even on the lower difficulty levels. They did an excellent 
 job with this title. The game is difficult, but not to the point of frustration. This is truly 
 a great feat.
  
  Graphics:
  Clean, crisp, perfect. You really have to see it to believe it. When you are in the dessert and 
 you can see heat waves? All the weaponry looks just like their real-life counterparts. And the 
 smoke... you have to see the smoke. 
  
  Sound:
  Bullets flying everywhere. Your squadmates all having their own voices and personalities. Not only 
 do the sound effects match perfectly to the chaos of war, the musical score adds the extra level 
 to put things over the top.
  
  Value:
  One of the strongest aspects of any shooter is the multiplayer and Call of Duty 2 doesn't disappoint. 
 There is enough here to keep you busy for a long time.
  
  Tilt:
  Well, what can I say that I haven't already? If you haven't bought this game already, you need 
 to. That's all I can say.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FiNN-E
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 31, 2005 9:39 am PT
Review:  COD2 is an extraordinary game that any xbox 360 owner should have, it is also a historically accurate 
 ww2 game that has three campaigns which were the russians (seems familiar) , British, and the Americans. 
 Out of these three campaigns i could not choose a favorite. 
  This game has some of the best sounds ive ever 
  heard in a game. It makes you feel like you 
 are ina battle in ww2. I often found myself hiding behind a piece of rubble sweating while the 
 sound of bullets ping on the side of the rubble. The sound of your comrades talking to you and 
 telling simple things like grenade!! or krauts to the north side!! lol . the sound is superb in 
 this game.
  Graphics are very good in this game. But often times i found myself thinking wait this is next 
 gen right?. The graphics are not those shiny ones you see in PDZ or kameo but they are extremely 
 detailed for ex) i zoomed in ona guy half way across the way and i could see his five o clock shadow 
 and acne. It was f ing awesome. 
  Gameplay was very intense and very enjoyable. No misson you play ever felt similar to another mission 
 which was good, there were some missions with similar objectives but there was no problems. The 
 game was a little short and multiplayer sucked (not spitscreen) . This game is the best ww2 game 
 ive ever played and a great next gen game for your xbox 360.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Edster
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 31, 2005 5:46 am PT
Review:  This is the BEST game available for the XBOX 360 by far. I was very pleased with this game and 
 it is well worth the money. I can't wait for the next one to come out cause once you start this 
 game you dont want to complete it. The levels are huge as well and there are loads of them. You 
 can help out your squad and flank enemies. By the end of this game you feel brilliant and for anyone 
 who can't get used to the controller then try this because the buttons are positioned brilliantly. 
 A must for all first person shooter fans.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: muzzster_14
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 31, 2005 5:30 am PT
Review:  I have just completed Call of Duty 2 for the 360 and it was brilliant. It gave hours of fun on 
 the single player missions. Call of Duty 2 playes a similar way to the older game with you the 
 player, playing campains for the Russians, Brittish and Americans. Personally the Russian missions 
 were my favourite but the other missions were also very good. There are 27 epic battles altogether 
 and every one is unique. All the battles are realistic and in some parts of the game the sound 
 quality and graphics make you feel part of the story. Not only do you fight as a footsoldier but 
 also you are able to drive tanks to blow the German resistance away.
  
  The single player option is beter than its predessor and the movies in-between battles break up 
 the game nicely. Also the danger indicator gives a nice touch as this warns you when there is a 
 grenade near. Another fun point of the game is smoke grenades. If you are pinned down by German 
 fire launch one of these babies at them and it blinds them, giving you and your commrades time 
 to capture the building.
  
  The only down points to this game is it is rather short. Although the 27 missions sound alot and 
 there is a lot packed into them it seems to be over very quick. Also it ends very sudenly with 
 you blowing up a tank and thats it.
  
  The online play is a big thumbs up too as there is rarely lag and the weopons and maps are fantastic. 
 Also I have not incountered any modders yet. Although the online play is good, it tends to get 
 a bit one sided as most people, like myself go the allies instead of the axis and so you get games 
 that end up 6 on 1 which is rather unfair.
  
  Well what else to say. Well apart from it being quite short, Call of Duty 2 is pretty spectacular. 
 The great graphics in the intense battles and the great online play all add up too it being not 
 only the best in its series, the best shooter that the xbox 360 has but probably being the best 
 game the 360 has. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vadva
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 31, 2005 1:18 am PT
Review:  I do not own this game or a 360 for that matter. However i have played this enough at friend's 
 house. I think it is a great game. The story line is great and historical. The multi-player is 
 awesome. Me and two other people played it for three hours without even noticing. The only thing 
 that is lacking in my opinion is a co-op mode. I mean what is better than you and your friend just 
 running and gunning along only to be shot down later on. However, it is still a great game. The 
 graphics are excellent. The smoke grenade, unlike other games, actually does things. It obstructs 
 your view and may help you out or lead to your demise. The radar is a small point, but its really 
 great. In multi-player when ever someone shoots their gun, a red blip momentarily comes on the 
 radar to show where the shot is coming from. 
  
  Bottom Line is it is a fantastic game. I would highly recommend getting this game. When i can get 
 my hands on a 360 i will be getting this for sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raging_death
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 30, 2005 9:33 pm PT
Review:  Simply put, this game owns. There are a couple of minor flaws and one major flaw but if you want 
 an answer now, but this game if you like good games. For a full review, this game owns. One thing 
 you will notice right away is that the loading times a immensely faster than the CoD 1 on computer. 
 Now this may have been because of my computer, I dont know. What I do know is that the loading 
 time and waiting times are very fast. Think GCN fast. For starters, you never fight alone in this 
 game. Unless you get all your men killed which is near impossible but I did it a couple of times. 
 =) But the game play is much like that of a traditional FPS, pick up the freakin gun and shoot 
 anything without allies names above it. Of course, this doesnt work on the damned tanks and halftracks 
 so what do you do you ask? You get sticky bombs or my personal favorite the Panzerschreck. However, 
 sticky bombs are what you have most of the time. You tend to become a bigger target when carrying 
 around a larch cannon on your shoulder so the devs made it easier on you by not placing the Panzerschreck 
 everywhere. To get close enough to you vehicle of choice to blow up, one must have cover. Enter 
 the greatest improvement in any sequel I have ever seen: the smoke grenade! The smoke grenade provides 
 a thick smokescreen that buy the time you see an enemy, hes already in range for a melee attack. 
 So you use this smoke grenade by the vehicle and you stick the sticky bombs on it. Run, run fast. 
 Or get blown up. After a good 10 seconds you look back and this is where you truly realize you 
 are in the next-gen graphical era. A beautiful huge explosion fills the air and shows you exactly 
 how to play a game. In other words, the graphics are amazing. The plot really gets deep too. Especially 
 the Americans campaign. The best mission is Hill 400. You get to snipe, blow up stuff, and kill 
 Nazis for a good hour in this mission. Probably the longest mission in the game. All this during 
 a slight rain to enhance the graphics. Now that Ive said way more than my quota of good stuff, 
 I must say some bad. The games single player length: too short. As amazing as everything was, this 
 day an age has too many too short game. Think Halo 2 where the plot is awesome and the game play 
 rocks but then it ends. And youre thinking what the hell just happened here? The smoke from 
 the smoke grenades goes through walls. Not right. I can see it goes through windows and open doors. 
 But I looked and it goes through walls! But even with these baddies on its butt, call of Duty 
 2 pulls through as a game that set the bar very high for other FPS games in the future and just 
 goes to show you exactly what the 360 is capable of doing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NikeStud17
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 30, 2005 8:48 pm PT
Review:  I have played this game ABUNCH and ive beat it on easy and i can't beat it on hardend and im sure 
 ill DIE on veteran but my favorite part is the tank campaign other than that the GRAPHICS ARE GREAT!!!! 
 its the best looking war game ive ever played and probably the most fun also!!! sound wise its 
 awsome i was trying to go to sleep and i still heard guns going off haha I LIKE THIS GAME ABUNCH!!! 
 me and my brother have been playing this game for about 2 or 3 days now and i just beat it on hardend 
 and its HARD every corner i turnd i got shot to pieces or sum1 blew me up its crazy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: detailedghost
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 30, 2005 8:36 pm PT
Review:  If u own a 360, BUY THIS GAME NOW! It is amazing in every way, it has the feel of Unreal Tournement 
 4, the Graphics of F. E. A. R. or Perfect Dark Zero, has the sound of real war cries, and the entertainment 
 and frustration of Halo 2. Mixed togther make a game that is unbelivable. When playing, ur allies 
 tell u where the Nazies/Germans/Jerries are coming from and where gernades are tossed. I is sad 
 when one of ur mean dye, and exicitful when u kill 10 Germans at once. The only problem with the 
 game is the multiplayer on the xbox 360. It lacks the subtance of Halo 2 and Battlefield 2 in multiplayer. 
 It has matchmaking, but that is it and its very difficult to even start a match on their version 
 of match making. If u want multiplayer for the 360 , pick up Perfect Dark Zero. This should be 
 the 1st game any game with a 360 should get. A game, whos full potentional is held back by the 
 multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SoldierofDoom
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 30, 2005 7:18 pm PT
Review:  I remember when I first played the old Medal of Honor: Allied Assault game for PC a few years back. 
 I enjoyed the game and felt I learned a great deal about WWII. Well, when I first booted up my 
 Xbox 360 and popped in the highly acclaimed Call of Duty 2, I wasn't expecting anything close to 
 what I got.
  
  First off, one major difference I noticed right off the bat is that you are never alone (as opposed 
 to MOHAA) . You instantly feel a sort of comaraderie, whether your allies be Russian, British, or 
 American. You have about a 5-minute tutorial before you are plunged into the gritty wartorn Stalingrad, 
 and at that moment, you actually become a soldier in WWII, and you don't stop being a soldier until 
 you turn the game off.
  
  Sound is AMAZING - never knew sound could make such a difference before this game. Hook it up to 
 surround sound and you've got a treat
  
  Graphics are superb - this is what next-gen gaming is about... only a few times I noticed some not-so-pretty 
 visuals, but those times were few and far between.
  
  Gameplay is top notch - everything feels the way it should feel, from nades to guns. A. I. is at 
 its best
  
  Value - only complaint, it could be longer and the online could be a bit more developed, but not 
 that big of a setback
  
  Reviewer's Tilt - loved every minute of it
  
  HIGHLY recommended, especially if you have an Xbox 360 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Metroidmaniac88
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 30, 2005 7:09 pm PT
Review:  Sick of WW2 FPS'??? Too bad. Becuase Call of Duty 2 is the one game of this genre you have to have. 
 This game was great. The single player being the most epic and exciting, allows you to go through 
 10 chapters, 3 as a Russian, 4 as British soldier, and 3 more as an American. The missions are 
 very involved and are mostly run and gun. One of the other things to do in the campiagn is that 
 you drive a tank. Although I personally had trouble controlling it, it was fun when i was doing 
 the right thing. The online is also fun but could have been better. It spans many different types 
 of games, from deathmatch to team deathmatch, to capture the flag, and headquarters. All the games 
 are fun, but being able to oinly have 8 players in a game can leave not having much action. It 
 is also hard to keep a full game because of excessive lag. All in all this is a great game. Anyone 
 with an Xbox 360 must own this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WNxSnoball
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 30, 2005 6:19 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is just another World War 2 game the only difference is good graphics actually great 
 graphics soon it will be a normal NEXT Gen World War 2 if you like WW2 games get this. Same guns, Same 
 gameplay, Same Places, Same Story. There's better things to be doing than just replaying WW2 games. 
 Good things are Sound. Sound is very good and sharp that leads to Realism. Immerse yourself in 
 a World War 2 game that you already know what happens.
  
  Scoring: 
  Difficulty:
  Just Right 
  
  Learning Curve:
  0 to 30 Minutes Time Spent Playing, to Date:
  Time Spent 
 Playing-10 Hours or Less 
  
  Classification:
  Overrated 
  
  Gameplay 6 
  Graphics 9 
  Sound 10
  Value 9
  Reviewer's Tilt 9 
  
  Your Score:8.2 great 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kicken
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 30, 2005 2:58 pm PT
Review:  when I got this for christmas with my xbox 360, I was immediately disappointed, because I was looking 
 foward to games like PD0 and PGR3 but after buying those games after this one I was glad I got 
 COD2 because it is awesome, graphics are good, not amazing, but good for a 360 launch title, because 
 you have to remember, these games are not next gen, they were games made for gamecube or xbox 1, 
 then just altered the graphics, but this is the exception, its awesome, I love the new health system, 
 so you dont have to go look around for med packs, and you instantly die if you get to close, so 
 it gives it the realism. For a WW2 shooter, this game did show some originality, different levels, 
 you are in different shoes, instead of fighting omaha beach. Online is good, but in xbox360 its 
 only 2-8 players, but it still makes for a good time, just not like pc where you can have 50 players, 
 but thats alright, still awesome, the first game you should buy for this console. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bgrotha666
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 30, 2005 2:50 pm PT
Review:  Of all the annoying launch titles for the Xbox 360, there were only 2 I've kept my eye on. One 
 of which was Perfect Dark Zero, which I haven't really played yet, because I can't find anyone 
 who has it. The other was Call of Duty 2. My friend recieved an Xbox 360 for Christmas, along with 
 Call of Duty 2. I went over there everyday from then on to play through the single player. I just 
 finished the game last night, and I was impressed to the max. The game is astounding. The graphics 
 are simply incredible. They have just about every detail there is. The guns you hold, they are 
 full of chip marks, dents, and tiny specs of dust on them. You will see wrinkles, and dirt all 
 over your team mates' shirts. You will see extremely real looking bricks on walls that have every 
 detail in them that makes them a brick. When you throw a smoke bomb, the smoke looks too real. 
 It's unbelievable. But enough about the insane graphics, let's talk about everything else.
  
  Sound - Perfect. You will hear the battlecries of soldiers, the missiles that drop and explode, 
 the planes over head, the firing of guns, the chanting of your enemies, it all gets into you and 
 makes you feel like you're in that war, you're right there ready to take on anything there is.
 
  
  Story - The game is based on once again the Russian, British, and American battles, but it couldn't 
 have picked better battles. With the British you will take on battles such as Matamata city. With 
 the Russian, you will go even further into Stalingrad. With the Americans, you will go through 
 the most intense D-day battle you have ever faced in a video game.
  
  Gameplay - What more must I say? The gameplay is un-freaking believeable. The guns fire so life-like, 
 moving like a gun would. The enemies come in hordes, you are pinned down with 2 soldiers, fighting 
 your way through a trench. You climb up a rope, with 3 soldiers climbing above you, they all die, 
 and fall off, but you keep climbing, it's the most realistic thing I've ever seen, this game could 
 become so real, it could be like a training program for the army soldiers lol.
  
  Overall, Call of Duty 2 can't dissapoint you, the game is absolutely astounding. It is the main 
 360 game you have to pick up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnmetcalf
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 30, 2005 12:32 pm PT
Review:  Call Of Duty 2 is a launch title that will in my opinion be ahead of it's time for possibly this 
 entire generation of gaming. I'm the type of person who doesn't like to give a game a perfect 10 
 because nothing is perfect and I don't want to look like someone who is too easy on a game. In 
 this case I am going to have to make an exception and dust off the old perfect 10 for this game. 
 So those of you reading this review please don't take my rating lightly.
  
  When it comes to graphics this game is just plain beautiful. It really has no other competiton 
 of all the first person shooters on launch of the 360. The fact you can see the morter between 
 the bricks, spray of blood from your shooting an enemy, and the day light through the bullet holes 
 in pipe stage says it all. The player models move perfectly and look very realistic.
  
  The Game plays like a dream you have complete control over you soldier and there is no drop in 
 frame rate that I can tell.
  
  Oh and the sounds of battle. The gunfire, the rattling of the granade when it hits an object and 
 bounces.
  
  All of thise aspects are what make a perfect game. All I know is I will be judging all future first 
 person shooters by this one game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: basskill2000
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 30, 2005 11:51 am PT
Review:  unbelievable!! This game is by far one of the best war games I have ever played. The graphics and 
 attention to detail is amazing for a game that was developed to launch with the system. I cannot 
 wait to see what COD3 has in store. 
  
  Gameplay is awesom, AI is very smart and works with you or against you in some cases, but it goes 
 with the game, and makes it even better. 
  Graphics and Sound are by far the best I have heard and seen yet. The textures are smooth and the 
 map layouts are very impressive.
  
  I have yet to play this title online but I hear some great things from those who have, If the campaign 
 play is great I am sure the Online play is a match.
  
  This is a must have title. 10/10 all the way in my eyes 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jfish90
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 30, 2005 6:16 am PT
Review:  i think this game is the best release title for 360. everything they said would be great about 
 the system comes alive in Call - a shiny, realistic look, immersive sound, and world-class gameplay. 
 I love it. But this game got ripped by Gamespot and the other sites because it is more of the same 
 type of game that we've seen so many times before. WHo cares? This is the best WWII shooter, ever, 
 or at least since the original Medal of Honor. Memorable moments like the builiding falling down 
 in Stalingrad will keep this game among the elites of 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rancid_toejam
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 30, 2005 12:04 am PT
Review:  Uhhhh, wow. Thats all i can say about this game. It is down right phenonminal.... i spelled that 
 wrong but oh well. The sound is great. The graphics are TOP OF THE LINE PC quality. A great launch 
 title. You start off as a Russian Soilder, battling the cold as well as the "Facist" trying to 
 defend your motherland. Second, youll fight in the African Desert as a British Solider, "GET OFF 
 YOUR ARSE!!!".... then youll be fighting as an american. and yes there is a Normandy Level. but 
 the beach part seems shorter cause well, it is a small beach. it doesnt take place on Omaha beach 
 like it always does.
  
  if your a WWII game fan you have to buy it.... or you should die 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bbpro991
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 29, 2005 11:49 pm PT
Review:  This game was amazing to play, although i didnt like the online due to the high amount of lag, 
 otherwise it was great. When playing the story mode you get a great challange and the battles seem 
 so real. of course you can go for a REAL challange and play it on veteran mode, its quite a task 
 to win that. but you do get gamer points :-) . if you want to buy the game to just play live i wouldnt 
 really suggest it, its the laggiest game on the 360 probably, but the story mode has such depth 
 that makes up for it, if u get a good server online then it can be great with different gametypes 
 and many levels, and it has a really cool feature, a kill cam, so show how you died. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pookers47
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 29, 2005 11:01 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is a good game for the xbox 360. It is probably among the best of the launch games 
 and definitely better than PDZ for a FPS. I'm gonna make this review short but sweet. The gameplay 
 is fun and addictive, with a nice blend of halo 2 run and gun, and counter-strike tactics and realism. 
 The online play is real fun and addictive but some matches tend to be a little laggy. Games can 
 only hold 2 - 8 people in a room which is good because i found it to be the perfect setting for 
 not be killed consistently and still feel like your carry your fair share of of support for your 
 team. The in game graphics are beautiful, from every thing from the environments to explosions 
 and bullets splattering every where. It can be very immersive, the sound especially contributes 
 to this among other hidden factors. All in all a very solid shooter, and definitely worth picking 
 up compared to the other games currently out for the 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: night-wolf145
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 29, 2005 9:29 pm PT
Review:  Well Now, Call Of Duty 2 For Xbox 360, Is A Really Fun Game, Its Hard To, If You Try Playing It 
 On A Hard Difficulty, I Beat "The Winter War" Level, On Vetaren Thats All I Can Beat On The Difficulty, 
 I Beat The Game On Easy And Regular Tho, Okay Guns Are Good, Gameplay Is Good, Single Player Is 
 Long And Good, Online, Fun And The Good Thing About It, Everyone Is Pretty Much Equal, No One Can 
 Be The Best, Its Easy To Get Kills But Its Easy To Die, My Favorite Gun Has To Be The Trench Gun 
 (Shotgun) , Its Pretty Much One Hit Kills. Anyhoo I Recommend Buying This Game, If You Love War 
 Games Like Me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peterandbeer
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 29, 2005 4:08 pm PT
Review:  This game has everything you would want from a World War 2 shooter. It has great character huge 
 levels, tons of enemies to fight, tons of weapons to use, and in some of the levels you are allowed 
 to ride certain vehichles. There is also a great multiplayer mode which i have to tell you its 
 not that fun only playing with 2 people so get 4 controllers or get Xbox live to play against others. 
 One of the features i like is the health regeneration features if you start getting a red screen 
 duck for cover and your health will be slightly regenerated. This feature might not be realistic 
 but it sure is usefull since there are no health packs to use. You get to use frag grenades, regular 
 grenades, and smoke grenades which is a personal favorite. There are 3 campains but my favorite 
 is of course the American campaign. You will have tons of hours of fun with Call of Duty 2 and 
 if you have the right stuff you can also have a very fun multiplayer/online experience. So go and 
 shootem up because Call of Duty 2 is a sure buy for the Xbox 360! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cromonic
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 29, 2005 2:50 pm PT
Review:  Wow! That's my first reaction when I played this game. I think it's strange that this game costs 
 more than the other games on the market, but anyway... it's worth it! I can see why there's such 
 a hype around this game. The graphics are mindblowing and the sound is awesome. I read somewhere 
 that a magazine wrote something like "As close as you'd ever want to get a real war", and I totally 
 agree with them. The only bad thing about it is that I haven't been able to play the online mode. 
 I don't know if there's something wrong with my connection or the game servers. That's a shame 
 because I think this one could be very fun online. Anyway, it's absolutely worth your money and 
 time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazedcommando9
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 10, 2007 6:35 am PT
Review:  From the beginning of the game to the end the action never stops and seems to increase. Every level 
 that you play does not feel repetitive and feels like youre taking on a new challenge. This game 
 is based on World War 2 and I wonder if the war was just as insane as this game is. I played on 
 the hard difficulty and on an HDTV. The graphics are really nice and set a really good feel to 
 where you are, whether its during a winter at Fortress Stalingrad or youre on a farm killing 
 more Nazis. The weapons all look good, they feel and sound really powerful. When I first shot off 
 with a machine gun it shocked me, and then I set off a whole round into a wall just to hear it 
 again. There isnt that much replay value unless you want to try Veteran mode (the hardest mode) 
 or if you want to play on Xbox live, which was not to great. I always find a really laggy game 
 and when I say laggy I mean laggy, you shoot off a pistol once and it fires like a machine gun 
 while you teleport around. Plus the games just isn't as fun as the single player campaign. But 
 I rated this game on single player not Xbox live. This game gets a 9.4/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RocKtheCasbaH
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 8, 2006 5:21 am PT
Review:  Vintage Call of Duty. The single player game is one of the best gaming experiences money can buy 
 .
  
  The downside is thbe Multiplayer is under developed and laggy. This game could be so much more 
 if they'd spent more time and thought on the muliplayer component. Games can frequently be laggy 
 and there's no option to customise your game or make a group of friends to stick together through 
 multiple games a. k. a. Halo2. Get used to re-inviting people to games each time and hope the server 
 doesn't get full.
  It's more frustrating because what multiplayer content it has is good - when it's not laggy - so 
 the potential is obvious.
  
  Given the popularity of the game hopefully a patch will be forthcoming to fix it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bassoonrules27
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 29, 2005 12:13 pm PT
Review:  The minute you put Call of Duty 2 into your Xbox 360, you feel like you have jumped into a time 
 machine. The gameplay is so immersive and realistic that you feel like you and your brothers are 
 fighting against the German war machine in Europe. The graphics are nothing short of amazing, the 
 gameplay is solid, fluent, and fun. The only big letdown of Call of Duty 2 is the online. Xbox 
 Live play is very choppy and laggy. If you can get past the sub-par online play, though, you find 
 a great game. The WWII genre is way overused, but if games like this can still be produced, I'll 
 be more than happy to fight on the beaches of Normandy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bassplayer27800
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 29, 2005 8:35 am PT
Review:  This is bguy far the best WW2 game out right now. It is also the most realalistic. In medal of 
 honor you can run in a room with like 7 nazis and kill them alive with some health remaining. In 
 COD2 you can't do that you will be shot down and killed. So I think it's more realistic than any 
 other WW2 game. The gameplay is awsome with all the different wepons and three campaings with 27 
 missions broken up into parts. The graphics in the game are also amazing. There is a ton of detail 
 in the wepons and faces and every thing in the game. The sound is really good. All the sounds that 
 the guns make when they shoot, to the voices of the people. This is a must buy for 360 owners. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lazboy598
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 29, 2005 8:34 am PT
Review:  Along with what I just said, Call of Duty 2 is just great. Everything about it is great, easy controls, 
 fun single player, fun multiplayer online ( except it lags waaay too much) . My dad watches me play 
 it all the time because his father was in the war and he likes seeing nazis die. It isn't only 
 fun, it's pretty informing. I learned a lot about the war and everything, I haven't really studied 
 it in school yet. So to sum it all up this game is worth buying because you will like if you like 
 to play video games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: isaach11687
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 29, 2005 5:55 am PT
Review:  Game play: The game play was structured by the computer AI. While I was playing it on the hardest 
 level, it seemed that i was really at war and really fighting for my life. The bad thing about 
 the gameplay were just small things that caused many angry fits. Like save points and repetitive 
 death sprees.
  
  Graphics/Sound: Not much to say..... Amazing... the smoke really looks like smoke. In some cases 
 you can see veins in the players wrist.. i could go on and on. if this is just the begining to 
 the Xbox 360, o god what will the future hold?
  
  Value: The missions do not take that long to beat and the online play isn't anything like halo, 
 but hey, it is not bad for a WWII game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dickedo42
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 29, 2005 5:06 am PT
Review:  Im just curious to know if anyone is else is having a problem with the game saving. i played for 
 like 3 hrs total and all of a sudden i went to play last night and it was if i just started playing 
 the game. the only thing that was unlocked was the red army training... just curious is all... As 
 for the game, its awesome... Kind of odd how the Germans seem to only hit you and not the rest of 
 your company, but o well thats what happens when you play on veteran i guess... sound is awesome, 
 especially if you have surround sound set up, all and all its definately a 9.0 out of 10 for single 
 player... lets not even mention how bad the multiplayer is ( 4.0 out of 10 MAYBE) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AvonAllStar15
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 29, 2005 1:47 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2, a very well put together game. This game takes you through historic battles and 
 wars that you may not be familiar with. You will be sucked into hours and hours of gameplay as 
 well as live. This game has very good graphics and the realism to the cities are well too. Call 
 of Duty 2 will be a classic to the 360 for a long time, even after being one of the early games 
 released.
  
  The game takes you through carnaged cities, battles in the dessert, as well as urban places such 
 as train stations and neighborhoods, and many more. Those were a few of the many places you can 
 go. It will take on journeys that you couldn't imagine or experience without playing. The sound 
 and scenery of this game is tremendous and will leave you on the edge of your seat for hours.
 
  
  I give this game a 8.3 out of 10. This game is amazing and a very good value. I would recommend 
 this game to anyone who is interested in history, as well anyone who is a fanatic for shooting 
 games. This game is action packed and you would be missing out if you don't get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dasoso
Rating: 9.9
Date: Dec 28, 2005 10:04 pm PT
Review:  Tis Game Controls like Halo 2 but is a little bit more intense than that game. On Easy you will 
 find yourself off to a rocky road with the russian campaign but it easens up a bit later. in the 
 British campaign, it is relatively easy and includes the Mission that you can Play in the XBOX 
 360 Kiosks at electronic stores. The American Campaign is hell disguiesed as A video Game. Now 
 up it up to Veteran and it will take you about 3-4 hours to Finishthe Russian Campaign. Now i haven't 
 finished the Veteran missions but have finished on easy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: billjakybob
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 28, 2005 8:30 pm PT
Review:  This is the first game that i got for the 360 and did I ever pick a good game, I love how your 
 team is always talking and tell you where those guys are even when you cant see them they help 
 you out so much, Im glad you dont have to take care of them anymore. The AI for this game is 
 insanely crazy its like your almost there killing real Nazis. I know lots of people are say holy 
 S*** another WWII game but in this case we made an exception.
  
  Game play: The game play for CoD2 was just great i loved it non stop action, non stop thrill and 
 excitement just playing this game i hope in the near future we get more games like this on the 
 360. Even thought it takes place in the WWII war and we've play through it like 10 million times 
 it was like playing a different war game, like you knew it was WW2 but it take a different perspective 
 of the war. I love that they introduced some new LvLs and guns that we haven't used before, the 
 game play just bloow me away.
  
  Graphics: The graphics for CoD2 was great another step up in gaming I loved it not quit real but 
 some times it kind of felt like you were looking at a real guy. It wasnt hard to see any enemies 
 except for when the bombs were flying around and the smoke covered everything it just seemed so 
 real.
  
  Sound: The sound was incredible i put the volume up on my TV just to hear the realism in everything 
 it was just like you were there, when they came to talk to you on what you had to do it was like 
 listening to a clear person instead of that creakily stuff you get in those other games.
  
  Value: This game is worth every penny if you are thinking of buying a great shooter for your 360 
 this is the one to get.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: I just plainly loved this game just like Ive been saying throughout this review 
 if you are looking for a great game this is the one to get you will enjoy your self for hours on 
 end. The reason why i gave this game a 10/10 was because of the non stop action and intensity of 
 the game it will keep you playing it for hours. This game turned out great I wonder how CoD3 will 
 be hopefully as good as CoD2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedX46
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 28, 2005 6:58 pm PT
Review:  I have played both the 360 version and the PC version and they are both amazing games, but with 
 the 360 you get the advantage of xbox live which is always a good thing. the graphics are very 
 good on both systems and the soundtrack is amazing and easy on the ears. Call of Duty 2 gives you 
 the feeling that you are in World War II itself. The controls are easy and the A. I. are very smart 
 and actaully do what they need to do to survive. And the coolest part about the game is that you 
 can play as more then just the Americans, you can also play as the Russians, and the Brittish as 
 well. And the battles in each campaign are very intense. Another thing i noticed is the textures 
 on the Characters are very good, when you see them talking their facial expression moves with what 
 they are saying and they look realistic and gives more realism to CoD2. Great Game on Both systems, 
 and with the advantage of Xbox live you cant go wrong with this WWII Shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Astrodude_5
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 13, 2006 11:21 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty is intense and amazing. Dude, it rocks.
  
  The Gameplay is solid. It controls well, the weapons are modeled well, and is very intense. It 
 took me awhile to get used to it because I was used to Quake 4 where you are nearly invincible. 
 But in COD2 if you charge blindly you'll die in 2 seconds or less. It's more of a thinker. You 
 must use cover, flank, and use grenades.
  
  The graphics are a mixed bag. On one hand, the guns and smoke look amazing, but textures are fuzzy 
 and the characters look funny. They run like they crapped themselves. Whatever. P. S. I do have 
 HD. I may update and compare if I turn HD off.
  
  Sound. Is. Awesome. In. Call. Of. Duty. 2. The weapons roar, the music score compliments the action 
 the (smart & agressive) AI shouts out opponents such as "sniper, 3rd story, grey building!" (I'm 
 not Canadian, I just don't like spelling it gray. It's Weird) . This one will rock your house.
 
  
  As said, the AI is incredible. 
  
  Multiplayer is OK. CTF is fun, and deathmatch is good too. I need to play some more online I guess. 
 If you want multiplayer, go Perfect Dark Zero (yes, I have that) . The real meat in COD2 is SP though. 
 Do yourself a favor and play on hardened (veteran is kind of cheap, and the other stuff isn't as 
 tactile.) [UPDATE] Now that they fixed the horrendous lag via patch I've found myself having a 
 lot of fun, and the new maps are decent. 
  
  COD2 is great. I heard that like 70% of Xbox 360 owners own COD2. Dang. I'm not sure about that 
 though. Awesome. 'Nuff said. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spectre37
Rating: 5.8
Date: Mar 6, 2006 10:30 pm PT
Review:  The Best Part: Graphics for sure.
  The Worst Part: The ability to takem over 26 shots and 1 RPG and not die.
  
  Gameplay - 5/10
 
  Not much has changed, gameplay wise, since the first one. But there are some added stuff that 
 affect the gameplay. On one hand, the AI is smart, and its a more intense game and you have no 
 health bar on the other hand, you can take over 26 shots and 1 RPG without dieing. What the hells 
 up with that? It claims to be the most realistic war game ever and you can take more then the enemies 
 tank. 
  
  Visual - 9.5/10
  Now this game is one of the only games that uses the 360s power so far. Great details. The visuals 
 could have been more gritty and realistic, but it seems this game sacrfices the realism for action.
 
  
  Audio -9/10
  Fantasic audio, but still to childish. This series is moving in the right direction.
  
  Value 
 -5/10
  Fairly lengthy story with not very much replay value and online that accually blows. This suprized 
 me very much. Usually online games are hella fun, but this games online was awful. You cant you 
 mics, and everybody sucks.
  
  Maybe by the 7th game activision will be able to make a great war game, but it sure looks bad for 
 now. 
  
  Now i can't stress this enough people, if your gonna make a war game, MAKE IT REALISTIC AND MAKE 
 IT MORE MATURE. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: clay10david
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 28, 2005 5:15 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Boring and repititive singleplayer. Nothing Special. There are some neat effects though.
 
  
  Graphics: Not quite next generation. If you go up to a wall, pixels are everywhere. Onjects are 
 quite ugly and jaggies are everywhere. Explosions are amazing though.
  
  Sound: Pretty good voice overs but sometimes soldiers just say the same things so many times till 
 you get annoyed.
  
  Value: After you finish the single player you probably won't want to go do another mission. Multiplayer 
 is so laggy its practically unplayable. Online that is.
  
  Tilt: I have to admit its not what I was expecting it to be. It can get boring, repititive and 
 dizzying
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: EXxile
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 28, 2005 3:12 pm PT
Review:  Never has a war game made me feel so much in the shoes of a soldier. The game is brilliant, it 
 really makes you feel as if you were there. It looks as if a soldier had taped a camera to his 
 head while going through the war. Seriously. The graphics are beautiful when it comes to character 
 models and certain objects such as tanks and vehicles. Every lighting and expression on their face 
 looks genuine. However, the graphics aren't always that impressive when you look at minor things 
 like the floor and bricks on the wall. But no biggie cause you rarely have time to gaze at the 
 environment cause your always too caught up in the action before you. The gameplay has intense, 
 non stop action that really gets you addicted. Yes, kind of like a drug. Every sound is perfect 
 for the scenario, you will hear Germans yelling to each other while you and your allies all bum 
 rush em, and hear your allies yelling to you the coordinates of enemy troops. What I also really 
 dig bout this game is the fact that you have the ability to be all three main allies. The Russians, 
 the British, and the Americans, all in that order. And the fact that you always have teammates 
 with you makes it much more believable instead of having you as a lone solider destroying an entire 
 army yourself. True, it is a little difficult for you to die seeing you have no life bar and your 
 screen will glow red once your low on life, so just take shelter until it recharges. But still, 
 I like the fact you don't have to go scrapping for health packs. It's simply just telling you, 
 "You think your invincible? Get your ass down and take cover dumbass!" Though it may be a a little 
 quick to beat mainly if your like me and play this game constantly whenever you have time until 
 its done, I still got no real complaints. This is the best WWII game I have ever had played and 
 it really makes me glad that they did this game right. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: den1233
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 28, 2005 2:48 pm PT
Review:  The first thing youre going to notice when you play call of duty 2 is the how it doesn't just 
 through you into battle right away. It gives you about a 10 min training course on how to pick 
 up weapons and aim and through grenades. It also teaches you close range attacks. The best part 
 of the game is the sound it really makes you think youre in war. And the songs that play when 
 you complete a intense battle is done really good. For a historical first person shooter it has 
 a good story which shows the war for the eyes of a Russian, a British, and an American soldier. 
 The battles are very intense from start to finish. There are 3 Russian, 4 British, and 3 American 
 campaigns. Battles include d-day, the battle of El Alamein, Stalingrad. 10 campaigns 27 levels 
 all together each one taking 10 to 20 minutes to beat but there is sometimes a long level. My personal 
 favorite type of play is on Xbox live. There set up pretty good and are very fun. Theres death 
 matches, team death matches, capture the flag and some other games you can play. IF you don't have 
 Xbox live but what to play these mini games they are also playable on split screen. You can spend 
 hours on just the death marches and not even realize it. 
  The difficulties are what really tell you how long its going to take you to beat the game. You 
 could get through the campaigns in 6 to 8 hours on easy. Maybe even less but the harder the Difficulty 
 is set to the longer the game is going to take to beat. There is room for improvement though after 
 playing other games for the Xbox 360 I know that the x360 is capable of better graphics. Dont 
 get me wrong the graphics are wonderful but theres just room for improvement. There are areas 
 of the game were the graphics are perfect but some were I think could have been better. Though 
 when you think of every game out there you can almost always find an area were improvements can 
 be made. Thats how sequels become better, improve on there flaws. And this game has done that 
 many times over from the original call of duty. 
  Some more things about the game are the sense of always being watched from snipers ether on houses 
 or on roofs. I recommend this to anyone whos a fan of first person shooting, strategy because 
 your going to have to think before you react and even people who whats to learn history while 
 having fun at the same time. now you might wonder why I said strategy well in the game your going 
 to have to always have to plan what way would be best at attacking the opponents. Youre going 
 to have to find ways to flank the opponent and get to high ground. Trying to find the safest route 
 and there are many other places which are going to make you have to think. Technicality though 
 its not a strategy game but your going to have to think strategy.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 22killed
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 28, 2005 2:37 pm PT
Review:  A game you could play for 3 days straight and want to play more. Not like those other shooters 
 where there's bizarre places and people. Almost like I'm there the graphics are so good. I suggest 
 this to everyone. Pretty expensive but it's worth that hard earned cash. Worth the everything. 
 Suggest you play multiplayer against someone crappy so you get used to the controls. 10 out of 
 10 easily. Way better than Call of Duty: Finest hour. Good for all people who like stradegy games. 
 I have the Xbox 360 but I don't know how it is on Xbox but I'm sure it's good too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZappaDaZappa
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 28, 2005 1:48 pm PT
Review:  I went out to Blockbuster and rented Call Of Duty 2 I got home and had nothing to do I turn on 
 my 360 and put Call Of Duty 2 in. I was blow away by The Artifitial Intelligence how not in most 
 games there just running into walls and really stupid. But this game the A. I was right on my back 
 and if I
  wasn't really paying attenion to what I was doing I would get shot and die the first part alone 
 took me 30 minutes to beet as I would pop up to shoot and be sniped in the face. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kruegmeister
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 28, 2005 12:15 pm PT
Review:  I usually don't like the games that are scripted like Medal of Honor and such.
  But this game just draws you in.
  The AI for your men and the Enemy is to notch.
  The Smoke 
 Grenades are awesome looking.
  The Visuals are Top Notch, especially in HighDefinition.
  The Sound is Killer.
  The Controls are Easy to get used to and Work just Right.
  You'll be 
 in a firefight and you just feel your part of a war, obviously without the real risk of dying, 
 but it just feels like your not the only one fighting.
  I love this Game.
  This has to be the Best World War 2 Shooter Yet.
  This is the Must have Launch Title for the 
 XBOX360.
  
  Avoid Madden it is buggy, buggy, buggy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sugarstevesmith
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 28, 2005 7:54 am PT
Review:  Although we've seen this kind of game many times over in recent years, it's still a worthwhile 
 purchase if you don't have a shooter in your collection.
  
  Call of Duty 2 does not offer anything you wouldn't have already seen before butt it is still a 
 great game to play.
  
  The online multiplayer mode is simple and direct and although the amount of people able to play 
 online on the XBOX 360 version is only 8, this does in fact reduce the hectic gameplay usually 
 encountered during online play.
  
  Pros:
  Decent graphics.
  Superb sound effects.
  Great atmosphere.
  Long lifespan.
  Not too difficult.
  Smooth multiplayer.
  
  Cons:
 
  Nothing new.
  Lack of interactive scenery/obstacle (when a grenade goes off near a chair shouldn't it blow it 
 to peices?) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkRaven_basic
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 28, 2005 6:35 am PT
Review:  Its hard to determine which xbox 360 launch title FPS is the best. I can't decide why should you? 
 But I can say that the campaign is the greatest ever, since playing "Halo," the smoke, the fire, 
 the AI, the grenades, ALL of it is outstanding! This is a game you will not be able to put down 
 till you finish it a couple times. The graphics are amazing, you will feel fear for your life and 
 your teammates. The gameplay is great, there is nothing you yourself can do that is that special, 
 or anything different then any other FPS, but when your running and gunning and grenades are going 
 by you and bullets are hitting you, smoke is everywhere, explosions, there is not enough you can 
 say good about this game, as far as the campaign
  
  Now for the multiplayer, I was a bit disappionted. The online set up is pretty mest up. You can't 
 make your own room, which makes it very hard to get into a game with a friend. You just go into 
 a matchmaking system like in "Halo" but the game doesnt pick who has the best connection so there 
 will be a lot of lag. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DMRecon
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 28, 2005 4:29 am PT
Review:  Great game, and although reviews have been saying that its better than Perfect Dark Zero, in my 
 opion it isn't. Xbox Live may be slightly worse than that of Perfect Dark Zero it is still a good 
 live game, but the game really comes to light in its increadably story line, featuring 4 characters 
 over the game. This is a clever way of allowing the player to use different character and places, 
 increasing the longitivity of the game. Not enough games do this. The games graphics are stunning 
 and the sound also blows you away (especially with the AI screaming at you to take cover from grenades 
 and fire) . I think this games has been under-ratted and given harsh reviews, as the game is one 
 of the (if not the) best games in the Xbox 360 line up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: War_Fighter
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 27, 2005 10:56 pm PT
Review:  Alright this game is the best game in the CoD franchise, and it blows MoH, BiA, and anyother war/WWII 
 game out of the water with relative ease. If you own an Xbox 360 or PC you must own this.
  
  Graphics- This has the best graphics out of every single videogame on the market. Keep your 
 Halo's, your Dooms and Half Life's (lives) . Best. I have seen very few flaws with the graphics 
 at all.
  
  Game Play- It varies which is good. In the British campaign you use tanks which makes for a definetly 
 interesting experience. The game gives you challenges for your Xbox 360 gamercard. Like if you 
 play "Hill 400" on Veteran and win you get 60 Gamerscore points which is cool. The game has very 
 interesting and immerisive levels, such as in one level you have to call artillery strikes on advancing 
 enemy troops and tanks before they overwhelm you or climb up the cliff at Point Du Hoc. In some 
 games, the first level is the most interesting and that's it (Yes Medal of Honor I speak of you) 
 but Call of Duty 2 has almost equally fun levels with a few that luckily excel over the others.
 
  
  Sound- It's amazing. For most of the weapons they went to a firing range and recorded sounds of 
 the weapons reloading, firing, cocking and etc...
  
  Value- You'll probably be playing this game in 10 years and enjoying it and being suprised by the 
 rather intelligent enemy AI.
  
  Multiplayer- Ok now the lacking. It has splitscreen which is awsome. But XBL is lame seriously. 
 You need no skill what-so-ever. Just run and gun and don't stand in the open for too long. And 
 for you players that just use the Shotgun- You Suck wussies go play PS2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ConMan09
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 27, 2005 6:58 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 for the Xbox 360 takes place in WW2. You can play as the British, the Sweedish, 
 and you can be an American. Use numbers of weapons from any country. This game has an amazing campain 
 mode. Fight through many intense battles. The multiplayer for Xbox Live is amazing! Play hundreds 
 of people. This in my opinion is one of the best Xbox 360 games so far. The graphics are life like 
 and the game play is fun and easy. The sound is truely like a gun fireing and the sound of walking 
 is amazing. I have played and beat the game many times and I still love it. So if you have an Xbox 
 360 go out and buy this game and I know you will like this game if you like first person shooters 
 or if you just need a game to play. So go out buy this game, turn on your Xbox 360, and enjoy this 
 high intense shooting game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GotRaceGames
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 3, 2006 6:21 pm PT
Review:  this has to be one the best put togther first person shooters that i have had the pleasure of working 
 my way through. first off the AI is absolutly amazing it seem almost like you are actually playing 
 online. sure it seem that they always target you but what can your expect you are the only real 
 person there lol. second off the graphics roxzor i dont have HDtv but where it stands now they 
 are just fine. but at some point i will be upgradeing to HD just for the hell of it. the gamplay 
 itself it great with lots of stuff to keep your attention. Also as a added bonus i enjoyed the 
 little blurbs from from the preseident regaurding the war i thought it added a great touch of realism 
 to the game. the online play it great its not another one of those shoot the guy a million times 
 and he still doesnt die this is more my pace where you get hit and your a$$ is dead. Great Game!!!
 
  
  OK SO i just have to add on to this post for one reason. THE Online play is absolutly sick. first 
 off AND only reason for this complant is the FACT that Activision cant run there servers without 
 lag. THE WHOLE ONLINE PLAY LAGS UNTILE HALF THE PEOPLE IN THE ROOM LEAVE give you a crapy game 
 to play its just terriable. why cant they figure this out is it that hard. and why cant they make 
 it more user friendly.
  
  
  P. S HEAD SHOT NO SCOPE!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DanteKiller
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 27, 2005 2:51 pm PT
Review:  Do we really need another WWII game? In the case of Call of Duty 2 for the Xbox 360, damn right 
 we do. Call of Duty 2 is to the 360 as Medal of Honor for the PS1 was to WWII shooters, it is the 
 beginning of a new era. The graphics are topnotch, utilizing all of the 360's horsepower and defining 
 the word "next-gen." Even on a regular TV, CoD2 will leave you with jaw-dropping visuals. The sound 
 is so immersive that you will be lost in the world that they put you in. Every single hit from 
 and to the enemy looks, sounds, and feels like it should. Despite a short single-player campaign 
 and reused genre, this is unlike any FPS you have ever seen before. In a timeline that is starting 
 to get overdone, Call of Duty 2 is the best of a port of a PC game and one of the best 360 shooters 
 of the year. On your way to buy a new Xbox 360, make sure you pick up Call of Duty 2 with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crypto-236
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 27, 2005 1:55 pm PT
Review:  When a game is announced for both the PC and consoles, the question always arises about what's 
 different between the two versions. Did any compromises have to be made on one platform or the 
 other? Did something get lost in translation? As it turns out, the recent release of Call of Duty 
 2 on the PC turned out to be a very accurate preview of what Xbox 360 owners could expect to get 
 from next-generation shooters. Almost everything that makes the PC version one of the year's best 
 shooters remains intact on the Xbox 360 version of the game, which looks just as good and actually 
 runs smoother than all but the most beastly of gaming PCs. If not for the online multiplayer that's 
 limited to eight players, the Xbox 360 version probably would have been hands-down better overall. 
 But as it is, Call of Duty 2 still sets a high standard for any shooters following in its footsteps 
 on Microsoft's new console, and it's considerably faster, prettier, and more exciting than most 
 any other shooter available on consoles. 
  
  
  As in the first PC game, Call of Duty 2's campaign will put you in the shoes of a few different 
 soldiers fighting for different Allied factions. You start off as a private in the Russian army, 
 visciously fighting off the invading Germans in Moscow and Stalingrad. The British campaign is 
 unlocked after beating the first Russian mission. For most of these missions you'll be fighting 
 in the sand-swept deserts of North Africa, alongside the Desert Rats, against Field Marshal Rommel's 
 troops. The final mission in the British campaign sends you to the bombed-out houses and hedgerows 
 of Caen, France. After you're done with that, you'll play as an American corporal in Europe. Yes, 
 you will be doing a D-Day landing, but not on Omaha Beach or Utah Beach, which you've probably 
 played several times before. Instead, you'll be scaling the sheer cliffs of Pointe du Hoc as artillery 
 with the Army Rangers. If you already thought rock climbing was an "extreme" sport, try doing it 
 with artillery and machine-gun fire raining down on you. 
  
  Each of the game's 10 missions is broken up into a few different stages. If you play the game on 
 regular difficulty, you could blow through it in about 10 hours. Ratcheting up the difficulty a 
 notch makes the game much harder and more tactical (this is probably the experience the designers 
 intended) . Since you'll be creeping and peeking more carefully through all the encounters, you'll 
 lengthen the campaign significantly, and you'll enjoy it more. 
  
  Breaking up the campaign into several different narrative vignettes arguably weakens the impact 
 of the plot as a whole, although that was never the strength of Call of Duty in the first place. 
 What this does is let the designers put you in a lot of different, interesting situations. One 
 memorable moment in the Russian campaign has you crawling through a raised pipeline to sneak behind 
 German lines and into a fortified factory building. As you make your way through the pipeline, 
 you'll spot and snipe small pockets of German infantry through holes in the pipe. When they fire 
 back up at you, you'll notice bullets tearing through the rusted pipe, ripping open holes for shafts 
 of light to poke through. It's a thrilling effect. 
  
  You'll also get quite a rush from both participating in and defending against all-out infantry 
 charges across open city squares in Stalingrad. But just as the novelty of these wears off, you're 
 shunted over to the British campaign in North Africa, where you'll do things like participate in 
 night raids of small Tunisian towns, climb up to the top of spires to call in artillery on enemy 
 tanks, and even drive a tank yourself. The American campaign has its own memorable moments, like 
 scaling the cliffs of Pointe du Hoc, or sniping at German mortar crews from the top of a grain 
 silo. The game paces itself so that you're always on your toes, and you'll find yourself switching 
 back and forth almost constantly from an offensive position to making a defensive stand against 
 counterattacks on the objective you've just captured. Yes, at the end of the day you're still just 
 shooting a lot of Nazis, but the constantly varying contexts of how and why you're doing it keep 
 the game compelling from start to finish. 
  
  
  
  You won't be participating in these forays alone; far from it. In every setting you'll be surrounded 
 by what seems like dozens of soldiers, both friends and foes, who move and act in a realistic fashion. 
 Lots of your artificially intelligent mates will die by your side, along with the dozens of enemy 
 soldiers you kill, but more will come in from the rear echelons to take their place. The designers 
 often do a good job of reminding you that the war isn't just the infantry skirmish in which you're 
 fighting. From time to time you'll see planes engaged in dogfights flying overhead, or when you 
 complete an objective of capturing a German harbor, you'll call in a naval strike and see enemy 
 merchant ships being sunk at the docks. 
  
  In each confrontation, you'll find yourself setting up at logical stopping points to exchange fire 
 with German resistance. You can snipe dozens of enemies out of the windows and from the trenches 
 in front of a house, for example, but reinforcements replace them. It never feels as though the 
 game is cheaply spawning in more fodder for you; it just does a great job of making you feel like 
 there are a realistic number of soldiers holed up in a building. You need to get a feel for the 
 flow of each pitched battle, and this can be done by advancing your line when the enemy ranks look 
 thin enough, and then breaking into the house or bunker. Your allies will follow you in and help 
 you clear out the objective. Of course, if you're too meek at attacking and pressing your advantage, 
 the enemy AI is wily and aggressive enough to take charge. They're not afraid to pour fire on your 
 position and toss tons of grenades at you. Thankfully, a handy grenade danger indicator lets you 
 know when and where you have to scurry away from an impending blast. When you do die, the game 
 reloads very quickly, and you're even treated to a quote about war from various historical figures. 
 One that sticks out in our minds is an ironic one from Solomon Short: "The only winner in the War 
 of 1812 was Tchaikovsky." 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jackrm
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 27, 2005 1:54 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is the best FPS launch game for the Xbox 360. The feel throughout the whole campaign 
 is amazing. I felt like I was in WWII myself ( Please not that I have a 32" HDTV and 5.1 Surround 
 Sound) .
  
  I have never had interest in WWII shooters until I played the demo for this game at an Xbox 360 
 kiosk. Once I completed the demo numerous times, I couldn't stand going too much longer without 
 the full version of the game.
  
  Call of Duty 2's gameplay is the best part. The enemy AI is unbelievable. Right when you are about 
 to go for a headshot with a long range rifle, they will duck like a human player would. Another 
 great part about the game is you have to depend on your allies fighting with you. If you stray 
 too far from them, you will end up dying fairly quickly.
  
  The only slight, yes, slight drawback to the game is the so-so textures on the characters. Environments 
 in the game are amazing though. The debris and damaged buildings scattered throughout the levels 
 give the game a perfect chaotic atmosphere.
  
  Whether you have interest in first person shooters or not, I guarantee Call of Duty 2 will be a 
 favorite in your Xbox 360 game library.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: npili
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 27, 2005 1:30 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  
  Single-player is very enjoyable. Your comrades actually help by voicing out enemy positions and 
 such. They also help with throwing back grenades and providing cover fire. The real fun and frustration 
 (in a good way) is when you play the single-player mode on the hardest difficulty. The enemy AI 
 is insane at this level and helps train you for combating the skilled players online. I'm relatively 
 new to playing FPS games online. After playing COD2 online, I'm really hooked! My only complaint 
 is that there is no configuration to play online without sniper rifles. I think that would've been 
 a great option.
  
  Graphics:
  
  The graphics are superb. The maps, character models, smoke effects, vehicles, and weapons all have 
 amazing detail. The only issue I have with the graphics is that there isn't enough variety with 
 the character models. There are many different faces, but only a few different uniforms. I would've 
 like to have seen more personalization with the different soldiers. However, this is more of a 
 creative difference than a real gripe.
  
  Sound:
  
  Two words: TOP NOTCH! The music is sparse, but exactly right for the setting. The voice acting 
 and sound effects are convincing. Nothing much more to be said other than 'awesome'.
  
  Value:
  
  This the only game that I would purchase if I could only have one of the 360 launch 
 titles (PGR3 if you're a racing fan) . The single-player is long enough to satisfy most FPS fans. 
 After defeating the single-player on the hardest difficulty (which should take 10 -20 hrs of your 
 time) , you have a great online community to battle with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WhiskyTango
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 27, 2005 1:26 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty is everything you could want in a WWII shooter. The graphics are incredible, the sound 
 is good, the game play is awesome, realism and historical accuracy are up to my standards which 
 are pretty high on this particular subject. There are still a few problems though. One thing is 
 the online sucks. You can't set up a custom match for you and your friends you have to do a match 
 with totally random people. I have a really crappy connection but I can still play match made games 
 on halo 2 and all other games. I can not play match made games on call of duty 2 I lag for the 
 first 9 seconds I manage to stay on before I lag out of the whole game. The only online mode I 
 can do in this game is the matches that are for fun. Another problem is the Germans respawn in 
 certain places so you could shoot at them all freakin' year and they would keep coming. This especially 
 sucks on veteran mode when you toss a grenade into a house and you are expecting the germans to 
 all be dead. If you don't clear them out and then run to there spawn point in time all your hard 
 worked killin' will be for nothing. Other than those problems this is the most realistic war game 
 I have played so far. But I am still a big fan of Brothers in Arms. that game is going to come 
 out for the 360 and if you like tactical shooters you must pre-order it. I am told that it is better 
 looking than Call of duty and will have realistic wounds destructible surroundings and all kinds 
 of crazy **** 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fildo8000
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 27, 2005 1:24 pm PT
Review:  I bought perfect dark, played it for about 30 min, immediately returned it and bought this gem. 
 I was getting tired or war shooters until I tried this one. This is the only game that does't feel 
 like a port from a lesser console. The fear that it puts into you is what really drives the game. 
 It is chaotic to be sure, but you'll love every bit of it. I'm sure this is just a taste of what 
 the 360 can do. I was kind of pissed that I lost money on Perfect dark, but this game made up for 
 it. Excellent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: webproserv
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 27, 2005 12:40 pm PT
Review:  I only want to say that I can only tell you one thing about this game the rest is up to you to 
 decide. This game (are you ready) , this game is (here comes, this game is a gift from GOD! Yes there 
 I said it, Call of Duty 2 is simple a piece of artwork from Video Game Heaven. The single player 
 is the best single player game I EVER, EVER PLAYED! The online is a little scimp but other than 
 that multiplayer is still really fun! and I mean FUN! The graphics are so PRETTY you'll be licking 
 the screen tryin to get a taste of the eye candy. Do not pass this up, run to the store and spend 
 your last dime on this game (and if you shelled out 400.00 for the 360, I do mean your last dime) . 
 A MUST BUY FOR ALL IN HEAVEN AND EARTH. lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: angelosand
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 27, 2005 12:02 pm PT
Review:  This was my first xbox 360 game. Boy what an introduction to such a powerful machine. You start off 
 a private vasili a russian recruit who begins his red army traing under Leutenint letlev. You shoot 
 some inanimate objects for a short time then bash a dummy. Letlev orders you to throw potatoes trough 
 some marked areas and then a soldier comes with some news. They have captured a german soldier and 
 have him in a storeroom (where you get your weapons) . After this the story picks up with you destroying 
 a panzerverfer a sort of transport vehicle. This is well worth the 64.99 price tag. Buy it. Love it. But 
 try it on veteran like it says at the option you will not survive! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Muhen
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 27, 2005 11:08 am PT
Review:  In my opinion, this just may be the best WW2 shooter ever.
  
  Once again, It revolves around every aspect of the war, instead of the normal "only show the Allies" 
 concept. You play as several "teams" (I haven't beaten the game yet so I'll just list the ones I 
 know of) , which are the Soviets, Allies, and English. Each level is almost as intense as real war, 
 and playing on the hardest difficulty makes it even funner, and more realistic. You'll also be driving 
 some vehicles in some levels such as tanks and jeeps, which although they don't provide as much 
 entertainment as the on-foot levels , are still good in their own ways.
  
  And of course for the note, it doesn't have the usual D-Day level on Normandy beach, you'll be 
 climbing cliffs at Pointe du Hoc, as in the real war, with grenades and such raining down on you.
 
  
  The facial detail is amazing, as are all the other graphics, you can see wrinkles, scratches and 
 everything on the enemies/teammates faces. And every weapon and object is highly detailed.
  
  The multi player only features 8 players at a time, but since most maps are pretty small, it 
 all evens out. The multi player does seem a little "thrown together" at times, but it isn't so bad 
 you can't play it, because it still dishes out some good system link party and Xbox live fun.
  
  Sadly, The soundtrack seems just "average" with the usual gun and scream sounds you hear in 
 most WW2 First Person Shooters.
  
  
  For the final word, you should defiantly pick this one up if you got a 360, and if you don't have 
 one, go get it for the PC. It's the first Most Have title for the 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diversq
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 27, 2005 9:18 am PT
Review:  I have to say. I LOVE THIS GAME. The AI is excellent for the most part and the graphicsand gamplay 
 rock! YEA BABY I would have giving this game a perfect score but the multiplayer interface kinda 
 sucks. If they could fix that I think this would be a clasic to look back on. Oh the best addition 
 to multiplayer ive ever seen is the Kill Cam. Basicly when you get wasted by some one while your 
 wating to respawn you see how you died thru the eyes of the killer. GREAT IDEA!! The smoke grenades 
 add alot to the game play and I love the banter back and forth from your allies. And watch out 
 for the dreaded clink clink noise cause your foes love to toss those grenades at ya. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkThunder360
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 27, 2005 6:26 am PT
Review:  I have not received my X360 yet although I have played a number of titles. The first of which was 
 CoD2. I was amazed. First time I had seen a 360 and I just thought I was going to cry. It was so 
 nice, crisp and smooth. There is absolutely nothing wrong, graphically. The only thing I can complain 
 about is the thing I complain about with all FPS's on consoles. It would be nice if you could use 
 a keyboard/mouse to control the action. Might be able to use a USB one but obviously, I can not 
 check . So go out and buy this game today. You could rent it but you would be just delaying the 
 inevitable. You will buy this game :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: durrty2
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 26, 2005 8:15 pm PT
Review:  The WW2 first person genre may be crowded but theres one king of ww2 shooters and that is Call 
 of Duty 2. Offering the opportunity to battle in places like Stalingrad, the burning deserts of 
 North Africa and up the cliffs of pointe du hoc. COD 2 will take you in intense head on infantry 
 combat which will leave your 360 shaking from ear busting artillery. The combat is intense involving 
 large numbers of smart troops on both sides. The audio is amazing with its 5.1 sorround sound ensuring 
 you feel every bomb that goes off and every bullet that gets fired. What COD2 fails to offer in 
 terms of originality, it makes up for it with its epic level of presentation which leaves one to 
 dash of and watch Saving Private Ryan or Band of brothers. Players can also do battle online which 
 supports the regular game types deathmatch and capture the flag. Search and destroy is kind of 
 like a counterstrike clone and a mode called headquarters. Personally i think this is an amazing 
 game with good visuals using the new graphics engine. Its also one of the better shooters on the 
 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: heydawg321
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 26, 2005 8:05 pm PT
Review:  CALL OF DUTY 2 - XBOX 360
  
  Gameplay - The gameplay is smooth, the actions are great, load times short, and the controls are 
 top notch. No option to make your own controls if you wanted to change a few things around, only 
 complaint for this. The framerate is excellent, whether it's your squad mowing down a german offensive, 
 or planting a sticky bomb on a panzer, framrate stays constant.
  
  Graphics - One of the best graphically impressive games for the Xbox 360, the smoke effects and 
 explosions are especially nice. The entire thing you need to understand is that this game looks 
 absolutely amazing when your running and gunning and shooting germans. If you stop and view close 
 on a object, or stop to view the texture on the wall, it isn't that good. But you didn't pay to 
 sit you stare, so when your playing, you feel immersed and you should be pleased - Especially with 
 HDTV or VGA cables.
  
  Sound - Whether it's the nice bark of a thomson sub-machine gun, the explosion of a panzer II tank, 
 or the screams of men as they charge through enemy lines, this game has a great sound to it. Surround 
 sound would be excellent, but with stereo dual speakers this game sounds great. No complaints at 
 all.
  
  Value - This is the only thing that can be debate-able. Single player is hands down the best thing 
 on the 360 right now. Multiplayer on Xbox live just doesn't cut it. It's ok for a quick game here 
 or there, but it isn't something your going to be on often due to low lack of players and the connection 
 problems. Replayability is here, just not in a astounding amount, or as much as Perfect Darks. 
 
  
  Overall - A nice title to add, and IMO the best launch FPS. This is a game all FPS fans should 
 have in their library of games. 
  
  VERDICT - RECOMMENDED! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CuddlesTheBunny
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 26, 2005 7:14 pm PT
Review:  "Call Of Duty 2 is just another WWII game", you may think. That may be, but everything in this 
 game was created superbly. The graphics really show what the 360 can do and the controls are easy 
 to get used to. It is an immersive game, bringing you into 3 viewpoints of the war. The single 
 player lasts several hours, making you enjoy it every second. If there is one reason to buy this 
 game it is for the one player.
  
  It's downfall is definitely the multiplayer. Its not bad or anything but there are some technical 
 issues that need to be worked out, such as lag. It only supports up to 8 players making it feel 
 a little empty. None the less this is amazing game with great visuals, sound, and gameplay. Pick 
 this one up sooner or later. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DominicanAG
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 26, 2005 6:49 pm PT
Review:  First Person Shooter game is crazy I love everything about it. If you're into war games than this 
 is the game for you. This has to be the best looking war game I've seen so far on any console. 
 If you have a Xbox360 than this is a must have game on this system. I think this game brings out 
 the best on the console. The scenary in this game are fantastic. I promise you... that you won't 
 be disappointed in buying this game even if you're not into war games. I can't wait to finish playing 
 this game. It is everything that said it would turn out to be. This could be one of the best FPS 
 game out there watch out HALO. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nittanylions
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 26, 2005 5:35 pm PT
Review:  It so intense with shooting battles between Germans amazing weapons like rifles, machine guns, 
 and grenades ,. The graphics are flawless the soldiers look so real do yourself a favor and play 
 it on HD tv with surround sound.. The AI is great they'll flank you use cover and snipe. Don't think 
 about taking a rest its very intense when you use cover flank and sniper . Your teammates are very 
 smart they'll kill a lot of enemies and will be useful. The multi-player is great up to 16 people 
 online and the levels are huge, If you have an xbox 360 you should definitely get this game. This 
 is the future of war games and is the best 360 game ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chaos_Man
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 26, 2005 3:59 pm PT
Review:  This game is sweet and I mean sweet on single player. You definatly get a buzz from playing it 
 on Veterian difficulty. It is pretty hard in some parts. I've played from the same checkpoint for 
 over an hour, kept dieing for over an hour and didn't get bored or mad. If you have a 360 and you 
 havn't played this work of art yet FORSHAME!
  
  The multiplayer is meh. It suffers from many bad things like lag, the fact you cant keep your party 
 of ppl after a match, no way to choose time limit and stuff like in system link. Aside from those 
 problems and you actually have a good match going without lag it is even more fun than PDZ
  
  Just buy this game you won't find it a bad desission. Plus updates are being made for it too 
 to fix the multiplayer problems. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UTfan1883
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 26, 2005 3:06 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is exactly what it says in the commercials, one of the greatest shooters to hit 
 the 360 yet. Needless to say this game may not be for everyone. A caution from me goes out to any 
 one who gets motion sickness playing 1st person shooters like me. I can only play this like an hour 
 at a time.
  Any who.... this games graphics are unbelievable. The surroundings are pretty destructable, although 
 the fact that if you shoot a window and it doesnt break dissapoints me, but hey a lot of games 
 do this. The sound effects put you right in the middle of the war, and the AI is not too shabby. I 
 actually found myself on the edge of my seat sometimes.
  Overall, if you have the 360 and love shooters, you must play this. It's a good one! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XBOX_360_PLAYER
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 26, 2005 1:49 pm PT
Review:  It is the best game for the 360. It has awesome graphics, good gameplay, and the best sounding game 
 I have ever payed! This game is a definite buy. If you like war games or fi8rst paerson shooters 
 this is the game for you. It is the best game for the 360. It has awesome graphics, good gameplay, and 
 the best sounding game I have ever payed! This game is a definite buy. If you like war games or fi8rst 
 paerson shooters this is the game for you. It is the best game for the 360. It has awesome graphics, good 
 gameplay, and the best sounding game I have ever payed! This game is a definite buy. If you like war 
 games or fi8rst paerson shooters this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonfigs
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 26, 2005 1:44 pm PT
Review:  The game Call of Duty 2 is a first person shooter set during the real events of World War II. The 
 game is available on PC and Xbox360. I own the 360 version and played it on an HDTV. 
  
  First off the graphics for the game are outstanding a look really great in HD. The Xbox360 version 
 does justice to the new system and does a good job showcasing the power of the 360. The sound effects 
 are so realistic I found myself jumping off the couch or sitting up. There are several instances 
 where you are taken aback by the sound of war. The controls are like butter and gameplay is smooth 
 with a solid framerate. I will even state that I liked this game much better than Halo 2.
  
  The story is based on the actions of several soldiers from the Russian, British and US army. 
 The missions tell the tales of the war with great style and profoundness. You really feel a sense 
 of accomplishment when you reach an objective. 
  
  The game difficulty ranges from ridiculously easy to frustratingly hard. I played the game on easy 
 to get a feel for the game, then switched to veteran difficulty (the hardest setting) . At times 
 I banged my head wondering if it were actually possible to complete the mission. I found myself 
 trying the mission over and over again. Thankfully the missions weren't impossible and I was able 
 to complete the objective. This is where I found the games only flaw if you can call it that. The 
 game difficulty is only as hard as your memory and hand eye will allow it to be. What I mean is 
 once you get the layout of the enemies and the timing down you will beat the scenario. It becomes 
 more of a do this first, move here, kill that guy, switch to sniper rifle, oh yeah watch out for 
 the guy on roof. Once you get the sequence, down you are golden. I don't like that aspect of it. 
 I prefer a more random enemy placement within set goals.
  
  Overall this game is a gem and certainly a must have launch title for the Xbox360.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: IXMAXIMUSXI
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 26, 2005 5:05 am PT
Review:  10 if not for the Live support (or lack thereof) .... If you have a 360 and HDTV - you owe it to 
 yourself to get this one. Aside from the Live problems (which are sparratic and NOT a game killer) , 
 this one has the best of what a FPS has to offer. Great graphics, gameplay and sound effects. There 
 will be quite a few tense moments where you are just happy to survive (or respawn) .
  
  Try this game on the veteran difficulty level and you will be brought back to the old days of an 
 unfogiving, relentless AI and the challenge of your life. No health packs or regeneration here! 
 Any other difficulty level gives you a great experience as well.
  
  Crank up the sound and hear the bullets and shrapnel whiz past yer head. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D1rty_Dawg
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 26, 2005 4:33 am PT
Review:  This was the first game I bought for my 360 and I wanted it to play online to keep me going until 
 GR3 arrives.
  
  The single player campaign is great, just what I had hoped for. The gameplay is tight, controls 
 are sublime, it looks fantastic in HD and the AI of the enemy is spot on. Try it on Veteran mode 
 for a real challenge.
  
  But the online play is what really lets it down. Now there is talk of a patch coming that will 
 fix all this but at this point it has not arrived.
  
  The first problem is the number of players, eight really is not enough. Then there is the frequent 
 dis-connects and awful lag once you do manage to get into a game.
  
  But the worst bit is that when you do eventually get into a game and manage to play until the end, 
 once the game is over you go back to the 'search for games' screen and the people who you were 
 playng against have gone. So you have to do a new search and start all over again.
  
  Hopefully the patch will arrive soon and I can up my score to closer to 9 which is what it should 
 have been. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 360H3
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 26, 2005 1:49 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty, great game, but not the best. Many other games like medal of Honor and Socom, were 
 7 or 8 out of 10, but Call of Duty 2 gave me a reason to buy an X-box 360. The negatives are that 
 it lacks AI bots in multi-player. Just in case youre by yourself, you need the game to play against 
 you. The positives are the weapons, controls, and the life likeness. The HD boosts the resolution 
 so theirs another bonus. So finally, theirs still some cracks in the game but overall, its the 
 best WWII game I've seen on the X-box consoles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeadGeorge987
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 25, 2005 8:56 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is the sequel to the GOTY (game of the year) Call of Duty, which came out in 2003 
 and is still played. This sequel does a really great job of following in the first game's footsteps, 
 with some new innovative features.
  However, this sequel uses more of a safe approach, keeping most of the original formulas and "filling 
 in the holes". While there's nothing wrong with that, most of us were probably expecting something 
 a bit more evolutionary. Luckily though, this safe approach lives up to greatness and thus we cannot 
 complain. 
  Something of importance to note is that this game was released on the PC and the 360. Both are 
 surprisingly similar, which might be disappointing for some PC fans, but for 360 fans that means 
 that this game was very well done. 
  The game-play is very solid, keeping what worked and adding some new features. For example, the 
 health system has changed. You still die quickly, but if you're shot and don't fully die, your 
 health can recharge up to the starting point. Although somewhat unrealistic, this system works 
 quite well just because dying is so easy. 
  In an actual game, I believe this system works better than a health bar, and is more realistic. 
 The health system is something new that works. 
  The main focus of this game seems to be its campaign, as you'll likely spend 15 or so hours completing 
 it. 
  There are actually 3 separate campaigns, which are: the Russians, the British, and the Americans. 
 The Russian campaign focuses, mainly on defending some key Russian cities from the German war machine. 
 The British campaign has you fighting in North Africa, while the American campaign climaxes at 
 Normandy Beach, and continues you fighting in France. 
  This 3-part campaign works very well, and keeps you going and looking forward to what's next. Although 
 after a while you may find yourself board with the Russian scenary (which consists of broken buildings 
 and snow) , the excellent gameplay keeps you going, and you are rewarded greatly when you reach 
 North Africa. 
  Combat is excellent, as always, because to compliment your standard weapons and grenades, you get 
 a melee attack to spice things up. The enemy AI is great as well. They fire accurately, make use 
 of cover and battlefield tactics, and through grenades to get you out of those dug-in positions 
 they have trouble fighting. 
  The friendly AI isn't so great, however. Your allies tend to drift away from where you need help 
 most. The not-so-great friendly AI can ruin the excellent atmosphere this game creates. They aren't 
 the best at manipulating their environment either, but at least they can do some basic battlefield 
 tactics like take cover. The same problem can be found in the original CoD as well. I thought that 
 this time around, they should've made a command system that you can quickly pull up to tell your 
 AI stuff like "Regroup," or, "Follow me." It wouldn't have even been that hard, but here again 
 were seeing a safe approach, which still works fine.
  One of the many strengths of this campaign is the atmosphere the sound sets in. Not only are the 
 audio effects created by weapons fabulous, but the AI quotes are great. The voice acting sounds 
 very authentic, and hearing 7 or so Russians screaming "Charge!" is simply outstanding, and really 
 makes you feel part of the game. 
  The graphics look gorgeous, and contribute to the excellent atmosphere set by this game. Remember, 
 atmosphere is key in any WWII game, and CoD2 delivers well. Extremely well. 
  The multiplayer in CoD2 is a bit limited, which hinders the value of this game quite a bit. The 
 multiplayer features a few classic gametypes (deathmatch, TDM, CTF) but also adds a few more fun 
 and innovative games. The problem? CoD2 only allows for 8 players to play online! Now that's a 
 downer, not because 8 players is a bad number, but because a game with such gameplay potential 
 should be played with as many people possible. 
  That's not to say that the multiplayer is useless. You'll definitely want to test your skills online 
 for quite a while, and experience the different gametypes. Since the largest match you'll get is 
 4v4, you will have to use some squad based tactics to cover ground and push towards the enemy. 
 This squad based combat is very fun when the whole team is communicating together, and even more 
 fun when you get to do this with friends. The multiplayer can be amazing under these conditions, 
 and is definitely worth the try to enjoy. 
  
  In conclusion, I'd say this game is definitely worth the money, and is easily the best shooter 
 for 360 yet. You don't even have to be a fan of FPS to buy this game. If you enjoy video-gaming 
 at all, and you have an xbox 360, there is absolutely no reason you shouldn't already have this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PCgolfer
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 25, 2005 7:34 pm PT
Review:  Highly addictive game with great graphics. You almost feel like you are in a real combat situation. 
 A great game for anyone who likes great first person shooters. You can count on the realism that 
 Call of Duty 2 has to offer. It is even better than the one before and I hope that the CoD series 
 gets better and better. The enviroments in the game are shockingly realistic and every character 
 is detailed in a different way, being name, charisma, rank. I love the way this game looks and 
 feels overall. It is definitely a must have game this year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yoshi_Lover
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 25, 2005 7:21 pm PT
Review:  All i can say is wow..... this is one of the best Xbox360 launch titles out there right now... 
 This game has set the bar for first person shooters like Halo did for the Original Xbox. Of course 
 this game is not as good as Halo but its got amazing qualities. Now to the game, first graphics. 
 I have an HDTV but even with the switch set to normal this game still has some of the best graphics 
 ive seen in awhile. I definatly recomend this for people with HDTV's everyone else shouldnt have 
 bought a 360 if they dnt have an HDTV!! Now the gameplay is awsome but if you really want to get 
 the most out of the game youll set the game to Veteren mode which is basicly a one hit kill style 
 difficulty This Veteren difficulty further enhances the realistic and intense feel of this game. 
 The last thing to comment on is the amazing sound. The sound whether you have surround or not make 
 you feel like youre surrounded by a bloody massacre of a war. In the end i definatly reccomend 
 this game to anyone with an HDTV and a 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bremsy
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 25, 2005 7:04 pm PT
Review:  i like talking about historical events. i didn't think i would like a game that had to do with 
 a great historical event such as WWII
  
  gameplay- after playing Perfect Dark Zero and then playing Call of Duty 2, i can say that Call 
 of Duty was more fun. the campaign is great, the only fall back to it is the fact that you can't 
 do a co-op campaign. it's all single player.
  the multi-player is much more fun and more intense than Perfect Dark. although there may not be 
 as many options, i still find Call of Duty 2 to be the best for multi-player fps shooting on the 
 Xbox 360 right now. the disadvantage of the multi-player is that it is far too easy to kill someone. 
 but the thrill is in the hunt though as it is harder to find your opponents.
  
  the graphics are spectacular. it's as close as you can get to real at the current time. i bet the 
 graphics are much better on the pc version.
  
  the sound has to be one of the best things about the game. in war, you should be able to hear the 
 sounds of bullets flying everywhere and tons of grenades. Call of Duty 2 captures that and makes 
 it sound amazing.
  
  I still haven't beaten the campaign modes yet and i do plan on beating it. the multi-player is 
 probably gonna be the reason why my friends and i will keep playing this instead of Perfect Dark 
 Zero.
  
  from being a biased Canadian, i kinda feel we should have had a Canadian campaign... oh well, what 
 are you going to do. the campaign mode was good enough as it was. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_immunity
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 25, 2005 5:54 pm PT
Review:  this game is an all around good shooter, especially for a launch title. the storyline is amazing, 
 the graphics r amazing, the gameplay and sound r beautifully designed. historically accurate, yet 
 not boring. this game had me so immersed in it that i paused to use the lil boys room and had to 
 put my MP40 in a place my parents wouldnt find it: P great game! if u just got a 360 u should definitly 
 take a look at this game, hours of fun and great multiplayer. u do NOT have to be a war nerd to 
 love this game. it is great for all ages (excluding ppl who r scared of blood) ... eve my dad plays: P 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fabreezio
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 25, 2005 4:31 pm PT
Review:  Call Of Duty 2 is the BEST WWII shooter i have ever played. The amount of detail in this game immerses 
 you into boots of a WWII soldier, taking cover behind a totaled car as bullets are being rained 
 down on you. I know that many people have said it, but the sound in the game is the most important 
 part. From the loud rustle of high grass as you run through it, to the soft whisk noise it makes 
 as you crouch through it as to keep quiet. The guns amazingly realistic as the sounds of them being 
 shot come alive. 
  The most amazing experiance I've had was throwing down a smoke bomb in the middle of a narrow street, 
 surrounded with buildings. As i was randomly firing into the smoke trying my best to make out the 
 enemy soliders, i decided to take a risk and jump into the middle of the fray. As i charged into 
 the smoke bomb, my visibility become 0 and i was taking hit from every direction. As i turned to 
 what i thought was the right way out of the smoke, an enemy soldier charged at me with his gun 
 in the air, slamming blow after blow on me with his melee attacks. his face, a figure of anger 
 and hatred made me feel as if i was in a real WWII battle. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cecx
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 25, 2005 3:44 pm PT
Review:  This game is just incredible. It has great controls, beautiful graphics, and awesome sound. It's 
 a very intense game from start to finish and even has good multiplayer.
  
  First, let me start by saying this game is intense. About as intense as you can get in a game. 
 There's constant action and lots of fighting, this game doesn't get boring at any point.
  
  While on the battlefield there's constant yelling from troops on both sides. There's constant explosions 
 and constant screams. It really feels like you're there, especially in surround sound. 
  
  The controls are surprisingly tight. I don't even think there's any aim-assist, at least I haven't 
 noticed it. Aiming is a breeze and so is strafing. Sniping is also pretty easy once you get used 
 to holding your breath.
  
  The graphics are amazing. Explosions and fires all look great. The various weather conditions also 
 add a nice touch and so does the heat wave the appears above fire.
  
  The online play is pretty good. I found it fun and there were many people playing. I experienced 
 minor lag, but it wasn't very much and only lasted a short while.
  
  This game is just plain fun. It's an action packed FPS that is a good time from start to finish 
 and the online play is also great so even when you've finished the singleplayer portion on all 
 the difficulties, you still have a game to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StArKaStiK
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 25, 2005 10:32 am PT
Review:  I got to say, i was really impressed with this game. It really gives you that feeling that a war 
 is going on. Missions are excellent. Im currently playing this game on Veteran difficulty, and 
 it makes the battles very intense. The A. I is just marvelous. They do anything you can really. 
 Problem is the online is restricted to 8 players, hopefully they can come out with a patch that 
 will make online 16-32 players. But overall i got to say, i was really impressed with this game. 
 There have been many WWII shooters out, but this one really, and i mean REALLY impressed me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeonLizard
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 24, 2005 12:55 am PT
Review:  This is the most intense shooter I have ever played. The realism that they have infused with the 
 weapons and locations as well as the great computer A. I. make for one of the greatest games on 
 any console. The small details are what really make this game shine such as the smoke and fire 
 effects. But the awesome sound in this game pushes ikt into uber greatness. The sound of every 
 shot, explosion or grunt is amazing as well as the great voice work which I consider among the 
 best. I have but one gripe in this other wise amazing game is the xbox live multiplayer is a bit 
 dull. Friends support is lacking and I don't understand why you can't have more than one person 
 per xbox!!!! That said this game is a must own for anybody who has a 360 or even a pc!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: focult
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 23, 2005 7:06 pm PT
Review:  so i purchased an xbox 360 on a total whim. I was not planning on getting one for a while, which 
 was not a problem. Not pre-ordering it and not ever seeing one in the stores makes it easy to wait 
 :)
  
  Well, I actually found one in a target the other day and impulsed purchased it (a lot of money 
 to shell out on an impulse, but i digress.)
  
  I only picked up one 360 game, call of duty 2. my brother really wanted to play it so why not.
 
  
  I thought i was done with the WW2 shooter, if i ever need to storm the beaches of Normandy again 
 i think i will be sick. I went into this game with low expectations, figuring if it sucked i could 
 just sell the whole kit on ebay for a small profit.
  
  well, my xbox 360 is not going anywhere!
  
  I really like this game! it surprised me! the shooting 
 is fast and intense, the levels flow really well. Even though you are basically on a rail and are 
 funneled from one area to the next it is easy to not realise it. it feels totally natural! the 
 first time i blew a Nazis helmet off i yelled in excitement! very very cool!
  
  I am not done with the game yet, but am very close. I can already recommend it. If this is the 
 first volley from the mighty xbox 360 then i can; t wait to see what is coming next.
  
  Pros:
  Great graphics
  fun to play and very "smooth"
  
  Cons:
  Multiplayer is not that 
 great if you are not on-line.
  No co-op play. if this game had co-op i could be in heaven and give it a 9.5
  
  Even if you 
 are not the biggest fan of first person shooters you will like this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MCCHA
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 23, 2005 4:53 pm PT
Review:  This is the first game I got for my 360, and I think I won't need a new game for awhile. Though 
 the story may be short, it gets very hard on the higher difficulties. The graphics are amazing 
 to watch and the smoke effects are so fun to look at I thew random smoke grenades just to stare 
 at the smoke. The sound is loud and WWII like and sets the mood perfectly. Combat is fast-paced 
 and keeps you going. If you played the old games, you will notice the fact that there is no health 
 bar. Realistically, this means that you can get shot an infinite number of times, as long as you 
 regen your health in between. I would have preferred a health bar, but this system works too. If 
 you have a 360 but don't own this game, you are missing something very awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aesportsguy14
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 23, 2005 3:30 pm PT
Review:  The control scheme is easy to work with, and makes the learning curve slightly low. The few things 
 I loved with this new version was the fact that it took the original COD and improved it ten-fold. 
 With the addition of new weapons, and the re-hashing of the old maps, and COD1 veteran will love 
 this welcomed change. 
  
  But the bad things about these maps and weapons is that you feel you have already done everything, 
 and the campaigns just feel old. Some may say this game includes little innovation. However, if 
 you are new to the Call of Duty games, this will be sure to make you happy.
  
  The story mode is also well created, with a nice change from the American Boot Camp to the "less-funded" 
 Russian Camp. And the huge plus about this new training level is that as soon as you learn the 
 bells and whistles, you immeadiately get into the action with no wait time. This gives you a chance 
 to show off your new skills to the Nazis.
  
  Along with the depth of single player, and the mulitude of gametypes in multiplayer, this game 
 will be sure to keep you busy for a long time. With the graphics and the renewed sound, you will 
 be hooked to this immersive game within minutes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doozier_basic
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 23, 2005 2:26 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is the best game on the Xbox 360 game out there. The graphics are unbelievable and 
 best of all the A. I. is actually really good. Your squad mates will actually inform you of where 
 enemy's are and then help you to finish off enemy's that you have shot but not killed. The coolest 
 thing i've noticed so far is that when you are using the sniper rifle and miss an enemy that has 
 a sniper rifle also he will fire right back at you. Anyway I would recommend this game to anyone 
 who is a fps fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: n3oS7oRm
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 23, 2005 8:34 am PT
Review:  I'd first like to say that this game is amazing. The graphics are amazing the AI is amazing. I 
 love it how they flank you if you box yourself in. I love how they respond to a gernade. I love 
 the way the snow falls from the tanks and areas that you disturb. Just the enviroment alone is 
 amazing and in 5.1 surround it feels like your right there, only you don't die if you get shot 
 multiple times :) If you choose to do a little hand to hand combat you probably should avoid that. 
 Because I've discovered those boys can fight hand to hand. If your a fan of FPS and you love the 
 first call of duty. I recommend this title. This was also a Launch day by for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iBoxCarBobi
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 22, 2005 10:04 pm PT
Review:  After playing for countless hours and beating the whole game on veteran I have come to the conclusion 
 that this is an awsome game. The Graphics are really good, and the sound is amazing. The levels 
 are really well done, and the game has really good story line if you consider the basic rules of 
 a War World II game to be good. Althought the game does get really hard on some parts when your 
 playing on veteran but the end result fells good. But I think that they should have included vehicals 
 in the multiplayer because it would be fun to have tank wars, and also for those people like myself 
 that like to make movies with different games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lukette
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 22, 2005 8:36 pm PT
Review:  this game features some of the best AI ever in a video game. the action is unmatched by any other 
 war game i've ever seen. you are always shooting or being shot at which makes for a much more interesting 
 experience. the online play is great and just rarely is laggy. but i think the one player is what 
 shows this game off the best. you're fellow soldiers will actually call out the positions of your 
 enemies and they don't just yell random stuff. if you're enemies know where you are they will come 
 to get you. this is alot better than fighting a bunch of stupid enemies. even with all the action 
 the game never slows down, it's great. and the sound on this game is unmatched. there is nothing 
 bad i can say about this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ssbman1991
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 22, 2005 5:43 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 Review:
  
  Following 3 minor game releases, Call of Duty 2 is finally released, the 2nd major development 
 added to the Call of Duty series. It is released with the most action packed single player out 
 there today, amazing graphics and sound, and the smoothest control ability available for the Xbox 
 360. COD 2 is definitely a buy! 
  Gameplay:
  Call of Duty 2 is one of the best FPS shooters out in the market today, using its predecessors 
 gameplay qualities; it rises above all other FPS WWII shooters. The game uses a squad based action 
 system, where you are either the leader or follower in your squad (usually 5) . You work together 
 to accomplish your objectives, and this is much more realistic and fun then going solo in some 
 games such as Medal of Honor (old ones) . 
  Single Player:
  The single player in this game is great, the game gives you the idea of what the war was like, 
 dozens of Germans popping out everywhere, while your squad is taking cover and trying to shoot 
 them, grenades flying everywhere, and realistic movements and shooting. Single player includes 
 4 difficult modes, easy, normal, hardened, and veteran, 27 missions over 3 campaigns (US, Russia, 
 Britain) ; the campaigns are basically the country that you will be using to fight the Germans. 
 The amount of time in order to beat the game usually depends on what difficulty you play it at. 
 If you play it on normal, it should take you about 10 hours, play it on veteran, about 15 to 20 
 hours. I will now talk about the actual gameplay of COD 2 (Call of Duty 2) . The A. I in this game 
 is absolutely extraordinary. They rush, they melee when they are supposed to melee, they take cover, 
 when they shoot they run from one side to the other, and they toss grenades like a mad man. In 
 Call of Duty 2, they added a new feature that allows you to throw smoke grenades, trust me they 
 help a lot. Smoke grenades in the game will help you dodge deployed machine guns sprays and attacks 
 from your enemy, and also help you flank them as well. Another new feature the developers made 
 was that there is no more health bars and health packs lying on the ground. Instead, whenever you 
 get hit or damaged, you lose health for that time until it regenerates back. The developers also 
 added a feature to do multiple objectives at the same time. So for instance, you have to clear 
 our 5 buildings, it will show objectives A, B, C, D, and E and you can choose whatever objective 
 you want to do. The squad based action in this game hasnt really changed much as it did from its 
 predecessors, except for the new A. I system that is. To be honest, the game isnt really different 
 from the old versions (Call of Duty, and United Offensive) , you still have the same-old squad based 
 work, weapons, planting charges, and shooting Germans. But that is for gameplay, but trust me; 
 a whole lot has been changed, such as the graphics which I will explain further along. Here are 
 my dislikes and likes of the game. I dislike the fact that you cant kick or throw grenades back 
 at the enemy or away from yourself, Medal of Honor did that, why couldnt COD do it? I like the 
 new A. I, and the new health system. 
  Multiplayer: 
  You can play multiplayer with up to 4 people in split screen, and up to 16 players online Live. 
 There isnt much to talk about in multiplayer since its been the same as every other Call of Duty 
 2. There have been some minor changes to it though, such as new maps, and the KillCam. Other then 
 that, its all the same. I havent tried multiplayer online yet, but I have with split screen. 
 Its not a great multiplayer experience compared to Halo and Perfect Dark Zero. 
  Graphics: 
  This is where people are amazed at COD 2. I remember waiting outside Best Buy and 
 only hearing people talk about COD 2s crazy graphics that were shown on commercial, never heard 
 about PDZ, PGR, etc. And yet that is true. The graphics have improved a lot, the ironsight is just 
 AWESOME! It shows all the little textures and the metallic reflection of the gun. The environment 
 such as the grass and trees are realistic. And especially the soldiers, the face and the uniform 
 show good graphical features on all characters. There arent any problems with the graphics, they 
 are great the way they are. 
  Sound: 
  The sounds in COD 2 are great as usual. Realistic weapon sounds; background gun firing (ex. flak 
 88) shows that there are battles in different areas, the voice from the soldiers are crisp and 
 clear, and the little sounds you hear when you climb up a ladder, or when you run on sand are even 
 there too! I cant say much on the music, since its a WWII game and I dont pay attention to the 
 music while all the action is going on. Great sound, thats all there is to it. 
  
  Replay Value:
  The replay value in this game is worth your buy. The game like I said will last 
 you for about 10-20 hours depending on the difficulty level. But then again, if you dont have 
 Live or never want to play on Live, then its only worth a rent because $70 CAN is a waste if youre 
 only going to play single player. If you play multiplayer and you like it, then it should last 
 you for a few more months before you get bored of it. 
  
  Final words and recommendations:
  COD 2 is a fantastic game and is one of the greatest WWII games 
 made today. It uses a different type of FPS concept, and sooner or later, when COD 3 comes out, 
 using these concepts again and with technology upgraded, who knows how good it will be. I recommend 
 this game for a buy to all WWII FPS fans, and just plain FPS fans. The shooting in this game is 
 one of the best, so Im pretty sure all FPS fans will enjoy this game. I do not recommend it and 
 you should go for a rent if you do not like the genres I have mentioned. For my final conclusion, 
 COD 2 is a game that has changed my WWII experience and shown me a lot of what it was like in the 
 war, even though being in an actual war is much different, this is the best I can get to. So buy 
 it or rent now, it is definitely worth your money. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cap_n_Crunch
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 22, 2005 3:04 pm PT
Review:  I first got my hands on Call of Duty on the PC back in early 2003 when it was released. From the 
 time I picked it up I was hooked. The game had everything a true lover of WWII shooters could want. 
 The graphics were superb, and the audio amazing. The game play was so immersive it was difficult 
 not to get caught up and feel as though u were in the war. This game is all that and then some. 
 I wasnt expecting it to be better then the first or even as good as COD 2 on the PC but I was wrong. 
 The game satisfied all my cravings and blew me away. The quality of the audio in this game cannot 
 be stressed enough. You would enjoy it more with 5.1 or 7.1 surround, but even just stereo speakers 
 on your TV will do fine. I could write for hours on the over all greatness of this game but I can 
 sum it up in a few words. Buy this game. Bottom line this is the best launch game on the 360 and 
 my favorite game of the year hands down. Buy this game and you won't be sorry. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elliswong
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 21, 2005 5:11 pm PT
Review:  this game is great. it's all about WO1+2. it's a lot of action. you can ride panzer and airplanes. 
 it's all about teamwork. it has new guns and a good graphics, and most of the computers can play 
 it. It's almost the best shooting game ever. There is a lot of missions. You can learn more about 
 hitler and amerika in the WO1+2. there is a lot of you can learn. it's all about history. It's worth 
 playing. the sound is not bad at all. value is worth it. and the gameplay is great. So I know that 
 Call of Duty3 is great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FergieCR123
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 21, 2005 3:32 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty the Fist and United Offensive were two of my favorite games. Call of Duty 2 does not 
 disappoint at all. They totally reversed the order in which I the campaigns used to be with the 
 British still being in the middle, obviously.
  
  One of my biggest complaints of the first Call of Duty was the British and American campaign feeling 
 to similar. Now they are all completely unique. The Russian campaigns is fun with the fighting 
 on the city streets but I missed the old game play that reminded me of Enemy at the gates, but 
 I have to take a game for what it is and I thought the Russian campaign was great. The British 
 was my favorite campaign fighting in the deserts of North Africa. The Americans did not disappoint 
 either. 
  
  That being said, there are some problems I had. Well, only one, the multiplayer. The maps are great 
 and game play is ok but I have complaints. The interface set up is minimalist which sucks, near 
 the end of the games, there is incredible amounts of lag and there is only support for 8 players 
 and teams are generally unbalanced because everyone goes allies and no one goes German (except 
 me because I want the teams to be somewhat even) .
  
  If you are looking for a game with great single player and multiplayer then get the version on 
 the PC but if your pc isnt that great and you have an Xbox 360 then get it on the 360 it is defiantly 
 worth a buy.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blind-Future
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 21, 2005 2:52 pm PT
Review:  The best advise i could give anyone reading this review and thinking "should i buy Call of Duty 
 2?" is, Definitely!
  
  You may be thinking, Its probably just like every other WW2 FPS", well, its really not. Call 
 of Duty 2 is heads and shoulders above its opponents. When cranked up to the Veteran Difficulty 
 the game becomes very intense, you'll find yourself praying for cover.
  
  Call of Duty 2's visuals don't disappoint either, there some of the nicest visuals seen on the 
 360 and really show the systems potential. The weapon models are very nice and very well textured, 
 with the bump/normal map really being shown of with the great lighting. One thing i found annoying 
 about Call of Duty 2 was your team mates, maybe its because i needed the help, but they often leave 
 you to clear a bunker of German soldiers on your own, and when on veteran this can become a very 
 difficult and frustrating task. However your team mates often help you out a lot, especially in 
 some of the more open levels like El Alamein. The games health system makes the game very simple 
 on the easiest setting, with your health regenerating you'll find it hard to die, but as i have 
 mentioned many times on Veteran or even hard you'll have around 3-5 shots depending on where your 
 shot and with what gun. 
  
  Call of Duty 2's multi player however doesn't deliver as well. The split screen action is mediocre 
 and got very boring after a bit. However i can't put down the map size as i was very impressed 
 with it. Playing the game with more players could turn out to be quite fun. The Live experience 
 ive heard not so good things about. There's been alot of complaints about lag really ruining the 
 game. However i cant comment on this from my own experience as i don't own Live yet.
  
  So i have come to my conclusion, Call of Duty 2 should be bought by all fans of WW2 or FPS's, even 
 people looking for a new and exciting experience. The mutli player lets it down but the single 
 player makes up for that.
  
  I selected the Very Hard Difficulty Setting as ive been playing it on Veteran. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LASTDRAGON
Rating: 9.9
Date: Dec 21, 2005 2:52 pm PT
Review:  wow!!! this game really rocks the graphics are awsome the impact of war makes its apperence on 
 360 yes!! anyway i first played this game in a gamestop store lol and i played it even the demo 
 was cool there was a big line behind me and i was a little swetty people brething down my neck 
 and when i finished the demo the owner shut the game off cuz it was alomost time to close the shop 
 and the guys were looking at me with a mean look!! i was scared and hurryied to the fye store. so 
 this game is deffenetly a buy gameplay is aloso cool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: webby1
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 21, 2005 2:03 pm PT
Review:  Well first off just playing this game could possibly make you like it or not, well some other games 
 you normally have to play them quite a while before good action starts to begin. But not with Call 
 of Duty 2.
  
  The graphics are stunning, amazing detail on almost everything. Even with great graphics the frame 
 rate still runs very smooth and helps towards an almost perfect experience.
  
  Gameplay is great, you get to play the role as 3 armies, which include Russians, British and the 
 American. Along with loads of allied troops helping you all the way through. From Private's, Corporal's, 
 Luitenant's, Captain's and lots of other Army Ranks.
  
  Veteran difficulty is where the game can get pretty hard at points, but it offers the ultimate 
 experience. Your allies help is most appreciated especially as they follow you into the German 
 HQ's base.
  
  Loading times arent really long and they show you some very interesting World War Facts. Eg: "The 
 only winner in the War of 1812 was Tchaikovsky" quoted from GameSpot editor Bob Colayco's review. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tjrocks0
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 21, 2005 1:59 pm PT
Review:  this game is so awesom. i went to game stop and played the demo on the xbox360. i didnt let anyone 
 play it till i beat it. then mabey a half an our went by but i finally beat it. when it first turnd 
 on i thought it was a cut seen movie... you know those small clips of the game that you have to 
 whatch before you get to play, that always has better graphics then the game itself? well thats 
 how good the graphics are! get this game if you have a 360 and if you dont then go buy one................... owe 
 yah the graphics wer only great cause i was playing on it on an hd widescreen tv. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sasukedevil
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 21, 2005 10:34 am PT
Review:  Call Of Duty B. R. O. was a major disappointment to all Call Of Duty fans... Call Of Duty 2 is a much 
 more better war game to B. R. O. for lots of reasons! Call Of Duty 2 has a total of 3 campaigns and 
 a total of 10 missions...27 levels to keep you complexed in the game! Over 20+ weapons in the game! 
 Over 10 multiplayer maps and 4 difficulty modes... Over 10 achievements to keeps you playing and 
 tons of replay value... Is that enough to tell you this game is better than BRO??? Well then if 
 you havent played Call Of Duty 2 and don't have an Xbox 360... then buy the PC version... It's the 
 same and has a better online feature than the Call Of Duty 2 for Xbox 360... This game will get 
 addictive until you completed the achievements...
  Buy this game or else you'll be missing out!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cbence12286
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 21, 2005 1:36 am PT
Review:  Loved the game. By far the best looking game out right now for the 360. The gameplay was fast and 
 smooth. I thought the aiming was good. My favorite part of the game was the tank mission. That's 
 right, actually driving and aiming the canon. This game is definately worth the 60 bucks. The 3 
 campaigns were fun. The Russian campaign starts you off with learning the controls, great for noobs 
 who have never play COD before and/or not that good at first-person shooters. One downside-You, 
 yourself are leadiing the men throughout the game. They will not advance if you do not. The Russian 
 campaign is the shortest, while the British is the longest, but the most gun fights come in the 
 American campaign kicking off with D-Day. About the American campaign, the game ends at the Battle 
 at the Hill, no invasion of Berlin, which would have been cool. I did go the best route and got 
 an Xbox Live Gold subscription..... Online multiplayer is a blast. So many different options, just 
 a few for example: Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, and Capture the Flag. Overall, this is a must-have 
 game, so worth the cash. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Danold
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 20, 2005 3:08 pm PT
Review:  This game is definitely going to be known as one of the best starting Xbox 360 games. The multi-player 
 is not so special, nothing makes this games stand out from every other FPS I have seen, yet the 
 single player is amazing. If you are someone who does not plan on playing Xbox LIVE, this is definitely 
 the game for you, ( If you want a game more for the Internet I recommend something more like PDZ.) 
 This game is extremely easy and if you plan on spending at least a couple of weeks trying to beat 
 the game I recommend playing it on veteran, but if you just want to breeze through the missions 
 quickly, easy is the difficulty for you. There is so much replay ability that keeps this game on 
 your shelves and out of the "used games" section of Gamestop. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XENOmorph00010
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 10, 2006 5:05 pm PT
Review:  You're inside a store, you're waiting in line, you want to get the newest and hottest gaming system 
 to date. You have the money, you know you'll fall in love with it, but what game (s) will you get? 
 With games like Need For Speed, Ridge Racer, Madden, and Perfect Dark Zero, you might be wondering, 
 why bother with Call of Duty 2? While this is the first Xbox 360 game I've played I tell you that 
 you should get Call of Duty 2 for a number of reasons. One, the graphics are amazing. Two, the 
 sound is awesome. And three, it kicks ass, a lot of it!
  
  Call of Duty 2 starts you off in the right direction, a short, easy tutorial to get used to the 
 controls. But right as you start the game and get through the training, you're put right into the 
 middle of intense combat and warfare. Throughout the game you will take part in a series of missions 
 that range from setting explosives on tanks, blowing up buildings, going head-to-head against other 
 tanks all while being outnumbered against some of the smartest enemy AI to be seen in a game. There 
 are plenty of weapons to use in Call of Duty 2. Your basic weapon is a rifle that has many different 
 forms depending on which you're using and mostly act like a sniper rifle while taking aim and like 
 a shotgun for the recoil. Other weapons include various types of sniper rifles, machine guns and 
 sub-machine guns. While playing Call of Duty 2 you'll notice you have no set health, instead, your 
 health heals while you take cover after being attacked, this is one of the more underappreciated 
 aspects of Call of Duty 2 since it means you don't have to wander for health packs as you do in 
 games like Red Dead Revolver, Killzone, Area 51, etc. 
  
  Graphically, Call of Duty 2 is amazing. The detail of the environments shows how far even just 
 one of the three CPUs in the Xbox 360 can go. The enemy and ally character models are captured 
 with great detail as well, if and when you get a good look at the your enemy and ally faces you'll 
 see what I mean by great detail. The effects from the smoke and explosions also looks great and 
 realistic. Call of Duty 2 looks fantastic but still has a bit of the look that some current-gen 
 games have, but this is mostly because there are other Xbox 360 games out that look better than 
 this.
  
  The sound in Call of Duty 2 is one of its high points. The constant sound of explosions, guns and 
 bullets raging everywhere and soldiers on both sides yelling and barking commands really brings 
 this game to life. The music that does come up in Call of Duty 2 sounds familiar but fitting to 
 the game, making Call of Duty 2 one of the best games when it comes to perfection in sound.
  
  But the best thing to be found in Call of Duty 2 is its action. The action in this game is 
 intense and in-your-face from start to end. When firing a gun, you literally feel like you're firing 
 one, the multiple moments in this game that you'll be bombarded with enemy fire makes the game 
 much more tense. Constant warfare in this game really helps the game capture a true and authentic 
 WWII-like feeling, few games capture the fresh and intense action that Call of Duty 2 does.
  
  When playing Call of Duty 2, it has a mission: to provide an intense, authentic and fresh experience 
 that allows you to take part in incredible battles and kick some serious ass. And trust me when 
 I say this, Call of Duty 2 succeeds this mission perfectly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 500abelard
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 20, 2005 2:00 pm PT
Review:  The game has stunning graphics and a great little history type lesson before you go on a mission. 
 The game play was easy to learn even though I fumbled a little during the basic training the games 
 seamlessly guides you back on track. I am no game expert so I do die in places and it was a nice 
 surprise not to have to go too far back and retry. 
  
  The realism of the imagery game is so good I probably would not play this game with my father around 
 who was in WWII out of respect for him.... BUT WOW you do get into the game.
  
  i am a little sorry to see that there is no coop mission modes on-line. May be a nice addition 
 for Call of Duty 3.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jets06ya
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 20, 2005 10:55 am PT
Review:  In my opinon COD2 is the best Launch game out there. It's probablly the most realistic game of 
 all time, In other war games there would be single missions. But in Campaign mode there are battles. 
 There will be about 4 missions for the americans russians and brittish. Each mission has 3 or 4 
 batttles and it makes you think your in the game. I love playing and watching me and my comrades 
 fight the enemy, when you see your guys go down your like noo! But then have to regroup to fight 
 them off. The battle scenes are engrossing and are tons of fun. The visuals are stunning to say 
 the least. The sound is good but not amazing, and the online mode is alot of fun. With differnt 
 games you can play. Like Deathmatch team deathmatch capture the flag headquarters and search and 
 destroy. I sometimes play for 5 or 6 hours straight and need to cut down. Just be carefull to not 
 get to addicted to this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skyhi7
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 20, 2005 10:49 am PT
Review:  this is the best game i have played for the XBOX 360. Unbelieveable graphics and one of the greatest 
 multiplayer games in history. I couldn't believe the realism of the game. i was versing my friend 
 and i threw a smoke gernade and we couldnt see each other. We ended up crossing the smoke and we 
 didnt see each other. The single player version includes about 7 different wars from World War 
 2. As soon as i played it with my friend i wanted to get it for christmas. I am thrilled about 
 how good this game is. I dont care what anyone says, I am giving this a good game rating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gixxerman1
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 20, 2005 6:09 am PT
Review:  I've only been playing it for less then 10 hours, but the game is so engaging. I love that the 
 game seems to go on without you and you don't have to worry about keeping your guys alive so as 
 long as you don't shot them. It's a very intense battle that when you get a short break your like 
 (woo that was close) . I love that you don't have to look for health boxes which keeps the game 
 moving fast. Also this game is enjoyed best with a surround sound. You can here bullets wizing 
 past your head, your guys telling you whats going on and you now were they are with the surround 
 sound Anyway it's a must have game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drdrillnfill
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 19, 2005 8:17 pm PT
Review:  Just got my 360 the other day and CoD2 had honors of being the first game in my system. What a 
 great choice I made. Playing it on my HD TV gave me a great idea about what next generation games 
 are going to look like and it got me excited to think of how much better things are going to get. 
 The game is very crisp, controls are smooth, sound awesome, visuals stunning. Great game Id give 
 it a 9/10. Although I havent played online with it yet, I heard doing 4 on 4 can be somewhat fun, 
 but 8 on 8 or 10 on 10 would be a nice option. Maybe they will patch it in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sebbles_
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 19, 2005 5:05 pm PT
Review:  This game kicked @$$ on soooo many levels, i love the feeling you get when you're on live and you 
 split some gamer's skull with a sniper bullet. i LOVE this game and you should too!!!!
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  fdejhehf 
 hefuhj jgjrgjfw erwfjnfrjriur r fhf hef e fgr grgrhgr ggr rhgrhg rf hfdfbn d c vf nvfr nbnr fgruferuf 
 3ew9ruj34r9b bfvnfheurf hf f bvfnbfhgje f3efhefh gg ruhfruf fmnd vfdnmfngfrjernfuerg  
 e ehf ieh eehee jh hj hj nn njn nj j jn jnm jlk kj n jn j jkl jl nj nn jn nnj njn ukjhyg bvbvbvyv 
 yhb yh bubhb kn jlk jo; vkd; o ij 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fatam
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 19, 2005 3:07 pm PT
Review:  What can I say this game surprised me alot.... Here is how it is broken down.
  
  The good!
  The game feels and plays good, great graphics, the sound is top notch, the multiplayer 
 is amazing and well paced, and it is worth every penny I spent on it.
  
  The bad!
  The game could have been abit better in the form of 16 player multiplayer and maybe a few more 
 levels. The graphics could have been a bit better but still look great in HD.
  
  Basically this is my favourite game for the 360 so far, and hopefully should get some downloadable 
 content down the road to keeop me interested. This is a definit must buy for FPS fan or WW2 junky.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JungleFever916
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 19, 2005 2:16 pm PT
Review:  gameplay (8) when it come to gameplay 4 call of duty ill have 2 give it a 8. this surly is the 
 best call of duty game 2 shelves.
  
  graphics (8) the graphics 4 this game is quiet impresive, even tyho it didnt tak full advantage 
 of da 360 hardware its still a pretty sharp.
  
  sound (9) man it seems like u can anything while playing call of duty, from bullets 2 cars blowing 
 up and ur feet moving, this game has great sound.
  
  value (8) call of duty has it more, great story, good graphics asome sound and a great multiplayer. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spidey008
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 19, 2005 1:40 pm PT
Review:  I had played the Demo of Call of Duty 2 on the PC weeks before the Xbox 360 version. Ill have 
 to say that this game is fantastic. It is the most realistic war First Person Shooter that I have 
 ever played.
  
  The graphics, controls, and sound are amazing. They really do show off the power of the Xbox 360.
 
  
  The single player campaign is broken down into 3 campaigns: Russia, Great Britain, and the United 
 States. Each of these are unlocked as your progress through the game. The multiplayer is designed 
 much like the single player, but you die much quicker. It is basically whoever gets the first shot 
 to connect wins the battle. My experiences in multiplayer have been nothing but fun thus far.
 
  
  The only disappointment I had with this game was the lack of cooperative play in the single player 
 missions. This would have given COD2 much more replay value for me.
  
  Call of Duty 2 is an amazing game that is truly a masterpiece. If you like First Person Shooters 
 and you own a Xbox 360, get this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: del_rogeo
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 19, 2005 11:48 am PT
Review:  'Medal of Honor' was once the King of WW2 FPS's, but 'Call of Duty 2' has managed to reach dazzling 
 levels of style, entertainment and realism that the countless MOH games and expansions never once 
 even came close to.
  
  In all fairness 'Call of Duty 2' requires you to do one thing; shoot Germans. While the idea of 
 spending ten hours gunning down armies of nazis might seem nothing new, COD 2 manages to stand 
 out from the crowd by offering the kind of style and realism that should be expected for a new 
 console generation. 
  
  The sound is one of COD 2's best features. Enemies shout and plot amongst themselves whilst your 
 allies tell each other orders and hurl abuse at the Germans; the yelling and screaming is almost 
 contant, and provides the game with an unbelievable atmosphere.
  
  The graphics in the 360 version of COD 2 are mostly fantastic, with no noticable drops in frame 
 rate during some of the bigger, more impressive fights. Some of the scenery isn't too pretty up-close, 
 but when you've got hundreds of German soldiers shooting at you, it's not something you're likely 
 to notice.
  
  Above all, the game is fun to play. In fact, it's probably the best WW2 game ever; one of the best 
 FPS's even. It's challenging, always entertaining, frequently dazzling, and it's also the best 
 Xbox 360 launch game out there. If you were lucky enough to get a 360 for launch then there's no 
 excuse not to have picked up a copy of 'Call of Duty 2'. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: svr2006rules
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 19, 2005 11:08 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 for xbox 360 is the best game I have ever played. The graphics are suberb the gameplay 
 unbelivable. And the AI the best I have ever seen. Call of Duty 2 is by far the best game out now 
 for the xbox 360. Anybody who owns a 360 should run out right now to get one. Especially if they 
 are a fan of first person shooters. I'm definteley going out on a limb saying this but Call of 
 Duty 2 is even better then Halo 2. Call of Duty 2 is the total package. Great graphics, greay gameplay, perfect 
 AI. Call of Duty 2 is tithin a shadow of a doubt the xbox 360's first great shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ronald321
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 19, 2005 10:18 am PT
Review:  I recently purchased Call of Duty 2 for the xbox 360, I must say, before opening the game I thought 
 I would be dissapointed because the rating it had received from gamespot, a dragging 8.8, but after 
 loading the game and playing through the first level I must admit, it is by far the best world 
 war II shooter I have ever played, Graphically it can't be beat, and the AI is by far the best. 
 I am surprised that this game didn't at least score a 9.5, Yeah, its that good. If this is what 
 other next gen games will offer then "bring it on" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danielthoday
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 19, 2005 2:26 am PT
Review:  TO ALL THE FANS THIS IS ANOTHER DASHING AND VERY GOOD LOOKING SHOOTER WITH ALL THE RIGHT MAKINGS 
 OF A HALO BEATER ....... BUT FOR NOW THE MATCH MAKING IS RUBBISH AND YOU CANNOT CREATE A ROOM WHICH 
 MAKES CATCHING FRIENDS ONLINE SO HARD ... ALSO THERE SEEMS TO BE SO MUCH LAG COMING INTO GAMES WHEN 
 MATCHED WITH AMERICAN PLAYERS ????? (IM IN THE UK ) 
  
  THE WEPONS TO USE ARE GREAT AND IF U LIKE RIFLES AND SNIPING THIS WILL HAVE U SUCKED IN WITH GREAT 
 GRAPHICS AND BETTER SOUNDS ITS AWSOME HEAD SHOT TIME !!!! 
  
  xBOX 360 IS APPARENTLY ONLY USING 50 PERCENT OF ITS JUICE TO RUN THIS IF SO WHY WHY WHY !!!!!! 
 I DONT GET THESE IDIOTS WHEN PEOPLE WANT TO PAY 400 UK POUNDS FOR 50 PERCENT EFFORT MICROSOFT WE 
 WILL LET U KNOW !!!!
  
  NICE ONE GUYS .... DONT FORGET TO CATCH THE LATEST TUNES ON WWW. RAPTUREFM. CO. UK ! 
  
  DAN 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woowho69
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 18, 2005 10:40 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are off the charts, the sounds are very realistic that it makes you feel like that 
 you are actually in the war yourself and the gameplay is just awesome. This game is worth playing, 
 even for those who are not fans of shooters. HD TV makes the gameplay even better. Every x-box 
 360 owner should have this game, or at least rent it. This game is very addictive, and it will 
 have you playing for hours, and not to mention the multiplayer is also fantastic, and if you have 
 x box live, it'll be even twice as much fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: compnerd3018
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 18, 2005 7:50 pm PT
Review:  pretty good FPS, one of my faverets. good game play and good graphs, plus the online gameplay is 
 very very fun. i would recomend it for anyone who likes to just sit and play. the only real problem 
 with the game is your going to need to get a pretty good graphs card. the game is very much worth 
 picking up if u like a really good FPS ( and ur getting sick ofhalo and halo2) i would pick this 
 one up for sure. i dont kno about u but im getting sick of all these war games comeing out and 
 none of them really r fun, but this one is probbly the best ive ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geoffdallas
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 18, 2005 6:38 pm PT
Review:  I had a lot of fun with this game. The WWII genre has definitely been pushed lately and is very 
 close to overdone, but this game is everything that people love about the genre and will inspire 
 dozens of more imitators. Its intense, controls are spot on, and sound and graphics are amazing. 
 Some say its overly scripted, but some of the moments that you get, scripted or not, will take 
 your breath away. Haven't explored multiplayer too much yet, but from what I have played around 
 with, that part seems fairly average, but fun none the less. Overall a really good game and probably 
 the best of the launch titles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eu
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 18, 2005 5:51 pm PT
Review:  I played the first Call of Duty for the PC and was pretty good for the most part but this easily 
 beats that game in a lot of ways.
  
  GAMEPLAY - 9
  The controls of the game are perfect for the most part, except for the fact that sometimes one 
 shot in the head is not enough to kill a dude and that kind of pisses me off
  
  GRAPHICS - 9
  The graphics are pretty good themselves, but if you want its capability at its 
 highest you need an HDTV to experience it
  
  SOUND - 10
  The sound of the game, is probably the best thing about the game. It sounds awesome all of the 
 time and there are absolutely no flaws to it
  
  PROBLEMS:
  I only saw 1 major problem and 1 minor problem with the game out of my 20 - 40 hour experience. 
 The major problem with the game is that it has a very serious software issue where for example, 
 when you finish all the Russian campaigns, you will be required to replay the 1st Russian campaign 
 for it to unlock your accomplishment and add up your gamerpoints. It's really frustrating having 
 to do that and I stopped playing this game for a day or two because of the fact I was so frustrated 
 with that problem. The good thing though is that problem can be fixable though a download or a 
 auto-update or something like that. I just hope they do it because that problem can easily stop 
 someone from playing this game. The minor problem of the game is that the multiplayer is limited 
 up to 8 players, so it lacks some intensity.
  
  DIFFICULTY:
  This game can either be so hard to the point where it can be overwhelming, or to the point where 
 it's so easy that it is not even fun to play. I started out playing the game of Veteran difficulty, 
 since that is the only difficulty that you can play the game and earn gamerpoints at the same time. 
 But this leads up to the major problem I stated above. But easy is stupid, because even a first 
 time gamer could probably crush the German army with no difficulty what so ever.
  
  OVERALL:
  This game is really good overall, I'm just hoping they mix the major problem I talked 
 about, because I just finished the British campaigns and I had to replay all the Russian campaigns 
 and IT STILL DIDN'T UNLOCK THE ACCOMPLISHMENT!!! Yes, I did play it on Veteran so I'm confused 
 and frustrated. Until they fix this problem, I probably won't play the single player very much 
 anymore. But the single player is excellent if you ignore this major problem which will be pretty 
 hard to do. The multiplayer is perfect if you can ignore the fact you can't play with more than 
 8 players. Multiplayer modes include Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, Capture the Flag, Headquarters, 
 and Search and Destroy, so there is a lot of variety here which is good. I will probably stick 
 to the multiplayer portion of this game until they fix the single player. But even with this major 
 problem this game still manages to be the second the best game in the Xbox 360 launch lineup. The 
 only game in the launch that beats this is Perfect Dark Zero, and if you play both of these games 
 you will find out why these are must have games for the 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpruceCaboose
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 10, 2007 8:29 pm PT
Review:  After playing the mostly uninteresting Call of Duties from the current-gen consoles, I was quite 
 apprehensive about Call of Duty 2. After reading many, many previews for the game, I decided to 
 pick up a copy. I cannot begin to describe how blown away I was at this game. The graphics are 
 top-shelf. Sound effects and in-game audio is some of the best I've heard. Details are all where 
 they should be, and after spending numerous hours playing online FPS's of all stripes, I can say 
 that the AI in Call of Duty 2 is easily smarter than some human players. Not quite spot-on accurate, 
 but the most realistic AI I've experienced in any game yet. A must own for any 360 owner. A definite 
 runner for the Xbox 360 Killer App! By the way, Live play is surprisingly fun with only 8 players, 
 and with evened out teams, there are some amazing battles to be had! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: josh_master403
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 18, 2005 2:57 pm PT
Review:  I think the game is sweet!! The graphics are so real and life like. If anybody gives this game 
 anything less than a ten then they are crazy! When I played it it felt like I was really there. 
 And they put stuff in there that is so life like, it's hard to tell the difference between whats 
 real and what isn't. I mean I drooled when I got it, could'nt stop playing, the game is that awesome! 
 The characters have real emotions and expressions, its like they're real almost. It must have taken 
 alot of time to make the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrpieper17comet
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 17, 2006 8:13 pm PT
Review:  This is what you spent 400 dollars on. This game is the only completely next gen game. It has it 
 all graphics sound unbelievable AI and great levels and insanely large battles. When you start 
 the campaign it feels immediatley different then any WW2 shooter. There are just so many enemies. 
 The graphics are really good and detailed. The sound is really one of the best parts. Because you 
 never fight alone your squad members are never quiet always yelling for cover, and taunting the 
 nazis. The guns and explosions are incredible. The online is really good and lag free since the 
 patch came out and with 5 more levels coming this game has a lot of value. But the short campaign 
 ends way too soon. This is a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bfhdsbhf
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 17, 2005 9:26 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty is a first person shooter set in world war two (1939-1945) Now in this game you are 
 three different soldiers in the russian, british, and american army. Now this game you can carry 
 two weapons and you can swap them at your will trying to find the best combo to win the war. Now 
 your not alone most of the time you will fight with other allies ranging from 3-20 and you will 
 be faced with the same or more enemies which can lead to some preety impressive battles with tons 
 of people pretty godd A. I and the frame rate is always running smooth. Not to say theres no short 
 comings but there are like once the single player is over theres not much reason to go back and 
 the multiplayer is nothing to run hame about with only 8 players and sometimes theres some bad 
 lag. But all in all this is a good game and should be a good choice to your collection especially 
 if you like your war games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZombieInABox
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 17, 2005 6:01 pm PT
Review:  This game is a WW2 FPS that really nabs all it wanted to accept for online play that is. This game 
 has stunningly realistic graphics and perfect high frame rates that really never drop. Including 
 a Veteran difficulty where if it was anymore real it would probably be impossible, this difficulty 
 really makes you take time and stratagize like in a real war scenario and that is great. A variety 
 of missions and some amazing surrounding activity going on makes for one hell of a spectical. Overall 
 a GREAT fps. Though the online is the biggest dissapointment of all time. With no lobby rooms making 
 it a challenge to get a friend in with you and even when you do you have to find a new one because 
 the room closes after every 15 mintue game... Oh wait thats if everybodys ping in the room doesnt 
 spike to 999 because of some horrible lag problem that needs a patch .... NOW!!! This absoluty destroys 
 the online play making it UNPLAYABLE!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SplinterC101
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 17, 2005 3:36 pm PT
Review:  In my eyes, it's a Game of the Year, Player's Choice, & a Microsoft's Best Seller! I've only played 
 the demo & it's the most kick-ass WW2 ever! With it's intense graphics & advanced gameplay, it's 
 the hit game of Christmas eve! It has long, detailed missions, different campaigns, & notable interactions, 
 weapons, & places. The campaigns are extremely real, taking place in locations actually ravaged 
 by WW2. With 5 stars & a Player's Choice award, this is the kickoff game for the XBox 360! My choice 
 if getting an XBox 360, & a HUGE franchise in New York, LA, Seattle, & I would say New Orleans 
 if it wasn't ravaged by Katrina like Japan was by the Hiroshima Bomb incident!
  Multi-player mode is a big on local friends, but with XBox Live, it's even bigger if played around 
 the world WITH people from around the world! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterBlackgoat
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 17, 2005 5:21 am PT
Review:  I was not prepared for Call Of Duty 2. I bought it because I fancied another Live-enabled game 
 and already had Project Gotham 3 and Perfect Dark Zero. What I got was an absolutely amazing single 
 player game and a potentially great multi-player.
  
  The campaigns really are very addictive. I just wanted to keep playing and that doesn't happen 
 often, not with the games that have been out recently. I guess on the lower difficulty levels, 
 with solid play, you could finish the game fairly quickly, but play on the veteran level and there 
 is a lot more of a challenge. You really can die pretty quickly.
  
  Call Of Duty 2 has massive replay value. This is due to the fact that the games' appeal really 
 lies in the experience of shooting. There really are no gimmicks here. You go through the environments, 
 whether they be houses, barns, hills, towns, churches or bunkers, clear an area of the enemy and 
 then move on to the next objective. There are a few times that you get to control tanks, which 
 is okay for a change of pace and there are a few, short "on-rails" bits where you are on the back 
 of a vehicle, but the best of the game is to be found on foot, which is where you'll be spending 
 the majority of your time.... handy!
  
  The missions are structured really well, you will go from objective to objective at a perfect pace 
 and it really does make you feel you are in a war (of course, that is if you have no experience 
 of war, which I don't.... thank God) .
  
  Graphically it is a strong game. If this can be done so early in the 360's life I can't wait to 
 see what the future has in store. Sound is also excellent. The guns, the explosions and the shouting 
 of both the allies and the enemies are all top-notch!
  
  This game felt to me like it was going back to a simpler time, when games didn't feel they needed 
 to be too clever. If you are an immense fan of Rainbow Six - type games, you may be disappointed, 
 but if you enjoy the feeling of "shooting at the bad guys (and not.... God help you..... your own 
 men) " then you will most likely love this game.
  
  The Xbox Live multiplayer side of the game has immense potential, but there were two main areas 
 I was annoyed about. Firstly, the way you get into a game seems ill-thought-out and incredibly 
 restrictive. They have gone for the Halo style matchmaking, which is fine. But would it have really 
 hurt them to have allowed you to set up un-ranked matches with friends? You cannot stay in a server 
 for more than one game. After each match it throws you back to the multiplayer menu. By the time 
 it finds you a server and you have brought up a friends list to send an invite, the server is, 
 more often than not, full. So playing with friends seems a no-go!
  
  The second area giving trouble is in the amount of lag you can get. Don't get me wrong, you CAN 
 get into a great server. But you can also get into a lot of servers where the game is un-playable 
 and that seems crazy for a game as polished as Call Of Duty 2.
  
  If you can forgive these problems, the multiplayer itself is great. Smooth, varied, excellent level 
 design. Only eight players though, which is a shame.
  
  Overall, then. Excellent single player campaigns, beautiful graphics, nice sound and a sometimes 
 great multiplayer. This is a game that should be in almost anybody's collection. It is, in places, 
 a finely crafted work of art and well worth the asking price. Here's hoping they bring out a revised 
 edition so that this game can move from being "almost perfect" to "absolutely perfect". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eclipse849
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 16, 2005 10:29 pm PT
Review:  When i first got COD2 i only bought it because i wanted a war game for the new Xbox 360. When i 
 opened i was thrown into doubt, saying that this game was going to another crappie release title 
 and I wasted 60 dollars on it. When I started to play all my worries of how i was going to get 
 out of debt escaped my mind. The graphics were simply the best of any war game i have seen on a 
 consel and that was about all that COD2 aims for in this game. As i played through a couple of 
 levels my 30 dollars debt for the 360 crept up on me and I realized that this game wasnt all it 
 was cracked up to be beside graphics. The multiplayed wasnt right to many lag issues, but the single 
 player was definitely worth it. It doesnt have much replay value beside if you and gamerpoints, 
 which I think are utterly retarded. I gave it a 8.2, Good but still nothing special 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrVenkman
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 16, 2005 8:23 pm PT
Review:  This game looks like it is one of the best FPS games out for the 360. CoD2 looks like a great game. 
 The AI looks very sharp and graphics are amazing. The gameplay is based around your squad and how 
 you use smart strategy to win battles. There are a variety of weapons and plenty of action for 
 the action gamer. Grenades, tanks, and planes are used in CoD2's campaign. You start the campaign 
 as Russian soldiers and progressed to different battles with different countries. CoD2 is a great 
 360 game and will be enjoyed for many months to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neo5387
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 16, 2005 6:53 pm PT
Review:  I played this game a little bit in a wal-mart shopping center. This game is by far the best ive 
 seen. The game play and graphics are just at its best. I love how you no longer have an axis for 
 firing the guns. Instead you must use the axis of the gun you currently are using. I remember from 
 older games, when you shoot somebody they usually drop dead. Well in this one they go all out until 
 you make sure they no longer have a life to live. The A. I. is also a lot better than usual game 
 play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dev203d
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 16, 2005 1:31 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game, even with the short storyline. It took me a week to beat this game and thats 
 with taking some days off to play another game, so its short. Still I was not disappointed, every 
 minute of this game was great. The use of real war footage and real quotes is a great addition 
 to the game play. If you have just bought the 360 this is a great first game to get. The graphics 
 are good but don't matter since the game play is the best part. You are never alone as is in real 
 war, you will have at least 2 soldiers with you at all times, and you play as part of a team rather 
 than trying to save the world alone, and its great it gives you a sense of how these men felt. 
 The campaign may be short but you can go and beat it again on a different difficulty. The on line 
 plays has some serious "lag" but is fun, and will be better once it's updated, pending if there 
 will be an update. The sound is great and it's all good, there is no bad aspect of this game, while 
 the graphics might not be mind blowing, the game play is, go out and buy it, you will love it. 
 It really is "360's first great shooter" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: depopopo
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 16, 2005 12:29 pm PT
Review:  Perhaps its a testament to Call of Dutys quality that even the developers have been unable to 
 leap past it. The original Call of Duty absolutely blew away every other game on the market with 
 better AI, more immersive singleplayer, excellent multiplayer, and the best weapon design ever. 
 This was all the more surprising because Infinity Ward is largely made up of ex-2015 employees, 
 makers of the original Medal of Honor: Allied Assault. Those expecting a similar improvement over 
 CoD are bound to be disappointed. Call of Duty 2 is an updated, tweaked and visually stunning sequel, 
 but no revolution is to be found here.
  
  Levels are bigger, more imposing and longer. Often, parts of a map get recycled as the players 
 side finds that roles have reversed from an influx of enemy reinforcements, or perhaps the Germans 
 were driven back. The levels are no longer quite as linear for the most part, and some are almost 
 entirely non-linear. In many situations, like approaches to a machinegun nest or tank, the player 
 is offered more than one approach to the target. Of course, this doesnt hold a candle to the levels 
 where youre told to seize half a dozen or more objectives located at various points in the map. 
 Theres no particular order given, though they are numbered, but there is some strategy in how 
 to capture them. Often, its a great deal more difficult capturing one point without first owning 
 another, especially in situations that create a crossfire. The enemy wont recapture your objectives 
 but they will occupy the buildings around them as well, creating buffer zones for their own protection. 
 So I would say that Call of Duty 2 is a perfect title to buy for the 360. 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gtaft
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 16, 2005 9:10 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is the most realistic, atmospheric and at time shocking game I have ever experienced.
 
  To get the most out of this game you have to crank up the difficulty, I played it on veteran and 
 trust me when I say it is very unforgiving, you make one mistake and you are deader than a dodo!
 
  The graphics are superb and the smoke and fire effects are a joy to behold. But what makes the 
 game is the sound. If you have a decent surrround sound system just crank the bad boy (or girl) 
 up and your jaw will hit the floor. Bullets whizz past you your fellow men scream and shout at 
 each other and you. You will flinch when a grenade or mortar explodes near you as the sound and 
 graphics will swallow you up in the atmosphere of the game.
  The best example of this game is the surge up "Hill 400" it is the perfect example of how next 
 gen gaming is going to give us experiences which makes us smile and talk about for days on end.
 
  The multiplayer is a great addition, okay it only has upto 8 players on line but when the levels 
 and game modes have been made to this standard the limit of players does'nt matter. as the games 
 are so perfectly balanced it gives most other games a run for it's money on the online stakes.
 
  Well here you have it this is a game you must simply get, just so you can experience one of the 
 most perfect examples of gaming in it's genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: petelthebetel
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 15, 2005 9:31 pm PT
Review:  Never has there been a game that has brought about the emotion of fighting through WWII truer than 
 this game. In this industry crowded with the likes of of the all flash and no substance war games, 
 this one stands out. The single player is amazing and brings out emotion, which i have not seen 
 done to this calibre in a WWII game (other than the first) , through the hopeless Russian campaign 
 to hill 55. Being a fps, the controls are intuative and for the pc fans, you will actually forget 
 that you are using a controller and not a keyboard and a mouse. The multiplayer side of the game 
 is all right. My reasoning behind this is that you are only able to play with 8 players on a server, 
 but the different modes like capture the flag and search and destroy can be very fun. If you are 
 thinking of picking up this game, then DO IT NOW. Trust me you will not be dissapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkscorcher
Rating: 6.9
Date: Dec 15, 2005 8:38 pm PT
Review:  i played call of duty 2 on the x box and i have found that the graphics are not much better than 
 call of duty 1 on the pc. Call of duty 2 when played on a high def monitor looks grainy around 
 the edges of vehicles and characters, and the only effects that are different in this game from 
 that last is the realism of not being able to aim with cross hairs when moving, and there is better 
 smoke and heat radiation effects. Other than that the games is just an expansion of call of duty 
 1, with a few bells, and whistles.
  
  If you have a good PC and have played doom 3, and half -life 2, and other games like that, Call 
 of Duty 2 , just another game, another story line, but if you have only been playing x box and 
 have not been using any technology made in the past 3 years or how ever it has been since x box 
 was realeased, this game will look great to you stuck- in- the- past, I - dont-like -upgrading-my-pc, 
 type people this game will look great, but not Awesome.
  
  it doesn't have the wow factor that halo, and splinter cell had when those titles were realeased 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Standard_222
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 15, 2005 7:41 pm PT
Review:  After playing the first COD for the Xbox I can say that the improvment is more than a milestone. 
 The ally AI is wonderful, and the tactics of the enemy compile to make this game feel like you're 
 actually there. After I started playing this game I couldn't put the controller down. It's very 
 addictive and looks great on the console. Actually, I think it plays better than it's computer 
 counterpart. But that's up to opinion. The game stays true to the original by letting you play 
 as a soldier from all three of the allies as you struggle through different campaigns through WWII. 
 The game is well rounded, so you don't feel like you're repeating anything and keeps you on your 
 feet as there is never a point where it doesn't seem like there's a million things happening at 
 once. The sound is magnificent and the control is amazingly realistic. Being in the military myself 
 and firing rifles, the game does a great job of simulating the rifle feel. I've been dissapointed 
 in the past with most WWII shooters but this game delivers. A great experience and a great launch 
 title for the 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andrewmickey14
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 15, 2005 4:30 pm PT
Review:  If you remember back in 2003 a little game called "Call of Duty" came out it was praised as bringing 
 new life to the stale onslaught of oh so many WWII fps (some bad some good, but mostely bad and 
 unoriginal) . Well not only does Call of Duty 2 surpass the original in many ways, it's also one 
 of the best launch titles right now for the 360. Period.
  Yes this game is a port of a recent PC game but don't let that fool you, since it's just as intense 
 as that version. Ok first let me get the AI out of the way. Without question, this is some of the 
 most aggressive and intelligent AI in all of games (yes almost as good as Far Cry) . If you throw 
 a grenade at them, they will throw it back (but for some reason you can't do the same) . They will 
 also take cover, flank you and even hit you with the butt of their gun if you get too close (and 
 boy, they are ruthless) . The same can be for your allies who are just as smart and really help 
 you by calling out enemy positions. The controls for COD2 are excellent especially with the amazing 
 Xbox 360 controller. Ducking and firing are all done so well that you don't even have to think 
 when your playing, they are just that good.
  Ok here's a category that has caused some debate: The Graphics. Sure there is a lot going on in 
 some areas and the smoke effects are nice but this is next gen and I'm still seeing some problems. 
 Oh and BTW I understand that they're just getting used to the hardware but still with games like 
 PGR3 and PDZ this is lacking. First let's start off with the good. The character models are great 
 and have some expressions to them. Their animations are realistic especially when their reloading. 
 The environments are pretty big and the smoke effects in the game are some of the best in the biz. 
 Now the bad. POP-IN is the biggest complaint I have. Most things in the environment go through 
 a "transformation" as you get closer to them. This is especially in HDTV when it's really noticeable. 
 Sure it was ok in xbox but in the next generation it's a big no-no. Also I have to say some of 
 the textures look pretty ugly when viewed up close, like they were tooken out of the xbox version. 
 Ok maybe I'm nit-picking here but this is next gen not last gen. Overall, sure, it looks as good 
 as the PC version on max settings but that's still not enough.
  The sound in COD2 can only be described as "amazing". The soundtrack to the game feels epic but 
 the sound effects and VO really steal the show. I mean what sounds more amazing that a morter blasting 
 right next to you and your ears ringing. The guns effects all sound amazing as well, especially 
 the "PING!" sound you get when your Garand is out of ammo. The Voice overs all sound like your 
 in the heat of battle and really bring out the characters you'll encounter (especially Sgt. Price 
 he's classic) .
  Overall, COD2 is one of the best FPS shooters this year and should be on your list if you have 
 a Xbox 360 (lucky you) . The campaign is very exciting especially since you look at three different 
 views of the war (Russian, British, American) . The multiplayer is fun, but has some lag issues and 
 only 8 people can play at once (which is a bummer) . Hopefull they can release a patch for that 
 down the road, but as it stands, this is a great WWII FPS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadownite99
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 15, 2005 2:42 pm PT
Review:  This is an amazing game to say the least. The sound is great you hear every bullet shot bouncing 
 off of metal, off your helmet, or just plain out of your gun. The maps are also great, you've got 
 awsome places for flanking and for using tactics to defeat your enemys. Want to be the hero, and 
 try and go out by urself to save your teams while playing online? You can do that but what happens 
 when your gettin shot at by numerous enemys? Take cover behind that beautifully designed car, and 
 hope your gernade takes them out. All you big fans of medal of honour know what im talking about 
 when I mention the M1 grand it looks amazing, and i know you'll love using it with the best shooting 
 system ever for a game console, and believe me I was a little skeptical about getting this game 
 because i hate normal ps2, xbox, gamecube war game's shooting system but when i saw this one it felt 
 as good if not better then a computer one. There is a huge variety of weapons, and the soldiers 
 skins look like there real. Overall i think this is the best launch game for xbox 360 and you should 
 really give it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djmasca
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 27, 2006 5:17 pm PT
Review:  it would eat you up, this is the best war game of all times be ready for real life game play at 
 this real world of war zone.
  this game will make you realise what our people that go to war go tru and you are here to fell 
 this intence real time game footage so be ready for the figth of your life with call of dutty 2.
 
  it will make you feel like you are in the war zone whit out no mercy and you are not alone in 
 this war of warriors that risk their onw life for us.
  don't panic and just pray to be it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ultra5240
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 15, 2005 7:23 am PT
Review:  This game is great if you like FPS War games!! The 360 version is the best when you've got you 
 HDTV and your Dolby Digital Surround Sound going!! You hear the bullets whizzing, the explosions 
 rocking, and everybody yelling in every direction. A lot of fun and a good challenge to play. The 
 variety of levels and landscapes are enough to keep you hooked and wanting to see what is going 
 to be coming at you next. It really does feel like you are in these different places that the game 
 portrays. The different weapons you can pick up are great too. Each with their own advantage and 
 disadvantage for various uses. The AI is pretty smart as well. It will come after you if you aren't 
 careful. I would highly recommend this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkSnakesoul
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 14, 2005 10:12 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty 2 is a great game for those that love war and shooting away at those Axis. The game 
 has 3 sides British, American and Russian in which you get to pick and follow their character's 
 storyline and see what they had to go through. Your squad mates (AI) also talk and make some jokes 
 making you feel like your apart of that team. Some of the missions feel short though while others 
 seem like they are never going to end. 
  
  The good things are missions are well done even if they feel short or long. Sounds are good, and 
 AI some what ok. The enemy will use everything from flanking to jumping over walls to throwing 
 grenades to get ya. 
  
  The bad thing is your ai friends seem to get in your way now and then and sometimes you end up 
 shooting them in the back and getting a message about not killing your teammate and forcing you 
 to restart the mission at the last checkpoint. Also some times they stand around and dont shoot 
 back even when they are getting shot at. There are some missions where the enemy out number you 
 massively and forces you to be RAMBO and fight off the whole axis army yourself...... like most 
 games out there they make you do it anyways. ONLINE IS VERY FUN TOO!!!!
  
  But overall a game you should get for xbox 360 if you see it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DisturbedFan117
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 14, 2005 7:54 pm PT
Review:  Call Of Duty 2 is the sequel to the game of the year back in 2003. Now call of duty was a huge 
 sucess and they have shown their strength in WWII Shooters yet again with Call Of Duty 2. The graphics 
 in this game are amazing!!! But don't just pick up this game for the graphics. the gameplay is 
 very intuitive and you can always find action. Now the campaign is very innovative in this genre 
 because of how the campaign follows four main characters: A Russian comrade, A british sgt., a 
 british tank commander, and an american sgt. The tank missions offer a little bit of fun but the 
 gameplay gets a little boring after you've blown up the 25th tank... Apart from this and a few 
 AI hiccups (My allies keep standing on grenades!) this game is a must have! On easy the campaign 
 is good for the casual gamer but if your more hardcore then veteran is for you and that is where 
 you can earn some serious gamerscore... however be warned that it is very difficult to complete 
 even the first level... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kristol0
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 14, 2005 4:04 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the first launch titles for the Xbox 360 and one of the best to hit this system. 
 The graphics are smooth and the frame rate is excellent. Even if you dont have a HD telivision 
 the graphics still look sharp and amazing. The game puts you in 3 different positions and gives 
 you a true perspective on how that certain war was. Its extremely intense, and that what makes 
 it an awsome game. It really seems like your there aming and shooting at the enemy yourself. The 
 enemy AI is at its best. They know when to retreat, shoot, and use stealth. Unlike some games where 
 the enemy just runs and shoots at you. Its not like that here. The enemy actually uses GOOD tatics. 
 They use grenades to flush you out, and hide behind doors and corners. This is also what makes 
 the game pretty difficult. Another good feature is the sound. The sound is perfect. If you have 
 a surround sound system... Then you wont stop playing for hours at a day. But overall, This game 
 is truly a revolution. Dont listen to anyone who says its garbage. They probably never even played 
 the game. And the online value is AWSOME. The only bad part is that you can only play with 8 people. 
 But besides that, Its FUN!! And thats whats important . I think you should at leats rent the game. 
 I would say buy it, but with the prices on the 360 games.... stick with renting. I hope I help out 
 on your decision. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bgracindo
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 14, 2005 2:34 pm PT
Review:  ... person shooters before, and really liked the feeling of "real time" shooting that the first 
 MOH had as well as the original Call of Duty. I had seen many games on the xbox 360 with a distinct 
 feeling of being unfinished, unpolished, but this definitively wasn't the case. One noticeable 
 thing is that the game was made thinking about diversity. You not only get to shoot a bunch of 
 nazis face up, but also on machine guns, sniper rifles, even get to drive tanks. It never gets 
 boring, there's always something surprising, like the mission where first you take over the town, 
 but then the germans counter attack, and you are forced to retreat, that was a great idea and very 
 well executed. The only thing about the game is that if you have a little gaming experience you 
 really should play on the harder level. I played the game on a 50 inch DLP HDTV, and the graphics 
 are solid for a shooter. Sound is also great, surround sound is a MUST to any shooter. 
  Well, is you like war games, this is the one to get, great graphics, incredible game play, it is 
 just plain fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sicknic
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 23, 2006 1:08 pm PT
Review:  First off, let me just say that I had high expectations for this game. I am a huge fan of the original 
 Call of Duty for the PC, and I can say that I still play it to this day. Unfortunately my laptop 
 just didnt have the power to play its sequel, so I was really banking on the xbox360 version. 
 Im glad I did, as the game was just about all I wanted.
  My first time through I put the difficulty on Hardened. I find that games are getting too easy 
 and I wanted a challenge. I was blown away by the graphics. The first few levels of the Russian 
 campaign really showed off the power of the xbox360. The textures of the bombed out buildings looked 
 amazingly real. The snow falling from the sky sent a chill down my spine, and the character models 
 looks pretty life like (your able to see the 5 oclock shadow on some soldiers) . And the smoke 
 grenades! Let me just say wow! This game truly immersed me into the battlefield.
  I beat the Hardened single player game and decided to unlock all of the achievements. This is when 
 I really started to appreciate Microsofts inclusion of gamerscores and unlockable achievements, 
 because I probably wouldnt have gone through the game again. The A. I is amazing, and it should 
 be since one core of the Xbox360s power PC processor is dedicated to AI in Call of Duty 2. Enemies 
 run for cover, throw your grenades back at you, charge at you, hide behind corners and wait for 
 you to run in and much more. I must admit the AI made it difficult to beat the game on veteran, 
 and it took me 4 days to do so (I requested time off from work, so when I say days, I mean all 
 day for 4 days) .
  After beating the game, it was time to test my skills online. I am pretty decent in Call of duty 
 for the PC, and not too bad at halo 2, so I figured I could give some people a challenge. Unfortunately 
 it took me 4 boots before I got to join a game. When I did, I realized that you are only allowed 
 to play with 8 people, and some of the games were so laggy that most of the people left mid-game. 
 Now I am a big fan of Xbox Live, and I must say that there was nothing next generation about 
 Call of Dutys online multiplayer. 1 out of 4 games were too laggy to play and sometimes Id get 
 booted from the game lobby. From what I got to play, the game was fun online. A better game lobby, 
 more gamers per match (16-32) would have been perfect. Although you had game types like deathmatch, 
 team deathmatch, headquarters, search & destroy, and capture the flag, I was really hoping for 
 some snipers only and rifles only matches (I love playing rifles only on COD1 for the PC) .
  When it comes down to it, this game is a great showcase of what the console can accomplish graphics 
 wise. The single player campaign is amazing (and can be hard) . I just wished that Infinity Ward 
 and Activision gave us a reason to want to pay $10 more for the same game with a crapier multiplayer 
 experience. They could have spent a little more time tweaking their net code and getting the bugs 
 and game lobby working well. I am hoping for a patch to be released, but I doubt it will. This 
 game is on the top of many peoples list when they pick up their new system, so Activision and 
 Infinity Ward will get their money whether they fix these problems or not. I still believe the 
 multiplayer is more fun then PD0 though, and its my best rated launch game for the Xbox360
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: acummuta
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 13, 2005 12:11 pm PT
Review:  Having played a number of FPSs like many reading this I was excited just experiencing this game. 
 Like the first time I played Halo: Combat Evolved and was amazed by the A. I., here again is another 
 example of having great A. I. makes a great game. If you took away the video and the audio and just 
 focused on the A. I. you'd still have to give this game props. But luckily the visuals and audio 
 are sweet as well.
  
  Video: Mostly great. I still long for the day when anywhere I look things are vivid and lifelike. 
 Sharp and detailed. You get this in things like the guns and buildings and vehicles (from a distance) . 
 Come right up on them though and things can seem a little blurry and untextured. Though this again 
 is right on top of them. And I'm being ultra picky. I don't have any game I'm aware of that does 
 this. Maybe F. E. A. R? Otherwise this is one of the stronger pieces visually for the 360 launch. 
 And the smoke... absolutely incredible. Best. Smoke. Ever.
  
  Audio: I won't say much other than the constant barrage of bullets and chatter helps to add a great 
 deal to this game. That combined with the fact that its all done well gives my highest regards 
 to the audio department. 5.1 users will love it!
  
  Gameplay: Uber fun. Can't say that too often about any game I've ever played, and I've played hundreds. 
 They did a great job keeping the fun as the focus. No health packs, no easy death (unless you play 
 in Verteran difficulty - ouch!) . You see the screen start to go red and you hide. It really adds 
 to the intensity that you are have to fight your way deeper into the city, or up a hill, or whatever. 
 Again, A. I. was fantastic. Thank you multicore processing :)
  
  Value: Worth it. Buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tuff_Guy
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 13, 2005 11:18 am PT
Review:  Overview:
  
  Bullets fly, Tanks fire and planes strafe as you duck, crawl, shoot and toss nades in an effort 
 to stay alive and keep the Axis powers at bay. 
  
  That's what it's all about in Call of Duty 2 for the XBOX 360.. Staying alive in a myriad of bullets 
 and explosions as your squad shouts incomprehensible words through the din battle..
  
  From the moment you power the game on, you know you're in for a lot of fun. The action is intense 
 and difficult, but not overly technical. The game makes the difficulty fun and challenging vs ... well.. 
 just difficult. 
  
  Graphics - 9/10
  
  This game looks good. The exlosions are good, the smoke and dust looks real. You can see the mold 
 lines in the metal of the weapons. It's not perfect, but it's a pretty game for a title launch.
 
  
  Sound - 10/10
  
  Excellent sound.. You can feel the bullets go by and your hair will stand up as the tanks rumble 
 overhead. Every weapon sounds different and the nades have their own distinct sound as well..
 
  
  Controls - 10/10
  
  Very smooth and easy to use. Anyone who's played an FPS will get them right away. 
  
  Single-player 
 Gameplay 9.5/10
  
  The single player game is fun. There's nothing real innovative here, but the developers seemed 
 to have pulled off a great real world/arcade combo. You always feel like you're in the middle of 
 the action, surrounded by danger, but you're not tense worried about dying. You can charge a nest 
 of bad guys with bullets flying, take a few hits, jump the wall and then take em all out. Loads 
 of fun and action! If you take too many hits, hunker down in a corner until your health slowly 
 returns. You don't need to go searching for medi-packs.
  
  I really like the way the developers have implemented nades in the game. When a nade is close to 
 you, you get a "nade indicator" that tells you where it's at. Ignore it at your own peril!
  
  Another nice feature is the respawns.. You never respawn far from where you died. Often you'll 
 die and respawn right back in the action. It really keeps the game flow at a maximum. 
  
  It is a waypoint based system of movement, so if you don't like following the star you may get 
 frustrated. With all the action in the game, I didn't miss the ability to roam, but some may. 
 
  
  Multi-player Gameplay 7/10:
  
  I haven't had much time with it, but so far it's average. One thing I really like is the death 
 cam. After you die, you can see through the eyes of the guy that killed you and watch him do you 
 in. I don't recall seeing this level of detail in other games and it feels really innovative. Great 
 fun!
  
  Conclusion:
  
  I can't imagine any FPS fan not enjoying this game. I've seen a few folks that compare it poorly 
 to the PC game, but I've never played the PC game so I can't be dissapointed. If you like WWII 
 games, this one is for you. If you like FPS, this one is for you. If yuo have an XBOX 360 with 
 a limited release library, this one may be for you. ;-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Frost451
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 16, 2006 1:20 pm PT
Review:  If you only have the xbox 360 version of this game, the single player part is great and I highly 
 recommend it. This review was updated after the game was patched . Its great now in both single 
 and multi player. They have released 4 new maps with many more on the way. Be ware of call of duty 
 3, it is not being made by infinity ward and is not a true call of duty game. Activision is just 
 trying to milk the cash cow one last time. The single player is worth buying the game for and multi 
 player is better then day of defeat source. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: austingamer
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 13, 2005 7:29 am PT
Review:  The graphics for the game are unbelivable, they did a good job making it feel like you are really 
 fighting a war. They only let you carrie two guns, which might piss some people off not able to 
 use a varrity of guns but back then you didnt have but a handful of guns to chose from. When you 
 shut the gun it dosnt stay in one place or locked on to your target, and for any one who has shot 
 guns before knows that this is true. I liked how they used the smoke as a visibitily factor. As 
 well as if you are lying in the dirt and a bulllet hits the ground in front of you it causes you 
 not to be able to see from the dirt in front of you. The AI is a lot better than than the old consoles 
 but I think that it could be better. I still saw some glitches like enemies running over boxs like 
 they are running over rocks, and etc... Other than a few minor things the game is well made and 
 worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dorfalorfle
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 12, 2005 5:50 pm PT
Review:  SUPER  
 im trying to make this 100 words a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa 
 a a a a a a a a a aa a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa s sd s s s 
 w ew e de de rfew f ewtf ewrf gerw fe few cewfc; ewlifh2ecfn yi4klewrmewurj vmetum rng, mfbvrfegv5 
 ylefbvsrbktvhj4yg987rh4 trinuur  
 rieu 4yruk3 3rerg3uir hejfghere3  eu g3eg3 c 3tg3tgr3ur 
 w3iygh23quer3uegh2ue2e 
  
  Did you get all that?
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RavenElite
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 12, 2005 4:12 pm PT
Review:  I absolutely love this game... the single player game is absolutly outstanding.. the graphics are... WOW... 
 and it is quite a challenging game. Going from Army to Army makes the stort interesting, seeing 
 all the sides of this battle, as well as getting to know different guns. Quite a addicting game! 
 I wish i could get through it all though, for some reason mine goes back to the first level!?! 
 Besides that little bug, its a great game, and i havent gotten tired of it yet!
  
  To the multi...
  its alright, Same graphics, level design and gameplay, but AI is smarter, and 
 less people to shoot. The Live Lobby doesnt work to fondly, and options are minimal. You cannot 
 choose the level, boot, make a friend only game, or choose to boot someone out. Aswell, you can 
 only play with 8 players online, which is kinda bummy. even though the levels are interesting, 
 being able to hide in bushes, hiding in buildings, run and gun'in it. All are effective in certain 
 levels, with certain guns... but with a max of 8 players, it sometimes causes lots of time you dont 
 see someone, and requires patience at times. 
  
  Conclusion
  I, for one, LOVE THIS GAME! most realistic, feel like your there, war game EVER made! Makes you 
 really appreciate what our vets did for us.... THANKS GUYS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dheuermann
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 12, 2005 12:35 pm PT
Review:  Call of Dut 2 is extremely immersive. Playing it on a 50" HD TV with a 5.1 surround sound system, 
 you lose yourself in the game. You start off in training. Getting off the truck you here the sounds 
 of war all around. You turn to the left and all of the sounds move with your head. You turn back 
 to the right and they follow. When you turn your back on the instructor you hear him behind you. 
 Very impressive!
  
  Having played this game only in single player mode, I will not touch on multiplayer. In single 
 player mode, the navigation is easy to get a game started. The missions start out with clips from 
 The History Channel; very cool! Whenever you enter or exit there are warnings about loosing data. 
 You see these so much you wonder exactly what you are going to loose. I think these warning could 
 have been eliminated or changed from possible loss of data to only show when you are going to loose 
 data, which I believe is if you start over the same sub-mission.
  
  Playing it at the vet level (hardest difficulty) , some of the immersion is lost. It is no longer 
 a war but rather an army of Germans all shooting at you with incredible accuracy while your squad 
 stands around waiting for you to be killed. This quickly pulls me out of the atmosphere and turns 
 it more into a Rambo story; it's no longer a World War. It's now you vs. the world. For me, I enjoy 
 being a small part of a larger war rather than the hero.
  
  With that being said, the only reason to play at vet level is to unlock XBox Live Achievements. 
 I was not able to view the achievements from the game but had to go through the Xbox 360 console 
 to view my games, select Call of Duty 2, then see the achievements. I'm not sure that it's worth 
 it to play at vet level to unlock all of the achievements. At least for me, playing at that level 
 ruins the game.
  
  Playing one level lower the game has a much more immersive experience. The enemy will shoot at 
 your squadmates in addition to you, allowing you to take a shot at them. It appears that only in 
 some scripted scenes are there cases where the AI is only fighting you, such as with snipers.
 
  
  As far as value, the single player game may last me 20 hours or so at the difficult setting. My 
 guess is the real value will come from multiplayer.
  
  If you are interested in war, specifically WWII, this game is a must have as you can experience 
 what it would have been like to be involved in the front lines. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stryper121212
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 12, 2005 10:40 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is an immersive first person shooter with huge levels and extremely addictive gameplay. 
 After playing through the campain on the default difficulty level I was itching to play through 
 it again. So I set it to Veteran (the highest level) and began my campaign again. I must say that 
 I think I am having even more fun the second time around. On veteran the game play is extremly 
 intense and difficult. Pop around the corner at the wrong time... one shot to the head and you're 
 gone. Playing on veteran always leaves my hands sweating and my heart pounding. XBOX Live gameplay 
 is surprisingly good. Great multi-player maps. This game is an absolute must have for any XBOX 
 360 owner. Why are you still reading this... go get the game!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SantaMayCry
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 11, 2005 9:27 pm PT
Review:  Overview
  
  This game is a port of the PC game and is the latest in the Call of Duty series. The Xbox 360 does 
 the PC version more then justice with sharp visuals, and even sharper controls.
  
  Graphics - 9/10
  
  This game is amazing, especially since it runs at a constant 60fps (if im 
 thinking right...) . The way exploisions... explode... the way bullets whiz by.. everything in this 
 game adds to the feeling that your in the middle of a war, and you are fighting for your life and 
 your country. The only reason this didn't get a 10 was due to the fact that some places where it 
 could have cool effects that ive seen in other 360 games or even in the original xbox... wearnt 
 used here. I know I know.. nothing big.. it just kinda bothered me. For example the training level 
 dude has a fuzzy coat neck... but it didn't have that cool fuzzy effect seen in games like King 
 Kong or Kameo.
  
  Sound - 10/10
  
  From the voice acting to the exploisions... it all adds to the feeling of war that this game has 
 so well established.
  
  Controls - 10/10
  
  Very easy to control, very responsive... for the most part. Just takes some getting used to, but 
 once you do.. smooth as butter.
  
  Gameplay 8/10
  
  I know... someone out there just added me to thier hitlist for that.. but its due to 2 reasons. Firstly, 
 the single player is great and all.. but it all boils down to the same thing, run somewhere, duck, 
 stand up, shoot.. rinse and repeat. During later levels... it does somethingn daring... and adds something 
 new! Run into a building, duck, standup, shoot... Which it abuses QUITE alot later on. 
  Secondly the multiplayer. Its all boils down to a sniperfest. Everyones ducking and windows = immediate 
 death. To make matters worse, theres only 8 players so there arnt enouhg people to cause others 
 to stop sniping. Imagine Halo 2, 1 on 1 during headlong. Would you run around with an SMG or get 
 somwhere good and snipe the fools ass? Now... if it were 8 on 8 during halo 2, sure you could snipe... but 
 eventually somewhere will keep finding you.. time for a new gameplan. Get my drift?
  
  Conclusion
  
  While an excellant launch title, this game has minor flaws preventing it from 
 being a Killer App, however if you need an FPS to play, this game is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperGo0ber
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 11, 2005 9:23 pm PT
Review:  Im sure you guys played the medal of honer game in the past. Remeber how the firsts level of those 
 games where so cool? Like in Rising Sun, the first level starts off when you just wake up and the 
 sirens are going off and you have to escape while you can hear the planes and bombs going off. 
 When you are finaly on the deck, you see the planes gunning down your ship. And then you take control 
 of a gun turrent and start shooting down planes. 
  The point that im trying to make is how intense and mind blowing those levels where. The rest of 
 the game was just a stright forward WW2 FPS.
  With COD2 no levels feel like stright forward WW2 Fps. They are all intense and put you in the 
 middle of the battlefield. Multiplayer is good on XBlive and split screen. 
  
  P. S- this is only my second review. Please tell me how I did please.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jetfan072005
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 11, 2005 5:03 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 has almost lifelike graphics and a great physics engine. One of the most lifelike 
 games I have seen. I am hooked on this game, and I see it as a great sign for what is to come for 
 military based games. This game is revolutionary to the whole industry. The more I play it, the 
 more I love it. I was not a big fan of war games, but once I played this I was addicted. Honestly, 
 I dont know how much better this game could get. The textures of the buildings and people are 
 the best part. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abanks
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 11, 2005 1:36 pm PT
Review:  After playing many WWII games over the years you always get the next one saying this is the best 
 yet, but this time it really is.
  
  It sounds amazing every bullet, grenade & footstep, looks scary real, from water in the ditches 
 to people's faces.
  
  If this is only use 2 CPU threads out of 6 and no-where near the graphics ability i cant wait to 
 see what they do with COD 3.
  
  But back to COD2 10/10 in everyway, great multiplayer action, amazing single player action, from 
 a graphics point alone its enough to buy this game. The difficulty settings really show, i completed 
 it on easy within 3 days, and now i am going back through on the hardened setting and all i can 
 say is i wouldnt want to play as veteran. In hardened its 3 shots and your dead. Lucky that you 
 re-heal automatically otherwise you would only get 4 mins into a level and then you would be pushing 
 up the daises !! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adenk13
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 11, 2005 11:51 am PT
Review:  All i have to sa y is that wow this is great xbox 360 i loved it and keep playing it. this game 
 made ever thing right the AI and the Muti player that was all perfecti thought. the sound on the 
 surround was Amazing you could hear the air plans and all sound effects where just great!!!!!!!!! 
 you you yo to t oto to to to to to to to t oto to to t oto to to to to to to to to to to to to 
 to to to to to to to to jdg
  .htr
  2h3rt
  s321h
  3rts1h23
  1
  fghs fggf hfghr thui, uj t 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadow1629
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 11, 2005 10:03 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is a spectacular game and it has to do with the nazis taking over Germany. The creators 
 of the Xbox 360 have done a great job with the graphics of the game because everything looks sooooo 
 real, the explosions, the water, the guns. I'd give this game a 9.4=superb because it's the best 
 in the series, it's harder, and it's more addictingthan the others. The controls are kind of hard 
 to get used to but, the sound is amazing. Also the area is awsome to be around. You can go almost 
 anywhere in this game. That's what I think of Call of Duty 2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gun-runner
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 11, 2005 5:56 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2... Where do I start? Maybe that the graphics are just flat out stunning! Now in 
 this game you can play as the Allied forces in Northern Africa, Russians defending their country 
 or the Americans in france and parts of germany. Everything about this game is fantastic and very 
 much worth buying as a launch title, the only bad thing is the campaign wasn't that great but multiplayer 
 makes up for it. So go ahead go get some food and beer and go on Xbox Live with this game cause 
 you will have the time of your life playing it. Hell even during the loading screens I was amazed! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: njnaz765
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 10, 2005 11:23 pm PT
Review:  When you think about it, we here in America know how to exploit anyone, anything and any event. 
 Thanks to Activision, WWII vets can be proud to know that the war still is going on, and your grandson 
 is kicking it's ass on mega hard mode.
  
  This game is 1 of 4 games for thr 360 that actually show next gen graphics. Along with Kameo, PGR3, 
 and NBA 2k6, This is the only game that showcases polished, clean, and fluid graphics. You'll really 
 notice the beauty of it when you see the inner city levels with smoke effects. Another graphical 
 plus is that the player models aren't just smushed faced generic enemies. They are detailed down 
 to that last drop of blood on the wall. But the overall improvement from a high end pc version 
 is slightly noticeable. With great visuals must come great sound. You probably have come to know 
 the standard FPS sounds by now, so I really don't need go over them. But the gameplay is what really 
 matters. Call of Duty 2 has an auto aim feature like you wouldn't believe, sometimes so much that 
 you feel you're cheating. Sometimes you'll find an awesome weapon that blows germans away like 
 Pamela Anderson blows away... well you get the idea, but once you run low on the weapons ammo, the 
 game suddenly decides the germans aren't using it anymore for this level, so you feel cheated. 
 Enemies either are sharpshooters, or retards. Considering that a german 6 inches in front of you 
 will miss like no tommorow, but that german all the way on the other side of the map with a rifle 
 will manage a no miss clip. Online play has 2 versions, You rule, or you suck. But honestly, either 
 your kicking so much ass you need new boots or youre getting **** like you wouldn't believe. The 
 best feature in online is playing with people in your demographic. Meaning if you are registered 
 as a recreational player on 360 live, than you play with others like you. A huge downfall is no 
 co op or bots in multiplayer, which makes it a live or single player experience.
  
  BOTTOM LINE
  if you like shooting things, buy it over perfect dark. If you like sports, NBA 2k6, 
 platformer, kameo and racing pgr3. You have the power, now jump in to another microsoft ad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: booo95
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 10, 2005 4:02 pm PT
Review:  This is the first war game i have ever played and even though i only played the demo this game 
 still rocked to me. This game is so addicting. For the xbox360 the the graphics are currently the 
 best. You could get it for any system because it should be the same addicting gameplay. Even though 
 it's tough but it's always fun to act stupid. Now the bullets sound kind of quiet so it's not to 
 realistic but they do have good voices and thumps. Now if you like war games then you gotta get 
 this one. Or if you want to start getting into war games. otherwise it's up to you. Oh and by the 
 way i played the 360 version, so the gamecube might not have as good graphics as this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ladel924
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 10, 2005 3:50 pm PT
Review:  the graphics completely blow your mind on the 360, by far the most dominant aspect of the game. 
 However, when it comes down to it, the game isn't perfect. Shooting Nazis can get repetitive, and 
 multiplayer gets old quick. 3 different countres with their own sets of weapons each helps. Online 
 is fun, but not ebing able to have a guest hurts. Single player last about 30 hours, of course 
 depending on the difficulty, and realistic gameplay results in a great presentation. When you die, 
 the quotes are kind of bad, but no one reads them so its cool. Its a fun game, I bought it and 
 havent complained once, nor thought of what I'd rather do with $60. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacash3492
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 10, 2005 2:15 pm PT
Review:  If you like wiping out all the Nazi's and fraging everyone in your way than this is your kind of 
 game. Next to Brothers in Arms this game is the best kind of war game around. The demos to this 
 game are as fun as the game. If you get to rent this game, just take it back and buy it ASAP. I 
 kid you not this game is too good to not have. COD2 has explosive graphics, perfect value, award-winning 
 gameplay, and perfect sound. 
  
  With all the weapons you can choose from makes this game award-winning. I didn't like the first 
 Call of Duty but when I rented this game, I totally changed my mind and actually bought it. Dont 
 be fooled by what kind of rumors are going around, this game is better than it looks. And it looks 
 good in the first place. Consider buying this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Optimusv2
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 10, 2005 12:37 pm PT
Review:  Now let me be the first to say that I simply HATE wwII games and once said to myself i wouldn't 
 be caught dead playing this crap, but the sound/graphics/ and all the action taking place and how 
 flawlessly all of it runs alone makes me enjoy the game.
  
  Ignore the storyline the smart ai and all the possible mission objectives in the game. That fact 
 that it looks as good as it does and plays so flawlessly while all this stuff is going on around 
 you is the main reason i give this baby a 10.
  
  This game is amazing and the games for the 360 are going to keep getting better and better this 
 is just the tip of the iceberg. Its extremely fun to just sit down and watch people play this game 
 thats how great it is.
  
  Got it running on my 21inch computer monitor and boy does it look amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaTTuH
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 10, 2005 1:35 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 has got to be the best launch game with Xbox 360. At first I was sceptical to purchase 
 CoD2 because I didn't want to waste $60, but I just went ahead and bought it and I haven't played 
 anything since. From the lengthy campaign to the intense, intriguing multiplayer CoD2 is a must 
 have for anyone who owns the 360. 
  
  The campaign alone is worth the price of admission, giving 20 plus missions on 4 difficulties (im 
 working on veteran now) which give a pretty decent challenge to even the most hardcore gamers. 
 I've been hooked since day one, with the great storyline, awesome gameplay and graphics that will 
 blow you away. Even on standard def this game looks amazing. The smoke in the game will really 
 amaze and when you throw a smoke granade you will see why. Many have played the demo at the Xbox360 
 kiosks in many retail stores, but you really have to buy the game the demo just won't cut it.
 
  
  The multiplayer is great, with fast, action filled gameplay that doesn't sacrifice any graphical 
 qualities even while playing online. The only thing i would change about this game is expanding 
 the number of online players (which is only 8) , but the maps are relatively small so 8 isn't such 
 a bad number.
  
  All in all this game is amazing, and one of the best games ive ever played. It's become my new 
 favorite game, and have been stuck playing the campaign for over 2 weeks (it takes alot to get 
 me away from PDZ and GR2) . Verdict is... BUY THIS GAME 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Llost1
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 10, 2005 12:33 am PT
Review:  Never being in a war I had to ask a true Vetran of the war to give his opinion on how realistic 
 it is. He said that if it was any more real, he would have to find his gun and run outside. The 
 gameplay was fantastic, and the feeling of accomplishment was definatly there when you made it 
 to another checkpoint. 
  This game lived up to almost everyone of what the devolopers said it was going to be. Only problem 
 I had about it was simply you couldnt freeroam like a sandbox. The Devolopers said you would be 
 able to take different courses of action to do the game. Well, I found that to be true for only 
 a few of the levels.
  I hope that COD3 will have more of an open enviroment and not limited by a constant barrage of 
 walls and barbwire that remain constantly in the way restricting every path that you want to take. 
 Overall, this is definatly a game worth checking out. If you like FPS's, WW2, and realistic as 
 it comes "so far" games, then this is a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: McDonaldsGuy
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 9, 2005 11:56 pm PT
Review:  The sound and graphics are top notch; I heard this game uses about 33% of the XBox 360 power - 
 if so, then WOW! Great graphics.
  
  Gameplay? Eh it's okay. A little too realistic; if I wanted realism, I wouldn't be playing video 
 games. But still, it's fun and addicting and you will be playing for a while. On XBox live you 
 will have tons of fun but what makes me mad is you die in like one hit. Oh well it's supposed to 
 be "realistic" after all - I mean why in the world would a VIDEO GAME have fantasy in it?
  
  Overall a 7.8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Saltyspam
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 9, 2005 9:18 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is definlty one of the best WW2 Shooters out there. The sound and presentation of 
 this game is awsome. there are many parts in the game where u will be sayin "OMGWTFNOWAY!!!!!" 
 The Single player in this game is 20x times better then the mulitplayer. only 8 people can play 
 online and usally it lags up with 8 people. dont get me wrong i like the multi but i prefer to 
 play the single player campain which is awsome but a little on the short side. and if u gonna beat 
 the game on veteran be prepared to be an army of one. your sqaud will not help you at all in veteren 
 which pissed me off. Overall this is an awsome game for anyone that has a 360. If you have a 360 
 and dont have this go to the store now and pick this up.
  Im pretty good online btw :) if u wanna play ill be more then ahppy to gamer tag saltyspam. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: White_death_77
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 9, 2005 12:17 pm PT
Review:  Okay this is way better than all the other Call Of Duty's because all the other one's just really 
 stink. Like come on they made the other one's like crap. But this one is perfect it's really realistic, 
 me and my friends tried the game with home theater system and damn we turned those suckers up full 
 blast and it sounded so realistic we kept playing it. Online play is amazing but they could have 
 just made the rooms stay up longer not once the game is over it's gone and then you have to find 
 a new one. And then you can't check your rank. But other than that when you put the game HD WOW!!!!! 
 i was blowin away when i saw it. 4 players is really fun and single player is so F**** hard when 
 you do it on Veteran. BUT GET THIS GAME!!!. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kamui_of_God
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 9, 2005 3:50 am PT
Review:  I really don't have much to say- it's a great game, yet I get the feeling that I've played this 
 game before. While this may be good for some of you, it wasn't very good for me on this game.
 
  
  This game truly is the pinnacle of WW2 FPS games.
  But I'd prefer it if they created a WW2 game which has completely unique aspects. Particularly 
 being able to play as Nazis- I truly am tired of gunning down the "bad-guys" whom - if you know 
 history well enough - can be justified to have done exactly the samethings the west did.
  
  The score should be self-explainatory. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scotty0123
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 8, 2005 1:26 pm PT
Review:  The best shooter released for any console has just arrived. This game is intense from begining 
 to end. All you hear is "enemy grenade!!!" or "German tiger tank incoming!!!". 
  The graphics on the game make the expirence more realisetic. And it already feels to real for comfort. 
 You can just imagine all this happening 60 years ago. if you have a 360 you need this game. It 
 is definatly a halo beater. I would rate this game perfect but it hasn't got great online gameplay 
 but it is still pretty good. This game is such an improvment on the first game and finest hour 
 (finest hour was S. H. I. T. E!) 
  
  gameplay/10
  graphics/10
  sound/10
  online/8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darklord239
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 7, 2005 6:01 pm PT
Review:  Gamespot said that COD2 is a 8.8 which is great, but calling this game great is a complete understatement. 
 COD2 as of right now is the best WW2 game out. It's so intense it'll feel like you're there. The 
 controls are very easy to use and simple. The graphics are very good and the smoke effects r amazing. 
 Multiplayer side it has the tags over the players that r on your team, which means there shouldn't 
 b any team killing. In single player it has different story modes so if u get tired of one u can 
 go on 2 the next. u don't have a health bar so it works kinda like halo 2 shields. when u get shot 
 the screen will blink red and it'll warn u if u r about 2 die. The intensity of the game and its 
 AI is incredible. when i was focusing my fire at a tower the natzis would come out when i didn't 
 notice and flank me, which is impressive. COD2 is a must play game 4 anyone that likes FPS games. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SkateEmerica987
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 7, 2005 4:47 pm PT
Review:  I just got my 360 and call of duty 2 was the first game i bought and i'll just say its flat out 
 amazing! I'll start by talking about the graphics. They are the most amazing graphics I've ever 
 seen. Their light years ahead of any current gen game and way ahead most modern PC games, even 
 doom 3. Everything was detailed with such presision, i just spent the first 10 minutes walking 
 around and looking at the different textures on walls and soldiers. Then once u start the game 
 there is amazing effects goin off everywhere. the particle effects are amasing and so is the smoke. 
 i have been playing this on a HD plasma TV and the higher resolution really amps up the detail 
 and textureing so i would recomend HD if u have acsess to one. the gameplay is also great. i love 
 the 360s controller because of the newly placed black and white buttons which are now used for 
 throwing gernaids. this is the only console fps that i actually forgot i wasnt useing a keyboard 
 and mouse! the controlls were very responsive and the analoge sticks are placed just right. the 
 sound is out of this world. I had surround sound blasting and it felt like you were in the battlefield. 
 you heard soldiers and gunfire on all sides of you and the gun noises are top notch as well. the 
 value is the only thing i took points off of because of the lack of multyplayer. there is xbox 
 live play but thats only 8 players and it feels like the levels are too big for only 8 players. 
 it also is missing co-op play or splitscreen multyplayer, but the game will last u a good 12 hours 
 or more. 
  overall this is a tramendous game with tons of potential and i think it could turn out to be one 
 of the top selling 360 launch titels. So if u are decideing which game to go with your new 360 
 i highly suggest Call of Duty 2! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killerjoe17
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 7, 2005 2:16 pm PT
Review:  While many early Xbox 360 games are simple high-resolution versions of their current gen brethren, 
 COD 2 was created in tandem with the PC version. This means that both versions demonstrate a hefty 
 amount of special effects, visual polish and no visual compromise. The game looks especially crisp 
 in 1080 and 720, and the level of detail and crispness is undeniably different when compared to 
 the same game in 480p. In the higher resolutions, the texture work is often excellent, and in any 
 mode it's complemented by both fluid moving characters and great animation. You run into a blown-up 
 building and the crumbling walls show granular detail. Your feet kick up dust. Scrapes, scratches, 
 and holes aren't repeated from building to building. And the fidelity of each object, whether it 
 is a broken desk, a destroyed tank, or a torn apart building, is crisp and sharp looking.
  
  The smoke grenades are easily the most interesting visual effect in the game. They're slow 
 to take affect but once in full bloom, they're dense, large, and fluid. Inside one, you will not 
 be able to tell where you are, which direction you entered the billowing cloud, or who's your ally 
 or enemy. When an enemy is finally close enough to determine - usually within a three-foot radius 
 -- there is a split second before you must make a decision. Nazi soldiers will bludgeon you quickly 
 if you're slow on the draw. The grenades are manageable out in the open, but if you mistakenly 
 hurl one inside a building, good luck soldier. The sense of confusion and chaos of a smoke grenade 
 outside is one thing, but inside a building, you feel helpless and blind.
  
  With Call of Duty 2, like its predecessor, you're wowed by the amount of chaos that's whirring 
 wildly about you, but when the cloud of smoke settles and you have a look around, the impeccable 
 work that has gone into these backgrounds, environments, structures, and textures is remarkable. 
 The game looks like it's running at a high framerate with dozens of characters on screen simultaneously 
 without hiccups or major drops in frames. The Xbox 360 version is comparable to a high-end PC system 
 running the game, and in some little cases -- like a lit landscape or a full-blown fighting sequence 
 -- the Xbox 360 version looks superior. Call of Duty 2 is easily one of the best looking Xbox 360 
 games for launch.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: markXTYUIO911
Rating: 5.2
Date: Dec 7, 2005 7:35 am PT
Review:  ok honestly... this almost exactly like the PC version... there is nothing new about this game... and 
 really... the world war II genre is so FRIGGEN played out... there is nothing next gen about this 
 game. the same sounds... same guns... same re-load animations... just the same "lets kill Nazis and 
 play WWII hero...." IM SICK AND TIRED OF KILLING NAZIS... ive been killing NAZIS... since wolfenstein 
 3D... this game is not evolved... its the same thing as COD 1... games should not replay the past... but 
 should thrust us into the future... this game reminds me too much of the 1st call of duty... that 
 is not a good thing. call of duty 2 is awful and is a waste of time... i hate it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockelars
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 7, 2005 1:16 am PT
Review:  This game truly gave me a real war-feeling!
  The battles are really intense as the bullets fly around your head and people screaming and shouting 
 everywhere!
  You surely have to concentrate your mind a bit more than usual because it isn't a walk in the park 
 if you know what i mean! Every mistake you do will probably get you killed if you crank up the difficulty 
 a little.
  The graphics are all right but could have been better but so soon after the release of the xbox 
 360 it's acceptable and probably one of the best looking games at the time.
  Sounds are great! You really get the feeling of war!
  Overall this is a great game and it's even 
 better than the last!
  Enjoy!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alienfusion
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 6, 2005 11:20 pm PT
Review:  Most people dont take a 10.0 Seriously when you rate that but in all fairness this game deserves 
 a 10.0. I sat and couldnt quit playing the game, its highly addictive. My friend was over and we 
 played multiplayer and this was the most fun I have had in a multiplayer game since Bond For N64. 
 The Graphics are what you would expect from a next gen system, the Storyline is is more of a history 
 lesson, The sound is perfect. The weapons are very detailed when you bring them up to sight. The 
 Game is all around a good time. Even if you dont enjoy it as much as I did you owe it to yourself 
 to buy this game. You will definately feel it was worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: midnite_21
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 6, 2005 9:10 am PT
Review:  I LOVE THIS GAME!!! Call of duty 2 is great game in almost every facet there is only a few things 
 that draw back from the multiplayer. The multi-player ony xbox live a very good but could be better 
 for some of these boards are beautiful and huge and they do not have enough support for as many 
 players as I would like. It ends up being a sniper match on these board because no one wants to 
 walk large distances for a shotgun or machine gun battle. The only other thing I can think of that 
 is wrong with the game is still that system linking xbox on the 360 version only supports one player 
 PER CONSOLE this dropped my rating of this game down a notch since I personally love the lan parties 
 of halo 2 and wanted to bring something fresh to the table in call of duty. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scstephens
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 5, 2005 9:46 pm PT
Review:  I have played the original Call of Duty and loved every second of it. Sometimes, the second iteration 
 of a great game tends to come up short just because of the high bar the original set. Fortunately, 
 Call of Duty 2 does not dissappoint. It has fantastic graphics (I still feel the 360 has not really 
 been pushed, but that is to be expected in 1st generation games) . It has really challenging gameplay. 
 Lastly, online play is a great addition for some replayability. 
  
  My only gripe is the game plays a tad short on lower difficulties. I started playing on the highest 
 difficulty recently (veteran) and levels now take hours instead of 20-minutes. 
  
  The AI is top notch and not to be taken lightly. The game really makes you pay attention to your 
 strategies and where your squad mates are and where they are going to go. If you try and rambo 
 style your way through the higher difficulties, you will die fast and often.
  
  Bottom line: I have played most of the games at lauch and Call of Duty is easily in my top 3. If 
 multiplayer was put together in a tighter package with better stat tracking and ranking system, 
 it probably would be #1. If you own a 360, do yourself a favor and pick up CoD2 or least rent it 
 for a week or two. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: perryjd1
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 5, 2005 8:35 pm PT
Review:  I didnt have much hope for this game - not sure why really - but i didnt. Well i am pleasently 
 supprised by how good this game is and how much fun it is. it doesnt punish you at lower levels 
 - has a great bit of history and action, and the multiplayer is the best reaon to get this game. 
 The graphics and sound are top notch - and although the controls are not halo, they work well once 
 you get used to them. one of my biggest gripes - and I havent played they whole thing through yet 
 - no vehicles... i know it isnt battlefield 1942, but it would have been neat to atleast have been 
 a gunner, or at a minimum be able to blow the tracks off of a tank, pop the hatch and droip a grenade 
 in... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonjj2003
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 7, 2005 8:28 pm PT
Review:  dang this game is the best war game i have ever played. the graphics make it look like it is real 
 life. the best war game ever made. arcade and vidio game that ever has been made. except for Halo) 
 halo is the best game but this game is the best war game that has ever come out in the whole entire 
 time the earth has ever been known. this game is like when you orgasm inn the girl write after 
 you have sex, it is the climax inn a movie, it is when we find out darth vader, is the father of 
 luke skywalker. it is like when jesus came from heaven to earth to show the way, from the earth 
 to the grave, from the grave to the sky. When a game is announced for both the PC and consoles, 
 the question always arises about what's different between the two versions. Did any compromises 
 have to be made on one platform or the other? Did something get lost in translation? As it turns 
 out, the recent release of Call of Duty 2 on the PC turned out to be a very accurate preview of 
 what Xbox 360 owners could expect to get from next-generation shooters. Almost everything that 
 makes the PC version one of the year's best shooters remains intact on the Xbox 360 version of 
 the game, which looks just as good and actually runs smoother than all but the most beastly of 
 gaming PCs. If not for the online multiplayer that's limited to eight players, the Xbox 360 version 
 probably would have been hands-down better overall. But as it is, Call of Duty 2 still sets a high 
 standard for any shooters following in its footsteps on Microsoft's new console, and it's considerably 
 faster, prettier, and more exciting than most any other shooter available on consoles. 
  
  
  Call of Duty 2 sets the bar high for Xbox 360 first-person shooters. 
  As in the first PC 
 game, Call of Duty 2's campaign will put you in the shoes of a few different soldiers fighting 
 for different Allied factions. You start off as a private in the Russian army, visciously fighting 
 off the invading Germans in Moscow and Stalingrad. The British campaign is unlocked after beating 
 the first Russian mission. For most of these missions you'll be fighting in the sand-swept deserts 
 of North Africa, alongside the Desert Rats, against Field Marshal Rommel's troops. The final mission 
 in the British campaign sends you to the bombed-out houses and hedgerows of Caen, France. After 
 you're done with that, you'll play as an American corporal in Europe. Yes, you will be doing a 
 D-Day landing, but not on Omaha Beach or Utah Beach, which you've probably played several times 
 before. Instead, you'll be scaling the sheer cliffs of Pointe du Hoc as artillery with the Army 
 Rangers. If you already thought rock climbing was an "extreme" sport, try doing it with artillery 
 and machine-gun fire raining down on you. 
  
  Each of the game's 10 missions is broken up into a few different stages. If you play the game on 
 regular difficulty, you could blow through it in about 10 hours. Ratcheting up the difficulty a 
 notch makes the game much harder and more tactical (this is probably the experience the designers 
 intended) . Since you'll be creeping and peeking more carefully through all the encounters, you'll 
 lengthen the campaign significantly, and you'll enjoy it more. 
  
  Breaking up the campaign into several different narrative vignettes arguably weakens the impact 
 of the plot as a whole, although that was never the strength of Call of Duty in the first place. 
 What this does is let the designers put you in a lot of different, interesting situations. One 
 memorable moment in the Russian campaign has you crawling through a raised pipeline to sneak behind 
 German lines and into a fortified factory building. As you make your way through the pipeline, 
 you'll spot and snipe small pockets of German infantry through holes in the pipe. When they fire 
 back up at you, you'll notice bullets tearing through the rusted pipe, ripping open holes for shafts 
 of light to poke through. It's a thrilling effect. 
  
  You'll also get quite a rush from both participating in and defending against all-out infantry 
 charges across open city squares in Stalingrad. But just as the novelty of these wears off, you're 
 shunted over to the British campaign in North Africa, where you'll do things like participate in 
 night raids of small Tunisian towns, climb up to the top of spires to call in artillery on enemy 
 tanks, and even drive a tank yourself. The American campaign has its own memorable moments, like 
 scaling the cliffs of Pointe du Hoc, or sniping at German mortar crews from the top of a grain 
 silo. The game paces itself so that you're always on your toes, and you'll find yourself switching 
 back and forth almost constantly from an offensive position to making a defensive stand against 
 counterattacks on the objective you've just captured. Yes, at the end of the day you're still just 
 shooting a lot of Nazis, but the constantly varying contexts of how and why you're doing it keep 
 the game compelling from start to finish. 
  
  
  Massive amounts of infantry can populate the battlefield. 
  You won't be participating in these 
 forays alone; far from it. In every setting you'll be surrounded by what seems like dozens of soldiers, 
 both friends and foes, who move and act in a realistic fashion. Lots of your artificially intelligent 
 mates will die by your side, along with the dozens of enemy soldiers you kill, but more will come 
 in from the rear echelons to take their place. The designers often do a good job of reminding you 
 that the war isn't just the infantry skirmish in which you're fighting. From time to time you'll 
 see planes engaged in dogfights flying overhead, or when you complete an objective of capturing 
 a German harbor, you'll call in a naval strike and see enemy merchant ships being sunk at the docks. 
 
  
  In each confrontation, you'll find yourself setting up at logical stopping points to exchange fire 
 with German resistance. You can snipe dozens of enemies out of the windows and from the trenches 
 in front of a house, for example, but reinforcements replace them. It never feels as though the 
 game is cheaply spawning in more fodder for you; it just does a great job of making you feel like 
 there are a realistic number of soldiers holed up in a building. You need to get a feel for the 
 flow of each pitched battle, and this can be done by advancing your line when the enemy ranks look 
 thin enough, and then breaking into the house or bunker. Your allies will follow you in and help 
 you clear out the objective. Of course, if you're too meek at attacking and pressing your advantage, 
 the enemy AI is wily and aggressive enough to take charge. They're not afraid to pour fire on your 
 position and toss tons of grenades at you. Thankfully, a handy grenade danger indicator lets you 
 know when and where you have to scurry away from an impending blast. When you do die, the game 
 reloads very quickly, and you're even treated to a quote about war from various historical figures. 
 One that sticks out in our minds is an ironic one from Solomon Short: "The only winner in the War 
 of 1812 was Tchaikovsky." 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigbert
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 5, 2005 5:34 pm PT
Review:  The game is nice. Great graphics sound bla, bla, bla but where it lacks is in the multiplayer. OMFG 
 8 players only... I mean come on. If you have this game and you have PLAYED it the frustration mounts 
 when you get a tight 4 on 4 (wow) match and some one on your team quits because he/she sux.. Then 
 you are left with 7 people only... WHERE IS THE MULTIPLAYER??? You can only go so far with 8 people, 
 then 7, then 6 before it gets repeatitive. Again I am not one that plays the single player games. 
 I only get a game for its multiplayer so I might be a little bias sine I have not played the single 
 player AT ALL... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jasperrussell
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 5, 2005 5:34 pm PT
Review:  Where I'm coming from:
  I loved Medal of Honor Allied Assault.
  I loved playing it Multiplayer.
  I loved MOH Spearhead.
  I loved MOH Breakthrough.
  I loved 
 playing them Multiplayer.
  I loved Call of Duty.
  I loved playing it multiplayer.
  I loved Call of Duty United Offensive.
  
  I started playing pacific assault, but now it's like 
 homework, I stopped.
  I started playing Call of Duty 2, but hey I'm just going through the motions, my mind is wandering, 
 I've stopped. Where is the love.
  
  I started playing it multiplayer, new maps yay.
  But where is "Behind enemy lines". Where's the driveable vehicles and the gametypes such us "domination" 
 and "Base assualt"
  Where are the big machine guns you set up on the ground. Where are the rocket launchers.
  
 
  I'm going back to united offensive for multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leee
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 5, 2005 1:30 pm PT
Review:  The gameplay is out standing, Graphics unbeatable and just an all around top quality game. On the 
 second level after you have set off all three bombs you get to watch a huge building fall to the 
 ground in an amazing explosion; it looks so real. This is twice as good as the new call of duty 
 on the normal xbox and ps2, it blows both of them right out of the window. If i were only to have 
 bought one game for the xbox 360 this would have been it. I advise all to grap it when you can 
 because there is no gaming experience like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpeedDemon821
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 5, 2005 12:54 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2, is a World War II shooter, that puts you in the shoes of three different soldiers, 
 from three different countries, during the historic battles of the war. You start off as a Russian 
 grunt. You then progress to a British soldier, and then an American Corporal.
  
  This game has one of the most solid campaign modes I have seen in a long time, and while it does 
 have a mediocre multiplayer mode, through both LAN and X Box Live, the defiant draw of this game 
 comes from the campaign. On the normal difficulty, it will take a normal gamer roughly about 12 
 hours to finish, but for any fairly experience FPS players, you might want to kick it up to the 
 next difficulty level.
  
  In the way of WWII shooters, this game looks amazing. Even on a normal TV, its still comparable 
 to anything seen even on the most top notch computers. The most impressive things about the game 
 though, has nothing to do with the graphics, but the level of intelligence possessed by the AI, 
 and the pure realistic feel of the games physics.
  
  The AI is simply amazing, far more advanced then anything I'm use to seeing in an FPS. They will 
 flank you, lay down cover fire, duck for cover when hurt, and use grenades to full effect. They 
 will even, on many occasions, attempt to trap you in, by placing several grenades around your position. 
 Leaving you with two choice, stay and get blown up, or run in on them shooting and hope you come 
 out alive. This is of course, seen much more often on the higher difficulties. The AI on normal 
 and easy has obviously been dumbed-down.
  
  This is one of the few games I have actually enjoyed playing on the hardest difficulty, although 
 it can be extremely frustrating at times. Unlike many games, your team's AI and abilities, increase 
 along with the enemies, as you beef up the difficulty. So, while it is extremely difficult, at 
 least you will be able to fall back on your teammate for help and cover when you need it.
  
  My personal favorite things about the game, is the physics and sound. Guns feel, sound, and 
 look almost real. It's about as close as you can get to firing a real weapon, without actually 
 driving down to your local firing range. Enemies react very realistically to gun fire. Depending 
 on where you shoot your enemy, they will react differently almost every time. Not to sound overly 
 sadistic, but it can actually be some what comical from time to time, when using a sub machine 
 gun, like the Thompson, to gun down lines of German Nazis.
  
  The down side is, that for any experienced players, the campaign will be relatively short. It took 
 me roughly 7 to 8 hours on normal, and about the same on Hardened (most likely because I was already 
 familiar with the levels) . I have yet to beat it on Veteran, but I guarantee you it will take you 
 quiet a bit longer then 8 hours. 
  
  The one thing keeping this from being an absolutely astounding game, is the multiplayer. Most shooters 
 today derive almost all their replay value from their multiplayer, and when it comes to X Box games, 
 from the X Box Live play. Unfortunately this game suffers from an extremely strip down Halo style 
 matchmaking function. You can pick from either ranked, or none ranked games. From their you can 
 select different game modes, such as Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, Capture the Flag, and so on. 
 There is no custom game mode to speak of at all.
  
  This would work extremely well, if it wasn't for the fact that hopping from team game to team game, 
 with people you know and have some form of team work with, is nothing short of frustrating and 
 annoying. I won't go into extreme detail, because it would take far too long to explain, but just 
 try the game online sometime, and you will see what I mean.
  
  The other thing the game suffers from, is major lag issues. In one game session, I have hopped 
 into 8 or 9 different deathmatch games, with less then 8 players, and lagged so unbearably bad, 
 that I could not even walk forward and out the door of the building I was standing in. It simply 
 should not suffer from this kind of lag, when only supporting a max of 8 players per game. It totally 
 ruins the online modes of the game. Which is unfortunate, because it really had the potential to 
 be a great multiplayer game.
  
  Overall, this is an extremely good game, but if you aren't the kind of person who can replay a 
 single player mode many times, or who has about 8 friends all with X Box 360s that you could LAN 
 party with, you should probably just rent this game, because it just doesn't get the replay value 
 out of the X Box Live play that it should have had. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wreeek
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 13, 2007 2:00 am PT
Review:  After playing this game, I now regret never playing the first one. This game provides a great deal 
 of fast paced, un-stuttered, balls-to-the-wall action and gameplay. At the same time it displays 
 a gritty look at the real World War 2 and makes you feel a part of the game, let alone the actual 
 war. Controls are simple and easy to use, yet the actual fighting and battles are quite challenging 
 and often very brutal. The enemy AI has plenty of intelligence and so does the friendly. There 
 really is nothing boring about this game, though multiplayer could've been built a little better 
 but oh-well, I enjoy the game anyways. The sound is full, varied, and well-done beyond most other 
 games. The gaphics are clean, crisp and overall beautifull, in the sense that it really creates 
 a war-like setting. The environments are great and the mood is set perfectly. The action sequences, 
 though predictable, are amazing to watch. Same goes for the scripted sequences (I actully work 
 my butt off to see them) . I highly recomend this to anyone with a 360 as a must buy. If you don't 
 have a 360, I recommend buying one for this game when you can. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GABTHELY
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 5, 2005 9:24 am PT
Review:  The game becomes harder but it keeps you hooked by the intensity and the graphics. I love how the 
 ai aren't completely idiots in this game. They act like real soldiers. They even panic if you charge 
 them. It so much fun fighting an ai opponent fights back and doesn't just run at you. You can even 
 hop in and out of some vehicles. Some of the levels are so hard it takes you two three tries just 
 to beat it but that keeps you going. I love how many real world war two weapons they accommodated 
 into the game and how accurate they got them.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xupex
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 4, 2005 8:51 pm PT
Review:  THE GOOD!
  - Looks and sounds amazing.
  
  - Long story mode that you can play again and again.
  
  - The atmosphere the games creates 
 is amazing (around a dozen tanks countless men screaming as theyre charging at the Germans.)
 
  
  - Always have some a squad of about 5 to 20 men with men with you so it doesnt feel like your 
 a one man army taking on the whole German war machine (they will save your life a few times as 
 well)
  
  - Vehicles (event how the tank's controllers are slightly annoying.)
  
  - Havent come across any frame rate or graphical glitches,
  
  - Lots of gamer score points.
 
  
  THE BAD!
  - Enemies always seem to be gunning for you.
  
  - Teammates can be useless at times.
  
  - Controls could have been slightly better.
  
  
 This game is by far the best launch title for the xbox 360. Its closed to war a game has ever gotten. 
 You stick your head around the wall to reload only to whach your buddy next to you get a bullet 
 straight in the head. 
  
  Puts Medal of Honor to shame.!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Das_Spence
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 4, 2005 3:34 pm PT
Review:  Oh man am I loving this game.
  I bought this along with Perfect Dark Zero and Need for Speed: Most Wanted.
  Now my expectations 
 were that I would be playing Perfect Dark only because one would perceive that it would be the 
 better game. I was so, so wrong...
  
  Ok, if you played the first you won't be that bothered by the single player but for the rest of 
 us the single player has blown me away. I've completed the Russian campaign and I'm just about 
 to finish the British campaign and I've been loving every minute of it. The gameplay is fluent 
 and easy to use (even for a PC gamer like me!) and handles well. The guns feel realistic to what 
 you would expect of a gun from WWII and the grenades are not OTT like in some WWII shooters I have 
 played. Grenade throwing is also realistic and not over or under exaggerated which is a welcome 
 surprise.
  
  Now moving on to the game experiences (the real reason why this game rocks!) . This game has adrenaline 
 rush to the max depending on your style of play. Albeit even the most exuberant of gamers will 
 have to duck and cover at some point in the game but it truly is fun just charging the enemy, gunning 
 Nazis down left, right and centre. The action is never boring at any one point in my opinion and 
 the scope of how many enemies on screen at one time can be large-the most I have seen was 40 Nazis 
 charging down a hill towards me and the British resistance with 3 Panzer tanks in the Battle of 
 Al Alemein level.
  
  The multiplayer is also great on Live too and really worth a try. Not as good as the multiplayer 
 of PDZ but still worthy of anyone who would call himself an FPS fanatic.
  
  Only problem is the single player is too short but in hind sight all FPSs have short single player 
 campaigns these days so it's not that big a deal anymore.
  
  With intense scenes of fighting, a large scope for gaming, great historical detail (despite calling 
 Nazis the Fascists which is not correct  _ ) great graphics in all resolution types, great weapons 
 and good multiplayer I salute this game as my favourite game of the Launch titles of the 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tom2cool4U
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 4, 2005 1:52 pm PT
Review:  How close to war do you want to get? Beleive me, this is an allmalgomation of full spectrum arrior, 
 counter-strike and medal of honour rolled into one.
  
  Explosions left, right and center, meaty weapons that really BARK. This is WAR! 
  
  Graphics:
 
  Oh so so shiny and glossy. After playiing this at your mates then going home to play the oridginal 
 xbox, you feel quietly jealous. brilliant ragdoll physics and one the FIRST LEVEL a building blows 
 up BRICK BY GODDAMN BROCK!
  
  Sound:
  From the howl of an incoming shell, the tinkle of a nearby grenade and the rattleing of a tank 
 this is top notch throughout.
  
  Overall:
  Crap multiplayer (imagine a 50 player xbox live war!) letting on 8 player run and gun (missing 
 the point of the game)
  The feeling of taking out a german from the crosshair of a rifle is the best Xbox 360 youre going 
 to get for a while
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: divade
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 4, 2005 1:10 pm PT
Review:  The greatest world war two shooter i've ever layed. You fight through berlin, south africa, and 
 all the other great battles in world war two. not only do you get to fight through variety of differnt 
 terrains and maps you also get to use the great world war two wepons. some of those wepons include3 
 m1 grand, m2 carbine, colt 45, kar 98, mp40 and much much more. This game really makes you feel 
 like your playing as your soldier. Some of the ways the game does this is by you becomeing attached 
 to your squad, go through all the ranks and much more. Im buying this game so i say if you like 
 war shooters buy this game now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TanRam13
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 5, 2006 10:41 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty is one of the greatest WWII franchises of all time. The first Call of Duty on the 
 PC blew me away with intense graphics awesome game play and sound quality like none other before 
 it.
  
  Call of Duty 2 keeps its reputation in tack with this second installment. The game play like the 
 1st is intense and never leaves you wanting more. It throws it all right in your face and never 
 lets up. The sound that goes along with the game play just increases the quality ten fold. With 
 a surround sound system and HDTV you'll fall in love with this game as soon as you see the start 
 menu. The game play is simple point, shoot, kill, pass the objective, and don't die. This time 
 around however the health system is changed its no longer dependant on heath packs it is turned 
 into a Halo like system. If you are about to die your screen will flash red which means you have 
 to get cover and wait till your health goes back up. While this is better for the game so that 
 you dont depend on your health and can worry about shooting and killing it also makes it much 
 more challenging by not telling you where your health is overall.
  
  The missions in the game are a mix of campaigns for Germany, Britain, and the good ole USA. These 
 campaigns consist of different types of objectives, which are fast and furious all around. Once 
 you are done with these campaigns you can go and head right on into online play which isnt that 
 bad. I just had some issues with lag time on some servers but not much to ruin the overall experience 
 of online play.
  
  My only complaint with the game would be the health system only because it sort of losses the overall 
 realness feel of the game. I mean if your going to make a automatic regain of health on your player 
 then at least show him healing himself or putting bandages on him so that it al least feels real. 
 
  
  Overall this game is solid and like the first Call of Duty is a must have if you have an Xbox 360.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arkam91
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 4, 2005 11:03 am PT
Review:  eight player multiplayer... cmon! That's just lame. The flag carrier can shoot, which ruins the 
 whole team tactic behind Capture the Flag. Great single player, but no where near $60. I also had 
 a problem that the difficulty settings varied too much. Easy was like Barbie's Horse adventure, 
 and the Hardest setting pimp slaps Halo's Lengendary. I like that you play from all different angles 
 of the war, although I would have like to play from the Nazi side as well, instead of just the 
 allies. Enemy's are smart and fun to play against. Weapons are very realistic and some missions 
 honeslty made me a little scared to play, with bullets and explosions at ever single corner. Sometimes 
 it was overwhelming and made gameplay a little to difficult. But despit the flaws it's a great 
 game and should be played by every 360 owner, but only buy if your have $60 bucks to burn and DOA 
 4 isn't your slice of pie.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: viewtifulguitar
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 31, 2006 12:47 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is easily the best Call of Duty game to grace the shelves. If you love WW2, FPS 
 games, or just great games in general, do yourself a favor to get this game.
  
  Graphics:
  Some of the best I have ever seen. Yes, I know that shouldn't be suprising, as it 
 is an X360 game, and it SHOULD look good. But some actually don't. This one is great though. The 
 land layout, character models, smoke effects... everything is amazing looking. Well, then again, 
 some the explosions could use some work, but that doesn't really affect the rest of the game looking 
 real.
  
  Gameplay:
  Hard. That's all I have to say. Even on regular, I died a lot. Now that I'm playing on Veteran, 
 getting shot twice kills you. It's insane. The levels are just right in length, difficulty, and 
 excitment. The American campaign is insane though. The levels are really long, really tough, and 
 can easily keep you busy for up to an hour or more.
  
  Control:
  The game has the best FPS controls for a console I have ever touched. It just seems like this game 
 was built for the 360 actually. Awesome toss over from the PC.
  
  Replay:
  Tons of it. With 4 difficulty modes and online multiplayer, you'll see yourself immersed in CoD2 
 for a while to come.
  
  Overall:
  The best WW2 shooter ever made, the best CoD game ever made, the best 360 launch title, and one 
 of the best FPS games ever made. Get it. That's all I can tell you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gerstmannownz
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 4, 2005 7:15 am PT
Review:  This game is just perfect! I hate war games and yet this is my favourite Xbox 360 game! The graphics 
 are amazing, it runs ever so smoothly, and the sound is, no point saying, fantastic! The Xbox Live! 
 multi-player experience is one no to be missed. It's no halo 2, but boy is it amazing. This has 
 to be the best launch title. Forget Perfect Dark Zero, this is the game of the moment. I never 
 thought that killing so many Germans could be so much fun. Another brilliant aspect of the game 
 is it's dialogue. The soldiers don't just shoot and hide, they roar orders at each other and use 
 many derogatory terms when referring to their enemy. All in all. This is a masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smurfpopper123
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 4, 2005 7:04 am PT
Review:  This game is so nasty! The graphics are awsome and the sounds of the battlefield are very realistic. The 
 AI in this game is just like the real wars. They'll shoot, hide, and toss grenades at you too. 
 The multiplayer games are astounding. I have Xbox live and it is so sick I can't even explain it. 
 The best mode I think is headquarters. It might not live up to Halo 2's multiplayer action but 
 it's still awsome. This game is a must buy for the 360. Definately the best shooter on the 360. 
 And if you don't have a 360 then consider yourself screwed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Penguin93
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 3, 2005 10:17 pm PT
Review:  This Game Is AWESOME! I Think Its The Only War Game Were The Enemy's A. I Is Hard and Its The Only 
 War Game Where Your Team Mates Actuelly Help Kill Your Enemys. Has Anyone Else Noticed That? Well 
 Its The Perfect Game. Its A Must Have For 360 Owners. And If You Don't Own This Game But You Own 
 A 360... Then You Must Go Out And Get It. Cause You Will Never Play Another WW II Game Like This 
 In Your Life. A Perfect Selection of Weapons And Veicles. Its The Perfect. Game Ten Out Of Ten, 
 And I Highly Recommend It. a Must Have! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JetStreak
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 3, 2005 9:58 pm PT
Review:  To be honost - I didn't even like the original Call of Duty whatsoever.. However; I found myself 
 playing the Call of Duty demo in the Store; and ended up having to buy it.
  
  This game is Fantastic on all Levels! The graphics are superb, the sound, the realism, everything! 
 I couldn't ask for anything else from Call of Duty 2!
  There are 25 missons - each serve a great purpose and put a differant umph in the game. This game 
 never seems to get repetitive. I really havnt' even tried the online to it yet - but when I do 
 I'm sure I wont' be dissappointed. 
  Stop wasting your time reading these reviews and go get it!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordinuyasha89
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 3, 2005 8:45 pm PT
Review:  The first one is awesome but the sequel blows it out if the water, I am more impress with the xbox 
 360 after playing the demo ,no lag except online but still manages to have great multi-player, great 
 graphics, great everything,
  this game maybe unrealistic because of the health system and your a one man army but still beats 
 any other war game out there. I played the PC version but it runs more smoother on the 360 without 
 the hassle of upgrading your computer.
  Adding the HD tv makes it look ever better then the pc, that just my opinion, the 360 is the superior 
 version.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: IloveGodcards
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 3, 2005 8:37 pm PT
Review:  If you are looking for a first person shooter game that will rock your world, Call of duty is the 
 game your looking for. The game has everything, graphics, sound, game play, in other words its perfect. 
 If you dont have this game now, I suggest you get it. This is a must own game. Another game you 
 should put in your christmas wish list is Dead or Alive 4 (fighting game) ,
  the graphics according to sources, are going to be phenamenal. If you don't have it reserved now, 
 I suggest you do. Xbox 360 is the next generation counsel system and it is worth evey penny. To 
 experience the power of the xbox 360 at its full power, you should get a high def t. v. and I recommend 
 the official t. v. of the xbox 360, the Samsung. Well call of duty is the best game for the xbox 
 360 and if your smart, you should join the fun and buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cowcow123
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 3, 2005 5:22 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 simply renews the other wise played out WWII first person shooter.
  
  Pros- Stunning graphics and intense gameplay. Game uses the left trigger to use the gun sight, 
 which should be an FPS standard. Compelling storyline. Fantastic control. Fantastic weapons models 
 and sounds make you feel like your actually using a M1 grande or a Thompson. Everything about the 
 game is a pro.
  
  Cons- Maps are sometimes confusing and I get lost, thats it.
  
  Final Word- All and all, this is my favorite 360 launch title next to Perfect Dark. It does everything 
 right, and truely sucks you into the action of WWII. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryanzoso
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 3, 2005 5:03 pm PT
Review:  this is a great game considering its a launch the graphics arent a huge leap for next gen but the 
 smoke in the game is just amazing but the gameplay is solid the sound i thought was amazing and 
 the campagin is asowme *gives two thumbs up* and good replay value because online is fun but limits 
 8 per game which kinda sucks but still fun. But its a world war 2 fps and who hasnt played one there 
 is alot of ww2fps out there and this one isnt the best but it is a great game. One more problem 
 with this game its more expensive then the pc game
  
  ps: every one online is very annoying 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hellknightshade
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 3, 2005 4:52 pm PT
Review:  I played this game at the future shop near my house and i couldnt believe the graphics, the ai 
 were great well designed had great texture in their faces and the textures of the levels were also 
 incredible, i couldnt believe my eyes when I gazed upon it. Gameplay as well was fun, a challenge 
 and even more so wasnt like a normal war game, instead of those stupid health packs they used restoring 
 health (recovers over period of time) , and the multiplayer on the internet was incredibly entertaining. 
 This game definetly has set me on the goal to own my very own xbox 360 as well as call of duty 
 games in the future to come. Multiplayer was also great, level designs were astonishingly detailed 
 as well had the depth of real war scenes. Even though only 8 people can play in a game it is perfectly 
 fine playing with only 8, it may even be better that way. I am glad to say that Call of Duty 2 
 is very possibly the best game I have played for xbox 360, it beats perfect dark zero ,not by much, but 
 it does. For all you first-person shooter fans I suggest you buy Call of Duty 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cerberus42
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 3, 2005 3:27 pm PT
Review:  I have to say i bought one call of duty game for my xbox and i hated everything about it. no graphics, 
 bad game play, dark levels... But CALL OF DUTY 2 changes all of that. The immersion is amazing. 
 I love the new aiming system. Load times are fast, levels make you think, but not bad thoughts, 
 and the game play is easy to pick up. This game is a historically styles shooter/strategy. The 
 controls are very similar to HALO, but the melee attack is a lot easier to use, unlike HALO, I 
 auctally use it a lot. The wepons are also fabulous. I only like a few games, I only give a few 
 of them 10 outa 10, but this is definately a 10/10 in my games. Best game I bought for my 360 yet. 
 This is the MUST GET GAME for your 360, don't know how it plays on other systems though. I just 
 got this game late last night.
  
  (If you want to know how good it is I just played for 5 1/2 Hours today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: queovole
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 3, 2005 2:20 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing. The graphics on it are beautiful. I played this game on my projector which 
 is around 300 inches. If you got one, it will make all the difference. At first, I didn't know 
 it was online. It gets even better cause it's online. The only BUT is it still has glitches. 50% 
 of the games I played online have timed out or have had LAG in them, and my connection is 1032kps. 
 Most of the time you just get frustrated and leave the game cause you can't even shoot the enemy 
 players. When you finally do get the game going online, it runs smoothly and I was very VERY impressed 
 with the graphics, you can go up close to the other players or computer allies and see their individual 
 faces. When you kill someone, their body stays in their place and does not disapear like in most 
 games. When your out in the sun, the reflection of the sun on your gun moves accordingly to the 
 light! ahh yeahh. Two words describe this game: Very Realistic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benmad
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 5, 2005 4:05 pm PT
Review:  This game is UNBELIVEABLE! Compared to any other WWII fps this outranks them all...... the game 
 play is outstanding....... the online play and all other aspects of the gae are top notch........ i 
 personally cannot find really anything bad or grotesque about this game. I will be playing this 
 game for a very long time and someone would have to make an even better one to change my mind. 
 This game has met all of my expectations and it has left me speachless....... and there is a difernece 
 playing COD 2 on the xobx 360 then on the PC....... I personally think that the one on the 360 is 
 much better...... but then again i have an hd tv which enhances the graphics emensly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cherrybean_77
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 3, 2005 11:27 am PT
Review:  This game is awesome, it is AWESOME, its is the BEST WWII FPS
  The gameplay is superb, and on veteran, its challenging and immensely fun.
  The game might seem 
 short in one of the lower levels, but in Veteran, it will take time, and thats the level the game 
 really shines.
  The graphics are really good, and the level of detail is great, you are immersed into the battlefield. 
 The sound is also very good.
  The weapons are very well done, the enemy AI is excellent, they will retreat if you try to flank 
 them, and they will advance if you retreat. 
  If you like WWII games buy it
  If you like FPS buy it.
  If not, at least rent it
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hm106383
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 3, 2005 8:01 am PT
Review:  an absolutely amazing game that once you start playing it's almost impossible to stop one of the 
 greatest games that has been made for a gaming console and it might continue to be one of the greatest 
 its unbelievable how the makers of this game and also many of the other xbox 360 games can make 
 them look so great sound great feel great for just 50-60 dollars and below even though games keep 
 getting better and better every year and i always buy all the new games call of duty 2 is simply 
 the best game i have ever played 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yanks43215
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 3, 2005 12:48 am PT
Review:  I did not play much of the single player missions but i liked when you either dided or you completed 
 your mission that they would have a little quote froma famous person. Multiplayer is really good. 
 I like how you can choose what side you can be on. The russians a couple of very good weapons. 
 The americans have the classic weapons. The british have a pretty good sniper rifle and i did not 
 spend much time with the germans. The level are well made. There are many to choose from. I would 
 give this game about an 8.5 out of ten. Well made and a good game to have for the xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dashizy666
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 11, 2006 1:07 pm PT
Review:  When a new system comes out you need a game that stands out and thats what this game does. Of all 
 the fps I played this is the hardest friggin game but I'll get to that later. the controls are 
 a jem, you aim down the sight with the left trigger and picking off enemies is a snap and well 
 soothing if you a sick puppy like am. grenades is the r button and smoke bomb is Lbutton, which 
 is perfect and couldn't have been done better. Sound is well produced also how good is it? Imagine 
 what WW2 sounded like and you get call of duty 2 turn your sound system to full blast and that 
 is what the actual war sounded like. Graphic wise the game is superb Is the game next gen? I don't 
 know but what I do know is that there is know way that current gen systems could pull off this 
 game. But what stands out most is the enemy ai. Lets put it this way if I went overseas I'd be 
 in deeps*** because I died too many times to count. this ai is smart and they work together. But 
 what get my juices flowing is the when you have a sniper rifle and you're pinned down and you just 
 pick off one nazi at a time and believe me it gets hairy all can say. is just get it. oh yeah and 
 there's online also. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: th316
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 1, 2005 7:57 pm PT
Review:  This is the first COD game I've played, and I was not disappointed. One of the first things that 
 I noticed is how smoothly your character scrolls. Usually in games like this one the movement is 
 either slow and jerky, or way too fast. You can actually pie off a corner. The story line is pretty 
 much like any other WWII game, however, throughout the game you play three different theaters which 
 keeps the game interesting. I don't think there was anything spectacular about this game, but there's 
 definitely nothing to complain about. I just beat the game and I am looking forward to playing 
 it on Xbox live. If your thinking about buying this game I would say it a good buy, but if your 
 not planning to play multiplayer or live there might be better buys out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shotgun247
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 1, 2005 4:48 pm PT
Review:  The game call of duty 2 is probably one of the best games for x box 360 so far. I recommend anyone 
 to get this game. personally i think that microsoft or whoever made this game should have had multi 
 player offline just with ur friends. If u are looking for a really good shoother war game this 
 is the one go out and buy it. Other than that this game is pwnage. go buy it also it is very graphic 
 so if ur afraid of blood if i were u i wouldnt buy it. It is worth the money though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rooster2day
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 1, 2005 3:57 pm PT
Review:  This game is absolutley Amazing. I'm not a huge Gamer, but Because of this game i'm becoming one. 
 This Game is great! I've put in over 20 hours already, and that is more than i have ever spent 
 on just one game. If your contemplating on wether or not you should purchase an X-BOX 360, DO IT! 
 If not because of the mind blowing graphics, do it for the chance to play this game! Actually I 
 wouldn't go and spend $400.00 on a game console just for a game, but if you were considering An 
 X-BOX 360 anyways... well get it what are you waiting for? Why are you still reading? no serioulsy 
 awesome game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: irishpride17123
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 1, 2005 2:35 pm PT
Review:  the gameplay in this game is amazing! it really pulls you into what a soldier in ww2 must have 
 been experiencing. The AI especially is top notch if you take a wrong turn or try to flank the 
 enemy and they see you they will group up and take you down. This game made me sweat every second 
 of it.
  
  the graphics in this game are also impressive this is 
  some of the best smoke effects i have ever seen in a video game. the guns actually look real. for 
 example when you are in the staligrad missions the snow on the jackets of the enemies and your 
 comrades look great.
  
  the sound in this game is very well done. your comrades will give out orders instead of just you 
 worreing about it. and not only your team will shout out orders but you can also hear the enemies 
 doing it. which i thought was very cool.
  
  the only problem with it is... its a WWII shooter.. like we havent had enough of those right? do 
 some thing new like... prey... or gears of war..
  
  but i had alot of fun playing this get it if you are getting or already have a xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rexoverbey
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 1, 2005 7:50 am PT
Review:  This game is great and I have been playing it constantly. The graphics are very good and very realistic. 
 The smoke effects are very well done and add a new element to the game. Audio is also very good 
 and you hear tons of explosions and the most dialog I have ever hear in any game period. The controls 
 are very easy to get used to and are very responsive. As for the fun factor this one will have 
 you coming back for days. I really cannot stress how great this game is. The only downside is that 
 you have a lot of levels that are very similiar and seem like you play more than once. Also some 
 textures look very drab while others look like you can reach out and touch. Other than that it 
 is the best new title for the Xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MNDZA222
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 1, 2005 1:12 am PT
Review:  This game is just great. You will be addicted and can't help but beat it all in one sitting... no 
 matter how long that takes.
  
  Gameplay: The game performs smoothly and controls are just perfect. You'll be in control immediately 
 without any problems.
  
  Graphics: Do I really need to explain this? The graphics are PERFECT. Everything is finely detailed 
 and effects are done great too.
  
  Sound: Sound is incredible. If you can get a surround set up.... then you're in heaven. The voices 
 and sound effects are great and really make you feel like you're part of the action.
  
  Value: There are a lot of missions and each takes a fair amount of time to complete. Also, if you 
 feel like you're done, try it on the veteran difficulty and.... good luck on that. Also, there is 
 multiplayer which never gets old... both at home and on XBOX LIVE. One problem you might have heard 
 is that the save files keep getting erased. I believe whoever is having this problem is causing 
 it themselves. No one I know has had this problem. I thought I got my saves erased, but after about 
 a minute, the game loaded all my missions properly...... you just need to wait a minute sometimes 
 and don't go and start over... or else you really do lose your saves... HAVE FUN! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: underoathswsfoe
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 30, 2005 7:36 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 . Another WWII shooter. Woo-hoo. I know you're thinking this, but you need to check 
 this game out. The raw, intense action, combined with smart enemy AI makes it a really fun shooter, 
 that you will be playing for a long time.
  
  Single Player:
  
  Start off with the gameplay. The core gameplay of the game has been impoved so much from finest 
 hour and big red one. Easier controls, that are similar to halo, wouldbe one fine improvement. 
 Another cool feature was adding something new to the aiming reticle. If you stand still, you see 
 the reticle, but when you are walking or running, or moving at all, the reticle will dissapear, 
 so you will be left aiming down the ironside of your gun. I think this really adds to the realism 
 of war, and its probably one of the coolest features in the gameplay that they have added. The 
 second thing I should go over is the graphics. The graphics are solid, but they don't compare to 
 Perfect Dark Zero, or Condemned. They're not too bad though. The sound effects in the game is probably 
 the biggest highlight. Gunshots are brutally loud, and you will hear huge explosions coming from 
 all over. fellow soldiers will bark out commands at you, and they sound incredible. I think the 
 voice overs and overall sound effects were very well done and realistic enough to think that you 
 yourself are in the middle of these massive battles. The campaign takes you through the eyesof 
 three different armies. The American, Russian, and British. All campaigns are varied well. One 
 campaign will include you riding in an armored car manning a turret and others will let you commandeer 
 a tank, blowing up everything in your path. I liked how Call of Cuty 2 varied the missions. It 
 is very interesting to see WWII through the eyes of different countries. Another thing I will go 
 over is the weapons. There is a great selection of weapons and the weapons are all different, depending 
 on what campaign you are playing. The weapons look and sound great (especially the thompson) , and 
 all are very fun to shoot. One final thing I will tell you about is the enemy AI. Enemies in this 
 game are very smart and will corner you, flank you, throw grenades, and they even know when to 
 retreat, which you don't see in most games. Overall, enemies are very challenging and the game 
 can be pretty tough sometimes, even on the easy mode. The campaign will take you at least 12-15 
 hours, which gives this game great value. I think the xbox 360 version of the game was very well 
 polished and I think it did in fact run smoother than the pc version. The single player campaign 
 of Call Of Duty 2 was well worth the extra 10 bucks, in my opinion. And thats not even all, Call 
 of Duty 2 contains an xbox live online multiplayer mode as well.
  
  Xbox Live:
  
  Although the online multiplayer is restricted to only 8 players, there is still some fun to be 
 had. 4 on 4 team deathmatches are really fun and chaotic, and it includes all the weapons from 
 the single player, depending on what map you choose. So, for example, if you choose a Russian map 
 to play, you will get alot of the Russian weapons you got to use from that part of the campaign. 
 The maps are great, and there is a very good selection. Other gametypes include, deathmatch, and 
 capture the flag. So, when you read the gamespot review of this game, and it says "only 8 players 
 online", don't get pissed. The solid action is still present in the multiplayer and you will like 
 it no matter what. 
  
  Conclusion:
  
  Call of duty 2 is great for any fans of FPS, simply because the action is so chaotic and intense. 
 FPS fans will be so impressed with the sound and action that they will keep coming back to play 
 this game for a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dussk
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 30, 2005 7:03 pm PT
Review:  CoD2 is an impressive FPS that shines on the 360. The graphics are what you would expect from a 
 next generation console and much more. Shadows and light play huge parts in the game as well as 
 the shocking smoke effects that left me speechless. The sound in the game is where CoD2 executes 
 best. The score is one you would think hear in a blockbuster film and the guns effects are nearly 
 perfect. Gameplay although not to different from most WW2 shooters still delivers a fast-pace in 
 your face feel that is very satisfying. I reccomend CoD 2 to any gamer looking for an imersive, action 
 packed, WW2 fan looking for alot fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pat360
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 30, 2005 4:00 pm PT
Review:  EVERYONE WHO HATES THIS GAME DESERVES TO KILL THEMSELVES. AND U SUCK MOFO **** I HOPE WHEN U GET 
 360 U COD2 HATERS IT WILL BLOW UP IN UR FRIGGIN FACE. SO IF I HEAR U COD 2 LOVAS ARE LOLI-GAGIN 
 I WILL MAKE SURE U DONT AND TELL U TO LOVE 360. P. S. I DO HATE PEOPLE WHO HATE 360 BUT DONT FRIGGIN 
 BAND ME I JUST MADE THIS FRIGGIN FILE SO SCREW U. AND IF I DO GET BANNED I WILL SAY THAT U GUYS 
 R FRIGGIN HOMOS WITH NO LIFE AND JUST PLAY 360 ALL THE FLIPPIN TIME. GEEZ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghsacidman
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 30, 2005 1:15 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 simply renews the other wise played out WWII first person shooter.
  
  Pros- Stunning graphics and intense gameplay. Game uses the left trigger to use the gun sight, 
 which should be an FPS standard. Compelling storyline. Fantastic control. Fantastic weapons models 
 and sounds make you feel like your actually using a M1 grande or a Thompson. Everything about the 
 game is a pro.
  
  Cons- Maps are sometimes confusing and I get lost, thats it.
  
  Final Word- All and all, this is my favorite 360 launch title next to Perfect Dark. It does everything 
 right, and truely sucks you into the action of WWII. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bestgamer41
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 30, 2005 11:46 am PT
Review:  this is amazing. i think it won of best army games or shooter games out there. i wish that i would 
 have played call duty 1 if what every on says is true. i think that cod 2 is is very good. the 
 gameplay on this game is great. i like the story behind the game. i like the fact u can switch 
 ur guns when they on the ground like golden eye: rogue agent. this game maybe have a one or two 
 defaults. it is still an excellent game. im glad i bought this on 360 in stead of madden. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: billym99
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 30, 2005 11:24 am PT
Review:  Let me start by saying that I absolutely love this game. Im not the type of person that goes nuts 
 over every game I like and say Perfect 10 about it, but I was close to doing so with COD2. I 
 was actually unsure about buying this game when I got my 360 because Ive never been too into war 
 shooters, but this one has impressed me.
  
  The gameplay of COD2 is impressive a whole lot of fun to say the least. The game does an awesome 
 job and letting you know that the war does not revolve around your character, but rather you are 
 just one member of a much greater operation. The controls for the game work great, with my only 
 complaint being that melee is mapped to R3. This is more of a personal thing, as Ive never been 
 a fan of the R3/L3 buttons. The left trigger functions as your down the rifle aiming button, adding 
 to the realism of the game. The crosshairs disappear when you move, so you will use this function 
 a lot. The level variety is excellent, going from the ruins of a Russian City, to the desert, to 
 Omaha beach. Each level has a nice variety of gameplay as well. Some levels have you in wide open 
 areas with enemies all around you, while others will have you in buildings and underground bunkers 
 for close quarters combat. Some levels require that you be on the offensive to achieve a goal, 
 while others require that you stay at home and defend an area. I could go on and on, just take 
 my word that COD2 is the real deal for X360.
  
  The graphics of COD2 are very nicely done, with excellent smoke effects. I dont own an HDTV, so 
 I cant fully comment on the graphics, but they are great even with a standard definition TV, so 
 I can only imagine how it would look in high definition. Grenades cause nice dust clouds or snow 
 clouds, depending on the level. This is especially nice when you are looking down your rifle and 
 bullets and grenades are knocking stuff up around you, this effect is great.
  
  Sound. Oooohhhhhh. That is all I can say, the sound is one of the greatest assets of COD2. Needless 
 to say, it is very intense. The weapon sounds are done very impressively, as well as the ambient 
 noise around you in battles, including your comrades yelling orders, other weapons, planes over 
 head, grenades its all there and really adds to the experience. IMO, COD2 may have the best sound 
 FX I have heard in a game to date.
  
  COD2 is very replayable considering it has three difficulty modes as well as online multiplayer. 
 I took off a bit here because the single player campaign is short, which is a bit disappointing. 
 COD2 is played through three campaigns, and trust me when I say that you will want each one to 
 last longer. This is probably about my only big negative of this game; I really didnt want it 
 to end so quickly.
  
  To sum up COD2, get ready for an intense, semi realistic WWII shooter with great sound and a great 
 ability to give you a sense that you are only part of a much greater operation. IMO, the best Xbox 
 360 launch title and a must have.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jffl1987_05
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 30, 2005 10:25 am PT
Review:  the graphics on this game and on the 360 is so clear its as if you were freaking there in the battle. 
 im still not used to the controls considering i am a playstation person. but i totally was flipping 
 out over the graphics and game play and it almost had me to were i so wanted to have a 360 and 
 call of duty 2 but some thing inside told me to wait and save the money i wanted to spend on the 
 360 and wait tell the playstation 3 comes out it will blow my mind almost the same way if not more. 
 so thats what im going to do and i guess ill have to buy call of duty 2 for my playstation 2. sorry 
 microsoft i still love your computer games and products just not your platforms. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shawnm00
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 30, 2005 5:18 am PT
Review:  If you've read any of my past reviews, you'll know that I'm a huge WWII buff. I like to try any 
 game related to that subject. I've enjoyed several and been disappointed by many, but no game has 
 affected me like this one.
  
  Simply put, Call of Duty 2 is a phenomenal WWII sim and a great first-person shooter. As with any 
 Xbox360 game, let's start with the visuals: This game is so crisp, so clean, and so well done visually, 
 it's nearly real. The level of detail is astounding. From the random debris from explosions, to 
 the furnishings inside abandoned buildings on that battlefield, to the shadow and lighting, it's 
 all fantastic. The look of the game, alone, will make you feel like you're really there.
  
  In terms of sound, well, I just haven't heard too many games better than this one. The surround 
 sound is excellent. Every detail can be heard, from Nazi footsteps on the floor above you, to the 
 ground shaking Panzer tracks rumbling nearby, to the buzz of P51s sweeping in for air support. 
 You really feel part of the action because it's literally all around you. One of my favorite things 
 is the "shell shock effect". I'm not sure what the official term is that they use, but there are 
 times when an explosion goes off nearby that you get completely rattled: the sounds get muffled 
 making you feel temporarily deaf, and the visuals are blurred and wobbly. This is a wonderful affect 
 that I hope to never experience in real life.
  
  Lastly, there's the gameplay. Now, I've always been a casual player of first person shooter games, 
 so, take my comments for what it's worth. I think the gameplay is very well done. Movements are 
 fluid and react as I would expect. The vision is clear and it's easy to see what's going on around 
 you. The controls are simple to learn, and take a little to master, but extremely playable even 
 for someone with little experience. Aiming is a little trickier than I thought it would be, but, 
 it is combat, so it can't be too easy.
  
  Top to bottom, this has been the most engrossed I've been in any game I've played. I love the game 
 modes, I love the sounds, the sights, the challenges and the emotion of the game. My only complaint 
 is that I don't want to finish it because it's too much fun to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Redrummy2013
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 29, 2005 12:48 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 has alot of setting and events going on in this game. I have
  played the Xbox360 Live version of it and it was amazing. I like bloody and
  distuctive games 
 and i have picked the right one. This game has alot
  of realistic touch to it. In any part of a mission anything and everything will happen. I also liked 
 the selection of the weapons. The creators of this game really expandedthe priority of Call of Duty 
 2 (World War II) . This game really marks its sounds and graphicsthat where very vivid and artistic 
 like. When you have all of this together it really feels like yourself is in a battle-field ready 
 for war. In the revise of allof this I would exceptionally agree with other peoples reivews about 
 thisvideo games. for example (9.2/10+) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bl4ckAdDer
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 29, 2005 8:31 am PT
Review:  I have to agree, the single player aspect of this game is just awesome, exhilaratingly fun, you 
 can play it again and again at different difficulties and still have an enormous amount of fun.
 
  
  However, the multiplayerwhat were they thinking, 8 player death match or 4 on 4? AcTiVision should 
 have made it an 8 player online co-op, to play through
  the levels with friends or strangers through the entire campaign. Now if that was the case, I would 
 have given it an 8.9 score. Can the Xbox 360 handle upwards of 24+ people online, I have not seen 
 this thus far, re: (Perfect Dark Zero) ?? What is up with that? : (
  
  bL4cKaDdEr
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alrenchy1
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 29, 2005 1:16 am PT
Review:  I have the first game and it was very good. As if it's not enough comes this sequel that is a lot 
 better. The story of this game is very good, not just a typical shooting game that your goal is 
 to shoot down enemies. Actually there' s a good story behind the character and blends well with 
 the game. One of the best graphics out there, real eye candy. Second the levels are massive and 
 very lively and I mean that there's a lot of things going on just a real would be. Emmersive but 
 not that much but it's a lot of fun playing all the levels from the start. AI are very good, very 
 human movements and not just the dumb that go straight towards you. Some levels are very challenging 
 and worth playing hard. The sounds are great, very well blended in the sorroundings . Overall, 
 I like game a lot, I've played it three times already and still enjoying it. One of the best game 
 of the year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: avister
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 28, 2005 8:58 pm PT
Review:  Well what do I have to say about this game is first of all the graphics are fine detailed and clean. 
 The game gives you a great visual of WW2. AI is smart and they'll react to everything you do. Xbox 
 live is very well with this game. The gameplay in this game is good and all the levels are fine 
 detailed. Sound in this game makes you feel like your right in the middle of WW2 so in other words 
 the sound is close to real WW2 battle noise. If your into xbox live games than this game is a must 
 for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: big_dog
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 28, 2005 8:01 pm PT
Review:  don't really know how much better graphically than xbox , but good all around game play with solid 
 graphics. Pretty much just like most other WWII shooters. A little monotonous, go around a corner 
 and shoot a Nazi. Sound is clear and crisp, with good surround sound, and it is realistic. Controls 
 are simple enough, their just like most shooter for original xbox. The AI is good, the soldiers 
 will slowly get back up if not lethally shot and they maneuver quite well. With the price at 60$ 
 it makes you look twice, but its easily one of the best games for the 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ejohn241
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 28, 2005 7:53 pm PT
Review:  This game is definately a must have launch title for the 360. The single player campaigns are astounding. 
 The graphics are definately next-gen in my opinion. The blood in the game is good, seeing their 
 uniforms stained. It's not like Medal of Honor where you shoot someone and they just die. But there's 
 not too much blood to make you sick. I like the physics of the game. The way the soldiers fall 
 after being shot, the way grenades bounce. The sound is great. Hearing all the gunshots and shouting 
 really puts you "in the game." There is one downside, Live. The online play is extremely laggy. 
 Although a patch would easily boost this rating to a 10, I give it a 9.1. But for the people without 
 Live, this is a FPS to reckon with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joszan7
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 28, 2005 6:26 pm PT
Review:  This game is by far, the best game in the series. This game has some very minor flaws, but its still 
 a fun game to play. I reccommend this game to anyone with a 360. This game has all the elements 
 that makes a shooting game a great shooting game. This game redefines shooting games. The AI in 
 this game is just amazing; enemies do whatever they can to stay alive..... and kill you. Also, the 
 missions in this are action packed, and the sound in this game is simply brilliant. There really 
 isn`t anything wrong with this game. Like I said, this game is a must-buy for anyone with a 360..... and 
 a trigger finger. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UnLiMiTeD801
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 28, 2005 3:16 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty 2 provides a new feel of games on the 360. Great graphics and an all around feel to 
 the game leaves you with a warm feeling inside and make outside and sticking out. The campaine 
 is great but could have used potatos instead of grenades that'd be sweet to see your enemies being 
 badly bruised. The multiplayer is only 8 players. A bit odd if you ask me maby if they went 8 and 
 16 on other servers but that wasn't the case but still this game gives a great feel and thumbs 
 up and other body parts for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tompouce
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 28, 2005 2:51 pm PT
Review:  this is the best war game ever: for the graphic, the real sounds of gun and all the great thing 
 like A. I. of the enemy and your allies. only one thing, not egnouth long: ( sorry but its true. 
 there is only one bug that i find in the game but its only appened one time : a german was in a 
 box (bug!!) and he was abble to shout me but me I was not ennable.
  
  for the multiplayer now, I like when they throw u a grenade and u see the little icon. but its 
 a bit hard to see through the smoke with a smoke grenade
  
  Any-way... Activision is very good for war game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johngmills
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 28, 2005 1:49 pm PT
Review:  I've never really written a review for any other games I normally just rate them. But after having 
 played this game I have to say its the best WWII shooter I've ever played. I'm not saying that 
 the game is perfect but pretty close since my gaming is done primarily off line. I've heard a lot 
 of people say the the graphics for this game are not next gen. But I was blown away by the games 
 graphics. The games audio is awesome, your team actually gives you useful information about your 
 mission and where the enemy is. The enemies AI is the best I've seen on a console, your enemies 
 do not just stand their they look for cover. The game does have its short coming which is its multi 
 player. I think a epic WWII shooter should have had a minimum of 16-32 players. I hope that they 
 do patch this in the future because it would make the game that much more enjoyable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DHSFed
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 28, 2005 12:30 pm PT
Review:  Short and sweet review: 
  Single player is AWESOME. The story line is fantastic and the controls are right on! I was a little 
 worried when I played the demo at Bestbuy but it has definately been cleaned up and a blast to 
 play.
  
  Multiplayer?? Very fun and very addictive... BUT... Why not have all NEW ORIGINAL MP MAPS??? Boy 
 do several of them look EXACTLY LIKE MY PC VERSION OF COD (NOT COD 2) . I find it hard to believe 
 that they could not find enough time to include all new maps and leave the old ones out. Yes they 
 are good maps but after already paying for the maps once is kinda disappointing paying for the 
 same ones again.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marco_sweetdude
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 28, 2005 12:15 pm PT
Review:  Wow this is a game. I know there are lots of games out there similar tot his but for a launch game 
 on the 360 it is amazing. The sound is simply perfect. Game play is amazing and I couldnt of asked 
 for better graphics. The controls on the Xbox 360 are really sweet, amazing, perfect and in this 
 game you use them perfectly. You use every button and every button is at the right place making 
 it fun and perfect. In my opinion this game is better than Perfect Dark Zero. War fans out there 
 I recommend this game 100%, Hardly any mistakes, and just plain fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WESTSIDECALI
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 27, 2005 10:20 pm PT
Review:  when i played call of duty 2 for 360 i was blow away by the amazing graphics and the great sound 
 and great gameplay. I never was a big fan of call of duty but when i played a demo of it at a local 
 game store i fell in love. when i got my 360 i bought call of duty 2. also my brother never liked 
 video games he really hated them but when i showed him call of duty he just like me fell in love. 
 this game is truly great and shouldnt be missed by nobody of all ages. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zonage007
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 27, 2005 5:05 pm PT
Review:  "WOW" Thats all I have to say. This game is amazing. Hands down the best of the Call Of Duty series. 
 The graphics and sound are stunning. Even gameplay on a regular definition tv are great. But i 
 do agree that HD is the tv to play on. In Call Of Duty 2, the best I think is the A. I. You get 
 lots of help in close combat. If a grenede gets too close, someone may pick it up and throw it back. 
 The helpful shooting will come in handy in most combat. I agree that this is the best in the series. 
 But this game will have much competition when Ghost Recon and Halo 3 come around. If you are looking 
 for a first person shooter for the XBOX 360, go with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: triple_kill
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 27, 2005 2:03 pm PT
Review:  This game is "as close to war as you want to get." this the best game I've ever played, and I highly 
 recommend it. A+
  
  now for the other like 80 words: a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a 
::::::

::::::
UserName: migueloventura2
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 27, 2005 1:13 pm PT
Review:  out of all the games i played, this is the best ive' played yet in the xbox 360. everything is perfect 
 in this game. i like the gameplay the most. the graphics and the sound combine to make this game 
 HOT, especialy if you like call of duty 2: big red one. i rarely give out 10s but this game deserves 
 it. also, the graphics make the game lifelike. take my word, youll love this game to keep it if youre 
 a call of duty fan. even though its hard a little, you can still enjoy it even online and have fun 
 in this awesome game. up to the weapons make the sound lifelike. wether youre a call of duty fan 
 or you have yet to play it, youll have fun in this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaveJ009
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 27, 2005 11:34 am PT
Review:  So, there is a ton of hype about the new Microsoft product, a. k. a. the 360, about how great the 
 graphics are, the sounds, etc. Well, here is a title that proves it.
  As a Call of Duty "veteran", I knew pretty much what to expect when playing this game: Kill lots 
 of Nazis, blow up lots of fine German-made vehicles, and avoid the Panzerschreck units. This latest 
 offering dishes out more of the same with some obvious tweaks and additions that make it more realistic.
 
  One of the changes is the lack of a "health" bar. Basically, staying out of the line of fire will 
 allow your character to "regenerate" back to full health in mere moments, rather than having to 
 wander around looking for the canteens full of "medicinal liquid" from the previous games. Whereas 
 this isn't realistic, it does allow for more constant gameplay.
  The next change is enemy AI. These Nazis are smarter, better marksman, and work together extremely 
 well. It was a well-known fact that the German soldiers were generally better trained than most 
 of their enemies at the beginning of the war, which allowed for most of their early victories. 
 You will see soldiers covering each other as they attempt to set up gun emplacements, lay down 
 smoke to cover advances, and lay down suppressing fire to thwart your advance. Oh, and the enemy 
 has also learned that grenades are a great way to get rid of you and your squad. Expect to hear 
 your fellow soldiers to cry out "Potato masher" and "German grenade!" on a regular basis.
  There are also improvements in gameplay. The ability to hold 2 weapons is a a great addition, as 
 now you can have a weapon that will cover any situation. Personally, I am a sniper-and-SMG style 
 player, but you can mix and match to your heart's delight. The nationality of the weapon doesn't 
 seem to matter too much, as they all perform similiarly well. You can tell the level of research 
 that went into each weapon, as they all have different sights and firing sounds. Yes, the M1 still 
 makes the "ping" noise when it is empty. Another great innovation is the grenade indicator. Not 
 only does your team give warning, but the indicator does as well. Grenades are instantly deadly, 
 which is realistic, but the warning itself is a great thing. Obviously, there are going to be times 
 when you can't avoid them, but such is war (I am thinking specifically of the American scenario 
 "Hold Hill 400". If you stay near the bunker, you will be swimming in 'nades.) . Also, watch as 
 the Germans pick up your unexploded grenades and throw them right back! Surprise!
  With enemy AI improved, so is the friendly AI. Your fellow soldiers will take flanking positions, 
 hold objectives, and are generally really useful. In one memorable scene, as your squad is pinned 
 down by a pair of machinegunners, you will watch as one of your British friends tosses two grenades 
 over the wall to clear the nest. In a few scenarios, I was personally surprised as I took time 
 to clear out a squad of Nazis, my AI team captured the objective! And without my direction either!
 
  Graphics wise, this game is beautiful. That sounds strange to say about a war game, but it's the 
 truth. The smoke effects alone are worth seeing. Personally, I was watching the ads for the game 
 and saying that if only the gameplay was that good. I won't say that it matches the ads exactly, 
 but it is VERY close! The animations are location specific - that is, when someone is shot in the 
 leg, you will watch as they drag themselves behind cover. Buildings look bombed out and gutted. 
 Towns look gritty and ruined from shelling and fighting. The look of the game reminds me very strongly 
 of photographs taken at the time, and captures the war-torn landscape very well.
  Missions are basically the same, but do add some nice flair in certain parts. Generally a take-and-hold 
 or capture-the-objective style of mission is the norm, but even these are spiced up. In one mission, 
 you use a pair of binoculars to call down artillery and destroy oncoming Panzers. Personally, this 
 was one of the greatest moments in the game, as you hear the artillery commander calling back the 
 coordinates and yelling "Shots fired, sah!" in a lovely British accent. It was a great moment of 
 uniqueness in a world overburdened with run-of-the-mill FPS titles. FPS can become quickly stagnant 
 with repetition of goals and enemies, and even though you are basically shooting at the same troops 
 the whole game, Call of Duty keeps it fresh with missions like this. Even the "training" mission 
 has it's own flavor, that being a private in the Russian Army learning how to defend the Motherland.
 
  If I had any major complaints, one of them would be the length of the game. This is a great rental 
 title, as you could expect to reasonably finish it in about 10 hours. Personally, I only played 
 a few games of multiplayer, and I must say the "kill cam" showing your enemies POV during the time 
 that he killed you is a really interesting touch. I also did not play through again at the hardest 
 setting, so I could not explain the difference between the normal versus hard difficulty.
  My other major complaint is language. I am an adult, and can tell that the expressions used accurately 
 reflect the attitudes and speech of the current era. My problem is with the use of the word "Kraut". 
 This was a slang term invented back in World War I to describe any person of German heritage. This 
 is a vulgar word, and really shouldn't be used with the frequency that it is. Some people will 
 disagree with me on this point, but this a racial slur on the same level as the N-word. It really 
 isn't okay to use it in any context. Again, the game is supposed to capture the gritty feel of 
 war, and realistically, soldiers DO talk like that, but this term is insulting. And yes, I am of 
 German descent. Did it stop me playing the game? No. Will it offend people? Possibly. Imagine if 
 they made a game where the object was to attack racial supremacists (I won't justify them by naming 
 any organizations) , and they made racial slurs as you shot them? You can bet their would be an 
 uproar about that. Just because a term isn't "in vogue" anymore doesn't mean that it should be 
 used.
  Language aside, this is a great game about a terrible war. The presentation is slick, the gameplay 
 is frantic, and the nicest part is that it's all true! Do yourself a favor and at least give it 
 a rental, and see what the buzz is about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hobojoe86
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 27, 2005 8:43 am PT
Review:  When i played this game recently on a PC ( Call of Duty 2) i was astonished at what i saw, but 
 deep down i couldn't help but feel that yet another injustice had occurred, once again the PC has 
 been given an FPS marvel. Well this week that all changed when i played a 360 with Call of duty 
 2 running smoothly inside, a nice complementary set up with an HD ready lcd television and Dolby 
 5.1 surround sound. 
  
  To say i was immersed in the game play is an understatement, i found myself instinctively finding 
 cover to avoid getting shot (which by the way you have to do as there are no medical packs) . i 
 felt a sense of "team" with my allies and a sense of (if you will) "duty" towards the mission rather 
 than run in shoot to kill then extract. 
  
  The graphics are on par with the PC version and display another layer of clarity with the HD picture, 
 the game runs smoother also (no doubt due to the tri-processing power of the console) . Some of 
 the best graphical features can be found in, smoke from the smoke grenades - another great feature 
 for tactical maneuvers - and the sunlight on skin, and environments.
  
  The sound (only enhanced by the system and the set-up on the day) proved to be another feature 
 that kept me immersed in the game, both sides shouting commands and accurate clear sounds in response 
 to my actions.
  
  The only cons for this game is the price, i can see for the short budgeted few, how it is un-fare 
 for the price gap between the 360 and PC version to be so large, however my honest opinion is the 
 360 version has a lot more to offer, it some how "fits" the 360 and i personally wouldn't have 
 it any other way. Animation can be a bit comical in places especially at point du hoc i put this 
 down to the difficulty to motion capture an entire war scene, its not a huge fault if anything 
 it will put a smile on your face, but remember it is a war!
  
  Overall i am so taken to this game I score this 10 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sukey4
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 27, 2005 8:15 am PT
Review:  Quake 4 is a direct port from the PC. So if you liked it there then you'll like it here. However 
 the games graphics have been lessend a touch and unless you're PC is to slow to play the PC version 
 then why buy this game. The multiplayer only has 8 players compared to the other two launch games 
 whick have 32 and there's not alot of new maps as there mostly ported from the computer version 
 or doom 3. Not to mention the frame rate is horrible and it slows down when ever theres more than 
 3 enemies on the screen.
  The game is good but its not great and its not worth more then a rental considering the other 2 
 great FPS out there right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monkeyboy070
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 4, 2005 8:36 pm PT
Review:  First would be the graphics, which are stunning. With the smoke and haze affects along with all 
 the detail put into almost everything (you can see the manufacturers label stamped into certain 
 weapons even) it is no wonder this was tough for some computers to run. On a side by side comparison 
 with a high end computer I found the xbox 360 actually ran it better. Though it isn't totally glitch 
 free (no game is) it is fantastic and I think it has the best graphics of the system so far, great 
 opener for Microsoft.
  
  Single player game play is almost glitch free, what there was for glitches isn't worth mentioning. 
 It is very frantic and intense. When you get through it you actually have a sense of relief, like 
 you couldn't believe you just did that, especially on high hardness levels. It is very fun, the 
 weapons are great and realistic. Each one has its specific niche to fill, but can be used in most 
 situations in the rightly skilled hands. The terains and situations they put you in are realistic, 
 sometimes spontaneous, and overall very broad. You will fight in the middle of winter in russia 
 to the desert in south africa, then to normandy in the mild spring. You will see all conditions 
 and find each one its own challenge. The sound also proves to be very immersive and LOUD. I gotta 
 turn my surround sound off just to make sure I don't piss anyone off in the neighborhood, the surround 
 sound is unbelievable as well.
  
  Multiplayer is fun, just like COD for computer was, in fact many of the maps that came from COD 
 can be found in COD 2. Some of them are new of course, but they kept alot of the good ones and 
 just polished them up with the awesome graphics. Split screen runs very smoothly, only have one 
 issue with it, the game actually locked up. Not sure why, but it only happened once in a 4 hour 
 playing bout. It was strange. Xbox live is great as well. The games they have aren't completely 
 original, but are fun. However, there is some unfortuanate problems with it. XBOXLIVE isn't setup 
 as well as say halo2. By this I mean they don't use the best connection of the person in the game, 
 but the first person that starts the server. Not good when the person has a crappy connection. 
 It also doesn't have a party system, you have to join random people and only offer friends to join 
 you. Not easy to stick with friends that way. The online play is plagued with lag thanks to this. 
 However system link and split screen are both great. 
  
  The only real problem I ran into was the controls. They are fine and work well, but they could've 
 gotten closer to halo controls, which is my personal favorite. I don't see this as an problem though, 
 so I won't count it against the scoring of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A_zombie
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 26, 2005 8:49 pm PT
Review:  We all seen to many WWII games, such as the Medal of Honor series which is dying, Brotherhood games, 
 and Call of Duty. But this particular WWII game stands out against of all war games especially 
 the games that takes place in the Gulf War or Vietnam. With it's stunning graphics built from the 
 ground up and surpasses the PC in graphics and the Xbox 360's computer power creates one of the 
 MOST fearful AI you'll ever play.
  
  Graphics:
  Easily one of the best graphics of our time using the sheer power of the 360's video card and memory. 
 It beat out it's older PC version in details, smoke effects, lighting, and reflections. No one 
 does a better job than Activision which looks so real you'll end up getting lost in the middle 
 of the smoke grenade. Explosions and fires all look to real that you'll be staring at it while 
 being shot at in the battlefield. The framerate never loses it's ground especially when the game 
 gets CHAOTIC! Explosions, gunfires, grenades, Germans, Allies, fires, smokes, lightnings, and rains 
 will never cause the game to slowdown even when it's all at the same time. An amazing goal achieved 
 by Activsion.
  
  Sounds:
  Amazingly, it sounds like a real battlefield. Even my Uncle who fought in 'Nam thought it sounds 
 so similar to the sound of war. You'll barely hear the gunfire from your gun because all the events 
 are taking place around you. You'll hear German's shout commands and you'll hear your own squad 
 shout for help and tips to beat the enemy. You'll also hear MGs in the distance and explosions 
 all around you. You'll be needing earplugs for this game because it is LOUD!
  
  Gameplay:
  Tough, very tough. Nothing gives the best First Person Shooter game then this one. 
 Amazingly the AI is the most intelligent you'll ever play, if your going to flank the Germans, 
 the Germans will end up flanking you and catching you off-guard. The AI throw some REALLY accurate 
 grenades at you causing you to be on the move all the time. Not only this games tells you to keep 
 your head down, it DEMANDS you too. One of the problems with the AI is your squad occasionally 
 get in your line of fire all to often and you'll sometimes end up killing them in the process causing 
 you to fail your mission. Luckily, you'll end up to the last checkpoint. If you remember past war 
 games, it waits for you for a major event to happen, but in this game, it doesn't wait for you. 
 Everything happens at a random especially when planes are dogfighting the victor is never the same. 
 When you come back to do the mission again you'll notice that every action in the level is different 
 than the last time you played it. This is a great way to bring the player back for more.
  
  Overall:
  A must buy, you'll need a partner to beat this game in "Veteran" difficulty. With it's 
 stunning replay value and tough AI it's gonna keep you in a vice grip and never let go for your 
 dear life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JustBlaze827
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 26, 2005 7:49 pm PT
Review:  This game is so realistic i dont know where to begin. I first played this game at a Best Buy and 
 thats when I decided that I wanted a 360. The graphics is what truly separates this Call of Duty 
 from the past ones. The look and feel you get when playing this game is so realistic, you cant 
 stop playing. This is definitely the best game that the 360 has to offer so far. If you want to 
 see what your 360 is capable of then I strongly suggest you go out and get Call of Duty 2. I cant 
 give this game anything lower than a 9.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Atarii
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 26, 2005 6:42 pm PT
Review:  If you've played Call of Duty for the PC or you've played the sequel than you know what to expect. 
 This game is so completely immersive you can't help playing for hours on end. From the moment the 
 German's mortor strikes land around you're put as close to WWII action as you can get in a video 
 game. I'm not a huge fan of WWII shooters, but Call of Duty 2 is simply awesome. I'm happy with 
 use of the XBOX360 hardware. This game rivals the best graphically (except for the most super PC's) . 
 Nothing on the XBOX360 puts you in a real war environment like this game does. Personally, I like 
 Call of Duty 2 more than Perfect Dark Zero. The gameplay feels more fluid and easy to use. The 
 A. I. also feels quite good compared to the last console version of CoD (Call of Duty: Finest Hour 
 which sucked a lot) . Overall, an amazing game that made the PC-to-XBOX360 transition very well. 
 In fact, if you can only get one game for your XBOX360 make it Call of Duty 2 - you won't be disappointed. 
 Another great game by Infinity Ward (my only question is will the XBOX360 get an inevitable expansion?) . 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leadfoot2501
Rating: 4.3
Date: Nov 26, 2005 5:40 pm PT
Review:  so with all the hype about 360 coming out I was expecting something that would maybe rival pc graphics. 
 i was sorely disappointed. i went to best buy the day 360 came out and played call of duty 2 for 
 a good chunk of time. it just so happened that the level they had for 360 was the exact same level 
 that was released as the demo for the PC. 360's graphics simply fall short. i wasnt expecting it 
 to be great... i mean its only 400 bucks, but still it should have been better. anyone who cares 
 at all about image quality coming from a PC will not even want to touch 360. theres no anti-aliasing 
 so there are jaggies everywhere you look. and honestly playing in HD makes very little difference. 
 if youre playing your PC games at 1600x1200, the image looks much better than 1080i on the 360. 
 that said, if youre coming from xbox to 360 you will notice a huge jump in graphics, ai, and general 
 gameplay. but if you are a cross-platform gamer and are used to the amazing graphics that the PC 
 can deliver, stick with your PC and save the 400 bucks.
  
  simply put this 'next gen' console is nothing new... call me when consoles are up to snuff 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Laser08
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 26, 2005 5:34 pm PT
Review:  I would definitely recommend Call of Duty 2 to anybody who is new to the genre and has not played 
 the original Call of Duty, Medal of Honor, or really much of any other world war 2 themed fps. 
 But for everybody else, I think there are definitely other games out there that would give you 
 much more satisfaction. The sound in this game is absolutely incredible, and the graphics are some 
 of the best I've seen, but not perfect. The thing that annoyed me the most about the graphics was 
 that the gun models seemed lazily done. The scoped Kar 98k, for example seems to have been made 
 from the same model as the scoped mosin nagant, and so does not look quite as realistic. Also, 
 when you look down the scope, the lines looked much more realistic in COD 1. Also some other little 
 things, such as the M1A1 Carbine having a wooden stock. Maybe they used the same model as the Garand? 
 I dont know why this all is, but it was rather annoying. The one saving grace to the value of this 
 game was the absence of a health bar. Although this still is not totally realistic since you can 
 heal completely after a few seconds, it adds a lot to the gameplay, and makes it much more fun. 
 So overall, this is a great game to anybody not sick of WWII games already, but if you are maybe 
 go for Brothers in Arms, or avoid the genre completely. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jmichael1
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 26, 2005 4:54 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty 2 is a great game for the xbox 360, and personaly i think it should be higher than 
 an 8.8. The game runs smooth with no lag which is good considering the chaos of the fight scenes 
 in the game. Its not equal to any other WWII shooters out there, this game is extremely fun to 
 play if your in to any to all types of shooter games. It has a long enough string of storyline 
 missions to make you feel like your not getting ripped off if you dont have xbox live. There are 
 three seperate campains british, russian, and american icluding the infamous dday battle at normandy. 
 On the other hand the xbox live is even more fun including many modes of battle. Things like deathmatch, 
 search and destroy, CTF, and headquerters. They offer ranked and unranked survers for you to gain 
 rank or just play for fun. Getting down to whether you should buy it or not the answer is definatly 
 if your a fan of first person shooters, it is a great launch title and is worth the money. look 
 for me on live at asianTURMOIL. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Virtuson
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 26, 2005 2:24 pm PT
Review:  In a FPS genre that I thought would be dead by now, this game is a miraculous breath of life into 
 it. It is so incredibly immersive, with such a ergonomic controller as the 360's one gets lost 
 in the gameplay and feels the true humanity in war.
  
  The game runs perfectly. Never a hitch or sputter from the 360. The textures look sharp and character 
 models, especially of faces are simply amazing. I hooped up my IPod to the 360 and played Carmina 
 Burana and was lost in gameplay. 
  
  The AI in CoD2 is what makes the gameplay so intense. This is compounded by amazing sound. Bolts 
 clicking, shells under foot, water, tracers buzzing by your head keep the experience alive.
  
  Pick it up today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: manwel_3
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 26, 2005 1:56 pm PT
Review:  Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome 
 Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome 
 Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome 
 Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome 
 Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome 
 Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome 
 Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome 
 Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome 
 Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome 
 Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome 
 Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome 
 Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome 
 Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome 
 Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome 
 Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome 
 Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome 
 Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome 
 Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome 
 Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome 
 Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome 
 Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaximusMushu
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 26, 2005 1:18 pm PT
Review:  This game is simply incredible! It demonstrates the power of the Xbox 360 and gives you a hint 
 of what can be done from this slick white box. The graphic textures of this game is the best I 
 have ever seen in any game on any platform. There is always a sense of chaos with explosions and 
 gun fire at every corner (unless is quiet, then expect an ambush!) . Sound of COD2 is probably the 
 closest thing anyone should ever hear of War. The AI of this game is very impressive, not allowing 
 you to stand still for a long time unless you want a grenade chucked at your butt! I just love 
 this game and thus far it's an incredible, pinnacle introduction to what is the XBOX 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flavort
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 26, 2005 10:08 am PT
Review:  I put this game on veteran and went to town. The AI is killer, game play is very realistic, it 
 is just bad to the bone. I have played for a few hours and it is worth the purchase, in fact one 
 of the top games so far. If you run into a room and someone pops out in front of you , clock 'em 
 with your gun, it is so fun. I am not a major war game fan though I do like them, this game is 
 great. I would like to see a war on terror game, Yeah. If you buy this game you will be very pleased, 
 it is great all around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ducky1350
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 26, 2005 10:03 am PT
Review:  This game has to be played to be believed. There are tons of FPS's out there, but only a few can 
 be considered genre defining. Call of Duty 2 does what most FPS do not... it makes you think! And 
 that's a good thing indeed. As the first few levels are played.... the enemy AI will reveal itself 
 as a respectible adversary. Don't sleep on this title. And those of us that have PC's aren are 
 used to playing First Person Shooters with a keyboard and mouse, I must say.... I only missed the 
 old tools for the first 5 minutes or so. The Xbox 360 controller was a great fit for the game, 
 and I felt extremely comfortable. 
  
  The only anoyance are the NPC's on your team jumping in your line of sight. The game actually penalizes 
 you for friendly fire... so this will piss you off!
  
  If you are blessed enough to have an HDTV, the 720P, and 1080i settings are phenomonal!
  
  
 If you have an Xbox 360, and are at least a casual fan..... You Must Get COD 2. 'Nuff Said! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theraddestman
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 26, 2005 9:58 am PT
Review:  wow i was blown away by this game the sound to start is the best sound ive ever heard i mean holy 
 cow. the gameplay is the most in portent and i would have to say they do very well on the multiplayer 
 is awsome i cant put the controller down even now im playing it it just good. the value in this 
 game is good to cause its such a long single player game that by the time your done you be wanting 
 more multiplayer trust go buy this game its awsome. all in all this is my favorite game to come 
 out for the 360 i mean wow this game is just good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluedragun
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 26, 2005 7:10 am PT
Review:  .... I fell in love with the game the forst 20 minutes into it. One great launch titlte for the 
 XBOX 360. I can not ask for more is not HALO 3, but it will keep you busy and entertained while 
 the Master Chief comes back. If you are a lover of beautiful shooters that you can shoot your enemy 
 mhile he still hurt shooting back at you while dragging himself under fire, this game is for you.
 
  Is amazing the quality of the 360 game. If not seen anything in a console.
  The realism of combat. The everything is going to hell attitude of the world war two combat. The 
 best of th wermacht trying to rip you appart. From Stalingrad, to the desert combat in the 7th 
 armoured division of the breitish army, better known as the Desert Rats. Is so beautiful man or 
 woman you have to buy this game. See you all on-line so we can shoot the crap out of each other. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mayham88
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 26, 2005 6:45 am PT
Review:  The first thing you'll notice when you put in the game is the graphics. There awesome. The sound 
 is great, the gameplay is great and lets face it, it's very exciting to play. You can really get 
 into the game. The levels arn't hard and there not easy, its just the right difficulty. I recommed 
 this game to anyone who likes a good war game. You can really get into this game and play it for 
 hours. The sound in the game is amazing. Its sounds like your in the movie Band Of Brothers. Its 
 got that kind of sound of war in the distance and a war right in your face. 
  Definatly if your not sure, just buy it, you will not regret it . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dblade48
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 25, 2005 3:07 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 has got it all: graphics, sound, gameplay, etc. 
  
  You can play as a Soviet, Brit, or American fighting in World War II against the Germans. You're 
 usually part of a squad assigned to specific missions, such as restoring communication between 
 two waypoints or clearing out "German-infested" buildings that are needed for control. You have 
 a varying amount of SMG's, rifles, and whatnot.
  
  The graphics are great, but obviously vary on your PC. I have a somewhat high-end PC, so I was 
 able to enjoy the most of the graphics. Grenades create realistic explosions, models are nicely 
 rendered and detailed, and the scenery is definitely worth stopping to look at.
  
  Most of the time you're in the middle of the action. Germans constantly bombard you with bullets 
 and you're always in a chaotic state, rushing to find cover and killing sometimes dozens of Germans 
 at a time. While there's no health bar, you can be killed and will be warned when you're a few 
 hits away from death. At this point your scren becomes blurry, you hear deep breathings, and red 
 beings to overtake your vision.
  
  Difficulty varies on the mission. Sometimes things are quiet and you're simply moving around, but 
 other times you're up to your neck in Germans and it takes a few times to clear out a mission. 
 
  
  CoD2 is a great game, either for XBOX360 or the PC. Definitely worth the purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Giflow
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 25, 2005 2:49 pm PT
Review:  This game is on point in every area except maybe the multiplayer ,i wish you could do team missions 
 against the enemy, but every thing else is art at its best .The sound really makes you feel you 
 are right in the middle of a serious firefight. The enemies are actually smarter than you most 
 of the time, good aim and heavy artillery is not going to win many battles for you. Graphics are 
 very good not perfect ,when you get very close to rocks or something minor they look a little ugly, but 
 overall visuals are pretty good. The action is the best part of the game, it puts you on the edge 
 of your seat, it is very intense, you will find yourself dodging grenades running for your life, and 
 you always want to come back for more. The action is just how combat actually was in them world 
 war 2 days, being a former marine i appreciated the time and work the developement team put into 
 this game, (i wish developers put time into their sports game) . My favorite game on the 360 is this 
 and im a fan of fighting games and sports. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Extreme757
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 25, 2005 2:43 pm PT
Review:  Man... I was lookin' at this game on the internet and it didn't look very good to me (you know, 
 because of what people were sayin about it and the videos and stuff) so I just decided to try it 
 out since... I don't care... and man, it was so good, I wanted to crap my pants. I HIGHLY recommend 
 this game to ANYBODy, whether your a fan of first person shooters or not (Atleast be a fan of blowing 
 up stuff) because this game is awesome. It was so intense, it was intense. Man, great job peoplewhomadethisgame 
 because this game satisfied me... and it's really hard to do that unless you give me women. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: emokid830
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 25, 2005 12:37 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is THE war shooter for the XBOX 360. They did an excellent job putting the game 
 together. It feels smooth and very realistic and believable. The sound is amazing, gun blasts, 
 grenades, and voices are all great. The graphics look great, especially if you play on an HDTV 
 take advantage of the 360's high-res capabilities. I recommend this game to anyone who loves first 
 person shooters, or anyone who is just looking for a great pick up and play game. I think Call 
 of Duty 2 is a must have in anyone's xbox 360 library. Go out and get it today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paradoxliar
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 25, 2005 11:25 am PT
Review:  Ive just finished Call of Duty 2 for the 360 and what can be said? It is a fantastic game. The 
 graphics are superb. The action is intense, as you work with your squad to complete different missions. 
 The sound is booming, it's so loud in fact that at times you almost get disoriented with everything 
 thats going on. 
  
  It would be tough to compare this game to Perfect Dark Zero because each game is trying to do 
 a different thing. Call of Duty 2 definitely pushes for realism and it really is there. The game 
 isnt particularly gory, but in many other respects it seems very realistic. 
  
  One of the most impressive things about this game is the large infantry movements that take place. 
 Simply watching the different guys take cover, throw grenades into house and rush in strategically 
 is exciting.
  
  I would definitely recommend this game to anyone whos into first person shooters.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Coopdeville69
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 25, 2005 9:39 am PT
Review:  What a great experience this game brings. I feel as though I'm on the battle field. Of course it 
 doesnt hurt that the XBox 360 is powering the graphics either. That and using a 32" LCD screen 
 to maximize the total graphical experience. WOW! I'm not even going to buy another game for the 
 PS2. I'll wait until the PS3 comes out. Back to the game. I really enjoy the fast pase of the game 
 play. You kinda get the feeling how some of the people that actually fought in the war must have 
 felt. It's scary to just pop up and run. you really need the help of others in order to advance 
 and take over a position. The only draw back is that the level ends and doesnt just keep going 
 into the next. I'd like to see a war game that has a day to day event just like WWII. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shad0wG0d
Rating: 6.9
Date: Nov 25, 2005 8:47 am PT
Review:  This is exactly what they should change the name of this game to. While you're playing please don't 
 mind the armed charecters that follow you around, these are just graphical errors.. Seriously though.. 
 Why is it that game developers always fail to add somewhat of decent AI into a game, especially 
 war games. In war games you need flawless AI, not okay AI, not decent AI, but flawless. Call of 
 Duty 2 however, has very crappy AI.. Especially when it comes to your teamates.. 
  
  When there is a building that needs to be cleared out, its YOU who must do it. When there are several 
 Germans mounted on MG 42s blasting the crap out of your squad's position, its YOU who must take 
 care of the Germans. When a tank is pounding a building your squad is held up in, its YOU who must 
 destroy the tank.. While your squad just sits there... Behind cover or with their backs safely 
 behind a wall.. They just sit there.. 99% of the time your squad will just be sitting there.. Occasianly 
 they will peak behind a corner, fixing to take a shot at the enemy , yes!! THEY ARE GOING TO SHOOT 
 AT THE ENEMY!!!!! NOPE!! They were just taking a peak to see what was going on, to see what YOU (the 
 one man army) were shooting at.. 
  
  Oh and its not like your squadmates have anything to worry about. The enemy doesn't even seem to 
 notice them at all. When the enemy is firing on your position, its YOU they are aiming at, reguardless 
 of how close your other teamates are to them. When the enemy throws gernades, its YOU they aim 
 at, no matter where your other teamates are. When enemy troops start to chase your squad, its YOU 
 they run toward..
  
  So all and all its pretty much a one man war. Make sure you have a TON of ammo because considering 
 the fact that your squad doesn't do anything to assist in the war or defeating the enemy, you will 
 be taking on a whole lot of Germans all by yourself.. Good luck solider! You will need it! After 
 all, no where in history has a man ever won a war all by himself... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Haz_4x4
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 25, 2005 7:39 am PT
Review:  first of all this game has everything the graphics the sound and the gameply its just so much fun 
 and there is tonnes to do in it and it has to be the most realistic 1 made so far all i have to 
 say about it is THA
  THAT IT ROCKS! THAT IT ROCKS! THAT IT ROCKS! THAT IT ROCKS! THAT IT ROCKS! THAT IT ROCKS! THAT IT ROCKS! THAT 
 IT ROCKS! THAT IT ROCKS! THAT IT ROCKS! THAT IT ROCKS! THAT IT ROCKS! THAT IT ROCKS! THAT IT ROCKS! THAT 
 IT ROCKS! THAT IT ROCKS! THAT IT ROCKS! THAT IT ROCKS! THAT IT ROCKS! THAT IT ROCKS! THAT IT ROCKS! THAT 
 IT ROCKS! THAT IT ROCKS! THAT IT ROCKS! THAT IT ROCKS! THAT IT ROCKS! THAT IT ROCKS! THAT IT ROCKS! THAT 
 IT ROCKS! THAT IT ROCKS! THAT IT ROCKS! THAT IT ROCKS! THAT IT ROCKS! THAT IT ROCKS! THAT IT ROCKS! THAT 
 IT ROCKS! THAT IT ROCKS! THAT IT ROCKS! THAT IT ROCKS! THAT IT ROCKS! THAT IT ROCKS! THAT IT ROCKS! THAT 
 IT ROCKS! THAT IT ROCKS! THAT IT ROCKS! THAT IT ROCKS! THAT IT ROCKS! THAT IT ROCKS! THAT IT ROCKS! THAT 
 IT ROCKS! THAT IT ROCKS! THAT IT ROCKS! THAT IT ROCKS! THAT IT ROCKS! THAT IT ROCKS! THAT IT ROCKS! THAT 
 IT ROCKS! THAT IT ROCKS! THAT IT ROCKS! THAT IT ROCKS! THAT IT ROCKS! THAT IT ROCKS! THAT IT ROCKS! THAT 
 IT ROCKS! THAT IT ROCKS! THAT IT ROCKS! THAT IT ROCKS! THAT IT ROCKS! THAT IT ROCKS! T IT ROCKS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shotokan_42
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 25, 2006 5:04 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is a first-person-shooter set in the time of WW2. Like its predecessors, you'll 
 be playing through the perspectives of Russians fighting for Stalingrad, Brits going through North 
 Africa, and finally, Americans on D-day in Normandy. 
  
  The gameplay stays intact, but adds a few tweaks to it. For instance, the health bar is gone, so 
 the only way you'll know if your taking damage is when your screen flashes red, but if it flashes 
 constantly, find cover and stay hidden for a while until your screen turns clear. This addition 
 is useful because it makes the player focus on the battle, rather not looking for health packs. 
 Another addition is the new smoke grenades that are in your arsenal. Tossing it in an area where 
 the enemy lays down heavy fire, and watch as the smoke rises and makes your enemies blindsided. 
 The smoke effects are really well-done when it rises up and covers the area. Unfortunately at times, 
 it can make the intensity and action slow down a bit. Finally, the game has a grenade indicator 
 that when your enemies toss their grenades, you must get away from it as far as possible until 
 the indicator is gone from the screen. Also, the Enemy A. I. is so challenging, that they won't 
 do the same thing more than once. They'll flush out either shooting at you non-stop, and/or will 
 even throw grenades at you so they can get a clear shot. Nevertheless, it's fun to the end, and 
 has a high replay value. 
  
  The graphics in the game are really good for Xbox360 ( either on a HDTV or your regular TV) , the 
 level designs are detailed, character models are really well-done, weather effects are jaw dropping, 
 and the guns in the game are very critique in their design and sound. The overall presentation 
 of the game has been tuned just right, including the new "Battle Chatter" system, that not only 
 makes the battles hectic, but it also lets your partners fighting alongside tell you where the 
 enemy's position is. The framerate is very smooth, more smoother than playing on the PC at times. 
 
  
  The game can be finished in about 10-15 hours, depending on your style of how you play. The harder 
 the difficulty, the more challenging it becomes, which what makes this game REALLY extremely fun. 
 On the downside, Multiplayer has its weakpoints. For instance, the game supports up to 8 players 
 via Xbox Live or System Link. The reason being is that the multiplayer levels are wide and open-ended, 
 and 8 players in anyone of the levels gives more roaming around rather than straight-up action. 
 Unless you got a few TVs close by and some extra System Links, you can go up to 16 players. Also, 
 it would've been a nice touch if the grenade indicator could show where the grenade is, so you 
 can toss it back at your enemy, since they don't explode in 5-7 seconds. That's, if you're quick 
 enough to find it. Aside the minor downsides, this game is straight-up fun and exciting. 
  
  Overall, Call of Duty 2 is an astounding and solid game that has great replay value, fun and 
 fastpaced action, intense moments in some levels, great musical sound and composition, as well as 
 making it a hit on the X360 and PC. Fans of the series will play and enjoy it from beginning to 
 end. If you've never played this game and you're anxious to try it out, you won't be disappointed 
 and will have a blast playing it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mnzk_x
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 24, 2005 4:13 pm PT
Review:  WOW WHAT A GAME GREAT GRAPHICS GREAT STORY LINE GREAT SOUND THIS GAME IS ONE OF THE BEST WORLD 
 WAR SHOOTER ,THE GRAPHICS ARE REAL NEXT GENEARTION THE FRAME RATE IN THIS GAME IS VERY STABLE DISPITE 
 QUAKE 4 FRAME RATE PROBLEMS THE SOUND OF THE GUNS AND THE EXPLASIONS SOUND ARE BLAST ,THE GAMES 
 STORY IS NICE NOT BAD ,THE GAME PLAY IS VERY NICE LOOKS LIKE REAL WORLD WAR ANY WAY THIS GAME DESREVES 
 YOUR MONEY AND MICROSOFT HAD DONE IT AGAIN AND AGAIN AND THIS SYSTEM IS WORTH YOUR MONEY and wait, its 
 a very good system dont think too upgrade your pccc truly xbox 360 killed the pc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skyline_Lvr
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 24, 2005 11:52 am PT
Review:  This game is defnitely a reason to have a 360. Awesome gameplay, graphics and sound. I love the 
 dolby digital 5.1 ,they did a good job on that. All the guns sound real and pack a punch. Explosions 
 are awesome also. As for the visuals i have a normal standard definition Tv and it looks great. 
 The charaters look sweet and the guns have alot of detail. All the environments are also nicely 
 detailed. Can't wait till i get a Hdtv. The missions are also fun, blasting away at germans and 
 doing different objectives. The online is also fun however some people have been experiencing some 
 disconnections. That should be fixed. Overall, awesome game. a must in my collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeathKazoo
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 24, 2005 10:59 am PT
Review:  If you're like me, then you've seen the good and the bad about WWII games. But more are right in 
 the middle of that spectrum. But now that Call of Duty 2 is here, we can all bask in the glory 
 of one of the best-looking, best-playing, best-sounding WWII game of its kind! I know, you're thinking 
 it has good graphics just because it's on the 360. Well you are wrong! It would look amazing even 
 if it wasn't on the 360. The same goes for the sound. But the most amazing thing is the gameplay. 
 While sniping, you are so accaurate you think you're playing the PC version. It's unbelieveable. 
 And for this being a launch title, it's one of the greats. If you have a 360 already, go buy this 
 game. If you don't, by one and get this game. I highly recommend it to anyone who is into first 
 person shooters or WWII games. You'll thank me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshismetal
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 24, 2005 10:26 am PT
Review:  Call of duty 2 has to be one of the best first person shooters i have ever played. the stroy line 
 is good, the action is good, and the multiplayer is awesome. anyone who knows anything about FPS 
 knows that this a more then a worthy game to pick up. The first hour of playing is non-stop action 
 with no rest stops at all. the visuals are stunning and learning curve is easy making it a very 
 enjoyable experience. You play on multiple battle fields in WW 2 starting in russia, then britian 
 then working your way to the US campaign. As the player you have a variety of great authentic weaponry 
 giving the experience a more real feel to it. i would recommend this to anyone who has an xbox 
 360 to pick this game up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mEtAL_t0ast
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 24, 2005 4:14 am PT
Review:  Out of all the call of duty games, I must say this one is the best in the series. It's also the 
 best WWII shooter to date. You still get to play as the three factions of the military like the 
 other CoD games, but in CoD2, everything is so wll scripted, you kind of believe that your in WWII 
 fighting off the nazis yourself. Even the radio chatter is well scripted; it's not just their for 
 filler. You are told were enemy positions are located, where you can plant explosives, etc. Same 
 guns as the other CoD's, but the graphical facelift compliments of the 360 makes them look realistic. 
 They sound realistic as well. Even the grenades are realistic. When you through one, it can cause 
 some serious damage. Everything in Cod2 is amazing. Basically, this game is perfect and should 
 be your first game to be played with your brand spankin knew Xbox 360! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hurricane66
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 23, 2005 5:56 pm PT
Review:  O. k. Here's the deal, I have NEVER bought into the WWII shooter craze. I was unimpressed by the 
 Medals Of Honor and the Call of Duty's and the Brothers in Arms etc. When I saw and played the 
 demo in my old EB (where I used to work) I was amazed and switched my pre-order from Quake 4 to 
 this game. When I opened my XBOX 360 I put this is after Perfect Dark and was even further amazed. 
 The graphics must be seen to be believed. Even my 58 year old mother stopped to watch me play because 
 it's that good. The controls are fluid and easy to use with the new controller and the weapons 
 when fired feel like they've been given the proper amount of attention in kickback, muzzle flash 
 etc. I've played online and it is equally amazing with very few problems with lag etc. The only 
 complaint I have and what keeps this game from being perfect is the way the matchmaking is setup. 
 There are no real options to form a party with your friends and go at it online. You kind of have 
 to jump into a game and quickly invite your friends in before it starts or the server gets full... which 
 leads me to the fact that only 8 people can play together online. While the game feels much more 
 intense and intimate, a full scale far would be pretty nasty every now and then too.
  
  However, in summation this is a must have for ANY shooter fan and not just the WW2 guys. Halo guys, 
 Half Life guys, everyone... take notice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmsN64hawk
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 23, 2005 1:25 pm PT
Review:  I have never seen or played a better war game. I thought it was a Hollywood movie when I first 
 saw the trailer. Incredible. I definitely recommend this to anyone and everyone. Go buy it. Now- 
 go! Stop reading this and go get in your car and buy it! I mean, look at the trailers, look at 
 the screenshots! It's amazing! Simply amazing. Sound quality: second to none. Graphics: As close 
 to real as I've ever seen. Gameplay: Easy to learn, versatile, and just plain fun! Replay value: 
 Over and over and over again, I could play this game for hours and hours and never get bored of 
 it.
  
  Just get this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: haloguy85
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 23, 2005 1:22 pm PT
Review:  this game is really fun great single player and everything but multyplayer is kinda a let down 
 considering a online server can only support up to 8 players. the graphics are really good ecsept 
 stuff in the distance does not look veryy good. But other than that the game is good and its woth 
 60 bucks. If u love first person shooters and ur a fan of cod gaems than this is defently the game 
 for u. And just to tell u if u want a good first person shooter to start out with on the 360 then 
 u should actually think about getting perfect dark zero. In my opinion its the best 360 game out 
 yet su just suggesting it its a great game. And with cod2 u can beat it in a rental but still get 
 cod2 if u like fps butperfect dark zero is good to. u deside. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kevinfelker42
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 23, 2005 12:46 pm PT
Review:  COD2 is nothing revolutionary, simply ushering WW2 into the Hi-Def era. But it is because of it's 
 HD capbilities that COD2 becomes a truly immersive experience.
  
  There's always screaming, shooting, exploding grenades, and all kinds of mayhem going on. Hand 
 to hand combat feels very visceral, and shooting an opponent looks frighteningly realistic as you 
 shread their body with a Thompson. 
  
  The basic premise you constantly find yourself in is that you're at point A, trying to get to point 
 B, except point B could have a mounted machine gun, snipers, a tank... and you're trying to discover 
 how do you break the enemies hold of point B, because until you do, there's an infinite supply 
 of enemies that will fill in their fallen comrade. Fortunately the same goes for your squad mates, 
 so you always have company (and boy do they love to talk) . The addition of smoke grenades adds 
 some tactical depth to the game (And man does the smoke look fantastic) . Mission objectives flow 
 very smoothly and I never found myself wondering what to do next.
  
  So if you're looking for a smooth running, highly intense, tactical and realistic FPS, this one 
 gets two thumbs up. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fanzi
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 23, 2005 11:54 am PT
Review:  this is game isnt as graphically pleasing as its pc brother but this comes across as a very well 
 looking, smooth running game that breaks the mold when it comes to ww2 shooters. when i first played 
 the demo for this game about a month ago i thought that it needed alot of improvement. when i played 
 the final version, they didnt fix everything but they made the game alot better. this is probably 
 one of the xb360 launch games that you should have.
  
  even if you arent a fan of the game on the pc it is worth a try on the 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bozric
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 5, 2006 5:55 am PT
Review:  Graphically, this game is amazing. Gameplay rocks. Soundscape is awesome. So, why did I trade it 
 in already?!?
  
  Multiplayer options STINK!
  
  You can either join a ranked or a non-ranked game. If you go ranked, you can't invite ANY of your 
 friends. Fine, non-ranked then. Even there, though, you still cannot create your own session. You 
 have to take pot-luck and then hope that you are fast enough with the friend invites to get them 
 all into the game before the rest of Xbox Live shows up and hits ready. After about 30 minutes 
 of trying, two of my friends and I were able to get into the same match. Once the match was done... 
 POOF! Back out to start all over. Tres frustrating, to say the least.
  
  Thanks to other games, like Halo 2, most of the Live community has spent over a year playing as 
 clans, setting up their own sessions and what not. The fact that this option was left out of a 
 360 is beyond belief.
  
  If you are only into single player shooters, then this game will exceed your expectations. If you 
 have any online friends you enjoy kicking it around with, try Perfect Dark Zero or Quake 4.
  
  ***UPDATE***
  With the release of the game patch, multiplayer now rules! Oh - and PDZ stucks 
 rocks. My only complaint with the game at this point is the 8 player limitation for the multiplayer. 
 Maybe they'll release another patch to bump it to 16??? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jbungie
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 23, 2005 10:26 am PT
Review:  I mean this is nuts comparing Xbox games to 360 games! We just shelled out $400 bucks for slightly 
 better graphics? I must say so far I am not blown away at all by the 360. It seems like all the 
 games were rushed.. Amped3 look exactly like the xbox version. I dont care if the system can play 
 DVD"s or MP3's or make popcorn.. I BOUGHT IT TO PLAY GAMES!! I already have a DVD player, computer 
 and microwave. And one of the coolest thing about the system is being able to stream video from 
 your pc, but apparently you need a pc with XP Media Center and from what I've read online you cant 
 buy the software you must buy a pc with it preloaded.. hopefully someone can clarify this for me! 
 GIVE ME SOME GOOD GAMES!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: philcorey
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 23, 2005 9:21 am PT
Review:  Where this game gets its inspiration is from the Medal of Honor series of games. It however completely 
 conquers that by its insane graphics and Halo 2 like controls. I recommend this game to anyone 
 whom played any of the other WWII games and thought it to be boring. It also gives the most warlike 
 game play. When waves of about fifty good looking sprites attack 3 at a time and you have around 
 fifty soldiers with you, it is not difficult to make the connection between this game and processing 
 power. If you played the Demo version at a video game store, it is much better than that in the 
 finished product. COD2 is also very immersive because it sets the scene very well. All of these 
 battles really took place in that exact way in history. It is also an interesting game because 
 it gives a lot of WWII background through its footage and slide shows from the military. It is 
 also a great way to let off some steam after a long day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OrcHata
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 23, 2005 8:25 am PT
Review:  This is definately a must-have title for the xbox 360. Just the demo itself is flawless and once 
 you get the game it gets even better. The sound and graphics are almost perfect and the gameplay 
 is awesome. There is no better game out for the xbox 360 right now in the FPS category. The one 
 and only disappointing part of this game is the online play. Though once you play it online with 
 at least 6 people, you won't see much a difference than 12 people with Halo 2. This games single 
 player campaign is just crazy. It's not just about shoot, reload, and try not to die from enemy 
 fire. You have to do specific tasks and go through specific scenes and scenarios. Sometimes you 
 have to call in bombings and other things like that. The enemy A. I. doesn't stink at all. They're 
 really strategic and aren't afraid to do anything. This game in my opinion, is the xbox 360's best 
 launch title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ArcturusRamirez
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 23, 2005 7:31 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is a game where you simply take the amazing PC title and slap it on to a DVD and 
 give it to the 360. Now most of the times (quake 4) this is a realy bad choice to do, because you've 
 come out with a game that doesn't do anything to respect the PC.
  
  Not this time, Call of Duty 2 is hands down the only game we played and enjoyed more then anything 
 else we bought (Madden, Perfect Dark Zero, Need For Speed) It has the feel of a PC shooter and 
 oddly enough the ease of one as well. No bad frame rates, easy understanding how to use each weapon 
 to it's strengths and of course indepth areas where camping and close combat is just amazing.
 
  
  So far this is the only reason I've seen to pick up a 360 for someone who hasn't picked it up yet, 
 but one game isn't a good sign so far.
  
  I'll write the review for need for speed later on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elemonkey
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 22, 2005 10:46 pm PT
Review:  After playing this game for the first time last night I was very impressed. The graphics, while 
 not over-the-top amazing, are very good looking. The gameplay is terrific and is very easy to get 
 used to. What really impresses me about Call of Duty 2 is how true it stays to the series. It's 
 not one of those games that you say, "Wow, this game wasn't meant to be played on a console." The 
 game functionality is just as good on the Xbox 360 as it is on the PC in my opinion.
  
  Overall this is a great game to start out your Xbox 360 collection with. It's a very solid title 
 that will not disappoint. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeffizzzle
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 22, 2005 4:20 pm PT
Review:  Alright, so I just bought the xbox 360, and I LOVVVEE IT. IT IS AWESOME! And to go with it, I got 
 Call of Duty 2. 
  
  This game is like Medal of Honor: Allied Assault x5. Great graphics, intense gameplay, fun selection 
 of weapons and great sound also. The game is overall great for both single and multiplayer. 
  
  However, xbox live doesnt allow you to pick who you play with on COD2 (*note, i do have xbox 
 live gold*) But it is still insanely fun.
  
  I reccomend this game to anyone who loves a great first person shooter or classic war games.
 
  
  -Jeff Thiessen 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silentfall
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 22, 2005 4:12 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 was a good game for the release of the XBOX 360, however, they could have spent 
 more time on it. I understand it can typically be considered a port, but the movements, the textures, 
 virtually everything in the environment could have been a little bit better. The feel of the game 
 is good and it's easy to get used to. It's quite fun chunking grenades over walls and shooting 
 helpless German soldiers ... but, as I said, I wish they would have done a little bit more. But, 
 we've got a new Call of Duty on the way, so not too much to worry about.
  
  Overall, I do suggest picking this game up. For the price, it's not bad. And, it can entertain 
 you for a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Enter_darkness
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 22, 2005 8:10 am PT
Review:  Yeah this game is pretty effin sweet I do advise you get it. All other war games stink this does 
 not. The graphics are great I loved it. The sound makes you feel like your in the middle of battle. 
 Gameplay is just right. GOOD EFFIN GAME! BUY THIS GAME RIGHT  
 WORTH IT  
 go uh buy it now. God do I still have words left?!?!?!?!? I think they should allow you to right 
 as little as you want . grrrrrrrr. Still still still not done jesus come on use a 100 words already 
 I'm going to try and submit again.................... still didn't work. OKay this game is on my 
 christmas list this year good graphics looks real. DONE YET!?!?!?! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SOCCERBALLS
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 21, 2005 5:04 pm PT
Review:  YOU WILL HAVE GREAT FUN BLOWING THE CRAP OUT OF THESE JURMAN SOLDERS!!!!!!!! IN FACT THERE ARE 
 DIFFERENT CAMPAINS FOR THE GAME. THERE DIFFERENT WEAPONS FOR EACH CAMPAIN, ADDING DIFFERENT GAMEPLAY 
 STYLES. GREAT SMOKE AFFECTS ARE ADDED TO THE GAME TO GIVE IT THAT POLISHED GAMEPLAY. THE GAME EVEN 
 LOOKS AWSOME TO. THEY ALSO HAVE A GREAT HEALTH SYSTEM......... THERE REALLY IS NO HEALTH SYSTEM. 
 ONCE YOU GET HIT YOU GET A "YOUR HURT GET TO COVER" SIGN. I REALLY LOVE IT BECAUSE YOU DONT HAVE 
 TO WORRY ABOUT YOUR HEALTH BAR, IT GAVES YOU A LITTLE MORE FREADOM TO GET SHOT BECAUES YOUR HEALTH 
 ALWAYS REJENERATES OVER TIME. I WOULD HIGHLY RECIMEND THIS GAME FOR THE XBOX 360 FOR ALL OF YOU 
 THAT LOVE WORLD WAR 2 SHOOTERS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hardhead22
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 21, 2005 4:59 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 gives you everything that you have ever wanted in a war game and even more. I want 
 you to reflect on past war games like BIA and MOH and try to remember all the best parts of those 
 games. Now take those climax points and throw them into one game. Now you have the best experience 
 ever in a war game. There is really not any part of the game that I can look back on and think 
 "man that was the best part", cause when I do I keep remembering better parts that top the ones 
 before it. The whole game is one big climax. 
  
  The game really rocks, and I am not a really big COD fan. From the graphics, to the presentation, 
 to the sounds, its all top notch. The lasting appeal is even better than I thought it would be. 
 This is a must have launch game for the 360, something I recommend for everyone to get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: otepadilla
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 21, 2005 4:48 pm PT
Review:  This game is really cool since it make you stay alert for the enemy and constant action with really 
 good sound and graphics.
  The first call of duty was ok but it did not have as much action as this second part of the game. 
 the gameplay is really good also, the territories where you are going arround kicking everybody's 
 butt are kind of similar to the black hawks down territories... they are great. your weapons firing 
 sound is really great, and the reloading. it is achallenging game that will make you want to play 
 more and more and repeating cool missions that you liked.
  I really recommend you this game. get it now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zephyr12391
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 21, 2005 12:29 pm PT
Review:  I've only played a demo of this game at EB Games, but I can tell already it's going to be one of 
 the best 360 games ever. When I first played this I took one look at the screen and I was speachless 
 about the graphics. Every single little detail was visible. For example, when you hold up your 
 gun you could see all the grooves in the metal, and not just with graphics. The gameplay was extremely 
 detailed aswell. For example, if you try to do a head shot and you aim a little to high and shot 
 the helmet the helmet will fly off. This game also shows plenty of action along with the graphics, 
 gameplay, and reality. This should definetly be your first 360 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coolieo43
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 20, 2005 9:16 pm PT
Review:  When I bought this game I thought, "This game is gonna be awesome!" And my thought were correct,
 
  
  graphics: this greatly improved the value of the game and are smooth, highly detailed, and just 
 plain out terrific
  
  gameplay: the gameplay is solid, as it progresses it feels that nothing has changed for the COD 
 series but it is still good.
  
  sound: this is a crucial element and they have achieved it. The sound is great it is almost like 
 you were there.
  
  Overall this is a great game and it is one of the first, but one of the best games to be released 
 on the Xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpartanPIT
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 20, 2005 8:42 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is a highly addictive game even though the graphics are not very next gen and the 
 multiplayer is kind of lacking. one of the greatest parts of the game is the story mode which never 
 leaves you fighting a battle alone. throughout every mission you have relatively smart A-I helping 
 you out along the way which is what most people look for in a war game. Story mode is basicly perfect, 
 but multiplayer is a different story. though it is fun for most part, I found that the lack of 
 game options and the fact the most levels are almost identical to each other made the multiplayer 
 portion of the game somewhat lacking. the sound however is great. from team members yelling at 
 each other to large explosions in the backround, the sound will give you the impression that you 
 are realy in the war. the graphics would be great if they were for xbox but because it is on xbox 
 360, im very sad to say that from what i have seen, the xbox 360 will not be providing the over 
 the top graphics we were expecting. though face models look fine, the rest of the game is no where 
 near next gen. 
  
  conclusion-Call of Duty 2 is a great game and I would highly suggest you buy it but you have to 
 ask yourself if you realy want to spend 10 more bucks on a game that is almost identical to the 
 xbox version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: truevar
Rating: 5.6
Date: Nov 20, 2005 7:36 pm PT
Review:  It is a good game as far as 1st person shooters go but its arcade not realistic like the Tom Clancy 
 games such as Raven Shield. The main thing that kills this game and every other console 1st person 
 shooter is the lack of a keyboard and mouse. For gods sake plz do not make 1st person shooters 
 that r played with a gamepad.. they all just suck......... make them KEYBOARD AND MOUSE.. IF you 
 have a pc with a gf6800 video card r up get it for the pc dont waist your money on the xbox version 
 because the fun isnt there with that gamepad... that is why i have to rate it very low for gameplay.. 
 I WILL NEVER EVER BUY A 1ST PERSON SHOOTING GAME IN WHICH I CANT USE A KEYBOARD AND A MOUSE!!!!
 
  
  Gameplay: Nothing new.. done that... Sucks with gamepad.
  
  Graphics: Only slightly better then my 2.5ghz comp with a gf6800.. nothing impressive.
  
  Sound: 
 Sound is pretty good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daicef
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 20, 2005 4:07 pm PT
Review:  Now before I go on and say how excellent this game is, I am just very very worried about getting 
 a 360. I have one pre-ordered, but from all the reviews I've been seing on the launch titles, the 
 games are good, but good for what. We are comparing these games to current xbox games, for gods 
 sake this is supposed to be next gen stuff. I dont know about you but I; m worried about spending 
 $599 to get a system that is slightly better than the current xbox. And sure Call of Duty 2 is 
 great, but its supposed to be next-gen, it only looks like an improvement from the first. When 
 the xbox came out, it gave us halo and PGR, which were mind-blowing. I dont see anything mind-blowing, 
 yet, in the launch titles for 360. Basically what I'm saying is that it should not be equal to 
 the pc version, it should be way better to be next-gen. If anyone reads this I hope to god you 
 can prove me wrong, else a lot of people are going to get home dissapointed on the 22. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: game_maker23
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 20, 2005 2:28 pm PT
Review:  N64's perfect dark was as closest to perfect as a game gets. After playing perfect dark zero i 
 was overcome by sheer greatness. i've gotta hand it to u RARE, you've made a game that makes halo 
 look like an amateur. Honestly people, is jumping around and meleeing oppents all there is in the 
 world. Now a lot of people have been telling me lately, how halo started a new generation of first 
 person shooter. It has vehicles but u know what folks, i don't give a dang even if a game didn't 
 have vehicles. Fortunately for u halo fanatics, PDZ provides u with vehicles in both as pects of 
 the game; in the single player campaing as much as in the multiplayer. Come on, halo is good and 
 all, but we gotta try something new and innovative. Such a title is RARE's truly, Perfect Dark 
 Zero!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Master-Of-HALO
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 20, 2005 11:40 am PT
Review:  Every four or five years there is always that new console war that begins and the launch war starts -- what 
 games are the best? Personally i think call of duty, PDZ, and PG 3 rank pretty high on the list 
 of launch titles. COD 2 takes you visaully where no other war game has before, and the gameplay 
 is superb from what ive experienced at demos set up a bestbuy and walmart. It truly is a masterpiece, 
 and it is awesome that now console owners can say that their game surpasses the pc version hehe. 
 Since Socom 3 kind of dissapointed me now i have something else to look forward to ---heh just looking 
 at the smoke graphics gives me that warm tingling feeling on the inside. Only let down to this 
 game is that only 8 people can play online ---whats up wit dat? Other then that the game a pure 
 gold. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toms_85
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 20, 2005 11:00 am PT
Review:  The grafics are awsome and so is the sound. The setting of the game is brilliant, i could confuse 
 it with the cp version. I have this game for computer and i do play it alot, now i cant wait to 
 play it on 360 only with better frame rate. Not only the frame rate but the whole game itself looks 
 a little better then the pc version, i cant wait to see how good the graffics can get on the 360. 
 This game is defenitly going to be one of the first games that i will own for the 360 so I recomend 
 that every one buy this game right now cause it rocks out loud. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XxPaYnExX
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 19, 2005 2:24 pm PT
Review:  When I first played the demo at my local best buy I couldn't even believe my eyes. I was playing 
 a level on a beach. Gun shots in the background, blood flying everywhere, my team mates falling 
 to the hands of the Germans. It felt like I was there. I didn't really know what to expect from 
 the next-gen consoles but this is definitely above what I could have ever imagined. The graphics 
 are absolutely breathtaking, the visuals, the sounds, everything comes together in a whirlwind 
 of goodness, that in my opinion creates a masterpiece of its own. If this is what I am to expect 
 from the Xbox 360 then I am even happier and more excited then I ever was before. I've already 
 pre-ordered this game and I am almost too excited to wait until that Tuesday morning when I receive 
 my Xbox 360. Call of Duty 2 is a must have game for WWII fans, FPS lovers, and anyone who wishes 
 to enjoy a beautifully made console game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chickenlover900
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 19, 2005 1:38 pm PT
Review:  kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool koolkool kool 
 kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool koolkool kool kool kool 
 kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool koolkool kool kool kool kool kool 
 kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kookool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool 
 kool kool kool kool kool kool kool koolkool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool 
 kool kool kool kool kool koolkool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool 
 kool kool kool koolkool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool 
 kool kooll kool koolkool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool 
 kool kool koolkool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool 
 koolkool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool koolkool 
 kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lions24
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2005 8:00 am PT
Review:  this game is the best shooter i have ever seen in my life. when i rate this game i would rate it 
 a 20 out of 10 if i could. People been saying that in a day or two you will stop playing this game 
 well i say you will be playing this game every single day till the new one comes out and thats 
 been said to come out in mid to late summer of 2006. I have played this game for about 29 hours 
 since yesterday and i cant stop playing this game there is so much stuff to do you will never get 
 tired of this game. so for my last few words play this game until the new one comes out. oh ya 
 this game will always be the best shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madmark85
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 18, 2005 11:17 pm PT
Review:  When i first played call of duty 2 for the pc i thought it was a pretty fun game.
  But the 360 version blew me away. Like the graphics were great and hell i thought it was fun just 
 to run up and bust a up some germains ass.
  Its diffrent from the other call of duty games in gameplay and pretty much everything. It feels 
 a little more halo style cuz you dont need health. You justfind cover till your screen stops wiggin 
 out. The sound was great like when you shot the thompson i just loved the sound of the gun. My 
 favorite campaign was the point du hoc where you scale the cliff. 
  But overall i would recommend this game to any one that like good clean
  kick **** of a ass games. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yellowmellow
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 18, 2005 8:18 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game! Buy it!!! !!!! ! !!! !!! !!!!! !!!!! !!! !!! !!! !!! !!!! !! !! !!!! !! !!!!! 
 !!! !!! !!! !!! ! !!! !! ! !! !!! !! !!! !! !!!! !! !! !!!! !!!! !!!!! !!!!! !!!!!!!! !!!!! !!!!!!!! 
 !!!!!!! !! !!!!! !!!!! !!! !!!!!! !!! !!! !!! !!!! !!!!! !!!! !! !! !!! !!!! !!! !!! !!!! !!!!!! 
 !!! !!!!!!!! !!!!!!!! !!!! !!!!!! ! !!!! !!!!! !!!! !!!! ! !!! !!!! !! !!!!!!! !!!! !!! !! !!!! 
 !!! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !! ! ! ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FaGGiN88
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 18, 2005 6:51 pm PT
Review:  call of duty 2 ...... oh my god i love this game so much that i frame it haha just kiddin haha wen 
 i play this game i get so into it its not even when i play i just wanna keep playing this game 
 forever until i die. in the first on i like the russian accens haha. get it for 360 i suggest because 
 the gamplay and graphics are so good, and the controller fits for the gameplay two. i have a plasma 
 screen tv and the grphics for my x-box 360 are just breath taking i cant even explain to you guys 
 who are reading this review. The ps3 wont make much of profit i belive because the whole system 
 with a game will be at least 500.00 and the only thing good about it is the graphics. so to you 
 i would request that you get call of duty 2 for the x-box 360 console. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evilfrog9
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 18, 2005 6:08 pm PT
Review:  I've played it at my freind's house and it is awesome! The graphics are spellbounding and it sounds 
 like your really there in the middle of a battle! My favorite part of the gameplay is fraggin' 
 like 20 Germans who are all huddled up together in a trench and watchin' their bodies fly. There 
 are plenty of vehicles to choose from and my favorite is the tank, its got a huge cannon that can 
 take out 30 enemies at a time. Watching your allies battle while you just stand there isn't very 
 fulfilling but it always gives you a few cheap laughs, listening to everyone yelling "I NEED A 
 MEDIC!!!!!" or "SOMEONE BLOW UP THAT TANK!!!" In my weaker moments I pity them, then I remember 
 their computer generated. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lookbehindyou
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 18, 2005 9:48 am PT
Review:  First things first playing this game feels great with the new 360 controller, With that out of 
 the way I will go into why I believe this game is worthy of a "must buy game".....
  The action gets so intense sometimes and it looks so realistic that you almost feel as though you 
 are right there!!!! If you have a big screen ---widescreen with HD you are in for a real treat.... I 
 have not played it on a regular t. v. so I cant call that.... 
  BUT if you are even slightly into shooters this is a no brainer the controls are very responsive 
 and just feel right with the triggers and the fact that there are shoulder buttons instead of the 
 black and white buttons makes them MUCH more easier to reach and reduce reaction time.... You will 
 be happy if you get the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigboss00
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 18, 2005 8:54 am PT
Review:  This is an amazing game not just with the graphics amped up but the gameplay is very intense. It 
 makes you feel as if you were on the battle field with your comrades. I'm not much of a World War 
 II shooter gamer but when you play this whether you like WWII shooters or not you want to keep 
 playing. The realistic environments give Call of Duty 2 a very nice touch of realism to the gaming 
 world whether it is the sand flying from bullets or the bullets whizzing by you. I highly recommend 
 any first person shooter fans to check this out ether rent or buy it is an all around great game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gbuzman89
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 18, 2005 7:24 am PT
Review:  I saw this game in best buy and people were playing on it with the 360. So i waited until they 
 finished and once i touched that countroller i went into a different world. Those are the best 
 graphics i have ever seen in my life, also the sound was unbeliveable. This game blew out Call 
 of Duty 1. I need to get this game and the Xbox 360 right away if you do not you will be missing 
 out a lot. The Play Station 3 will not even come close to what Xbox 360 is. I think they are down 
 hill from here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pilsener
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 18, 2005 5:40 am PT
Review:  Love it!!! Love the idea of no health packs any more, makes it a bit more real and you actually 
 focuse on the mission. This time you run out of amo really quick if your not careful, which makes 
 it more interesting cuz u gotta really take good shots and make them count. I like the new snyper 
 mode, which is very hard to keep on focus it can be anoying but also it's a bit more real and that's 
 what im looking for. And ofcourse the graphics are amazing love the smoke effect and movement has 
 really improved on the caracters also the new smoke granades really help alot in the game if you 
 use them in the right way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XtremeCaneFan
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 17, 2005 7:13 pm PT
Review:  The Demo Starts....
  
  You're in the back of a jeep, accompanied by 3 other soldiers, as you look around the dusty desert 
 being stirred up by the activity of hundereds of vehicles in cluding tanks, jeeps and low flying 
 planes, you hear the steady hum of you're jeep and the ones around you. A tank crosses out in the 
 open, and a roar of aircraft engines with guns blazing goes over head. Followed by a load explosion 
 as one tank is left in the wake of a bomb. This is battle. You reach or rally point and jump out, 
 welcomed by thousands of bullets, all coming form seemingly no where. Then you see it, 3 mounted 
 machine guns with plenty of back up. You quickly take cover and work to their flank........
  
  This IS Call of Duty 2... and you are in this war. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xvkoolaidmanvx
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 17, 2005 6:37 pm PT
Review:  This will be the best firstperson shooter for the xbox 360 without a doubt. I never did get the 
 first call of duty but after seeing the amazing videos for it... i see what ive been missin out 
 on. This game is amazing period. Best sound ive ever heard, gameplay is awesome and graphics are 
 phenominal. This is a must pick up for all first person shooter players and basically anyone who 
 is picking up a 360. This shows why the 360 will be the best and why you should get it. Very intense 
 ... GO PICK IT UP NOW!
  I saw this game on demo at eb games... and i pitched a tent just watching it. Its a must get and 
 im repeating myself... but its fine because im makin sure this is in ur head...
  1) go to store
  2) get 360 with call of duty 2
  3) pitch a tent in happyness
  4) leave store 
 and buy hometheater system
  5) Get lazy boy chair
  6) Hire maid/butler for the day 
  7) play and enjoy for hours without rest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moneyman533
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 17, 2005 4:41 pm PT
Review:  When I went to the store I saw that they had the 360 out. Ever since I heard of the 360 I knew 
 I wasn't going to get it right away. I was going to wait for the ps3 cuz i am more of a sony person. 
 So back to me at the store. No one was playing the 360 so I gave it a shot. I saw call of duty 
 as a demo n played it. I was truely amazed at everything about it. The grahics are mind blowing, 
 the gameplay is prefect. Right when i started playing it i couldnt stop. It felt like i was really 
 in the game. You see the reviews all over of how great this game is n its true. I played that demo 
 five times in a row n i am going back to the store to play it again. The game truely changed my 
 look on the 360. I am now counting down the days for the 360. I cant believe it that i am buying 
 a 360. This game is worth it i can just tell n i will buy that game in a fast when i get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hellmen21
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 17, 2005 8:04 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty was a WWII game released in 2003, where the genre was already overflowing with game 
 of that type. It was a surprise, and a delight, to see that it shined above the others, recieving 
 GOTY awards a plenty. Now that it's anticipated sequel is on the 360, I can safely say that it's 
 a winner.
  
  Now, we've all been there, what with the flooding of WWII games and such, but none of them has 
 the intensity and immersiveness, of COD 2. It's unbelievable how cinematic, and how realistic it 
 can actually get. And the AI only improves on that intensity, by being vicious, extremely smart, 
 and not to mention totally brutal as well. One neat thing about COD 2, is that you don't really 
 have a health bar. When you get shot at, the screen will fill with the color red, but only a little 
 bit. But if you get shot too much, the whole screen will go red, and you'll die, which sounds pretty 
 easy to avoid....... well, guess what? It isn't. You'll probably end up restarting a checkpoint, 
 maybe even a level, because you die WAAY too often........ unless, of course, you watch your back 
 at all times.......
  
  Graphics-wise, COD 2 is absolutely amazing to look at. The scenery is just beautiful to look at., 
 and the character models seem TOO realistic for my taste. But possibly the best part about it, 
 is the frame-rate. Whether your in a city being bombed the hell out of, or if your in the most 
 intense of firefights, it runs as smoothly as a quiet stream. Astounding......
  
  And last, but surely not least, the sound. Simply put, it sounds DAMN good. The explosions, the 
 crack of your gun, just about EVERYTHING sounds absolutely fantastic. There is no other way to describe 
 it, other than insane.
  
  Overall, COD 2 is an astonishing achievement, and it's a must have if your looking for that one 
 great launch title. We can probably expect the 360 to have a bright future if more games like these 
 are being made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fyraxis
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 17, 2005 1:23 pm PT
Review:  I played only the demo at Target, which was "The End of the Beginning," a level in Egypt. The entry 
 sequence brought one word to my awestruck mind:
  
  Wow.
  
  The graphics were superb, the sound was thunderous, and the gameplay was varied and intense. It 
 took me a while to get used to the controls, but when I did, the Nazis hadn't a chance. My favourite 
 gun was part of this level: the Thompson. I hardly used any other weapon.
  As soon as I stepped out of the troop transport, I died. I was too busy looking at the graphics 
 and listening to the sounds to do anything. It was a bit embarrasing to say the least; the other 
 gamers waiting behind me were cracking up. The controls were smooth. I especially like the few 
 seconds that it takes to pull the pin out of a grenade. This shortens the time that you are exposed 
 to the enemy when you're lobbing it into their pillbox.
  There was only one thing I didn't like about the entire game: the lack of ragdoll physics. I mowed 
 down many a nazi on a staircase, yet they didn't roll down in a bundled heap; no, they stuck out 
 like wooden planks. A bit disappointing, but nothing serious enough to ruin the moment. The reviews 
 were right: This is the closet to war I'd ever want to get.
  Well done, Activision. Well done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mr_manboy
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 17, 2005 8:15 am PT
Review:  Wow...
  I played this game as a demo at Future Shop and it was amazing. Although as good as the game is, 
 I think I was more amazed over the fact that I was playing an Xbox 360. Although the graphics were 
 unbelievable and the sound was awe-inspiring, I think that these are more or less standard on the 
 next-gen consoles.
  All in all, whether this is going out to the game or the system, I dont know but 2 thumbs up! Definately 
 worth the wait, but I don't think I'm going to be able to last another 5 days for it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lauryn2000
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 17, 2005 3:36 am PT
Review:  Game addicts beware and be prepared to be up for the next 48 hours after the XBOX 360 launch date, playing 
 this game over and over again. I played the demo at Best Buy along with King Kong. I was totally 
 blown away, not only are the graphics nothing short of Shock and Awe but the gameplay is exceptional. Note: Sony 
 Playstation Gamer here.. never played an XBOX game-controller to troublesome for my hands. Smooth 
 graphics, nothing choppy, quick loading time. Game moves along quickly, still amazed at the graphics 
 and how crystal clear this game is. Being a Ghost Recon (PS2/PC) and Medal of Honor (PC) gamer.. I'm 
 impressed! I think Sony might have some competition on their hand on this go around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shooter_elite
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 16, 2005 10:04 pm PT
Review:  when i was browsing around future shop i noticed that they had installed an xbox 360 platform and 
 it also required a demo with call of duty 2. Instantly i went for it before any other could and 
 instantly i got mesmerized by its outstanding visuals and mind blowing sound. I only played for 
 a few minutes or so but it was fantastic. this was the first time playing an xbox 360 so it made 
 it even more thrilling. As soon as i get an xbix 60 iam going to get call of duty 2 and so should 
 you. I cant beleive how far video games have gotten to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nell360
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 16, 2005 9:12 pm PT
Review:  This Game has to be the most must have title ever to have been on a console. It 's so good that 
 Its unbelievable. When I saw this game at Wal-Mart I could'nt take my eyes off of the screen, It 
 took me a whole 10 mins to just pick up the controller and play. One thing that i noticed is the 
 smoke in the game, It really looks like smoke, and It sorta lingers around until it dissappears 
 just like the real thing . The character models are on point, Not to mention the real WW 2 style 
 war simulation is 100 percent authentic. This game is a real treat for the xbox 360 . Get this 
 game or you'll be sorry. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RLJSlick
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 16, 2005 8:27 pm PT
Review:  Activision and Infinity Ward has done an excellent job again; bring us our favorite WWII game back! 
 The graphics and sound is as good as ever, and the game submerges you even more into the game. 
 Now the action is close up and personal, sometime you found yourself even doing hand to hand combat!
 
  As always the sound and graphics are first rate, they Im guess will have nothing on the Xbox 
 360 version of the game, but the game looks great either way, and run smoothly on my 3.4GHz. Since 
 the combat is so up close this time, not only do the sounds, sound even better, but it plays an 
 important part in survival. You can hear the boot steps as your enemies are running down the streets. 
 If you dont have a 5.1 surround sound system, then I suggest you get with it and get one, because 
 this game is all the better if you do.
  The story as always, takes you through the 3 major Allied forces during the war. The Russians, 
 the British and the Yankees, you follow along as one of the combatants, following his missions, 
 and reading his journal after each mission. Not much changes there. The background video during 
 the war is well done, and do relate to your action very well. 
  I just cant say enough about the job these guys have done, I was so impressed with the game, I 
 made a point to watch the whole ending credits for this game, and there are many, so you can tell 
 how much effort Infinity Ward and Activision has put in this game! I cant leave this review without 
 giving this game the nod for Game of the Year!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: alex-_3
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 16, 2005 7:01 pm PT
Review:  I recently played COD 2 for the Xbox 360, and I have to share the magnificent time I had playing 
 it with you. Call of Duty 2 is a remarkable first-person shooter, with stunning details and graphics. 
 I was immediately hooked, when I first put that sleek 360 controller in my hands, and I know you'll 
 be too. Now, you don't need an HD-TV to be amazed by this game. The game will run on a 720p. I 
 thought that, with all the hype for this game, it would be mindblowing. And let me tell you something, 
 BELIEVE THE HYPE! 
  
  Written by,
  A True Gamer 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MASTERCHIEFUSMA
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 16, 2005 2:32 pm PT
Review:  I have played both the 360 version and the PC version and they are both amazing games, but with 
 the 360 you get the advantage of xbox live which is always a good thing. the graphics are very 
 good on both systems and the soundtrack is amazing and easy on the ears. Call of Duty 2 gives you 
 the feeling that you are in World War II itself. The controls are easy and the A. I. are very smart 
 and actaully do what they need to do to survive. And the coolest part about the game is that you 
 can play as more then just the Americans, you can also play as the Russians, and the Brittish as 
 well. And the battles in each campaign are very intense. Another thing i noticed is the textures 
 on the Characters are very good, when you see them talking their facial expression moves with what 
 they are saying and they look realistic and gives more realism to CoD2. Great Game on Both systems, 
 and with the advantage of Xbox live you cant go wrong with this WWII Shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thesleeve
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 16, 2005 2:22 pm PT
Review:  Well, first and foremost, this game was extremely well-done, and deserves praise for sure. Frame 
 rate is rock-solid, visuals are excellent, and the feeling of immersion is even better than previous 
 games in the series. Some control issues have been fixed as well, and the AI is better than ever.
 
  
  That being said, the game does not come without its flaws. Except to the pure beginner, playing 
 this game on anything but "Veteran" level is pretty much a joke, especially with the new regenerative 
 health feature. Don't get me wrong, that's a great touch. Not having a health bar adds to the immersive 
 feel of the game, and the regeneration eliminates the annoyances of finding health packs, or constantly 
 dying and having re-loading your game. On the other hand, it makes the game much easier (basically 
 you find some cover and hang out when you get shot, and you'll be fine) . My recommendation would 
 be to play on the hardest difficulty level, for any sort of challenge.
  
  The AI has been improved, but still needs a bit of work. In order to maintain the cinematic feel 
 of the game, your teammates will often wait, simply sitting around doing nothing, until you to 
 accomplish certain tasks to trigger the next sequence in the game. While this design decision is 
 understandable, it takes away from the immersiveness of the game, and can get annoying at times. 
 In several instances, your teammates will hang back while you single-handedly have to enter and 
 clear a building. Not terribly realistic.
  
  There are also several instances where the enemy AI singles you out and ignores the rest of your 
 fellow soldiers, concentrating its fire solely on you. This can make the game terribly difficult 
 in spots, most notably during the tank standoff in Stalingrad. The tank magically 'knew' that I 
 was the one with the sticky bombs, and as a result it fired at me exclusively, while simultaneously 
 staying as far away from me as possible. This, needless to say, made planting a bomb on it all 
 but impossible. Even after blanketing the area with smoke bombs, I died literally 50+ times before 
 I was lucky enough to take it out.
  
  Similarly, the enemy AI can be superhuman at times, detecting you instantly when you step around 
 a corner (even though they are facing the other way and more than 100 yards away from you) .
  
  On a side note, my grandfather was in the first wave of Omaha beach on D-day, and fought through 
 Normandy and all the way in to Germany. The terrible brutality and realism of war is excellently 
 portrayed in this game, and at times made me feel rather sick, realizing what he had to go through.
 
  
  All in all, it's a great game. Instead of blasting through it on easy, however, I recommend cranking 
 up the difficulty level and playing it like you were actually in a war. Duck behind cover, pop 
 off a few shots, wait for help before you advance. It's exciting and scary, and will keep you on 
 the edge of your seat. Obviously in real life you wouldn't run into a firefight screaming like 
 a banshee, and doing so in Veteran mode will get you killed. Only on the hardest difficulty level 
 will you experience the true sense of immersion, awe, excitement, and naked fear that this game 
 is able to deliver.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkFir3
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 16, 2005 11:51 am PT
Review:  Id rather any first person shooter on pc , but its a great game otherwise.
  Good pick up for lanch. COD for the playstaion , xbox , and gamecube werent nearly as good as the 
 one for pc , but cod 2 tried and did it , they made the graphics really good , good gameplay and 
 i love the different whepons. Its easy to learn if you played the first one and if u never played 
 it at all you can just learn it all simply after you get the looking controls right it'll all be 
 easy from there , but if you played the pc one like me it might take abit longer. Once again good 
 job :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thebiddybop
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 23, 2006 4:21 pm PT
Review:  this is the best war game I have ever played. 
  I'm not going to go on rambling about every little aspect, you just have to play it for yourself. 
 If you don't buy this game then I highly recommend that you atleast rent this sumanamich. The AI 
 is great, the graphics are great, and the levels are great. buy this game and play it until your 
 HDTV dies. 
  I have never been a fan of WWII games. I "hate" medel of honor and alot of others that have tried 
 to mimic that game, but this game hit saving private ryan in the nuts. Do yourself a favor and 
 play this game.
  
  I will right a better in depth review when I have more time.
  
  Joe. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
