-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Cars
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/driving/cars/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Nice-looking, highly expressive car/character models.
 a solid number of races and minigames.
 a well-told follow-up story to the film's universe.
 huge celebrity voice cast that's definitely up to snuff compared to the film's voice work.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 A few technical bugs and glitches that sometimes hinder gameplay.
 even the supposedly harder difficulty level is pretty breezy.
 powersliding is hit-or-miss in its effectiveness.
 Achievements and miniscule graphical upgrades are all that set the 360 version apart.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 27, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 6.5, 14 Review (s)
User Score: 6.8, 351 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: THQ
Developer: Rainbow Studios
Genre: Mission-based Driving
Date: Oct 23, 2006
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
There's not much new about Cars for the Xbox 360 to justify its higher price or late arrival, but 
 it's still a good, solid driving game for a younger audience. 

  Released back in June to coincide with the release of the film, THQ and developer Rainbow Studios' 
 rendition of Pixar Animation Studios'  Cars  was a welcome surprise. Combining a solid open-world 
 driving model, great presentation, and the entire voice cast of the film, Cars was easily the best 
 game ever made based on a Pixar license and could certainly be in the running for the best kids 
 game of this year. Now, months later, Cars has come to the Xbox 360. For all intents and purposes, 
 this is exactly the same game released on consoles and the PC several months ago, but with some 
 marginal updates to the graphics, and of course, achievement points. Perhaps for some, that's enough 
 reason for those who missed out on Cars on its initial run to give it a go now, but bear in mind 
 that you'll be facing a steeper price of entry, as well.  

          Those cute, cuddly cars come to the Xbox 360 in THQ's Cars.     

  Leave it to Pixar 
 to take big hunks of combustion-powered metal and rubber and turn them into endearing characters. 
 Just in case you haven't seen the movie,  Cars  is about a world of, well, cars. These are cars 
 with faces, unique personalities, and no human drivers to get in the way. The story focuses around 
 an up-and-comer in stock car racing named Lightning McQueen. Lightning is the next big thing in 
 racing, but when he inadvertently wreaks havoc in the sleepy burg of Radiator Springs on his way 
 to his next race, Lightning finds himself stuck with these country bumpkins, learning inevitable 
 lessons of life and love. You don't necessarily need to know any of this going into the video game 
 version of Cars, but it helps to have seen the movie first, since Cars the game takes place after 
 the movie's plotline. The vast majority of the principal characters from the movie, as well as 
 their associated voice actors, are on hand here for an entirely original tale that sees Lightning 
 working his way through the new racing season against his rival, Chick Hicks (voiced to twitchy 
 perfection by Michael Keaton) . It's a cute story that's got a good bit of humor, and anybody who 
 liked the movie ought to be able to get into it easily.  

  As far as how Cars plays, imagine Grand Theft Auto if you never got out of the car (or, at least 
 something along those lines) . Radiator Springs isn't a particularly huge area, but spread across 
 it are multiple locales that you, as Lightning McQueen, can drive to and acquire missions. You 
 typically only have a few missions available to you at a time, and some missions are only unlockable 
 after you complete an entire story chapter's worth of missions, but generally you can drive about 
 the area with freedom, collecting bonus points and other hidden items as you go.  

  For the most part, Cars' missions revolve around racing. These are cars, after all. The racing 
 itself is largely pretty simplistic. There are some powersliding and boosting mechanics included, 
 as well as a few goofy moves like making the car jump at will and driving backward for point bonuses. 
 The handling of the cars is pretty easy to get a handle on, though powersliding isn't always as 
 effective as you might expect it to be. But you only use powersliding and boosting in the off-road 
 races in Radiator Springs. When you're competing in the professional races, it's like a NASCAR 
 cartoon. You drive to the left, occasionally bumping up against other racers and making pit stops. 

          You'll get to see and explore all sorts of unique areas as you race through Radiator Springs. 
     

  The pit stops are just one of several minigames contained within the game. Most minigames are missions 
 unto themselves, where you'll be collecting tires as Guido, the local tire mechanic, for example, 
 or "tractor tipping" around a local farm as Larry the Cable Guy-voiced Mater. Pit stops are the 
 only in-race minigames to speak of, and they simply involve timed button-presses and analog stick 
 movements at random intervals to make your pit crew work as fast as possible. For the most part, 
 these games are surprisingly fun. The pit-stop game is rather pointless, though, in that you arbitrarily 
 have to do it once every race, and the only benefit for doing it quickly is that you don't lose 
 any race positions. But the mission-based games are amusing and tie in to the flow of the game 
 nicely.  

  One particularly ingenious thing that Cars does is that it actually splits itself into two games. 
 One is designed for players of "all ages," and the other is a shorter, easier version for younger 
 kids. Obviously, plenty of games have multiple difficulty levels, but most games of this ilk just 
 play it safe and dumb the experience down for the kids. That's not to say Cars isn't completely 
 absolved of this crime, mind you. Even in the general-audience version, the game is fairly simple. 
 Until the last stages of the game, it's pretty hard to lose races, especially since the opponent 
 artificial intelligence rubber bands quite a bit in favor of the player. Get behind by a significant 
 margin, and you'll actually see cars ahead of you slow down sometimes, giving you the boost you 
 need. The later races are certainly more challenging, but a more even balance of difficulty would 
 have helped the gameplay quite a bit. For what it's worth, the difference between the two versions 
 is still noticeable. Additionally, if you want to get any of the game's 15 achievements, you'll 
 need to play through the normal game, not the shorter one.  

  Cars also suffers a bit due to a few glitches and technical issues. It's all relatively minor, 
 but they become a bit infuriating in some areas. Most of the problems have to do with graphical 
 bugs and physics issues. The game's environments are often set up with borders and sections you're 
 not supposed to be able to traverse, but some of these borders are spotty with their barriers, 
 and you can get stuck in certain pieces of the environment if you run into them the wrong way. 
 The car physics also get wonky in some spots. Fall sideways off of a ledge, and you may find yourself 
 driving on your left tires for a while until the game figures out a way to reset your car back 
 to normal. You'll also see some occasional issues with cars clipping through one another.  

  These issues aside, however, Cars is a nice-looking game. The character models are great interpretations 
 of the characters from the movie, and the quality of animation, especially in cutscenes, is excellent. 
 The cars are extremely expressive with their facial animations, and the lip-synching is more spot-on 
 than most games starring humans. The one downside to this is that while you're driving, you are 
 typically relegated to the usual third-person camera, so in effect, all you get is the butt cam. 
 But there are more than enough cutscenes to make it so all that great character animation isn't 
 wasted. Radiator Springs itself is also rather pleasing to look at. Most of the area is made up 
 of desert, but the few scattered bits of the township, as well as some of the mountain environments 
 and areas, look great. You'll certainly see some dirty textures here and there, but usually you're 
 moving so fast that it doesn't even matter. However, some of these blemishes are more noticeable 
 on the Xbox 360, where the resolution has been cranked up significantly. On the flip side, cars, 
 environments, and small effects like lighting and dust clouds, look a bit better in this version 
 than they did on older consoles. But it's not enough of a difference to really call this version 
 an upgrade. In SD, the game might as well be a slightly brighter version of the Xbox game. In HD, 
 it's improved, but only ever so slightly.  

          Apart from achievement points and slight visual improvements, there's very little about 
 this version of the game that feels new.     

  Obviously, one of the biggest selling points of Cars is the inclusion of the movie's voice cast. 
 Owen Wilson, Bonnie Hunt, Tony Shaloub, Michael Keaton, Larry the Cable Guy (in a decidedly "Git 
 'er done!"-free performance) , George Carlin, Darrell Waltrip, Richard Petty, Cheech Marin, and 
 Paul Newman are all on hand. Yeah, Paul Newman in a video game. Kind of insane, no? All the actors 
 are pretty much on point throughout the game. Wilson is just as endearing in the game as he was 
 in the film, and pretty much every actor seems to be treating their game dialogue as importantly 
 as the movie stuff. There's also a pretty good licensed soundtrack on hand with tracks from the 
 Stray Cats, Lynryd Skynryd, the Edgar Winter Group, and the All American Rejects, among others. 
 The only detail worth complaining about in the audio department is the repetition of the aforementioned 
 aspects. One-liners from the characters during races tend to repeat too often, as do most of the 
 soundtrack songs. Again, it's all great stuff, so it makes the repetitious nature of it a little 
 easier to swallow. It would just be nice if there were more variety.  

  Though Cars will almost certainly take you well under 10 hours to complete, there's two-player 
 multiplayer to mess with, as well as some bonus materials to check out, and those pesky achievements 
 which, while attainable by playing through the normal course of the game, can't be collected in 
 a quick-and-dirty fashion. Not to mention that the quality of Cars' content is enough to make up 
 for its relatively short stature. However, it can't quite make up for the amount of time that's 
 passed since the older console versions of Cars came out, and the higher price tag of $49.99 at 
 retail. If you skipped out on the game back in June, have a young Pixar fan at home, and an Xbox 
 360, the game is still a good one. But you might be better off grabbing one of the other versions, 
 since the changes made here are so negligible.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (19 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: kingrich06
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 9, 2008 7:52 am PT
Review:  
  Introduction
  I love Pixar Movies because its not only for children but its also meant for adults. While this 
 game is meant for a younger crowd, I was able to enjoy this game.
  
  Story and Content:
  The setup is fairly simple; you have the town of Radiator Springs and its surrounding areas. There 
 are plenty of things besides racing to do. Finding postcards, finding coins and even changing paint 
 jobs on your main character Lightning Mcqueen.
  
  Game play:
  Setups like a sandbox game, you can drive around to find all the extras or drive to certain areas 
 to start an event. While most of the times you get to play Lightning, you get to play the other 
 characters also. There are races in oval tracks, races around town and other fun events with most 
 of the based on the movie.
  
  Graphics:
  Terrible especially that this game came out way later than other platforms, THQ did not even bother 
 to take advantage of the Xbox 360. You can recognize a lot of the characters but the most surroundings 
 are 2D.
  
  Sound and Music:
  There is some full tracks of songs but they get repetitive after about thirty minutes of playing. 
 There is some dialogue in cut scenes and they are short. You do hear the sounds of the engines, 
 skidding of the tires occasionally you hear some of the characters say some lines from the movie.
 
  
  Difficulty:
  You can't change the setting and its set to easy. The difficulty is meant for younger gamers and 
 more experienced gamers will find this game very easy and might be bored after a few races.
  
  Final Thoughts:
  If you like the movie you like this game. If you want a quick game you can 
 finish this game in about four to five hours depending on what achievements you want to accomplish. 
 You can find this game at very low prices new or used, Microsoft even added it to their greatest 
 hits collection.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: greenday4500
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 31, 2008 5:09 pm PT
Review:  Cars is a "sequel" to the movie. It doesn't have a story, but actually has a "small to medium" 
 area of open world. You can only drive, but it's just fun to see all the sites that was in the 
 movie. I really didn't expect it to be this good. There are about 30 or less missions. You will 
 probably beat this game in about 5 hours or if your lucky maybe you can get 7. I guess if you just 
 like driving around doing jumps or driving around backwards is fun for you you can maybe squeeze 
 in another 2 hours. Equalling 10 hours of fun or less. For a movie game it isn't that bad. I suggest 
 if you have kids you buy them this game. There are some things in the game that are not that fun, 
 but racing through the places you've seen in the movie is actually a blast. After you really beat 
 the last race there is not much to do. Cars is a guilty pleasure that I'm embarrassed to say I 
 liked.
  
  Gameplay: 7
  Graphics: 7
  Story: 6.5
  Sound: 8
  
  OVERALL: 7.5 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zgreenwell
Rating: 4.5
Date: Apr 7, 2008 11:00 am PT
Review:  Cars is probably one of the most promising movie games I've ever tried. It has a great original 
 story, terrific voice acting, a great soundtrack, and decent graphics. As movie games go, Cars 
 seems to have all the pieces in place. The problem is despite all the game does right it still 
 manages to not be any fun.
  
  The annoyances come in the incredibly simplified racing. On most stages your computer opponents 
 will not stand a chance. There is practically no way to get anything but first place in most races. 
 However, when you enter the games major races at the large speedways the game flips on its head. 
 No matter how fast you go, it is impossible to gain a large lead on your competition. That would 
 be fine except you will end up playing the game's most boring 12 lap races over and over again 
 if you want to come in first.
  
  Another problem comes from trying to find your new missions. When you get a new mission it shows 
 as white on your map and you can just drive to it. If that were all there were it would be enough, 
 but the game has to add three areas to explore. When you unlock a new objective in another area 
 it doesn't show until you go to that location. While Radiator Springs is a fun place, the game 
 would have done much better without Ornament Valley and Tailfin pass. Tailfin pass is especially 
 annoying because it is very easy to get lost in its curved roads and you can't always find your 
 way out after completing your objectives. Add in load times every time you travel between the three 
 locations and you've just go a lot of annoyance.
  
  So, Cars does a good job in some areas, but overall it still fails. The game is not very fun even 
 for big fans of the movie like me. The games obvious rubber-banding, bot for and against you, are 
 too obvious and while the freeroam seems like a good idea, the game would have benn better to just 
 progress you from objective to objective. Overall, this game doesn't even make a good rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SoralinkGS
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 17, 2008 10:29 pm PT
Review:  Cars for the Xbox 360 is a nicely done children's game that has a steep learning curve for children, 
 which is where probably gets it biggest problem from to start. The game also suffers many glitches, 
 like most children's games. lets take a look.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Cars is basically a driving game with a mix of sandbox-style story mode and an arcade mode. The 
 story mode works just like Grand Theft Autos and all those other sandbox-style games in that you 
 drive freely to the next mission while having the ability to explore and speed at your own leisure. 
 The missions are all mainly driving games, except for tractor tipping, which really plays like 
 a puzzle game. The game does have its share of great cutscene work that tells the story of the 
 title, but what about the racing itself. Well, it actually depends on what type of race it is. 
 A "speedway" race features a 20-car race and limits your actions by removing the options to boost 
 and drift and also has 12 laps. A "off road" race is made up of 5 or less cars, allows all controls, 
 and also varies the amount of laps. The off-road races are actually the most fun races since its 
 the most kid-friendly races and also has the most exciting controls for the game. The speedway 
 races, however, are probably the most frustrating part of game. These races can become extremely 
 challenging near the end, leaving some players to restart the event over and over. These also have 
 some collision difficulty since anything you hit will pretty much allow like 3 drivers behind you 
 to pass almost instantly. Doesn't that seem a tad too much for a punishment? Speaking of collision 
 problems, i noticed the game has this glitchy problem when you hit small object, kind of like when 
 i played Ratatouille for 360, leading me to wonder if this developer tends to slack when it comes 
 to such things as collision detection.
  
  Graphics:
  
  This game is actually really nice to look. The car models for all the characters are extremely 
 polished, with a nice shiny coat and amazing facial expressions for a budget movie game. However, 
 this all really falls flat when you take a look at the environment. The game's background is definitely 
 a pain on the eyes with its Playstation 2-quality in textures. However, this is expected since 
 the game originally came from PS2. Still, seeing how the game was in the development cycle longer, 
 you would think it would get more prettier than this?
  
  Sound:
  
  This was pretty amazing to me. The music was very catchy thanks to the many licensed tracks being 
 played. It also felt very nice with the cars driving around and during races as well. The voice 
 acting was all really well done, despite some of the actors not providing their voice work and 
 excellent stand-ins were used. Finally, the car engines were very nicely done. I loved how you 
 could tell the difference between the engine's quality sound designs. 
  
  Story:
  
  The story of Cars: the game is actually the aftermath story of the movie, with Lightning now residing 
 in Radiator springs with Mater and friends. The story is very lighthearted and has a good amount 
 laughs along the way. Fans of the movie will definitely like hearing how the gang is doing a year 
 later. 
  
  Overall: 8.0/10.0
  
  Slightly higher than I expected, but the game really doesn't feature too many flaws. However, I 
 will say the ones it do have not only flatter the experience, but actually make this a hard recommendation 
 for children. However, Fans of the movie really shouldn't think about this purchase twice, seeing 
 how its down to around $15 in game stores these days. For those who nev4er saw the movie, I will 
 say go see the movie first. Finally, for those who didn't like the movie, why are you even bothering 
 reading this review? like your going to buy it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hunters0
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 24, 2007 5:39 pm PT
Review:  So i got this as a rental and thought i would give it a try as i had very much enjoyed the film 
 and thought that the game could not be to bad as it got a good review. So off i went to radiator 
 springs and i was surprised to say the least!
  
  First off the graphics as better than i thought they would be as the game is on many different 
 consoles and thought that the quality might not be as good as some other games, but they were very 
 good, but still had the odd crappy bush here and there and crappy sparks, but the rest was very 
 nice. The details on the cars were great and the animation for the boost was very well done.
  
  The controls were pretty straight forward as the game is aimed at younger children so there 
 was no problem there at all as there is not many actions to do as such, but plenty to have a good 
 time. The power sliding was a bit iffy at times, sometime you would get great cornering but other 
 it was just rubbish but it did the job most of the time and was a nice feature. Also the boost 
 was nice, but was not seficient enough to really help win a race time to time.
  
  The story is very good as it caries on from the film into another season of the piston cup and 
 the build up to the events, with plenty of cut scenes to get you thought the story and with all 
 characters having the original voices there top quality.
  
  The different events are usually the same thing, races, which is what you would expect really but 
 some are different like sarges boot camp with is a good bit of fun. But there is some variety in 
 the races so it dose not get boring as fast as you would think.
  
  Achievements for the game are very easy and are quickly gained, even thought there are only 15 
 you'll get 900 no problem. The downsides of the game are the short game length, but that would 
 probably not mater much as it would keep kids attention for the duration of the game, but is still 
 short. Also there physics, or lack of there fore see you going up, or just bouncing, around and 
 up ledges that otherwise you would have to go around them, so its a nice short cut but can be annoying 
 some times. Also the cars can jump about like crazy if you catch a ledge or curb or something of 
 the sort. Another thing is the different valleys, which are a pain to get from one another sometimes, 
 especially when you need to advance in the story you could be going around for ages trying to figure 
 out where next! Plus one of the valleys is treble to navigate!
  
  I felt the game had no replay value at all, as you do most of the things in the story mode over 
 and over, and the arcade mode is not to good, as you do all that in the story mode and there not 
 to good then!
  
  The extras such as film clips, paint jobs, and art work are a nice add-on and are something to 
 use the acquired points in the story on. But you have to remember to save or you'll have to buy 
 them again and again and again.
  
  But apart from that the game is quite a decent game and is worth a rent, or a quick buy for children 
 now its out cheap, and is better than expected! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: emeraldqueen
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 9, 2007 4:09 am PT
Review:  Diseny and Pixar are a perfect conbination the have made everything possible on the 3D world. Now 
 this game is outstanding in the graphics and for me I would say is a family game. Youll essentially 
 be involved in a story-based racing affair when stepping into Cars for the first time. To make 
 Cars more accessible to its diminutive demographic, theres a compact version of the adventure, 
 which cuts down the content to make things a bit more manageable. Either path begins with player/character/car 
 Lightning McQueen (Owen Wilson) , who is looking for a win in the Radiator Springs Cup. Radiator 
 Springs is the fictitious, arid cartopia which serves as the hub of racing destinations in and 
 around the town (Ornament Valley also plays host to many of Carss missions) . Floating, flashing 
 Event icons (color-coded for the various events) lead the way to the racing portion of Cars, which 
 is broken down into Road Races, Piston Cup Races, and Mini-Games.
  
  Road racing takes place all over the Radiator Springs, and can involve up to ten different cars, 
 as featured in the flick. The idea is to drive safely and cross the finish line first. On-screen 
 updates will let you know how youre doing, while at the same time alerting you of bonus points 
 that have been racked up for skillful maneuvering. For instance, you may drive a particularly challenging 
 section of roadway cleanly and be awarded safe driving points for doing so. Placing high in races 
 and rewriting the record books also earns points, which can later be used to unlock new rides, 
 paint jobs, and art assets from the movie. Similar to road racing in Cars, wheel-to-wheel action 
 in the Piston Cup events can lead to big-time fame and fortune. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Max-Th3-Noid
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 20, 2007 12:46 pm PT
Review:  THE GOOD:
  Fully characterised car models :: Achievements add more meaning to winning a race and not just 
 being in the top 3 :: Lot's of content :: Tractor tipping is the newest craze.
  
  ---ADDICTIVE
  
  THE BAD:
  Pretty easy even on the hardest setting.
  
  ---EASY
  
  
 Cars goes well when accompanied with the movie, for a rental or to own. The games achievements 
 are pretty easy to earn but will require a bit of time (especially the Post Card achievement) . 
 Cars follows the story of the film, you are Lightning McQueen, and must win the Piston Cup, like 
 his trainer, Doc Hudson, had done many years ago. But McQueen's rival, Chick, is determined and 
 is willing to do what it takes to win.
  
  The gameplay in Cars is basically all revolved around racing, except for mini-games like Tractor 
 Tipping. In between each major race, you will have to take part in numerous events to gain trophy 
 points in order to initiate the next race. Each major race takes part in a speed way with 12 laps 
 and about 24 competitors, in the middle of which you will have to take part in a pit-stop mini-game.
 
  
  Cars is ripe the personality and will prove a worthy rental/ownership along woth the film. It's 
 only flaws are perhaps it's difficulty, it is oft too easy, and some performance glitches may pop 
 up, but nothing to ruin the gameplay totally. NOTE: This was indeed a review written by Maxinshoes 
 late last year. Maxinshoes is my old profile, and just now I decided to transfer this review.
 
  -Noid 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thorpe89
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jul 3, 2007 3:49 am PT
Review:  Cars is fun. It's fun for a while until it's all over in a matter of hours. With Cars, you can 
 do more than just racing. The main gameplay of Cars revolves around you racing to earn yourself 
 some trophies. Aiming for gold should be fairly easy but you can still progress by getting a silver 
 or bronze trophy. Eventually, after you have gotten so many trophies you can race on one of several 
 speedways.
  
  The racing works fair and later you can earn boost to help you out. Turning corners is fairly easy 
 thanks to the powerslide. It works good most of the time but at some times it just feels unresponsive 
 to your actions. You don't really have to slow down a whole lot. It's a simple hit the pedal and 
 win type-of game. Aside from racing you can do some various other activities. One of these includes 
 the postcard hunting. This is where twenty postcards have been scattered along the map. This can 
 take some time and there are a few annoying jumps to get some.
  
  Another activity involves you disturbing tractors in the night. Some of the later levels in this 
 activity prove challenging and it just gets boring so quick. During the game, you'll learn new 
 tips which enables the action given in the tip. Of course, there is not one instance where you 
 are away from a vehicle but there are times where you can play as other vehicles during the career. 
 This is only for a temporary time, however. For the most part, you play as the red car - Lightning 
 McQueen. There is a sheriff's vehicle that you can take control of during the career. The missions 
 here are to chase down the offending speeders before they get away.
  
  It would of been nice to see some polished up graphics for the Xbox 360 version but it just seems 
 like a straightforward port from the PlayStation 2 or Xbox game. Voice acting is a big plus in 
 Cars. It's clear and humourous - I recommend watching through the cutscenes. The music is good 
 too and goes well with the game. There are some great tunes that you'll come to hear when racing.
 
  
  There are many fairly simple achievements to get in Cars. All of these are only unlockable during 
 the career mode. Aside from that mode, you can play out of career and there are some mini-games 
 available in the main menu. Cars offers the most fun from its career mode as you are in a free 
 roaming environment. Later, new areas can be unlocked leaving room for more exploration. Cars is 
 great fun for the family and although at times it can seem glitchy (often at times your car can 
 become stuck in the environment) , it holds up pretty well. It's a breeze to get through and it's 
 over in a matter of hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KAP_Bohica
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 10, 2007 9:54 pm PT
Review:  Assuming you do not own this game I will simply state buy it if you have children. The learning 
 curve on this game is zero, my 3yr old son plays and loves it. Your first option when you start 
 the game is story mode or arcade. Story mode also contains a condensed version less complicated 
 for I'll say toddlers. Story mode allows you to drive around the town of radiator springs and pick 
 tasks to accomplish. The championship races in the game can be difficult for children to beat. 
 If you drift off the road during a championship race it automatically resets you onto it after 
 3-5 seconds, perfect for my 3yr old. Free roam is one of this games most powerful features. It 
 allows you to drive around the entire map of the game accomplishing absolutely nothing. If your 
 thinking why this is important rent it and see what your kids do. I have watched my son and daughter 
 drive around the town going off jumps using turbo in the canyons for hours all for fun. There is 
 other features you can unlock by progressing thru the game. One is painting Lightning McQueen different 
 colors. There are also mini-games you can unlock also. Such as tractor tipping, sheriff hot pursuit 
 and so on. My suggestion would be to beat the game for your kids so they can take full advantage 
 of all the features it offers. The game graphics are really good, the soundtrack is good and kid 
 friendly. The sound effects are realstic and Lightning McQueens KaChow statement is my personal 
 favorite. In the end this game is very entertaining for children well worth its value. If you have 
 any doubts download the demo on xbox live marketplace and see how your kids interact with the game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcustheman222
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 7, 2007 2:43 pm PT
Review:  So, cars. 4 wheels, a gear stick, the gas, brake and clutch. But add eyes for a windsheld and a 
 mouth for a grille is really weird. But, you got to admit they are quite good cars, instead of 
 vroom, it's more of a ''Hi''. The graphics on the X360 version are just like the movie, it fells 
 like your there, being Lightning McQueen or Mater. And it is a great family game as well, with 
 a helluva multiplayer games on offer. And the soundtrack is top noch, and i'm not talking like 
 Jeremy Clarkson (yes, that Jew offa the movie) I'm talkin about the music. Great game, and a REAL 
 must play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LOZFAN6537
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 30, 2007 7:36 pm PT
Review:  Cars is one of the few movie based games that are actually somewhat good. It isn't a perfect or 
 great game but it is still an enjoyable game for young gamers or fans of the movie. The storyline 
 actually takes place a little while after the events of the movie. The Piston Cup series has ended 
 and our hero Lightning McQueen has gone back to Radiator Springs to get ready for the next season. 
 Thus the majority of the game is spent doing races to train for the Piston Cup. There is also the 
 rivalrie between Lightning McQueen and Chick Hicks. The story isn't fantastic but is somewhat entertaining. 
 The gameplay in Cars is easily the best part of the game. Most of the game is an open universe 
 and you drive around looking for races and mini-games to compete in. Once you find a race there 
 will usually be a short entertaning cutscene for the most part these are good but there are some 
 bad apples in the bunch. There are two different kinds of races: Off Road races and Piston Cup 
 races. Off road races are the funnest type of races because there are tons of super unrealistic 
 things to do that make it even more fun. There are many cool things you can do such as jumping 
 by tilting the control stick back and pushing it forward this will cause your car to do a little 
 hop which can be used to access secret areas and getting big air off jumps. You can also use boost 
 to give your car extra speed. There are three boost tanks and you'll get them all as you progress 
 through the game. The other type of races are The Piston Cup races. These races are like traditional 
 Nascar races meaning you drive in circles around a track and the only turns you make are left turns. 
 To unlock Piston Cup races you have to get trophys you earn trophys by beating races and mini-games 
 you'll get more trophies if win the race which really isn't that hard to do because Cars is a very 
 easy game. The graphics are pretty good they aren't fantastic but they aren't terrible. The backgrounds 
 are pretty bland and boring but the characters look nice. But overall the graphics are good but 
 feel like they took the graphics from the other versions and just updated them a little. The sound 
 isn't very good there are some good songs on the soundtrack but most of them are stinkers. The 
 majority of the voice acting is done by the cast of the movie and is very well done. But the sound 
 effects are really boring and there is an announcer during The Piston Cup races that drives you 
 crazy after about a minute. But other then that the sound is very good. Value wise Cars is a very 
 short game that can be completed in anywhere from five to eight hours. But there are a ton of mini 
 games that you can do which gives you something to do after you beat the game. One of the really 
 great things about Cars is that the ahcievements are really easy. You can get 775 points just by 
 beating the game which will lead to many people renting the game for the achievements and helping 
 them discover how good of a game it is. All in all Cars is a great game that is perfect for anybody 
 looking for a great game for their kids. But is also a fun game that should be enjoyed by all ages 
 so I highly recommend renting this game because it is very fun for a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ozman666
Rating: 6.3
Date: Feb 10, 2007 3:10 pm PT
Review:  The game it self is rather easy , but it was good way to keep my self from being bored. I have 
 to say if you don't want children to play the gore games this is a buy for you then. from the movie 
 to game portion it was pretty good I was suprized about that, games are never the same as movie. 
 The free roam Portion was good also plenty of places to get lost. The designer of the game made 
 sure that you used it but the Postcard Hunt, and for the points you have to collect to unlock items 
 with in the menu. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gaeren
Rating: 4.2
Date: Jan 12, 2007 8:52 am PT
Review:  i haven't played a racer this uninspired since sanfrancisco rush. sure it's pretty... it's on next 
 gen hardware. but honestly, do i need schizophrenic controls to hinder the eye candy? yup, it gears 
 itself as controlling like an arcade, plays at sim breaking mechanics and truly controls like a 
 cart racer. uhh, no thanks.
  
  although it would certainly be funny to watch the kida play this game, and see their frustration 
 build as no matter what they do they keep inexplicably slamming into billboards, buildings, other 
 cars... oh the joy.
  
  for god's sake if you love disney/pixar this much then rent this. don't pay full price for it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxinshoes
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 16, 2007 11:24 pm PT
Review:  ==========
  IMPRESSIVE: Fully characterised car models // Achievements add more ========== meaning to winning 
 a race and not just being in the top 3 // ========== Sticks close to the films story.
  ============
  NEEDS WORK: Pretty easy even on the hardest setting.
  ============
  
  Cars 
 goes well when accompanied with the movie, for a rental or to own. The games achievements are pretty 
 easy to earn but will require a bit of time (especially the Post Card achievement) . Cars follows 
 the story of the film, you are Lightning McQueen, and must win the Piston Cup, like his trainer, 
 Doc Hudson, had done many years ago. But McQueen's rival, Chick, is determined and is willing to 
 do what it takes to win.
  
  The gameplay in Cars is basically all revolved around racing, except for mini-games like Tractor 
 Tipping. In between each major race, you will have to take part in numerous events to gain trophy 
 points in order to initiate the next race. Each major race takes part in a speed way with 12 laps 
 and about 24 competitors, in the middle of which you will have to take part in a pit-stop mini-game.
 
  
  Cars is ripe the personality and will prove a worthy rental/ownership along woth the film. It's 
 only flaws are perhaps it's difficulty, it is oft too easy, and some performance glitches may pop 
 up, but nothing to ruin the gameplay totally. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigC43
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 27, 2006 10:53 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Takes place after the movie, features movie voice actors, has Rainbow Studios as developer, 
 easy achievements, open world.
  
  The Bad: Graphics aren't that spiffy, collision detection problems, some mini-games are lame.
 
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  For the most part, games based on movies suck. This year, we had a bunch of bad games based on 
 mostly bad animated movies. One exception to that rule is Cars, based on a great movie and makes 
 for a solid, kiddy themed open world racing game. The video game version of Cars actually takes 
 place after the film, which is sort of a bridge between the movie and what could be a Cars 2 in 
 the distant future. You get to play as most of the lovable automobiles from the film, but mostly 
 as Lightning McQueen, voiced by Owen Wilson of Wedding Crashers. One major plus of Cars is the 
 fact that the source material leads itself pretty darn well to a game. Was there any doubt as to 
 what kind it would be? If there was, that person should be shot... :P Developer Rainbow Studios 
 has some experience with racing games, putting out the first two ATV Offroad Fury games for Sony 
 and MX Vs, ATV Unleashed for THQ, so making them the developer of the Cars game was another good 
 move.
  
  The game also features the voice cast from the movie in the game. Owen Wilson, Bonnie Hunt, Paul 
 Newman and Larry the Cable Guy are all featured voices and do pretty well. The visuals of Cars 
 aren't the best. It is essentially a port of the Xbox version released when the film was, but it 
 turned out to be enough of an improvement to not be completely dissappointing. The soundtrack features 
 some good road trip songs, but no Rascal Flats or most of the music from the actual movie. The 
 achievements in Cars are extremely easy. The lowest amount you can get in the game is 50 gamerscore, 
 so achievement hunters should at least give this a rent.
  
  The actual gameplay is surpisingly good. You get street races on Radiator Springs' dirt roads, 
 NASCAR style races on your quest for the Piston Cup along with a few suprises thrown in for good 
 measure. There are some slight collision detection issues, but these can easily be forgiven, because 
 this is a kiddy game. The entire game is set in an open world, so you can pick and choose what 
 to complete when you want to complete it. Several of the mini-games, including tractor tipping 
 and pit stop games are fun and cleaver, while others like the police chaces can be irritating. 
 Overall, Cars is one of the best movie based games of the year and is worth checking out for fans 
 of the movie young and old.
  
  Gameplay: Massive open world and solid racing mechanics make Cars a suprisingly good game.
  
 
  Graphics: They are clearly ported, but aren't that bad on the 360.
  
  Sound: With the celebrity voice cast from the movie involved, the sound is pretty good as well.
 
  
  Value: It's quite a bit more expensive for the 360 than it is for the PS2 or Xbox, but for achievements 
 and XBLM content, it's better to get this version.
  
  Final Thoughts: You hurt your what? Mater. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: buttons1234
Rating: 7.7
Date: Dec 27, 2006 11:59 am PT
Review:  I'm enjoy this game very much and think it's a good game. It is made for a younger audiance but 
 has many twist's that you won't expect from a children's game such as small mini games for pit 
 stops and secrets and craptacular stuff like that but still it is very amuseingand you get lots 
 of gamer pointsfrom it :) . not much else to say so imgoing to gorandom by saying When writing your 
 review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. We encourage you 
 to try to get your review right the first time -- you may choose to edit it later on, but by doing 
 so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage you to write your 
 review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy and paste it into 
 the posting box below. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ocdog45
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 20, 2006 8:30 am PT
Review:  Surprisingly this game was very well made. they have enough side missions to keep you in the game. 
 and who doesn't love achievements.
  
  story - if any has see ncars, its after the movie and your getting ready for the next piston cup. 
 gameplay - in story mode your Lightning Mcqueen (LM) and your training in radiator springs for 
 het next couple races. you train with doc, serg, and do various things with other characters like 
 color changing and gameplay other than standard racing, like diestruciton derby, moster truck racing. 
 overall its enough to get your moneys worth.
  
  graphics - its not revolutionary but if your looking for a cartoon, you get a cartoon and sharp 
 looking.
  
  overall - very well made with the only down side being way too short. its a must rent for achievements 
 though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Suharar
Rating: 7.2
Date: Nov 26, 2006 12:06 pm PT
Review:  Not a bad little game, started playing this not expecting much but found it suprisingly addictive.
 
  You play a car called Lightning Mcqueen and you participate in numerous races, you also get to 
 play some other characters too in some fun races and minigames. I found it quite easy to beat the 
 game, still havent found all the postcards though but otherwise very easy game to pickup some gamerscore.
 
  Graphics are definately not up to xbox 360 standards but are ok and the framerate is rock solid 
 throughout the game. Havent seen the movie but the game has a story you can follow throughout the 
 game via the cutscenes, needless to say the story is about winning the Piston Cup and beating your 
 arch rival Chick Hicks. There are some funny bits in the game with a Pickup truck called Mater, 
 where you get to do some stupid stuff like driving backwards :) Worth a rental :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: apwc
Rating: 7.4
Date: Nov 12, 2006 11:25 am PT
Review:  Cars is based on the Pixar film of the same name. This light hearted racer is a well made license 
 game that does the movie proud. As Lightning McQueen you'll explore an open world environment and 
 participate in various mini games and races.
  
  The game isn't hard by any means, you can blow through it in a weekend, but some of the mini games 
 provide a challenge. The achievements simply require playing through the story mode, which isn't 
 as good as the film, but the top-notch animation and voice acting make it worth a look. Outside 
 the story mode, you can play against a friend on any of the tracks you've unlocked.
  
  For an arcade racer, the cars handle well, though the power sliding mechanic isn't as useful as 
 you might hope, but for the most part you can win races with minimal use of your special moves, 
 boost, or the short-cuts. Even if you do get behind, the rubber band AI won't let you drop out 
 of the competition as you'll actually see the other cars slow down for you. Despite its ease, the 
 driving mechanics are solid, and they can be fun when playing against a friend or just exploring 
 the world.
  
  If you've seen the movie, you'll appreciate the effort put into the game. It can be fun to drive 
 through some of the locations from the film. And while the graphics don't look near as good as 
 the stuff Pixar pumps out, the cars animate nicely, with a wide range of emotions and perfect lip-synching. 
 The soundtrack is also worth mentioning. Tracks from the All American Rejects and Lynyrd Skynyrd, 
 provide an authentic American feel that matches the visuals.
  
  Overall
  You can do far worse than Cars when it comes to picking a racer. If you enjoyed the film, chances 
 are you'll enjoy the game too.
  
  Purchase?
  Unless you have children or you're a huge Pixar fan, you can probably see all the game has to offer 
 during a rental period. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
