-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Chromehounds
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/chromehounds/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Inventive persistent campaign draws you into online team-based competition.
 Deep, well-designed mech-building system is a lot of fun to play around with.
 Distinctive mech designs and impressive presentation during battles.
 Lots of gameplay variety and replay value during online play.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Single-player portion of the game is undercooked and relatively disappointing.
 Interface for online play could have been much more streamlined in spots.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul 13, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.9
Critic Score: 7.2, 68 Review (s)
User Score: 8.0, 3,658 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sega
Developer: From Software
Genre: Mech Sim
Date: Jul 11, 2006
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This unique mech combat sim looks great in action, but gets most of its mileage out of its persistent 
 online campaign, which can be very fun for dedicated players. 

  In an alternate-reality version of the present day, three nations with conflicting ideologies and 
 shared borders are locked in a violent struggle, waging war against one another using massive tanklike 
 combat vehicles known as hounds. In Chromehounds, you'll not only get to build your own hound based 
 using a large variety of different parts and weapons, you'll get to pilot it in some impressive-looking 
 battles, and you'll even get involved in a persistent online struggle for supremacy between the 
 warring states. It's important to note that the single-player portion of Chromehounds serves merely 
 as training for the online component, in which players from around the world may form squads, engage 
 in missions or skirmish against each other or computer-controlled enemies, and buy and sell all 
 kinds of different hound parts. This online component is naturally time-consuming and caters to 
 a relatively hardcore crowd, one that's willing to schedule playing time and coordinate in battle. 
 But if you're willing to make that investment, Chromehounds can be a richly rewarding experience. 

          No fancy railguns or laser beams here. The stars of the show in Chromehounds are the mech 
 equivalent of '70s muscle cars.     

  Developer From Software is no stranger to mech simulations, having worked on the long-running Armored 
 Core series for many years now. Chromehounds is similar to that series in certain respects, especially 
 in how the mechs you can build in this game don't all walk on two legs; some have tank treads, 
 some look like mechanical spiders, some are wheeled, and some are hovercraft. The alternate-reality 
 present-day setting of Chromehounds also gives the vehicle design in this game a rather distinctive 
 identity -- this isn't your typically clichd futuristic warfare with all sorts of crazy plasma guns 
 and monotonous female computer voices. Instead, the mechs in this game have a gritty, low-tech 
 feel to them, as if in an alternate version of the future, bombers and fighter jets simply didn't 
 exist (they're strangely absent from this game) so humankind just kept building bigger, deadlier 
 tanks. What's particularly noteworthy about the hounds is the hexagonal frames of most of their 
 weapons. If one long-range cannon or heavy machine gun isn't good enough for you, the hex shape 
 of these types of guns lets you cluster several of them together, multiplying your firepower.  
 

  Chromehounds is a deep game, which you might expect from a mech simulation, but the action out 
 on the battlefield is surprisingly simple for the most part. Typically, you just drive around while 
 using a compass and a tactical map to guide you, then point and shoot at your targets, cycling 
 between different slower-firing weapons. It's easy to pick up and start playing the combat portion 
 of the game, though in one quirk, you must frequently switch between the standard behind-the-mech 
 view to a first-person aiming view. Your weapon view has a fixed level of magnification depending 
 on which weapon is currently at the ready, so long-range rifles automatically let you see targets 
 from farther away, while a shotgun won't help you spot a mech bombarding you with a heavy mortar 
 from miles away.  

  You can visibly tell as your opponents take damage, and overall, the visuals of combat look great, 
 especially in HD. Details like the sleek effect of switching to and from weapon view, how trees 
 shed leaves or tip over when caught in crossfire, and the intensely white-hot tracers of machine 
 gun fire all help make Chromehounds by far one of the best-looking mech games to date. Some of 
 the scenery appears very plain -- all hills and tress and such -- but there are some nice-looking urban 
 environments and impressive weather effects to be found as well. The city maps are particularly 
 entertaining because no building can withstand much of your firepower before collapsing in a heap 
 of dust and rubble; which not only looks cool, but also is tactically significant. The game's audio 
 is characterized by booming, bass-heavy footsteps (if your hound has legs) , the creaking of machinery, 
 and weapon fire that sounds fittingly powerful. It sounds like a tank battle, and it fits Chromehounds 
 very well.  

  Your options when building your hound are satisfyingly extensive. In terms of weapons, you've got 
 plenty to choose from, including missile launchers, mortars, howitzers, rifles, rocket arrays, 
 and even close-combat weapons designed to puncture enemy armor. While the hound-assembly process 
 initially looks intimidating, it's pretty easy to feel your way through it and get comfortable 
 in about an hour. Your mech just needs a base, a cockpit, and a generator, and the game lets you 
 easily snap these pieces together almost like a jigsaw puzzle. Then you start adding guns and things, 
 paying close attention to your maximum energy supply and weight limit. This becomes an intuitive 
 process. If you want a speedy little roller skate mech, suitable for quickly scouting out your 
 enemy's position, you shouldn't expect to be able to mount six long-range cannons on it (you might 
 be able to squeeze in one or two, though) . It's yours to decide which weapons go where, and you 
 need to decide whether to conserve a little extra weight to add armor plating, or to make it lighter 
 on its feet by not packing your hound to the gills with guns. The interface could have been a little 
 easier to use in some spots, but overall, the mech-building portion of Chromehounds is a very well 
 done, fun, and interesting part of the game.  

          You can easily spend hours building the perfect hound. Just remember that the perfect hound 
 has to serve as part of a team.     

  Ironically, you can go through the entire single-player experience of Chromehounds without ever 
 setting foot in the hound-assembly garage. This is one of the several reasons why the single-player 
 portion of the game is pretty disappointing and not worth the price of admission taken on its own. 
 You don't even get to see some of the best-looking environments in the game during this portion. 
 For what it's worth, Chromehounds' single-player mode at least is up front about the fact that 
 it's really just a series of story-driven training missions and combat scenarios designed to familiarize 
 you with different hound roles. There are six discrete "role types" in the game: soldier, sniper, 
 defender, scout, heavy gunner, and commander. If anything, the game is a little misleading at first 
 to suggest that these are rigidly defined roles. In reality, you define your hound's role by virtue 
 of the parts you use to build it; you don't need to create a highly specialized hound if you don't 
 want to.     

  The single-player mode consists of six different story arcs, one for each role type. After training, 
 you'll go through a half-dozen missions, each of which is pretty short and generally not that difficult 
 or interesting. At least there's something to the story. In each story you play as a mercenary 
 serving under one of the three nations occupying the region of Neroimus. These nations are respectively 
 based on America, Russia, and the Middle East, and Chromehounds sometimes does a pretty good job 
 of getting you to feel emotionally invested in their different perspectives. But the stories are 
 just too short, and the missions too straightforward, to make the single-player portion of Chromehounds 
 particularly compelling overall. It's still well worth playing through, though, because you'll 
 unlock many new hound parts as you go, and you can transfer these and the piloting experience you've 
 accrued to the online campaign. You'll be done with the single-player portion of Chromehounds after 
 about 10 hours.  

          It's easy enough to get into an online squad, but coordinating with those other players 
 and forming a strong team can be challenging -- as well as rewarding.     

  The Xbox Live portion of the game is the real meat of the experience. All of it is couched in a 
 persistent campaign called the Neroimus War. When you begin playing online you have to choose which 
 of the three nations you want to be allied with. Then, you're taken to a tactical map that shows 
 the entire Neroimus region, with icons showing you who owns what, and where the war is being fought. 
 The goal of the war is for one nation to take over the capitol territory of the other two nations. 
 If your nation has been annexed, you can still participate in the war as a guerilla fighter, or 
 you can seek asylum from another nation and continue fighting.  

  If you just want to join a quick battle against other players you can do so, but you still need 
 to get past the tactical map of Neroimus, and your actions in the free battle mode will have no 
 bearing on the outcome of the war. The interface for all this could have been a lot better. The 
 game makes you load up your saved progress each time you access the online mode, and there are 
 frequent, though brief, interruptions as the game communicates with the host server. You may also 
 need to skip through a bunch of repetitive status reports about the war from time to time, which 
 may not even seem relevant to you. All the while, a brief music loop plays incessantly. It's a 
 pretty-sounding, solemn military march that's great for the first few hours, if that.  

  Once you build up a tolerance for this clunky layer of the game, and provided you're willing to 
 play for a good stretch at a time during a typical session, Chromehounds' persistent campaign can 
 be appealing. You can't participate in the Neroimus War missions until you either start or join 
 a squad of like-minded players, up to six of whom can jump into a territory at any given time to 
 fight for your country, either against other players or artificial intelligence-controlled enemies. 
 The fact that you are forced to become a part of the squad means that Chromehounds demands a higher 
 level of player organization than your average online multiplayer game. However, that extra effort 
 pays off substantially, as your squad will receive rewards for each mission successfully completed. 
 On the other hand, if you find yourself on a team that just can't seem to get it together, you'll 
 quickly lose all your money because you have to pay every time you fail a mission. In this way 
 the online play can be incredibly rewarding or incredibly frustrating, depending on whom you're 
 playing with. The whole Neroimus War premise is essentially a fictionalized ladder-matching system, 
 allowing player teams of similar skill to go up against each other, and fostering competitive teamwork 
 within teams.  

  The other issue with this setup is that, since all multiplayer Chromehounds gameplay apparently 
 must filter through the game's main server, occasional server downtimes may prevent you from playing 
 when you want. For example, since Chromehounds had already shipped in Japan and Europe prior to 
 North America, players in those regions couldn't access the multiplayer portion for several days 
 leading up to the North American launch. The manual cautions that such lapses in gameplay may occur 
 whenever the outcome of the Neroimus War is decided, an event equivalent to the end of a season 
 of league play. It's too bad that you can't so much as get into a quick skirmish without going 
 through the Neroimus War filter first, though the nature of online games such as this is that they 
 may change and evolve over time. A lot of careful thought was clearly put into many aspects of 
 Chromehounds' online mode, so one can only hope that the interface and occasional technical glitches 
 will gradually be worked out. Thankfully, the global availability of Chromehounds means you've 
 already got plenty of people playing online trying to earn their way into dozens of different unlockable 
 achievements, many of which demand a lot of time and effort, if not a lot of skill. And for what 
 it's worth, online performance seems to be pretty much lag-free.  

          If sinking your teeth into a deep team-based online mech sim sounds appealing, then Chromehounds 
 is probably for you.     

  To help foster teamwork (if not force it) , one interesting aspect of how Chromehounds missions 
 are designed is that communication is limited to spherical areas surrounding radio towers spread 
 out across the land. Your team gains control of these towers automatically if one of you stands 
 near one for a while, but the enemy can take it just as easily, silencing all of you in one swoop. 
 Furthermore, commander-type hounds -- which forgo large weapons for large radar arrays -- act as portable 
 communications stations and may even see nearby enemy units on their tactical maps. But it's then 
 the commander's responsibility to relay enemy movements to the rest of the team. This is an elegant 
 system that comes into play during most Chromehounds missions, although there are a variety of 
 different match types you can engage in, including ones in which communication isn't really an 
 issue. Capture-the-flag missions, survival missions that reward the last hound standing, and missions 
 that task you with blowing up everything in sight faster than your opponent are among the variants 
 to the standard team-based, destroy-the-HQ mission type.  

  Chromehounds is likely to be a love-it-or-hate-it game for most of those willing to give it a try. 
 Players expecting a conventional mech sim may be put off by the relative simplicity of the combat 
 and will probably wish that there were more to the single-player portion of the game, especially 
 since the story sets up a compelling conflict. At the same time, the online multiplayer portion 
 of this game, while absolutely the highlight of the package, is fairly dense, even if all you want 
 is to jump into combat. Nevertheless, Chromehounds is an example of a game that asks you to put 
 in more time and energy than a typical gaming experience would expect of you, but gives you back 
 more in return.  

      
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (330 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: rerout343
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 1, 2008 9:37 am PT
Review:  Chromehounds is definitely one of the best mech sims I've seen. The customization is amazing but 
 it does take a lot of getting used to, however once you get used to it you can make just about 
 anything. I've seen everything from an abrems tank to a Brumak .
  However the single player is just horrible, and both single player and multiplayer have a very 
 steep learning curve. But once your used to the game and made and effective "HOUND" the game is 
 well worth buying. Also the Neroimus War is nice mode that actually gives you a good reason to 
 have a clan or "squad" to work together on missions to win the war. The missions take place in 
 three different country, Tarakia, Sal Kar, and Morskov. Also each country has a gigantic super 
 weapon that will some times be deployed during a war, that is impossible to defeat on your own. 
 And a single war can last anywhere from a week to a month. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rakan959
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 9, 2008 3:36 pm PT
Review:  Mech fans, unite! Chromehounds is a game in which you take over a Hound with high-powered guns, 
 and you can customize every aspect of it. Rein chaos from afar as a sniper, or get in to the action 
 as a Heavy Gunner, or join the front lines as a Soldier. While there are many role types to pursue, 
 the game is highly dependent on its multiplayer.
  The single player campaign, while fairly easy up until about half way through it, lacks substance. 
 You go on a campaign of usually about 6 missions using a Hound of that role type, and the missions 
 get harder as you go along. Completing missions earns you parts that can be used to customize your 
 Hound, both in single and multiplayer. 
  While the single player is bare-bones, the multiplayer is a different story. You can customize 
 your Hound from the Chassis up, adding guns and tools such as radar jammers or thermal cameras. 
 Even the ammo is customizable, ranging from short range explosive ammo to ammo packed with Napalm. 
 
  Overall, I think Chromehounds is a decent game, and it's worth the $13 you can buy it used for 
 from your local Gamestop. With some nice graphics and decent multiplayer, it's a good game, but 
 if you don't have XBL, don't even think about picking this game up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 360gamer8807
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 4, 2008 11:24 am PT
Review:  I rented this game when i bought my 360 and will buy this game if i ever get to go online. The 
 customization is endless (i had a sniper mech on the weakest set of legs) . The career is mostly 
 good to get you used to the six different RTs or Role Types. You have Scout, efender, Commander, 
 Heavy Gunner, Sniper and Soldier RTs. The RTs are well balanced i think. Long range cannons take 
 a little practice to master. Recoil really affects your mech as well. The lighter the legs the 
 lighter the weapons you want to use. My sniper that i mentioned earlier, every time i shot the 
 heavy sniper cannon the screen would move way left or right so i would have to aim a little to 
 the left or right just to hit my target. This is really an online game so if you have Xbox Live 
 and like mech games this would be a game for you. The customization is endless. Weapons, cockpits, 
 generators, legs, accesories, even the color and camo of your mech. i even had a USA colored sniper 
 mech. The game is at a cheap price but dont let that fool you. i havent seen a mech game that offers 
 so much customization as Chromehounds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Snipervvviii
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 31, 2008 2:11 pm PT
Review:  I rented this game about a year ago when I didn't have Xbox live, and played through the story 
 mode, crafted a HOUND I thought vastly superior to all other sniper HOUNDs. A year later, I see 
 the game and remember the good times I had with it, so I pick it up, invite a few friends into 
 a squad, found a player match and was instantly converted into the rarest gas on earth: Noob Hound 
 112.
  
  This game is very hard on... newer players. Terms such as "closed cockpit" and the manipulation 
 of system devices, a staple of efficient player combat, will seem completely alien to one who simply 
 picks it up and plays. A few brutal matches will force you to adapt, renovate the way you think 
 about HOUND fabrication and enlighten you as to the concept of picking off individual parts.
  
  The pacing of this game is very slow. There's alot of pre-game preparation to be had: Coordination 
 of strategy, HOUND specializations, build sharing and so on. The game is not very child-friendly. 
 Unfortunately, that does not stop the little ones from plaguing some squads.
  
  The game designers really did their homework on this one. You have to take into affect where the 
 gasses go from your shot. For example; My sniper cannons have an integrated muzzle-brake, thus 
 the gasses go up, so I position them in a certain way to achieve an accurate shot. One plus is 
 persistent tracks. I can't tell you how many I time I've guessed at an enemies position from the 
 way their tracks are headed and won the game.
  
  Overall, the game is very advanced for its age, and extremely fun to play once you get started, 
 though it does require some dedication. I hope you find this review helpful.
  
  Gamertag: ToD The Roost3r
  Squad: Guns of Tarakia 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Saren117
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 20, 2008 4:04 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the greatest games out there! If you have play "Phantom Crash" and "MechAssault" 
 then you know that this kind of combination of the two games. The fighting and action comes from 
 MechAssault, and the build your hound comes from Phantom Crash. This has fun and great action. 
 When you start to build your hound you think "What kind of RT (Role Type) do I want"? There is six 
 types to choose from  Gunner, and Commander. This game is a 
 "Wust Have"! After playing some of the Story Mode you can try the best feature, Mutiplayer! The 
 mutiplayer in this game is one of best. Eiether if you are a Sniper on a hill sniping people, or 
 one the people getting sniped this game is fun both ways! Also the landscape is beautiful. There 
 is so many lands to play in. The combat is almost lifelike! Renting it, or Buying it, you didn't 
 waste your money with all the fun and fighting, your going to enjoy this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Schweinhoundt
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 6, 2008 10:30 am PT
Review:  Chromehounds is a great mech simulation game that is advanced but still maintains little arcade 
 feeling to not make it boring. First i will talk about the single player. The single player is 
 basically made as practice for the online experience, though the singleplayer contains a decent 
 storyline, chromehounds is a multiplayer game right through it's metal heart. The single player 
 allows you to unlock parts and to try out different bots, commander, sniper, soldier etc so you 
 don't get blown up immedeatly online. Single player also contains some medals that gives you gamerscore. 
 Now for the main element, multiplayer. Chromehounds multiplayer consists of free for all deathmatch 
 mode and a huge map that contains many locations where battles are played. You join a alliance 
 (there are three) which all have their own sets of weapons and bot parts. Then you join a squad 
 that contains other humans and fight together in different areas to make them turn into your color 
 and alliance. You build up your robot or "hound" as the game likes to call it with different parts 
 you can buy from the shop (You get money from battles) . There are different classes but they can 
 all be mixed up in your favour and that's what makes the game great. There are soldiers which are 
 close combat warriors (compare with mmorpgs) , they can carry quite much weapons and armor and are 
 used on the frontline. Snipers are long distance hounds that takes out enemies from afar, they 
 have great attack power but low defence. Scouts are the fastest bots in the game and are used for 
 reconnaissance and taking over radar towers [ Radar Towers are buildings scattered over the map, 
 without them you cannot voice communicate with teammates far away. They are also a vital option 
 for winning as the one with most radar towers in the end wins the game (unless a entire team is 
 defeated) ] . Commander hounds are the ones who give orders to their teammates and point out enemies 
 on the radar using the games grid system, they usually have little firepower. The games great customizability 
 with parts enables you to become whatever you want and switch whenever you want to. The online 
 game ends when an alliance have taken over the entire map and after that a new game starts. I personally 
 don't like the entire "Game Over" and "restart" thing but that's how it is and you will have to 
 live with that. After the battle is lost or won some people that have done extraordinary things 
 on the battlefield will get special medals and you will get alot of annoying pop ups that shows 
 people getting awards. The award system really makes you coming back for more and is a great way 
 to make people feel rewarded when they have done something good. The deathmatch game is an arcade 
 feature which puts you in an all vs all fight over kills. This one is hard as it will stack you 
 randomly against very good players and newbie players but is a great way to play when you don't 
 have time for a long battlefield game. If you are into mech games and like tactical decisions, 
 destruction, great multiplayer and can handle middle-fast game speed and almost no single player 
 then this one is strongly recommended for you. This game is also quite cheap (in price) and features 
 an overall mature audiance that don't scream in the microphone and have annoying voices.
  
  And as a last note: Keep in mind that mother nature feels better if you walk to school/work sometimes 
 instead of taking the robot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iFragMuffinMan
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 13, 2008 4:08 pm PT
Review:  This game, though has a half baked, and pathetic single player campaign, deserves one of the highest 
 rankings I can give the game. The single player campaign has one purpose, to familiarize yourself 
 with controls, learn about the basic mech types which are Soldier, Sniper, Defender, Heavy Gunner 
 (Artillery) Commander, and Scout. Each one of these is distinct from the other, and completly changes 
 the gameplay for you. You can also unlock some useful weapons while playing through the campaign. 
 But this game really shines through in the multiplayer. You join or create a squad, in this squad 
 you will attempt to capture points on the map from the other opposing countries. Just like in real 
 time war, the fronts change, territories and lost and regained, and elections. Thats right, you 
 vote for a president of your country ever couple in game years or wars. Each president will have 
 a different strat, like def v all, off v all, off v sal kar, and so on. You earn medals for achievmants, 
 and earn ranks for participating in the war. Each country also specializes in certain weapon types, 
 with new weapons being produced. The mech building is addicting, trying to cover weak points, and 
 building the best mech for your class. You can buy parts, bid on parts, and then use those parts 
 to build your mech. This game is also very tactical if you try and solo rush the enemy, without 
 letting your allies know what your doing, be prepared to lose. Also if you are noob, the game offers 
 the ability to fight online NPC Hounds, with a decent AI, though this will not count as much twords 
 taking cities, it does help. And be sure to remember you also can fight other squads from other 
 countries if you wish.
  
  Overall for the 30 dollers you are gonna pay for this game, its well worth the money and be prepared 
 to become addicted. I would reccomend this game to hardcore gamers, and casual gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: R3DN1N3
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 25, 2008 8:31 pm PT
Review:  ChromeHounds is a game for players who love giant robots.
  This game is not for the average run-and-gun FPS gamer who wants a quick match.
  There is alot 
 of patience involved. Multiplayer matches take around 5-15 min inbetween and inside the battle 
 alot of walking around and scanning around for enemies is involved.
  Weapons are fairly balanced and teamwork is a must during a fight.
  The single player aspect 
 is lacking, but it teaches you the basics of mech-warfare for each hound class.
  So by the time u play u have a chance to outwit your opponent.
  Alot of time is spent making 
 sure your mech is the way YOU WANT it.
  Seems very confusing at first but if u fiddle with your designs a bit u get a handle on how to 
 push speed, armor or whatever u like.
  This game was very enjoyable for me and I hope a sequel is in the works.
  This game has its flaws 
 afcourse, the most notable being the wait, but if u can overlook that annoyance than you should 
 get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wolf-1992
Rating: 4.5
Date: Apr 16, 2008 10:23 am PT
Review:  Chromehounds has a strong heritage, running back to From Software's iconic Armored Core series. 
 It's an almost identical setup, you build a robot, known as a 'HOUND' and then battle other robots 
 on really big maps. It's deep, unflinching and austere right down to the core of its cold metal 
 heart.
  
  Don't expect to see entire cities being blown up, aliens, rocket boosters or screeching anime characters, 
 Chromehounds is about realism and simulation. It's a very humble game that doesn't show off and, 
 by the same token, rarely impresses or surprises. But what it does, it does well.
  
  The offline campaign is competent enough. With 42 missions there's plenty to get through and a 
 fair amount of variety in the HOUNDS you can control. It's divided up into six sets of missions 
 based on the mech classes: soldier, sniper, defender, scout heavy gunner and commander. There is 
 actually a significant difference between them. They move and handle very differently, have varied 
 special capabilities and most importantly, a variety of customised weapons.
  
  Sadly, most of the offline campaign follows the disappointment of having really cool mechs and 
 not much to actually do with them. You can blow up houses, but they just disappear into a pile 
 of dust really unconvincingly. Likewise, you can stomp on little soldiers, but they just vanish 
 into nothing. There's no spectacle, no va-va-voom. Playing sniper missions where you just wait 
 on a hill and shoot slow-moving targets from miles away isn't going to get your pulse racing.
 
  
  In Chromehound's weighty customisation mode you unlock parts in Campaign mode and then stick them 
 together in thousands of configurations. You can add on multiple brackets to increase the number 
 of weapons and equipment slots. There are also four different propulsion modes (legs, hovercraft, 
 wheels or tracks) and tons of different bits of armour. Obviously, the more you put on, the heavier 
 and less agile it will be. There's a kind of diamond chart (similar to Rumble Roses XX) to show 
 what type of mech class you qualify for, and a helpful guide to walk you through the finer points. 
 It's very realistic. You can't put armour or weapons in places where they'll block other bits - 
 like legs - from working properly. Greasemonkeys and robot fanatics will love this part of the 
 game. It's surprising what you can come up with.
  
  You're not forced to build a unique HOUND, there are plenty you can borrow. However, it really 
 pays dividends when you take the game online. The Xbox Live mode, known as 'Neromius War' is focused 
 on working as a team and getting heavily into strategy. It's a bit like the classic board game 
 Risk, where the map is divided up into rival nations who take it in turns to knock seven shades 
 out of each other. Each of the three nations accommodates a clan of up to twenty players, who then 
 split up to play in squads of six. This works well, but requires a great deal of organisation. 
 It's not the kind of thing you'll be able to get into unless you're in a clan and know other clans 
 that like big rumbly robots.
  
  Overall, Chromehounds does well with textbook elements of the mech genre, but lacks the appeal 
 of being exciting, dramatic, flashy or innovative. It's nothing I haven't seen done before with 
 more energy and enthusiasm in countless other mech games.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: suicidal_T_H
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 31, 2008 4:43 pm PT
Review:  What can I say this was a pretty good Mech game. The story is decent but the neat thing is that 
 you can either use a defualt mech or you can make a customize one and see if you can create a good 
 one. Most of the time its hard to make a good mech and you'll probably use the standard default 
 mech. You unlock parts and weapons by finishing levels and doing good in the levels like taking 
 no damage and having your allies take no damage. The campain is broken up in to different classes. 
 For example there is the Soldier, Scout, Heavy and Sniper missions. The online is really hard to 
 get started and once it's started its hard to find the enemy so its not that fun. Overall this 
 is a pretty good mech game and definitly should at least be rented. The story kind of doesn't make 
 sense but the mech gameplay is fun you kind of ignore it. Also its nice that when switching to 
 a new class you're given a tutorial on the classes weapons and how to use them properly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pondus_nymo
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 5, 2008 7:34 am PT
Review:  best ever. i dont sh it you!!
  
  you need to be patienced dough, but when you start to know the way of the game (online, offline 
 is a wast of time)
  you will not ever want to lay it down... trust me... i got well over 1000hours with this game! 
 and still goin strong
  
  http://www. youtube. com/watch? v=jZoi3aGxKL4
  
  this video will hopefully make you wanne buy this game:-D (imthe maker of the video if you wondered)
 
  
  love ufin
  
  (to fill out the freakin 100 words) :
  bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla
  bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla
  bla 
 bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla
  bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla
  bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla
  bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla
  bla 
 bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla
  
  hope this will do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Airidis
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 11, 2008 7:16 pm PT
Review:  ok all i'm going to say about singleplayer is its extremely boring the story sucks your enemys 
 well heh they suck oh and your allys if you ever have any suck. allright then onto multiplayer 
 which is amazing. its like a war everything you do contributes just a tiny bit to the whole war 
 that alot of people are fighting. multiplayer can be boring without any freinds but with ummm 4-6 
 its so freaking amazing you will be yourself all night. so anyway the mechs are slow but in combat 
 that doesnt really matter because your always trying to get a good shot at the enemy's cockpit. 
 explosions look nice same with mechs there gritty gas guzzling beasts with big guns. its has abit 
 of a tactical thing to it also because you always need a bit of every class in each battle. scout 
 for finding out where your enemy is and getting combas's*radio towers* heavy gunners for well do 
 i have to tell you. defenders for well duh read the name. soilder is your frontline guy that keeps 
 them distracted, annoyed and confused. oh and radar dude makes plans on how to attack and where 
 to send people.
  
  OK THIS IS A GREAT MULTIPLAYER EXPERIENCE BUT IF YOU DONT HAVE XBOX LIVE DONT GET THIS GAME BECAUSE 
 ITS A WASTE FOR SINGLEPLAYER!!!!!!!!!!!!!! MULTIPLAYRE AMAZING!!!!!!! SINGLE CRAP!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killer5003
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 1, 2008 5:55 pm PT
Review:  best game i played yetbest game i played yetbest game i played yetbest game i played yetbest game 
 i played yetbest game i played yetbest game i played yetbest game i played yetbest game i played 
 yetbest game i played yetbest game i played yetbest game i played yetbest game i played yetbest 
 game i played yetbest game i played yetbest game i played yetbest game i played yetbest game i 
 played yetbest game i played yetbest game i played yetbest game i played yetbest game i played 
 yetbest game i played yetbest game i played yetbest game i played yetbest game i played yetbest 
 game i played yetbest game i played yetbest game i played yetbest game i played yetbest game i 
 played yetbest game i played yetbest game i played yetbest game i played yetbest game i played 
 yetbest game i played yetbest game i played yetbest game i played yetbest game i played yetbest 
 game i played yetbest game i played yetbest game i played yetbest game i played yetbest game i 
 played yet 
::::::

::::::
UserName: t0ppi3
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 17, 2008 5:18 pm PT
Review:  at first thought i thiught this game was awful but then i tried online it has great custimization 
 of your hounds and the wars are very well set out and at a cheap price it is definetly worth buying 
 it could be fixed up a little as there are many glitches online the graphics are also somthing 
 to talk about with the explosions looking great it takes a while to learn how to make a good hound 
 but after that ur set. if u have a mate u can make a clan and join in and help out in the war the 
 war is set out as there are three teams who have a certain amount of flags each all three team 
 have there ups and downs as they all sell diffrent wepons the objective is to take the flags which 
 can take a few days if one team takes out another oil plant there prices will rise a brillent game 
 at a cheap price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PlaTiNuM24k
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 14, 2007 9:28 am PT
Review:  At first glance when i saw this game i thought the makers of mechassault were at it again, but 
 this time a title for the 360. I am a huge fan of mech fighting games like this espically mechassault, 
 so this game had alot to live up to in my mind.
  
  The game had me hooked from the very beginning, when i played the first tutorial i was like, whoa, 
 this is nice, again looked like mechassault, but in and itself, totally different. Its awesome 
 how they split up the types of hounds like soldier, sniper, and heavy gunner. The first minute 
 i played it, to me it was very hard to put down. Espically after every mission you'd get a part 
 and 2 parts if you got S rank on the mission. Some of those bonus objectives were awkward but still 
 fairly easy to accomplish. The only downside to this game it you have to have alot of patience 
 to play it because they basically incorporated real world physics to the max. Meaning, a meavy 
 hound takes a long time to move. Especially the heavy gunners, they were better for defending then 
 moving, even thought one of the mission requires alot of movement. Sniper and Heavy GUnner have 
 been my specialities so far, even though i have made a very powerful soldier hound as well. Now 
 the multiplayer, i have barely tapped the surface of this one, it a whole new setup compared to 
 what i am normally used to. War Zones, different factions fighting, its a crazy setup but addictingly 
 fun if you get the hang of it all. I just read a review by a guy burning on the graphics not being 
 next gen.' i'd like to be shown what next gen graphics should look like on here cause this game 
 has immense graphics, at least in the terran and hound sense, they are very well detailed and the 
 movement mechainics are awesome as well. Overall, I love this game in it enitrity, its just a hard 
 game to get used to since I am used to very fast paced ones. Its a good break just a very hard 
 adjustment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: savetehhaloz
Rating: 3
Date: Dec 4, 2007 2:33 pm PT
Review:  Chromehounds is a game that deals with Mechs, an apocalyptic future, and more mechs. This game 
 was highly anticipated, and the cover said that the game was "Just What the Xbox 360 Needs". Obviously 
 this was false advertising, and my innocent non gaming parents fell for it and bought it. The minute 
 I played this game, I was hammered by the graphics. The graphics are washed out and dull and are 
 definitely not next gen. The storyline is OK, nothing that we haven't seen or done before. What 
 makes it worse is the mechs. You can customize your mech but thats about what there is to it. The 
 multiplayer is rubbish and is something you would gladly skip (including singleplayer) . For a launch 
 title, Chromehounds is slaughtered brutally by Call of Duty 2 and Oblivion. Seriously don't fall 
 for the hype. Chromehounds is a major dissapointment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redneck1907
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 29, 2007 12:35 pm PT
Review:  one of the better mech simulation games out there that use the regular controller hella better 
 than armored core for it worth buying since its only 20 bucks squad name Ghost Busterz hope to 
 see u soon gamer tag is redneck1907 add me if u want to join the squad also the hound customization 
 is very nicely done has lost of parts constant action strategy and much much more if ur a fan of 
 mech games this is a must buy oh u might have to go to like a game store to find it since most 
 wal marts dont carry it any more 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eLLiptiX
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 27, 2007 11:29 pm PT
Review:  Alright.. let's kick this betty off.
  
  Remember back in the day when we all owned semi-crappy/playable computers? Alright.. now jump back 
 in time and try to recall a game called Mechwarrior. You either loved it or hated it depending 
 on your tastes, but I was a lover... uhh .. yea. It's old, but it's a classic in my book. I mean 
 come on.. being able to build your own towering robot of carnage and unleashing it? Well.. it wasn't 
 as expansive as I make it out to be because you had different variations of specific models that 
 you could add weapons to. But it was one of my favorite games back then.
  
  Ever since that game, different developers tried to carry on with thier own spin off of the Mech 
 combat genre. For instance, microsoft came up with Mechassault for the Xbox. I ended up owning 
 this game.. and a year later.. selling it. I won't bother to write a review about it because there's 
 not much at all to tell. Of corse then there came a sequel to that, and then when the 360 was launched, 
 rumors of a new mech game was being spread around. 
  
  Of corse this game has been out for some time, but I actually just bought it used about a week 
 ago and decided that I'd share my opinion (once again) to all you game lovers of the world.
  
  Graphics: 6.5
  
  Yea I know, I have to give it some leeway since it was practically a launch 
 title for the 360, but the graphics really aren't that impressive. They aren't crappy by any means 
 but I think a little more effort could have been possible. I mean come on... Gears of War anyone? 
 It's definately possible.
  
  Sound: 6.0
  
  Okay.. if there gonna be mech smashing, metal scorching, rocket flying, machine-gun shredding action 
 in this game... then for the love of God put a halfway decent soundtrack in it!!!!! I seriously 
 have to turn my stereo speakers off when I'm at any title menu because the music is.. repulsive. 
 Remember one of Mechwarrior's plusses? It had it's own awesome soundtrack. It was like.. classical 
 mixed with techno. Plus the game itself worked as a soundtrack in any CD player. Hell.. even Mechassault 
 had an awesome soundtrack.. I remember tappin my feet when the music pounded in that game. But 
 this game? I've played japanese-anime based games that have been diced up by the critics with soundtracks 
 equivalent to this one. Seriously Sega... what the Hell..
  
  Gameplay: 8.5
  
  By far the best aspect of the game. Probably the only thing that would ever make this game memorable 
 (not to mention keeping it a shade above mediocre) . But I'm getting ahead of myself.. I mean to 
 only pay compliments to the Xbox Live aspect. The single player campaign is only there to train 
 you up for Live. In actuality.. you don't really even need to bother with single player because 
 it's obvious the developers didn't either. I played the first 2 missions and was bored out of my 
 mind.
  
  Then... I switched to Live..
  
  Now this is what I'm talking about! Choosing between 3 different nations to fight a never ending 
 war over a continent online? With your own fully customizable robot?? And teaming up in an optional 
 squadron with other live players??? I must say i was impressed... Just a shame that nobody plays 
 this game anymore because.. it has a lot of fun factor to offer to the Chromehound faithful.
  
  Value: 7.0
  
  I give this game a lower rating because I really do mean that hardly anyone 
 plays this game anymore... such a disappointment. But if you know a group of guys that are looking 
 for a fun addicting time for a while.. definately mention the game. Because right now, you can 
 get this game at any gamestop used for really cheap. (I paid 10 with my discount) But remember 
 that the online aspect is really the only plus about this game.
  
  If you really don't want to buy this game I don't blame you, but in the least.. sucker a buddy 
 into paying for your rental just to try out the online experience (whatever experience there is 
 left) .
  
  Peace,
  Elliptix 
::::::

::::::
UserName: APOWDEREDDONUT1
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 27, 2007 1:04 pm PT
Review:  Chromehounds is a mech simulator, and is the first Mech related adventure for the XBox 360. A little 
 bit combat, a little bit strategy, it provides quick, fairly difficult missions and then involving 
 online gameplay. It may sound obvious, but a lot of people seem to think it's the next BattleTech 
 game. MechAssault (for x-box) was an arcade game that was simple to play and easy to learn. Chromehounds 
 is much more difficult to play and the learning curve is very steep. 
  
  The graphics run from very good to pretty poor. Where other mech games go for arcadey non-reality, 
 ChromeHounds tries to keep things real. Your mechs don't zip along at 100 miles an hour. They stomp 
 with realistic weight and speed, leaving behind footprints and track marks. The detail on their 
 glistening metal body is quite impressive. With the incredibly huge amount of customization available 
 for your mech, you can spend hours honing the exact perfect mech for your gameplay style, and really 
 care about its survival. 
  
  The world you inhabit didn't get this same level of loving detail. The missions are all very short 
 and really don't need a plot. You are blowing things up while trying not to be blown up yourself. 
 The environments you stomp through are almost an afterthought. Don't look for waving fields of 
 grain or purple mountains majesty here. 
  
  The mech customization is really the key to play (otherwise equally powered mechs would just be 
 strafing each other and whoever has slightly better aim would win) . You can load up on weapons 
 and armor, at the expense of speed. There are TONS of weapons, legs, and cockpits. You can carry 
 missle counters, thermal vision, night vision, and other "assist" parts. 
  
  As in many modern combat games, the basic mission tree is really all just a training mission for 
 the *real* challenge - facing other human beings. You want to replay the local missions several 
 times, tuning your mech movement skills and your weapon / armor combination to get ready for the 
 team based online gameplay. That is where the real fun and skill-testing begins. Can you coordinate 
 your efforts with your friends to ward off attacks from other skilled players from around the world? 
 You can't just run and blast away - that technique will get you killed quickly. You have to know 
 your mech's limitations and advantages, and then plan joint attacks to achieve that victory. It 
 really is a fun combination of hand-eye coordination and tactical intelligent planning. 
  
  X-box live featurs a "war" with three warring nations. Every player must pick allegiance to one 
 nation (though you can change allegiances) and you can go on missions for your country. The goal 
 of each mission is to destroy the enemy's HQ while defending your own. You also win, but get less 
 points, if you destroy the other team's mechs. 
  
  X-box live also features ranked and unranked games so you can just try out your mech against other 
 players before taking it on the campaign. 
  
  This game is complex and it takes a while to figure out how to build the right mech for the right 
 mission. My only real complaint is going on missions requires you join up with your squad. If you've 
 ever been in a "clan" on x-box live, you know how hard it is to link up with your team to play 
 other teams. This game offers a unique mech simulator that assures players won't necessarily be 
 beaten by trash talking 13 year olds with excellent hand eye coordination. In fact, if you don't 
 have x-box live gold, you may want to only consider renting this game.
  
  Well recommended for people who have online gameplay and enjoy that level of thought. For someone 
 just wanting an arcadey  you might want to rent this first 
 to see if the realistic mech functioning will keep you happy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: druggyjoe3000
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 28, 2007 3:32 pm PT
Review:  chrome hounds has a sloppy single player but a very nice multi player the single player is just 
 training but i abouslutely love it and will never stop playing until a sequel comes out. if your 
 looking for achivements this is not the game u get an easy 420 but after that u got start working 
 for it i give every thing a ten it and thier is endless possiblites for your hound all u need to 
 do is get a couple buddys to play with u then u make a squad and thats where all the endless fun 
 comes in the best mech game ever 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PherdnutChiken
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 2, 2007 9:49 pm PT
Review:  If you've enjoyed Mechwarrior and the Armored Core series you should have a pretty good idea of 
 what to expect from a game that is basically a blend of the two. It's a lot like AC but slower 
 paced and with a little more emphasis on shooter elements. In a lot of ways building is more intense 
 than AC since you're really only limited by the number of joints on the parts you choose and have 
 a lot of freedom in how you put your robots together.
  
  Physics also play an important role as some weapons have a great deal of recoil and figuring out 
 just where to place weapons as well as what order you want clusters of up to four to fire in takes 
 a lot of tweaking and more than a little knowhow.
  
  As with all other communities, Halo 3 has taken a big bite out of this one but I just started in 
 September and still have an easy enough time finding a game but it's a bit lonely at the bottom 
 as there aren't a lot of newcomers that are even bothering to borrow a clue from the forums and 
 fansites.
  
  My chief gripe with the game is that much like AC, I think FROM still suffers from an inability 
 to balance certain elements properly. It's really not worth putting together lumbering behemoth 
 style hounds as there are weapons that can pretty much pop any part with a couple quad shots so 
 having some maneuverability is almost always desirable. To their credit, however, the long-time 
 veterans are still refining and coming up with new hound-building ideas so there is still a lot 
 of ground to cover. I would also say there is a much greater variation in speed and role variety 
 than I've encountered in Mechwarrior but I'll let you read up on the details elsewhere.
  
  If you're curious about this game after reading up on it, you're probably going to dig it. It's 
 a rare 360 title for more thoughtful gamers and I'd recommend picking it up now while the community 
 is still reasonably strong. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: royalSlayor
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 18, 2007 1:47 pm PT
Review:  I found this game to be difficult at first, if I had only had 15-20 hours to play it I would have 
 given it a lesser score but after playing for a while and running quit a bit of missions I say 
 this is one of the best squad based games I have played. Sure the single player is not the best (by 
 far) , but if you are looking for a good multiplayer game, check this out and because its been out 
 for a while and its not to expensive. And plus, 6 v 6 giant Mech battles... who wouldnt like it!
 
  
  See you on the battlefield,
  royalSlayor 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JOke622
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 10, 2007 2:50 pm PT
Review:  This was the first game I purchased when I got my Xbox 360, and I was planning on immediately falling 
 in love with it. Sadly, that wasn't the case. Chromehounds offers a very boring, basic storyline, 
 which really isn't too exciting, no matter how many times they decide to throw in added surprises. 
 The singleplayer is more or less training for the multiplayer portion of the game, and multiplayer 
 can be difficult to get into. Basically, you are thrown into a massive online war between three 
 nations and you must find a squad (which is pretty much the same thing as a clan) , which will allow 
 you to join up with them. If you aren't an outgoing person, finding a squad can also be a nuisance. 
 One thing that I find difficult about this game is the actual building of a mech that suits you. 
 More experienced players can make what seem like inpenetrable war machines, while you must experiment 
 with new parts until you build a suitable Hound of your own. Another one of the more tedious factors 
 offered by the game is the massive size of the maps. If you are not a patient person, you will 
 be frustrated with this game because it may take you more than 5 minutes in a game to actually 
 find an enemy, and if you aren't prepared, you might get your brains blow out in 5 seconds, in 
 which case you'll have to wait until your teammates either meet the same fate or succeedthe mission. 
 In either case, these games can take a while. If you have a nack for this game, you will have much 
 more fun with it, but for those of you not willing to spend time on truly learning the ropes and 
 key strategies, forget it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: austinmuckelrat
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 3, 2007 8:22 pm PT
Review:  Single player could be a little bland. The Multiplayer has bad service. Because I was playing chromehounds 
 today. I was trying to play online. It saids you have to wait until 9-4-07 at 4;00 pm. That really 
 do sucks
  
  Graphics are excellent
  
  Sound is kinda duel
  
  Value is worth 19.99 are less
  
  The game would been a lot better if they fix the online service 
 and play it whatever you want besides just waiting. Thats why people don't play this game that 
 much, Because of the service.
  
  Its a really good game to play online. If I were ya I rather rent this game first before buying 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Waskallywabbit
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 20, 2007 9:37 pm PT
Review:  Right off the bat, lets get a few things out of the way. One: this game is not for everybody. The 
 game structure, online nature, and niche specific setting will turn many people off. Two: the game 
 takes some patience. Unfortunately (for other games) this is something lacking in many of todays 
 gamers. Three: If you can get past the initial learning curve, you will find a rich and engrossing 
 multiplayer game that gives gear heads and trigger happy gamers a place to show their stuff. There 
 are few games that merge strategy heavy, squad based shooting that can provide some exciting action 
 to those who are willing to put some time into playing. The plot has something to do with a near 
 future setting in a fictional East European zone at war between three nations. While the plot has 
 some thought put into it by the developers, it takes a back seat given the most of the game's meat 
 comes through its online multiplayer war that is semi-persistent. I'll get my review of the single 
 player out of the way right here by saying that it is shallow and really only serves as a set of 
 training missions for the online battles. Some others complain about this, but for those of us 
 looking for multiplayer games, like UT4 and the such, we know that a shallow single player can be 
 over looked if the multiplayer mode provides enough help ignore it. That is the case with Chromehounds. 
 The single player sets up the setting and basic plot of the game through a narrative about mercenaries 
 and a secret war, all the while training the player to use each of the role types the game offers. 
 This is actually one of the finer points of Chromehounds, in that online, playing a role is important 
 to being a good squad member, and squads who have defined rolls typically are more successful. 
 Role types include soldiers that make up the front line, scouts, defenders, snipers, and commanders 
 that can issue orders and see other players via radar. Its quite deep and strategic when you hit 
 the battle field. So, you play through the single player and learn the ins and outs of handling 
 the types of Hounds (basically the primary mode robot in the game, which really looks more like 
 a giant tank than mecha) . Players familiar with the Armored Core games knows that he developer, 
 From Software, loves to give players the ability to create their own Hound from the ground up. 
 As you progress throughout the game, in either single player or online via funds you win from battle, 
 you can amass a giant collection of parts. From guns (guns guns guns!!!) to different types of 
 mobility (legs, tank treds, wheels, ect.) generators, and all kinds of other parts, players are 
 able to make thousands of combinations of Hound. Whats amazing is how every combination will handle 
 differently, and the tuning options don't end with just your body. You can customize the system 
 from the inside which effects all aspects of performance. You even have a huge selection of colors, 
 patterns, and editable decals you can customize the look of your Hound with. Believe me when I 
 say that you can spend hours just building and tweaking your Hound, and before long you will have 
 a garage full of mechanical hell bringers. All of this is nothing without a good team, and Chromhounds 
 forces you to play on one. You really can't participate in the online portion of the game without 
 joining a squad, Chromehounds' version of a clan. Luckily, the game makes it easy to apply for 
 membership to many active squads, so getting into one is rarely a problem, and there are plenty 
 of people out there playing, so you should be able to find a group of people to suit your play 
 style. While the servers typically do a decent job of keeping things working, it can occasionally 
 hiccup while getting matches up and joining matches with the rest of your squad from time to time. 
 Luckily, games crashing or getting thrown from an ongoing match rarely ever happens, so the lobby 
 problems can be overlooked easily. As mentioned earlier, working as a team is paramount, as everyone 
 just lone wolfing it will lead to crushing defeat. Strategy is the name of the game online, so 
 following rank or at least listening to your team and sticking together is a must. Still though, 
 if you like cooperative gameplay, you can't do much better than Chromehounds. This game was built 
 for the smarter shooter fan. Graphically, the game can best be described as workman-like . It gets 
 the job done and occasionally impresses. Its not flashy, but its not ugly either. The Hounds are 
 well detailed and move with real weight. The maps are varied and there are a ton of them, scattered 
 over several regions. You'll play on farmland, mountains, snow covered ridges, and deserts. Weather 
 effects are present and vary from rain, fog, light snow, all the way to blizzards. The cool thing 
 is how it effects the game play. In heavy rain, the ground is slick and muddy, making it risky 
 to travel along ridges as one slip can take out your legs. Night missions make great use of dynamic 
 lighting. Everything from the headlights of the front to your night vision scope (provided you 
 remembered to attach one) make fighting at night a blast. There's nothing like seeing a firefight 
 at night over a ridge with explosions and fire lighting up the night. Once again, these are the 
 highlights. Over-all, while there are such graphical standout moments, over-all it gets the job 
 done and holds up pretty well, even when the action gets intense. Sound wise, the music is ambient 
 and ignorable (there is no better game to take advantage of your ripped music on your 360) and 
 the sound effects are fantastic. Weapons all sound impressive and different. Explosions are dynamic 
 and frightening, and the sounds of your Hound stomping around the landscape is well done. While 
 the music is a throwaway, it won't offend. Over-all the sound is well done.
  
  Gameplay is varied and deep. Hound controls are well thought out and responsive, and you really 
 get a feel for the differences in the way your Hound can perform when you build one. The controller 
 rumbles just right to give you a tactile sensation and reinforce the scale and weight of driving 
 a giant robot tank. The land scape literally bows before you, and weapon fire feels big and impressive 
 as well. Once again, this game is not for everybody. But, if you are tired of cheating twelve year 
 olds on Halo 2, sick of smack talking bloodlust on Gears of War, or just wanting more out a team 
 based game on Live, you should check Chomehounds out. Its been out long enough to be a cheap buy, 
 and for people who like to think a little while they are blowing stuff up, you can't do much better 
 on the Box. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shawn7324
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 20, 2007 1:55 pm PT
Review:  There are so many concepts taken from the likes of the awesome Steel Battalion Line of Contact 
 that, with the power of the 360, this should be a truly amazing game. Yet the single player missions 
 lack any real challenge (or speed) and the online is full of countless problems such as lame servers, 
 hosts that can't hold 5on5, and when people lose a game they pull the plug so that they don't get 
 the loss and you are not credited with your win. if you can't join a room because it is full, you 
 get kicked out of the Chromehounds server and have to load up the entire game again from the opening 
 menu. This is annoying to begin with but after 2 or 3 weeks, every time it happens you'll be thinking 
 about what you can part-ex hounds for! Worse still are the glitches!!! Sometimes you can't see 
 the flag marking an enemy base, other times you CAN'T SEE THE ENEMY!!!!
  
  The creation of a HOUND is almost an art form. It can be done in a few minutes but perfecting the 
 right HOUND for your fighting style and the type of map and plan of attack is key to victory and 
 will keep you swapping parts for weeks.
  
  On the clan side of things, the online clan system is quite good and the game searching is one 
 of the easiest to use and probably one for the best I've come across.
  
  Graphics are crisp and the sound effects are realistic with accurate surround (i. e. if the guy 
 is blowing up behind you to your left, you hear it in your rear left speaker) .
  
  Overall:
  
  Single player - a very average xbox game (not to 360 standards)
  Online - good 
 but could have been so much better 
::::::

::::::
UserName: georgiaboy329
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 20, 2007 12:05 pm PT
Review:  This is a really fun game if you have Xbox Live. On Xbox Live you are part of 1 of 3 countries 
 and are in a squad. Your goal is to capture the other 2 counties and win the war. You can customize 
 your own hound which is very fun to do. Xbox Live is basically all i played because the single 
 player absolutely sucks. It is the most boring single player I have ever played in my life. I dont 
 even know how to describe it, it just flatout sucks.
  
  Overall this game is a great game if you have Xbox Live, if you dont then pass this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kman117
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 19, 2007 4:05 pm PT
Review:  This game is a must have for all 360 owners. The game's story is descent but the visuals are astounding. 
 The gameplay is awesome. The game needs to be played alot to enjoy it the best. the customization 
 is a great addition. the varied gameplay with the six different role types has something for every 
 one to enjoy. the game is highly addictive and is extremely under rated. the game has excellent 
 controls and deserves to be given a chance. if you dont like a role type try them all before you 
 decide to hate it. the best 360 game that you can get for under 20 bucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madcat26
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 19, 2007 8:16 am PT
Review:  Awsome game if you have the time to invest. Defenitely join a quad. If you don't have xbox live 
 don't bother. Awsome game if you have the time to invest. Defenitely join a quad. If you don't 
 have xbox live don't bother. Awsome game if you have the time to invest. Defenitely join a quad. 
 If you don't have xbox live don't bother. Awsome game if you have the time to invest. Defenitely 
 join a quad. If you don't have xbox live don't bother. Awsome game if you have the time to invest. 
 Defenitely join a quad. If you don't have xbox live don't bother. Awsome game if you have the time 
 to invest. Defenitely join a quad. If you don't have xbox live don't bother. Awsome game if you 
 have the time to invest. Defenitely join a quad. If you don't have xbox live don't bother. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bolvar_11
Rating: 9.9
Date: Aug 9, 2007 2:15 pm PT
Review:  this game is by far undedrated... poor advertisment took a toll on its popularity, the game did 
 not get out much due to its producers bad marketing at getting the game heard, was a chance renting 
 it to see how it was but i loved it... some feel different than others about the game, between 
 me and my friends, u either love it or hate it...... but my god, great game... online play is very 
 prfessional, its a constant battle between 3 nations fighting for territory, u choose one of these 
 nations to fight for as soon as u get on live.. within the nation, there are squads... my squad 
 is the 4th highest ranked in the world.. im the leader of the head S. K. Y. N. E. T. SQUAD... its my 
 favorite game for the 360 by far.. Highly recomended... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agubna
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 1, 2007 10:06 pm PT
Review:  I'm not usually a mech fan, but I do play them occasionally. I thought this game looked interesting 
 and picked it up for $15.00 at gamestop, which I think is a pretty good deal. Like gamespot says, 
 the real fun is in the multiplayer over live. The single-player is pretty fun, but in 1 day I beat 
 almost all the arcs except the last 2 which I know is wayyy to fast. The thing I mainly like about 
 this game though is how you can customize your hound. You have so many parts and it's more in depth 
 than you would think, considering you have to put in different generators, and cockpits, which 
 is something you rarely see. The live is fun to because it has its own story mode i guess you could 
 say too which is cool. The graphics are pretty good considering how long its been out for, and 
 the sound of the weapons and the sound of your hound moving is good too. So overall if you're a 
 mech fan, if you have live, and if you find this game for under $20.00, go for it for sure, you 
 shouldnt be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eatspie
Rating: 4.3
Date: Jul 15, 2007 11:37 pm PT
Review:  Well like i said before my friend hyped this game up so much i thought it was the perfect i was 
 horribily wrong. First off there no characters although they try to get you to know different members 
 of your squad theres just no characters. Second off the graphics look like an old ps2 mech game
 
  just in case youve ner seen a ps2 game that means its bad. Also it lacks excitement you spend 
 more time driving your painfully slow mech around looking for bad guys and trying to reach command 
 post than fighting. Also reloading takes a year. And its weird you can shoot a missle right on 
 the ground next to a humand he'll still be alive. Trust me you dont want to get this game not even 
 the online campaign is much better but if you like crappy games pick this up today. Oh and this 
 craps not even worth 20 bucks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: an1247
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 1, 2007 2:15 pm PT
Review:  The only reason for this game was the Xbox live! Sure you get 33 missions to play on single player 
 but that is all training for Xbox Live! Also if you do play on Xbox live it is fun to talk to people 
 in the squad to take over the two other countries that rival you. The more you play the higher 
 rank you become. The rank you start at is Recruit. The highest is Colonel. It uses actual military 
 ranks. Do not be fooled by the genre. This game has just as much action as the strategy. All the 
 variables that can happen, it is wild! I highly recommend it to people who are into this kind of 
 game. Again, not for idiots! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dolfan46
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 29, 2007 6:06 am PT
Review:  The Good:
  
  Chromehounds is a great multiplayer game that involves group work and stragety. The Gameplay is 
 amazing, and the more people that you are playing with, the better. There are two main choices 
 of gameplay Nermouis War and Free Battle, which gives you something to do if none of your squadmates 
 are on or if you are tired of Nermouis War. The many custamizations that you can do to your Hound 
 is amazing. Also, the choice of Computer enemies is pretty good. The 6 Role Types (RT) gives you 
 a wide varity of play. The Music really suits the game.
  
  The Bad:
  
  You can spend 30%-60% of the game waiting for your squadmates to get ready for missions, which 
 gets really annoying. The game is mainly online play so don't get it if you don't have XBOX LIVE, 
 cause the single player part is fun for the first couple of times, but not when you play it over 
 and over again. Even though the game is rated 'T' there are still many little kids playing the 
 game, which can be frustrating to listen to. New players can be real pains. Mainly because you 
 have to explain everything to them. But what I really hate about new players is when they think 
 that they know everything there is to know about the game. I DONT hate all newbies in this game, 
 just the ones that refuse to listen to the people that have playing this game for months before 
 they did. Some Hound designs can get to be really annoying, AKA gernade spewers. Gernaders have 
 the ability to take out weapons with two shots, and move at least 250+, which makes them hard to 
 hit. Also Base Rapers can make you throw your controler against the wall. Destroying the base is 
 only Ok if you go through the middle of the map and searched for the enemy and you didn't find 
 them. The music can get annoying mainly because of it's repaditiveness. Also, the Valor Medals 
 that you get for getting level 100 in the RT, will take you a very long time to get. Only two people 
 in the entire game have the Scout Valor.
  
  Other:
  
  If you get the game make sure that you complete Story Mode first. This gives you a handle for the 
 game, some really good parts and more squads will accept you into their squad because you have 
 some experince. Make sure you listen to people with a rank of Cadet and higher, this helps you 
 make better Hounds and play better.
  
  Overall, the game is really good, but you should rent it first. If you find a squad that plays 
 4-7 days a week then the game should be really fun.
  
  *NOTE* I do find this game really good, I just had alot of things to say about it which were negative. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EVallette
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 19, 2007 9:28 am PT
Review:  chromehounds is game that is really slow paced. most missions will take up to 25 minutes to complete. 
 its medium length campaign was enough to keep me into the game although the missions felt repetetive 
 at some times. its online feature is what really makes it shine. in online you are able to choose 
 which nation you want to affiliate with. the games lets literally customize and build a hound for 
 online and campaign. there are six different roles to choose from each role has its own story line. 
 the five roles are heavy gunner, sniper, commando, scout, defender, and soldier. the hardest missions 
 are defender and heavy gunner missions because the mechs move so slow and the enemy sends lots 
 of hounds after you. chromehounds is game to play with a lot of your friends online. the game controls 
 are complicated at first but after an hour of learning the game you should be familiar with them. 
 the graphics are amazing for the hounds and the environment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crazy_Kid314
Rating: 5.4
Date: Jun 15, 2007 10:12 pm PT
Review:  This game just sucks. From the comercials and videos, the first instinct was wow, this game tickles 
 my fancy . I rented thinking there can't be a game this cool and I was basicly punked. The gameplay 
 is the same in every mission.. run... shoot... oh look.... a cloud.... run... shoot... Mission Acomplished!! 
 The game lacks value, even in the effing customization. The only good things about this game is 
 the churchy music. And the explosions are cool. Some of the mechs are nice to look at while others 
 look like the abandoned cousin who shows up at a family reunion. The world are dull and all of 
 the buildings are generally clones. If you enjoy running around and shooting missles at the same 
 guys, the fork out some cash and have at it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hugh000270
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jun 13, 2007 2:45 am PT
Review:  Chromehounds is much more like Armored Core. In fact, I could say Armored Core 4 is better than 
 Chromehounds. What's interesting in this game is it's building option. You can add decals to the 
 cockpit or the chassis although thats pretty small.
  
  The game's mech's (Hounds or whatever) are nicely detailed although the environment is pretty bland 
 for a Xbox 360 game. Also, its environment is completely bland that it's a question if how come 
 it won't work well on older Xbox 360 consoles.
  
  I do not much like the missions although at least they put some challenge, the assembly system 
 is pretty akward. You must first finish missions just in order to be able to unlock parts necessary 
 for creating a Hound rather than just first putting a shop were first, you can only buy a few parts.
 
  
  It's storyline is the baddest part. I can tell you, it is the most baddest part of the game. It 
 is only spoken on missions and it is very confusing.
  
  The only good part is, at least the game's fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darklink67
Rating: 6.6
Date: Jun 12, 2007 3:48 pm PT
Review:  I liked this game at the start i really injoyed it but then it went downhill.
  
  Gameplay- It is good but after awhile In x-box live your squad does not do much and it is preety 
 hard to find a game also you well find live really boring and frustrating on this game and that's 
 not what a video game is about at last for me . Single player was the real let down it was so cheap 
 at times like when you can't let one mech pass and there are about 12 mechs coming at the same 
 time and legs sniping you from the mountains. Also the controls really annoy me and how if your 
 shot with a machine gun your aim just goes all wierd.
  
  
  Sound- The explosions are really neat and the mechs sound cool but the music is so god dame annoying 
 and the voices in single player really get irratating.
  
  Graphics- Just normal x-box 360 graphics but lacks detail.
  
  Value- There is no replay value 
 on single player just avoid it. Multiplayer is fun at times.
  
  I don't really like this game but not enough to say it sucks just dislike it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: filter234
Rating: 10
Date: May 30, 2007 6:00 pm PT
Review:  This has been my most played game on XBOX 360. It has beat out Gears of War, Call of Duty 3, Armored 
 Core 4, etc.. It is a lot of fun to play and customizing your hound is extremely addictive.
  
  Single player is pretty plain and you need to play through single player before playing online 
 because you unlock hound parts to use online through single player. If you jump straight onto XBOX 
 Live you might not like game at all since you do not have any parts or any idea what you are doing. 
 But if you play through single player first and get the hang of it, then go online and play it 
 is a lot of fun. On top of the single player parts you can also buy parts from each of three different 
 countries. Each having their own parts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: QuadraxisIV
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 21, 2007 6:16 pm PT
Review:  Well, when i first laid eyes upon this game, i thought to myself; this won't be a very good seller 
 . Let's just say that I couldn't be any wronger. This game takes you on a full-fledged adventure 
 in which 3 countries are battling for complete domination. Thus enters the 'Hounds. These massive 
 advances in Military Technology could blow a 30-ft hole through any building you can imagine. Heck, 
 even the game Trailers have **** good explosions and meyham. So, the next time you have $30.00 
 to burn on an awsome video game that isn't too expensive, check your local Best Buy or Wal-Mart 
 and get yourself a copy of Chromehounds! Oh, and this entire review was written by someone who 
 has only had the game for 2 days. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jac494
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 18, 2007 11:24 am PT
Review:  This game is by far one of the most under appreciated games on the x360. Dont bother with the single 
 player, however multiplayer is great and is the real center of the game. I really wish people would 
 realize that single player campaigns are on their last leg and on the way out. Its great in the 
 sense of squad dynamics, and that there is a lot of customization to it. You are in a war of the 
 future that wages 24 hours with or without you. While youre offline the fight continues on until 
 the war is won by one of 3 nations competing for power. Your squad is a group of guys who play 
 together and work in a unit to achieve victory. The levels are huge and you get a sense of a real 
 battle field as opposed to some sort of arena. There are many weapons and parts for you to collect 
 and use, from various nations. I highly recommend this game to anyone. Its not without its flaws 
 though, cockpit view is missing and should be implemented on the sequel, but over all give it a 
 try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: airsoftmanic
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 1, 2007 4:17 am PT
Review:  firstly, this is a mech game which incorperates customising your own mech and fighting as a merc 
 for the three sides of the war.
  
  the different missions in the campaign are specific for each of the classes;
  commander, soldier, 
 sniper, heavy gunner, defender and scout.
  i think you can work out what each of the classes are so i think you can also guess what most of 
 the missions are but there is another mission afterwards *WARNING, WARING!! SPOILER!!!*
  the secret mission consists of you trying to kill the cerebus squad, which are probably the most 
 indestructable mechs in the game.
  you have to ignore all the other mechs and go for the cmmander, thus taking them all out of service
 
  *spoilers ended*
  
  the customisation is a very good thing as it allows each player to create their own mech to what 
 they want, but within reason as there is a weight limit.
  
  now, on to the online part. the neromus war is a brilliant idea, having a massive map with each 
 of the sides controlling a similar sized chunk of land and told to eradicate the other two sides.
 
  there are problems with it though.
  to start off, there is nothing wrong with the gameplay.
  its the methoding behind the game.
 
  they expected too many people to be playing this game, and therefore the amount of control you 
 get from attack the enemy once (CPU) in one land is about 10-20 control points, good i here you 
 say, not really. you need on average af about 150000 control points to gain one of the four parts 
 of each sector and you need at least two of these parts to gain the sector. this takes on average 
 100 people attacking the same section of a sector for a day without anyone losing and with no resistance. 
 see what im getting at? the online may be good, but one person does nothing to affect the war. 
 and theres no way for speeding it up. the only way i can see of taking a side out quicker is by 
 taking thier capital which with the amount of people playing chromehounds now, it would take about 
 a month, and the servers reset every two months.
  
  the reason i gave it a check your bargin bin classification is because its a brilliant game, just 
 dont waste your money buying a new copy. even at &pound;15 from play. com, i still think i would 
 rather buy it off ebay for &pound;5 because it just isnt worth spend money on with halo 3 and other 
 games coming out so if you have a bit of money and you have nothing to spend it on, then its worth 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1yodsyo1
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 17, 2007 11:30 am PT
Review:  If you are looking for a good robot game, go for Chromehounds, not Armored Core 4. From the same 
 guys who made Armored Core, Chromehounds is a online game with a large campaign, but relatively 
 small single offline player campaign, which is kinda disappointing. I still don't have Xbox Live 
 Gold, but its still a fun game. Customization has many customizations, but its very complicated. 
 It took me 10 minutes to design a decal and place it in the right place. Overall, Chromehounds 
 is a solid game which was underappriciated, while Core 4 got lots of focus, but botched it.
  
  Score: 9.2/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrhobo4
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 9, 2007 11:46 am PT
Review:  Chromehounds. A game were Giant mechs bash the **** out of each other. Build your own mech and 
 battle against others in an all out epic battle. Build a fast, small hound equipped with pillars 
 or anti-hound rockets on a hovercraft or wheel chasis. Or build an all out monsterous hound on 
 quad legs, equipped with heavy double cannon weapon equipped with additional howitzers and cannons. 
 Who couldnt love it.
  
  Single Player - I have to admit. The single player for this game is, well, its not the greatest. 
 Me, I had a fun time playing it except for a few things. Once you are told the mission, their is 
 no way of hearing it again so If you forget what to do, you have to options. Either restart the 
 mission or blow everything up until you blow up the objective. Me, I like the second choice. Don't 
 take the single player as the entire game. Its more of just a tutorial for the multiplayer which 
 is where the game shines. It teaches you how to use the role types listed here.
  
  Soldier - Speed: Average, Defence: Average, Attack: Average-Good, Range: Short-Average, Accuracy: 
 Average
  Description: Good all around mech. Bipedal Legs, Wheels.
  
  Sniper - Speed: Slow-Average, Defence: Low-Average, Attack: Average-Good, Range: Long-Very Long, 
 Accuracy: High
  Description: Good for taking out hounds at a difference. Very hard to beat 6 snipers with no cover. 
 Reverse Join or Quad Legs
  
  Defender - Speed: Slow-Fast, Defence: Average-High, Attack: Low-Very High, Range: Short-Average, 
 Accuracy: Low-High
  Description: Very versatile and fun type. My favorite. Very customable. Can be equipped with many 
 weapons such as Pod Rockets, Cannons, or Shotguns. Treads.
  
  Heavy Gunner - Speed: Very Slow-Slow, Defence: Low- High, Attack: High-Very High, Accuracy: Low 
 (against people) High (against HQ's)
  Description: The big guns. Uses heavy cannons to take out HQ's from a far. Quad Legs.
  
  Scout 
 - Speed: High - Very High, Defence: Low, Attack: none-high, Accuracy: Average
  Description: Not so much of a fighter but good for, well, scouting. Can capture combas easily or 
 if it has good weapons, can flank enemies as defenders and soilders tank. Hovercraft, Wheels, Bipedal.
 
  
  Commander - Speed: Very Slow-High, Defence: Low-High, Attack: None-Medium, Accuracy: Average.
 
  Description: Unique class. Carries NA maker and is able to see enemys on the map. Used to tell 
 rest of squad where the enemies are. Can either have a low NA and very fast or a massive NA and 
 ver slow. Not a fighter. Any legs.
  
  Multi-player: Here is where the stars shine. Two modes for online. Free Battle and Squad Matecher. 
 Free Battle i give it a 5 out of 10. ITs fun. has different options. But has nothing to do with 
 the war. Squad Matches I give a 8 out of 10. Nothing better then a 6v6 squad match. Make a squad 
 of 20 players and fight for one of the 3 countres Tarakia (East Europe) , Morskoj (West Russia) , 
 or Sal Kar (Middle East) . Do missions on any of the dozens of maps for your nation, gain territory, 
 money, and buy parts for your hounds. If you can't find people to play againsts you can play against 
 CPUs which can be just as hard. This is where Chromehounds gets its stars.
  
  So all in all, I give Chromehounds a 8.7. Better than many other mech Games like Armored Core 4 
 and Mech Assault (although looking forwards for Mech Assault 3. Always interested in a good mech 
 game)
  
  And for lurning Curve: I put 4 hours becasue you are consantly learning about the weapons that 
 come out every week. New weapons make this game playable for a long time. Also takes a while to 
 learn how to make the best hound possible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hellfire9988
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 29, 2007 6:41 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: Very fun, easy and fun to try to get the exact right parts for your mech. 3 different 
 online nations to choose from... Online battles are hard at first, but you'd get the hang of it 
 and then it will be very fun. Graphics: Great explosions, extremely detailed hounds, good looking 
 environments although sometimes bland. And most of all its fun to blow trees and buildings up.
 
  
  Sound: there are literally 2 different tracks in the single player game, that get VERY annoying, 
 no online music built in, but you can have custom soundtracks on.
  
  Value: Ok single player game, but fun online play that doesn't get boring.
  
  Tilt: I really 
 really like this game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: russianlegion3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 27, 2007 1:07 pm PT
Review:  I love playing this game, even though the single player isn't as great as the online. In the single 
 player, you play as a no-name mercenary helping the different factions with their problems. The 
 online version of the game is so much better than the online. You can actually buy weapons and 
 take over the continent. It has squad making and a lot of territory you can take over to get more 
 money and stuff. It is like Armored core but way more realistic and so much more better. I would 
 recommend buying this game if you love playing mech games, or even strategy/squad games. There 
 is so much you can do on the game, that makes the game even better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wellfedmonkey
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 26, 2007 12:42 pm PT
Review:  Probably my favorite game as its a huge break from the normal shooters and RPG's. Yeah I thought 
 it was way to slow at first and was really disgusted on it at first impression. Now 1 month later 
 its basically the game I play online. R6V, Gears yes they are cool but this is a huge break from 
 those games in the since of strategy and overall customization. Playing online with a squad of 
 up to 6 people on your team is intense!!! Most of my squad traded me over all thier old parts or 
 copies that they had so I got down and dirty with the whole hound design rather quickly. Man I 
 have spent hours in the garage fine tuning and tweaking on hounds till my eyes were bleeding! The 
 game is setup just perfect all the way around when it comes to building mechs so that your NEVER 
 satisfied with what you have built. You always want more to it. The game is tweaked just right 
 so that you cant add that extra fire power forcing you to literally take up one of the roles in 
 the game. Sniper, Soldier, heavy gunner, defender, etc.
  
  While the maps lands can be crappy looking at times in the graphics department most of them are 
 a very cool site to behold. Especially levels with water in them. Nice sense of depth in the land 
 as well as you can see very far into the maps. I love watching my four legged defender go trampling 
 across the map leaving footprints in the ground and watching other smaller hounds cringe and run 
 at the very site of its heavy weapons. Explosions are some of the coolest Ive ever seen! Well Im 
 sure most who owned a 360 when this came out have already made thier minds up last july but to 
 you who havent played it yet please give it a go. Its intial impression is very bad but you have 
 to get online to enjoy this game. Single player is basically training for online play. Online can 
 easily sweep hours away. Im glad I found this title and a squad. Easily one of the best XBL games 
 Ive played to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: storm_lobster
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 22, 2007 7:01 pm PT
Review:  first i must be honest when i first played campagin in this bgame i was ready to return it, with 
 horriable voice acting and borring as hell missions i just coundn't handle it.
  
  this game was saved by its super emmersive online campagin where you build hounds and figt with 
 one of 3 countries. One awesome things i found in this game were that the 3 nations had there own 
 desgins for equipment for there hounds. I found myself playing online for hours a day to lay my 
 war torn flag into the ground at a key point of incomming enemies.
  the game keeps up with the action incredibly well and has one of the cooperative feels to it because 
 of the idea teammates must stay in comm range and most targest will be sighted vissually instead 
 of a super advanced radar. the team aspect of the online is amazing and creats plenty for friends.
 
  
  this game gives you huge explosions and hundrends of machine guns. this gives a theme of barbaric 
 war machines unlike most of those clean cut stramlined gundams and armored cores. Hounds are grizzled 
 hardened soliders of war torn nations.
  
  i recomend this game for avid online players noone else 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sto1c-1
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 20, 2007 5:44 pm PT
Review:  As I have the most experience with the game pre-patch, most of this will concern the game in a 
 pre-patch state. The gameplay was incredible. The game was very tactical, and very interesting. 
 It wasn't fast-pased, but it didn't need to be. It was an excellent tactical game made for more 
 mature gamers. The graphics are superb, and the choices are vast. This game is the best game I've 
 ever played. Post patch, it is an entirely different story. The game has lost much of its tactical 
 aspect. It's much more fast-pased, and lacks the interesting tactical situation present in the 
 pre-patch game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zombieman666
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 16, 2007 7:57 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Fun shoot em' up game, but I was confused on the mission objective alot, it was pretty 
 slow, and it got repetive.
  
  Graphics: I liked the games graphics alot, it was fun to look at the machines and see how they 
 work. The enciroments were destructable, and looked good as well.
  
  Sound: Some of the sparking and repetive noises were annoying, but the guns sounded good.
  
 
  I say if your going to buy it, rent it first, its fun online and is pretty solid, but im a Mech 
 Warrior guy. And i like things simple. This game was just too complicated and convoluted. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nomisimon
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 10, 2007 9:09 am PT
Review:  Chromehounds just about has it all, a challenging story mode, gameply which requires precise knowledge 
 of what's going on around you, has hours of replay value and a great online mode.
  
  This game is truly awesome, the graphics on the hounds are great, the game play is intricate and 
 immersing despite being a little tricky to adjust to the controls at first. the game has managed 
 to succeed where mechassault on the original x-box failed, EVERYTHING is customizable from weapons 
 types, ammo used, colours, how much or little you want to make use of weapons.
  
  And the on-line concept is fresh and challenging as you and a squad fight it out to help your country 
 fight for domination of the continent with a large number of maps to play on the chances are it 
 will be hard to get bored as each has its own challenges to over come as whether types and surroundings 
 affect which type of hounds should be used and what is effective.
  
  thoose who have slated the online play of the game have most probably not taken the time to find 
 a squad to join and play with
  
  and those who have a problem with the off-line play probably only rented the game on a short lease 
 and have not had chance to fully immerse themselves in the game.
  
  while it is true that allot of the achievements are on-line based this adds to the game for those 
 that have live in the same way that the G. R. A. W games used there achievements to do the same. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeesh1981
Rating: 2.4
Date: Mar 3, 2007 9:41 am PT
Review:  First of all, this game is no where close to being as good as Mechwarrior, It may have better graphics 
 smoke effects etc but thats where it all ends. This game SUCKS!
  
  It was the very first game i bought with my Xbox 360, and I almost sold my console back because 
 of this piece of crap. Luckily I decided to give some of the other games a try and decided to keep 
 my 360 from then on. The sound and musical score are boring and will give you a stomach ache, missions 
 are BORING! No excitement anywhere, NO FUN, nothing, do not beieve the screenshots, this game SUCKS!!!
 
  
  Very hounest review here,
  
  Thank you everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_of_Dark
Rating: 6.2
Date: Mar 3, 2007 1:30 am PT
Review:  Chromehounds is a game released in July of 2006 and features MechWarrior style gameplay and a healthy 
 dose of online play. This is actually not the case. I beat this game's story more in 5 hours tops. 
 And the missions are really really hard and not worth playing. The achievement points are mostly 
 online and the online mode is horrible. It's basically a big game of risk and you need to control 
 territories. The problem is NO ONE PLAYS BECAUSE THE ONLINE SUCKS! Whatever happened to the old 
 mechwarrior games I loved so much on the original Xbox? It seems like they just died out after 
 the first sequel (which in my opinion is al ot better than the first) . Why does SEGA make a game 
 like this? Because like everyone else on this planet, they need money. If you want easy achievement 
 points, don't look here, but if you want a decent gameplay, but stupid story, and virtually no 
 online play, look no further. I wouldn't call this game anything but a weekend rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tmcheang
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 3, 2007 12:07 am PT
Review:  The gameplay is awesome and fun. The graphics look superb especially the way one can build a HOUND 
 in many possible combos. The sound system provided is great as well. When you play the game, you 
 will find it fun when you are fighting in a battle. I am not sure about the multiplayer campaign 
 cause I am not allowed to play online. But, It should be very fun. Especially fighting against 
 the nations super weapons (except for Tarakias weapon which is not yet deployed) which can be very 
 tough and challenging but fun. My 'Chromehounds' game may have an error when you use the Tarakia 
 cockpit but, I still like the game. Thats all I can think of. Hope it is not terrible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryan_rob20
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 2, 2007 7:20 am PT
Review:  Chrome Hounds, a 3rd person tank shooter game. The mobiles are called H. O. U. N. D's; for what reason 
 i have no clue. You start with a tutorial and a long cutscene which tells you the plot of the game 
 is technically World War 3. Once you finish the tutorial, you can pick from about 6 scenrios; all 
 short. Such as sniper, soilder, defender, scout, etc. In these scenarios you get a borrowed Hound. 
 You can also make your own and use that. Every time you complete a mission you are graded and get 
 parts for making your own hound. The scenarios are ranked from easy to hard. Soldier and Sniper 
 .are the easiest. Then it gets harder. The real fun is in xbox live because you work as a team 
 and defeat the other enemy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gaeren
Rating: 7.9
Date: Feb 26, 2007 10:30 am PT
Review:  well actually... if you came here for gundam action; first i want you to slap yourself. then i want 
 you to go home and throw away all your naruto games too. bwahaha. oh anyhoo, chromehounds is for 
 a military mech sim. it is serious and complicated, and pretty damned hard much of the time. the 
 unorthodox control scheme and curious use of a battle cam do cause folks to need a period of transition 
 to sort of ease into gameplay.... about a week or two i'd guess.
  
  on the bright side the complexity helps to immerse the player in the environments... which are gi-normous. 
 they are a bit on the bland side for my taste, but really... who buys a mech game to look at the 
 grass? u came to see the machina of destruction. and the mechs are gorgeous no doubt. being fully 
 customizable helps too.
  
  is it worth playing? if you're a mech freak then absolutely. casual gamers may want to take a pass 
 as they may not have the patience for this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cry_wolf121
Rating: 9.9
Date: Feb 24, 2007 6:46 pm PT
Review:  This game I was leery of geting at first. First the price which I think the Xbox people can cut 
 back on alot of games but other then this very good. I had played mech warrior franchise but the 
 contrles were hard and diffult to comtrol. This one is a bit eazyer and it gives you a chance to 
 command in the field. I hope that the next mech game learns something from this and the people 
 at saga. I am now looking for Armor Core 4. I hope that this is as good as this one. Long live 
 merchs! Um... I'm done 
::::::

::::::
UserName: billbobo
Rating: 7.6
Date: Feb 22, 2007 10:42 am PT
Review:  chromehounds.. (THESE REVIEWS WILL VARY DEPENDING ON YOUR STYLE OF GAMING) .. ive played this game 
 for about two months. All i can say is you BETTER have extra time to play this game. I have devoted 
 about 2-4 hours a day onto this game. Career mode IS a training mode for xbox live, they give u 
 parts and knowlege on all the r. t's (role-types) .
  
  on xbox live you are able to-build hounds with thousands of possible builds with shields, guns, radars, radiators 
 etc.-you can join/ make squads of up to 20 people and go in the neromius war to fight for your 
 nation (sal-kar, tarakia, and morskoj) , each country has different shops that prefer different types 
 of weapons for different stradegies.
  
  GRAPHICS- 7.5 - this game had graphics that look like original xbox graphics but when your weapons 
 hit somthing the explosions are unreal.
  
  GAMEPLAY- 6.0 - the gameplay is slow, you move slow, you turn slow, and most weapons are slow.
 
  
  LEARNING CURVE- HARD - this is one of the most complex games i have ever played, theres ALOT of 
 things that you need to know to be succesful in the game like cockpits, cockpit  
 etc.
  
  All in all, this is a great game for hardcore game fans with lots of time and much patience. If 
 you are looking for a great rental this game is NOT for you, there is so many things packed into 
 this game it will take weeks even months to fully understand all aspects of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stratesfear
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 19, 2007 5:54 pm PT
Review:  This game offers great multiplayer. The single player is basically a big tutorial because you take 
 your mech or hound to xbox live. This game is enjoyable and is great for multiplayer combat. It 
 also has great enviroments and sound effects work well with the game. That's basically all you 
 need to know about chrome hounds I would say any fans of robot or mech games you should definitely 
 give this a try! It's even made by the company that made the armored core series so you know it's 
 good stuff. The game runs great and the frame rate really never slows down. This is my favorite 
 mech game on all systems! Even if your not into the customization thing you can buy pre-made mechs 
 and go right to the battle field. This game is worth the sixty bucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: voodoo-six
Rating: 2.4
Date: Feb 13, 2007 6:22 am PT
Review:  this game is now not the same game as it was when it was reviewed here. a recent patch has altered 
 the game into a faster paced game where wheeled vehicles rule and there is now no heavy gunners. 
 with no heavy gunners, there are no more snipers, no more snipers= no more soldiers etc, etc. so 
 youre stuck with either sitting at the base on defense or rushing the other team's base on wheels 
 with shotguns. all real strategy and teamwork is gone.
  
  the tactical experience that was Chromehounds is gone and in its place is just another mindless 
 shooter. its a shame. hopefully theyll realize their mistake and make this game great again as 
 it once was.
  
  the people who loved this game, played it because it was not just another run and gun shooter- 
 now its just a mediocre racing game with guns. with any luck another developer will pick up the 
 slack left in the wake of the mess From made of Chromehounds and fill this much needed void. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evilmudbug
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 11, 2007 10:43 pm PT
Review:  The views in this game are awsome, best looking mech game out there. crappy single player, good 
 multiplayer. If you do not have xbox live do not get this game because the single player part plays 
 just like one big tutorial. But live is really fun when you can get a match, the servers are a 
 bit bad, but when you find a good death match or team deathmatch game this game is fun. The shop 
 is awsome, a bit complicated at first but after awhile you get the hang of if. a good game for 
 mech fans on the 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamermon
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 10, 2007 9:21 pm PT
Review:  This was a great game, the way things worked, the stratigies your clan had to create. Fighting 
 for which of the 3 nations would win the war! Awesome game. This game is one of the best mech games 
 I've seen. You can edit 90% of your Hound (Mech) . All the parts for you to buy, but since it's 
 a MMO (free) no one plays it anymore, except for free battles even. How ever I have heard rumers 
 of a Chromehounds 2. So not to frett! IF so that will renew the excite ment about it. The only 
 down side I found in it was that towards the end of the chromehound days people started making 
 this 1 type of hound that made matches un-fun. Whihc is why people stop playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: quelon
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 5, 2007 3:57 pm PT
Review:  Now im not much of a mech sim gamer , but this was good. Sure the lack of one player got me down 
 but the online just pulls it through. With plenty of things to choose from i can assure you you 
 will never find a mech/hound as unique as your own! The game looks great and plays very well online. 
 Though it does not have fast gameplay it takes lots of skill, and plenty of customization. like 
 shooters? like strategy? like mech sims?........ Buy it!
  p. s music is repetative and annoying!
  well i have nothing else to say about it so i will write 
 untill 100 words come 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OJ99
Rating: 6.3
Date: Feb 4, 2007 2:17 pm PT
Review:  Because if your X360 is hooked to a portable like mine, Chromehounds is a farcical waste of time. 
 Here follows a play-by-play account of my Chromehounds experience.
  It starts well enough; training level, controls are useable, graphics look nice and there's the 
 prospect of serious mech on mech action ahead. First level; some woman whos name I didn't catch 
 tells me I have to go north and shoot things, I head north and shoot many things noting that the 
 weapon effects and their sounds are very nice indeed but that the animations of things blowing 
 up arn't great, however the explosions themselves aren't bad so I'll cope. Reach the 'North' and 
 find a complex of buildings which are defended by some infantry, who's only defense against me 
 was being too damn small to see half the time. Having dealt with them I wander around looking for 
 more stuff to kill to no avail. The next stage is of course to check my objectives list to find 
 out what to do but I can't find it, I tried every damn button and menu but I could not find it. 
 Plus I'd only rented the game so I didn't have the instructions. Decided there isn't a list or 
 I'm too thick to find it so restart level and pay more attention to that woman's briefing, which 
 was basically destroy the enemy to the North, repeated actions of my first attempt and still I'm 
 stood in a field searching for something else to kill. Begin exploring the map to find enemy I 
 must have missed, fall off cliff, die, restart level, repeat exactly as before but avoid falling 
 off cliff, explore whole map, find no one, run out of fuel, die, restart level, great.
  Repeat start of level and with everything visible dead and nothing else to do I blaze away at the 
 buildings I found to the 'North'. Destroy all buildings and complete level, shock. No meantion 
 of destroying buildings in briefing, damn annoyed at waste of time.
  Second level, realise that I don't like the graphics having wandered around level 1 for so long 
 'admiring' them, also notice a delay in a unit being dead and the destruction animation being played, 
 which at long range is difficult to spot and leads to several rounds not to meantion reload time 
 being wasted, which I can see being a problem in later, harder levels.
  I decided to try the game's party piece, the mech assembly. Discover I have to complete several 
 levels before I can even build a mech, let alone a decent one, crash through a few levels and start 
 building, discover that I can't read any of the on screen text, such as stats (kinda crucial in 
 mech design) and also realise that this fact rendered my search for an objectives list pointless 
 as I wouldn't have been able to read them anyway. Get very annoyed at waste of more time. Build 
 very naff mech through random assembly of parts and start level, discover I have mounted my only 
 weapon vertically and die in minutes. Recoil at thought of slogging through entire game and post 
 back to rental company. Note Chromehounds as the game I have spent least time ever playing and 
 the only one I have ever abandoned without completing or getting stuck. Make mental note to try 
 again when I buy a HD TV. Write this review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_ivader
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 1, 2007 9:33 am PT
Review:  Review: This game is an Awsome game for xbox360. If you have xbox360 and have xbox live, Get This 
 Game!! This game is The Best multiplayer game I've ever played. The making of your HOUND is very 
 in depth, allowing you to make your HOUND just how you want it, allowing you to edit your HOUND 
 to your particular tastes. If you want to be a long range sniper who can still hold his own on 
 the front line, you can. If you want to be a soldier who can also blast apart HQs with heavy guns, 
 you can. The multiplayer is great, the best being when you get in a country, join a squad, and 
 take part in the Neroimus War. The battles require lots of teamwork and stratagy, making this game 
 even better. The only two bad things about this game are its music, and its single player. The 
 single player isn't very great, and you wont get into it very much. Its basicly just to get you 
 ready for the online play. The music gets to be pretty anoying, and its not a very good tune eather. 
 Otherwise this game is awsome.
  
  Overview: Awsome game with Awsome multiplayer. One thing though, if you dont have xbox live or 
 dont plan on getting it soon after you buy the game, dont waste your money because the single player 
 is bad. But if you have xbox live, its an experience no gamer should miss. Get a microphone if 
 you have this game, it makes teamwork alot easyer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zurielovsko
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 29, 2007 3:15 pm PT
Review:  If you like the big robots with guns, this is your game. The control is easy to handle, the missions 
 offer enough difficulty to get you in the game for a while and the storyline is not so bad. I think 
 this is not the best of shooters, but if you're not used to the two stick controlling you can learn 
 and get used to it with this game (because it's kind of slow and really responsive) and then play 
 with shooters like F. E. A. R
  
  The game lacks of a good story, a bit more difficulty, and some more creative guns.
  
  The good 
 is that you can customize your own HOUND and assemble it the way you want and the really good Xbox 
 Live gameplay 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonas131316
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 28, 2007 9:53 pm PT
Review:  this game may lack in the single player area, but if u havent played it online u dont no what ur 
 missing. when playin the game against people who have thought of every hound design possible, u 
 must use squad tatics to out smart and lead the enemy into traps. this game requires u and ur squad 
 to work as a team to either get back behind the enemy and destroy the hq or destroy all of the 
 enemy hounds. on of the greatest features of the game is the different types of weapons each nation 
 has. this game is a must have if u love mechs and squad based combat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drum_228
Rating: 5.2
Date: Jan 26, 2007 11:43 am PT
Review:  I brought this game thinking 'Wow blowing crap up with robots, sounds kool' It was, at first... 
 But then it went bad VERY quickly... The campaigns were short, tedius and monotonous - I would 
 probably have had more fun taking the disk out of the 360 and using it to cut myself... but then 
 i wouldnt have been able to have traded it in... All in all I cant say what you'll think of this 
 game - this is SOLELY MY OPINION! not yours and you may not share it but i believe it... IF you 
 disagree fine with me, Im purely stating my views - If your thinking of getting this game, but 
 aren't sure (or dont have &pound;25-&pound;40 to 'risk') then rent it or borrow it off a mate if 
 any have it, trust me, TEST IT FIRST!!! (or at least know where your local game is so that once 
 your done with it you can trade it in for some money towards another game) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Liatgnir
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 24, 2007 3:28 pm PT
Review:  What can I say? First things first. This game is highly underrated. It's Live play excels in all 
 categories. It's fun factor is incredible. It's replayability is off the charts. For both hardcore 
 mech fans and casual gamers alike, Chromehounds brings to the 360 what no other game brings. Unlike 
 Armored Core 4, Chromehounds focuses not just on pure combat. There is a heavy emphasis on teamwork 
 and strategy (not unlike Counter-Strike) . Each moment of the battle, you'll be on the edge of your 
 seat, adrenaline pumping, forehead sweating. And then there's the actual combat. If that's not 
 intense, nothing is.
  
  Here, I'll tell you a secret: skip the reviews, skip the rent, and just buy this game. You'll save 
 From Software a lot of trouble. Henchmen are just so hard to come by these days... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: proskater40000
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 23, 2007 7:49 pm PT
Review:  So lets start with the single player campaign. It is fun, but I find myself confused at times and 
 it is much too short. It could have been a lot better. Of course, I am only renting the game so 
 I did not play through the entire thing. Now for the online play. This is where the game shines, 
 but also destroys itself at the same time. You go in there with no direction what-so-ever. When 
 choosing your mech you often make a bad decision, but that is easily fixed with the tons of cash 
 you are given. So now you finish your mech and you want to use it. Oh, ok i'll just join a quick 
 match. you say. That is not as easy as it sounds. For a quick match to start, it can take up to 
 20 minutes and when playing online, you will probably spend 75% of your time trying to find a match 
 or waiting for your match to start. Overall, It's not a bad game. It has nice graphics and solid 
 gameplay. The thing is, it could have been so much better. I'm sure chromehounds 2 would be much 
 better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lucas2221
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 16, 2007 11:38 pm PT
Review:  being the first mech game on the 360 the graphics are amazing. the controls are very easy to learn. 
 the majority of the online communinty is very helpful and friendly towards newcomers. basically 
 its an awesome game. the customization is amazing. u can literally spend and hour building one 
 thing. i have almost 400 hrs in ch and its still goin up. one thing that can be aggrivating is 
 the game speed, even the medium builds move slowly. overall it is a great game. if u need help 
 on this game u can message me my gt is mirage131. thats about all i have 2 say. good luck. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeoVelamir
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 16, 2007 4:57 pm PT
Review:  the single player story kind of is a little shabby but stil very entertaining. online player is 
 a HOLY COW. its beyond what i ever expcented from a mech game. when you play it takes a little 
 time to g et ust to the controls but once u do and u find a mech you like the game is holy cow 
 hecka fun. there is a type of mech for everyones personality from people who like to do artially. 
 people who like dogfights and even people who like commanding others lol. there are so many options 
 to customize ur mech its amaizing the greatest game ive ever played on the 360. thats a lie. one 
 of the greatest games ive played on the 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mackey12345
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 11, 2007 10:46 pm PT
Review:  This is a game that you actually need to take you Time with, to build your customized mech into 
 one class of people, and take it online to battle people.
  
  The graphics are good, the environments are very bland and don't have much except a couple tree's 
 here and there, and just enough buildings, but the framerate does hold up really well, and the 
 detail in the textrues is just like candy to you eyes...
  
  Sound is a completely different story, it is something you have to cope with to get used to, its 
 good, from explosion effects, but all the weapon effects sound similiar, you can barely tell the 
 difference, sometimes I panicked to say that I bought the sme thing twice, then I realized that 
 it sounds the same.
  
  Multiplayer is fun, but if you die online, it will make you stop playing this game for a day or 
 so..
  
  Singleplayer is somethign you just don't go to, just go to the Skimish modes they offer in multiplayer. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dat_Boi_SiLo
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 8, 2007 8:06 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: The mech (ACVs) controller very well, the game does not look at al rushed. The other reviewers 
 who game this game a bad review for a bad campaign mode, is because they dont play online. The 
 game is meant for online play, the campaign mode is training for online play. Online is where all 
 the real action takes place. Being with a squad and taking for territories for your country so 
 very fun and worth it. With all the rankings and medals, it keeps you playing and playing. Its 
 not perfect but awful close, a 9!
  Graphics: This game looks great! Everything looks real and the mechs act like there real. They 
 take damage just like they should. This one is going to be short because there is nothing wrong 
 with this game. 10!
  Sound: Thousand pounds of metal moving should sound like this! Network and Software have produced 
 great sounds for every occasion and pays off. Taking damage sounds and makes it fell like it really 
 hurt. You can hear the missiles, rockets, and tell what it the enemies are shooting at you is. 
 I have no problem with this game in this section. 9!
  Value: It has the next-gen price but I still think there should be more parts for the price, that 
 is my only neg about this game. There should really be more parts! 8!
  Tilt: If youre a mech fan please try this game out, you will buy it! 9! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WarPyhg
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jan 7, 2007 10:39 pm PT
Review:  I dont usually play anything where you cant play as infantry, shooting stuff up but when I heard 
 about the Cold War going bad and future weapons of warfare being giant mechanized walkers... I 
 though say . First off, the game offers alot to do if you do manage to get into it- Several different 
 campaigns under differing soldier-types only for mechs (ex. Support gunner, sniper, assault etc.) 
 The campaigns dont last long and/or dont have alot of enemies to take on, pretty much do this here 
 and do it quick. There is a skirmish type mode but it isnt really as appealing as Mechassault was. 
 Customizing a mech is sort of a highlght as you can pretty much make it however you want it and 
 install upgraded CPU chips that approve some sorts of operation like weapons and/or maneuverability. 
 Voice acting for the game seems forced and the other little aspects are pretty lacking.... destructible 
 enviroments arent very cool as hills &amp; roads should be destructible and the destruction there 
 is is basicly boxes laying around that collapse and form little piles of repetative dirt. The weapons 
 should have way more recoil &amp; satisfying impacts, the reports are okay but arent near booming 
 enough.
  Overall the game is okay for about 15 bucks but anymore than that for offline players is pretty 
 much a waste. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Valroadie
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 1, 2007 12:46 am PT
Review:  The Graphics are A+++. The lighting and the smokie and the flash from the explosions... just jaw 
 dropping. I am not ALL that surprised because i expect ALOT from the 360. Also the customization 
 of the mechs are awsome. I just love the fact that you can put stuff anywhere you want. I just 
 love the idea of the game. Now the campaign... not so good. It could be WAY better, more action 
 you know? But all in all its an amazing game. I have not played on live yet but i am going to. 
 So, i will mark this game pretty big because personally i love eye candy and games where you can 
 customize things. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silicon_requiem
Rating: 6.3
Date: Dec 30, 2006 8:02 pm PT
Review:  Let me start by saying that I really, really wanted to like this game. I have been a mech fan across 
 the board, and have played a wide variety of these sorts of games. Thus, coming from that background, 
 this game had a lot to contend with. Also, this review does not take into account online play, 
 which I think is the bread and butter of this particular game. Look, I'm a grad student, I can 
 play around myself between work, but I don't have time to go plodding around online with others. 
 So, if you are interested in this game online content, this review is not for you. So here's the 
 lowdown in my usual style:
  
  _____________
  
  THE GOOD
  _____________
  
  1) Graphics are unbelievable, so smooth, you see dirt fly up with every bullet, there is no lag 
 in the picture, the dynamic lighting effects are insane, and overall its a smooth running game 
 from start to finish. 2) HOUND building is fun, the design interface is unique, deep, and invigorating. 
 In fact, this was basically the only reason that I played through the entire game, because this 
 interface was so much fun in itself. The missions were almost only there in order to get more parts 
 and build better HOUND designs. Also, the variety of chassis styles (two leg, four leg, wheel, 
 hover, tread) made the design aspects even deeper. 3) RT (Role Types) are also pretty unique, they 
 are: Soldier, Scout, Defender, Heavy Gunner, Sniper, and Commander. Of these, the Soldier is pretty 
 much your usual unit, the scout is a light unit, the defender is a slow and heavily armored type, 
 so far nothing too unusual. However, the HG is neat because it is essentially an artillery unit, 
 something different and intriguing, while also adding to the difficulty (it is hard to do at times, 
 but there is something satisfying about successfully targeting a couple thousand pounds of high 
 explosives at the enemy, and is followed by a wonderful fireworks show) . Also interesting is the 
 Sniper, armed with accurate long range cannons, but having itself no armor or any real fighting 
 capability. Finally, the Commander, this was an ambitious design that ultimately fails, more on 
 this in THE UGLY section. The game is decently successful in creating missions according to each 
 of these types, but I noticed that there are plenty of times that you can get away with using HOUNDs 
 that are not of that type (for example, creating a Sniper unit and using it on HG missions is usually 
 pretty successful, and makes those missions way easier) , so although they tried to configure missions 
 for each type, there is still a lot of wiggle room. This could be good or bad, depending on the 
 particulars, but it's there either way. 4) Weaponry: the weapons are pretty fun, as the Gamespot 
 official review noted, this game is like the muscle cars of the mech world. The weapons are heavy 
 metal, no fancy locking missiles, no wussy little lasers, just hard core bullets and lots of explosives. 
 I liked this aspect personally, although some may be driven away by it, just don't think that you 
 are going to be working towards laser guns or anything, essentially you get bigger and badder rifles, 
 machine guns, shotguns, missile launchers, mortars, howitzers, and the like throughout to mess 
 up your enemies worse and worse. 5) Weapon linking is also interesting, since you designate a camera 
 for each of 4 weapon configurations, a neat and unique addition that I liked considerably. The 
 regular view of your HOUND is 3rd person distant, but in the upper right hand corner you have the 
 weapon camera view, and you can click to switch to its view at any time, for precise aiming. This 
 aspect was well done. _____________
  
  THE BAD
  _____________
  
  1) Combat is not the most successful engine I've seen. Actually, in all honesty, the single player 
 missions are monotonous in general, with few exceptions. Almost always you have one of three basic 
 goals: blow something/someone up, keep something/someone from being blown up, or capture all the 
 COMBAS (communication) towers in a selected area. That's pretty much it, simmer and serve. 2) The 
 story line is completely devoid of anything remotely interesting. Essentially, your character, 
 who is never named, who never gains skills or anything except medals upon completion of each RT 
 track (anyone else notice all the medals are THE SAME!!!) , is fighting on all three sides consecutively 
 in a middle-east-esque war over resources. The designers tried to throw in some semblance of story, 
 but it is read by a Mr. Sulu (star trek) sounding voice who is more successful at putting you to 
 sleep than interesting you in the story at hand. It usually goes something like and so the unit, 
 having destroyed the other unit, decided to return to base... (insert lame graphic) but on their 
 way, they discovered there was another unit blocking their path... (lame graphic) and so they decided 
 that they had to ... zzzzzzzzz HUH, what? I fell asleep! The characters try to be interesting, but 
 its hard to get attached to them when you are only around them for 5 missions max, and all they 
 can give you are poorly written, poorly acted lines that really make you want to say, yeah, yeah, 
 who am I supposed to kill now, get to it! In the end, the story is a total wreck and makes the 
 game less palatable on whole. 3) The missions, although neatly divided into RT categories, are 
 not deep enough, and it doesn't really require too much focus to beat the entire game in a handful 
 of sessions. You basically just choose your RT and then are taken away (you can essentially pause 
 each campaign if you want, but its just weird that you have to do that instead of having a choice 
 of missions) until you beat all six missions in that category and then you're done with that RT, 
 finito! Umm... I was pretty sore about this, especially since you might just begin to really like 
 an RT and then you have to completely switch gears. To be honest, I was expecting that once I beat 
 all the RT campaigns then I would have access to randomized missions that would allow me to continue 
 working towards a 'perfect' HOUND design. Maybe that's what online is for, but as I said before, 
 I don't have time for all that, I need to be able to pick the game up, play for 20-30 minutes, 
 and put it back down, something unrealistic for online play. 4) Furthermore, you don't have access 
 to all the parts unless you play online. I beat every single mission in single player, and still 
 had only one cockpit! That really ticked me off.
  5) There is no 'instant action' (except the test mission that you can access from the design area, 
 and is always exactly the same, which makes sense since it is a test, but that means its really 
 not challenging and only good for what it is intended, to test your design) feature, something 
 that would have made the game much better and more replayable. _____________
  
  THE UGLY
  _____________
  
  1) The commander RT is pretty lame I hate to say. It was an ambitious idea, 
 but lacked any real integration. Most often on the harder commander levels you are better off telling 
 your units to go camp somewhere and just doing it yourself. The commander interface is pretty shotty, 
 and not much of a step above the regular soldier interface. Giving commands is cumbersome and remarkably 
 slow (admittedly I got better at it, but it was still not natural feeling and tiring) and as I 
 mentioned before, all the commander missions would be easier if you were just given a soldier unit 
 and told to go blow the enemy up, but instead you have to give orders to a bunch of weak ACV units 
 that are not very combat effective, and its just easier to arm yourself and go do it yourself than 
 get muddled up with giving orders. Now, realize that I played the commander like I was supposed 
 to on most of the levels, but eventually it got boring and I just wanted to finish the RT campaign, 
 so I just armed myself and went and got the job done (thereby making the only challenge that you 
 have that dang radar relay on your back which limits severely the amount of weaponry you can take, 
 but even still a poorly armed HOUND is way better than a squad of ACV's) . 2) There is no money 
 aspect, which is weird since you are supposed to be A MERCENARY! This was just weird, I felt like 
 there was something missing, you basically get paid in parts, build up your inventory, and then 
 simply swap out parts to your hearts content. While in one way good for design, it made it feel 
 pretty surface level, and did not deliver the depth that I was looking for. 3) The entire single 
 player aspect just seems like a build up for the multi player, and this being the case, it would 
 have been nice to have a multiplayer type feature without having to go online for it (like the 
 instant action idea above) . If a game is intended to be online only, it should be advertised as 
 such, but if you are going to make a game that does not have to be put online then it should be 
 fully satisfying as a single player game as well (take the Diablo series for example, its best 
 when played online, but it is also fun to play offline and doesn't lack any essential features 
 if you choose not to play it online) . 4) For being a next gen game, the music in this was pretty 
 lame. One of the best parts of mech combat is when you get into a fierce fight to some kickin' 
 metal or electronic track that really sets the mood. There may be 3 or 4 tracks total in this game, 
 and they are more like elevator music than anything else. Thank goodness the X360 has the ability 
 to play your own background music!
  
  __________________
  
  In conclusion, this game is beautifully rendered, expertly designed in places, but overall a wonderfully 
 painted yawn. The action is simply too relentlessly simple to really be innovative, and unfortunately 
 many of its best features are simply inaccessible in single player mode. I can't speak on the multiplayer 
 features, but I hear they are great, so if that's what you are into, then this game may be just 
 what you need, but for those of us without either the connection or the time for online play, this 
 is a great rental, but nothing more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: east-nile-virus
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 26, 2006 3:18 pm PT
Review:  This is a pretty decent attempt at bringing a mech warfare game to the 360. While it may not appeal 
 to the average shooter fan, it does offer a good experience for those who dont want to just run 
 around shooting people. Its more of a thinking man's shooter. the single player mode is basically 
 a traing mode to get you ready for the online play. As a stand alone/offline game- the missions 
 are pretty short and leave the game lacking in depth.
  
  Online, the game has almost endless possibilities.
  
  If youre tired of the infantry side of 
 battle and want to try the tanker side- Chromehounds is a breath of fresh air. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Regulus117
Rating: 6.1
Date: Dec 22, 2006 8:27 am PT
Review:  The online aspects are the only good things on this game. The campaign is mostly boring and uneventful. 
 Sometimes, all you do is sit there pressing only the fire button, waiting for a building to crash 
 down or a small insignificant scout drone to die. The only good challenging part was at the end 
 facing Cerberus. The voice acting was mediocre at best. It was disappointing. Also, it takes a 
 while to learn how to use all the types of mechs and figuring out which is good for you. However, 
 this is worth buying. After making yourself do the campaign, the online parts are very well done. 
 You can buy more parts at the marketplace and try to create the perfect team with your friends 
 and face other teams online. This game is good, but only in its online aspects. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BLACKFIRE2142
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 17, 2006 1:58 pm PT
Review:  Chromehounds has got to be in my top 3 favorite, YEAH THATS RIGHT TOP 3 FAVORITE, Xbox 360 games. 
 The graphics and explosions are so realistic, it feels like your right behind the wheel of your 
 HOUND when controlling it. In Chromehounds, you use these futuristic robot-type mechs called HOUNDS 
 that you can create, build, customize and edit to your very own tastes. You can even swap and trade 
 parts with your friends! The multiplayer in this game is better than any game out there right now 
 (even Gears of War in my opinion... yeah i said it... better then gears) . When you start out you 
 can create, or join a squad and link up with your buddies and do missions with them. Its like a 
 whole campaign, online! Speaking of campaign, lets talk about the singleplayer campaign. Yeah... 
 Not that good. There's not really any free type missions you can do, you just do the same missions 
 over if you complete it, but the multiplayer makes up for it. So let me make myself clear, DO NOT 
 BUY THIS GAME IF YOU DO NOT HAVE A XBL GOLD MEMBERSHIP!! Not worth it even for the price that I 
 bought it for, ($30.00 at Circuit City) . Okay now last but not least, that damn, eerie music that 
 plays while your in your garage. Not the greatest of choices, but who the hell really cares, Chromehounds 
 is just great! So all in all, Chromehounds is definetly one to pick up FOR XBL GOLD USERS like 
 I said before, and its only like 40 dollars now or something like that so if you have a gold membership, 
 get off your arse right now and go over to gamestop and BUY THIS GAME!
  
  peace out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Inuyasha_XX
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 13, 2006 12:23 pm PT
Review:  This game is all about customizing your hound (mech) , which they give you a wide variety of parts 
 to make your own hound, they even have spacers so you can even get more complex with your hound, 
 the storyline isnt really that great unless you like listening to boring voices. There are 6 different 
 hound classifacations, Soldier, Defender, Scout, Heavy Gunner, Commander, and Sniper. Although 
 you can mix and match all parts making it a little bit of all if you want. Gameplay is excellent 
 but the landscape isnt all that it could be, graphics on the hounds are excellent though. Online 
 is basically makes this 3 games in 1, theirs 3 different nations constantly fighting over different 
 territroys, they ask you what nation you want to be in when you first sign on multiplayer, you 
 and thousands of others take over more territorys over the days untill your nation owns all, and 
 if you dont want to do that then play halo like multiplayer against others with your very own customized 
 hound. And you also earn money too so you can buy emblems, weapons, armor, all sorts of stuff that 
 you cant get through single player mode but only one xbox live. Thats about it so buy this game 
 if you like mechs because this is the best yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadowfire14
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 13, 2006 12:02 pm PT
Review:  Ok, this game is no fun and has no replay value unless you have XBL. The idea, you join a squad, 
 you build a big-*** mech, and you blow **** up. The best way to gain any experience is to play 
 through the ENTIRE campaign at least before attempting to go online and build a mech. One, it gives 
 you great to decent weapons to start with. Two, it gives you practical experience at being a pilot. 
 Three, it builds your online levels before you even get there. But this is a review, not a guide 
 or FAQ, so lets get to the review. The graphics are really good and the details are truly next 
 gen. Of course, it does have its little drop in the way things disappear, like dead hounds and 
 the buildings that all leave a blank patch of ground, or a pile of rubble identical to the one 
 right next to it. Other than that, its all good.
  
  The gameplay is pretty good and the learning curve is just right. The whole HOUND building process 
 is pretty much just trial and error. And if your not in it to win, you can make novelty HOUNDs 
 to show of to your friends. The idea is to find the right combination of weapons that make a good 
 all around HOUND that doesnt take on the traits of too many role types at once. Just have fun with 
 it, K? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zoomzoomyepyep
Rating: 3.7
Date: Dec 9, 2006 8:41 pm PT
Review:  This game was a lot more fun in the beginning when people didn't know all the cheap things. Sure, 
 you can build your own hound, but it'll probably blow up very quickly unless you make your like 
 everyone elses. I don't know what everything is called, but 80% of the mechs i see are all about 
 the same. Either they have heavy cannons with huge splash damage so they can damage you and make 
 your aim go way off when their shot isn't even close. Then theres the chicken legs with those things 
 on them. I dont know what weapons everyone is using with them, but they do a lot of damage and 
 are very very hard to hit. That's really about all the mechs everyone uses. So go ahead and make 
 a unique mech, but i can guarentee you you'll get blown to bits if you don't make one like the 
 one's i explainded above. There is also heat seekers which just lock onto vehicle. It's very gay 
 but compared to what everyone else uses it actually isn't that annoying. All i can say is that 
 the designers of the game messed this one up. This would of been a great game, but they added all 
 these cheap things so you must use them or else you'll die.
  
  Oh yea and it takes a very long time to learn how to use all of the things in this game. Single 
 player easy... but it sucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: renock
Rating: 7.7
Date: Dec 4, 2006 7:31 pm PT
Review:  If you only like to play single player do not even consider buying, renting, or even looking at 
 a copy of this game. The single player is not only short, but it feels like a game play version 
 of a game manual. And what I mean by that is that they make you do tasks for each of the different 
 types of mechs and then youre done. The tasks dont take very long each of them takes about maybe 
 ten minutes to beat (assuming you beat them) . But its really all just in preparation for the online 
 version of the game which is the only reason this game gets a decent score. (No online mode I would 
 give it a .2 rating out of pity) . With that out of the way the only thing to really get excited 
 about in this game is the online multiplayer. You are allowed to choose a faction that you would 
 like to fight for, one is like America, one is like Soviet Russia, and one is like a Middle Eastern 
 country. They all have distinct parts but eventually you will acquire all of the different parts 
 from some way or another. Once you pick a country you will be able to fight for it and gain ground 
 in a real time battle system. This means if you fight and win in a certain area then the area will 
 become more controlled by you. Eventually once your nation has captured everything then the game 
 is won and it starts back over again. The customization of this game is endless; if you see two 
 bots on the battlefield that are exactly the same (unless they are both the standard one given 
 to you) you may as well win the local Jackpot or power ball. That is how rare it is to see two 
 of the exact same bot. If youre going to play this game online the only way to go is to get yourself 
 in a clan/group/alliance or whatever they want to call it. Become friends with them because they 
 are the ones you will be doing the bulk of your missions with. This means that if you dont have 
 a good group to play with this game might suck for you. I personally stopped playing because some 
 of my friends didnt get it or just stopped playing themselves. When you go into a mission you 
 will really rely on your allies (you can have up to six including you) throughout the entire mission. 
 With the online stated I would like to point out the mechanics of this game. There are six types 
 of classes for mechs, which arent as defined as one might think. The six classes are Soldier, 
 Heavy Gunner, Commander, Scout, Sniper, and Defender. They are meshed together which actually proves 
 much more exciting then it sounds. For instance if I put snipers and a huge cannon on my mech it 
 will be considered a Sniper/Heavy gunner. Graphically if youre able to look at the mech and only 
 the mech it will be hard not to say that this game is absolutely amazing. Some of the environments 
 around you arent exactly the best. The explosions and other sounds sound very nice, such as when 
 your huge bot is walking across the ground. Overall its a pretty solid game but only for online, 
 and only if you have a really good group. If you want to become the best youre going to have to 
 count on more then just your skills. Its going to take some amazing bot building. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThaGrateOne
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 27, 2006 6:34 am PT
Review:  This game will have mixed reactions for people looking for an all out war. Chromehounds is a slow-paced 
 mech simulation that offers some nice visuals (not pushing the 360 to its max) but never-the-less 
 pretty good. You start off with the basics of learning how to use weapons and moving around. The 
 custom part of Chromehounds is pretty nice also. Almost everything that you can think of to do 
 to a mech... well its here. There are limited ideas to use that makes video games and this one SEGA 
 does a good job. Over-all the purchase price is not to bad if you know what you are getting into 
 before you buy it. In my opinion the sounds could have used a little more in depth and the visuals 
 could have been a little more NEXT-GEN . The multi-player will have the replay value of this Sega 
 title going for a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: llTylerll
Rating: 3.8
Date: Nov 18, 2006 10:40 am PT
Review:  This game I thought would be so good hell I was thinking of buying, but when I rented it.......................... 
 I couldn, t believe this was the same game I thought was cool, I first played single player for 
 5 minutes and literally wanted to puke and was disgusted, bland enviroments, nothing to destroy 
 very bland, and my favouite part (sarcastic) is that only 3 tanks will attack your powerful ass 
 hound, then you walk around these huge bland enviroments and find only 2 more tanks. Now to online, 
 the online in this could have been great but once again it suffers from your mech being slower 
 then rosie odanald losing weight. anothe thing that sucks is the fact you can't tel if you killed 
 someone becuase when you shoot a guy it feels as if they are immune to your attacks, but the hours 
 later you fianally almost kill him but some sob come and takes one shot and steals your kill. the 
 only real thing cool is customization but still not enough to save this game. I would recommend 
 avoiding this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonofares
Rating: 6.2
Date: Nov 17, 2006 8:46 pm PT
Review:  Chromehounds. This review is purely my opinion and I'm sure not everyone will agree who's played 
 the game. There's a guy in my clan who loves this game and has spent countless hours online playing. 
 And for the life of my I can't see why he would put so much time into it. So that just proves everyone 
 has different tastes. So now the review....... I played through the entire single player and I had 
 fun. As most people will tell you the single player is basically training for the multiplayer. 
 I didn't look at it like that though. I played the single player without ever really even having 
 any intentions of getting into the multiplayer. In single player you learn the mechanics and how 
 to use all of the different hounds (mechs) . There's snipers and scouts and I forget the names of 
 the rest but there's about 8 or 9 different types that basically make up an entire squad of well-rounded 
 Hounds. Everything from slow-moving heavy artillery to fast moving light artillery and everything 
 in between. From what I understand the real thrill of the game is building your own Hounds (mechs) 
 and taking them online. But the learning curve to do this is pretty big. It's not something you 
 can hop right into and understand what's going on. Look I've been to college..... I'm no dummy...... but 
 the whole reason I was turned off by the online multiplayer is because it's not something I could 
 easily understand. It would take quite a bit of time to really figure out what the heck is going 
 on. I know there's some wars going on all the time and you jump in there with your mech and when 
 I took my mech out there I would shoot someone for ten seconds and it wouldn't do any damage and 
 they'd shoot me once and I'd die. After being killed about 20 times in a row that was enough. The 
 main thing I didn't like........ (and I'm an avid FPS fan) is how slow the game is. Most of the 
 hounds are so slow and it takes so long to get from place to place I was just plain bored. The 
 whole thing is understanding how to build your mech. If you have a strong mech you will survive. 
 If you don't you won't. So there's no real reflex skills involved because none of them are fast 
 enough to really get away . The graphics are good and the single player is pretty fun. Rent if 
 first. Maybe it's for you, maybe not. Good luck. I wouldn't buy it again though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kizzle28
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 14, 2006 10:36 pm PT
Review:  Chromehounds is a good game. Don't believe the reviews scores of 7 or less because unless you have 
 had ample time with the online, then you don't know the bread and butter of this game.
  
  Singleplayer is tacked-on at best. The story sucked, voice-overs sucked, and you could finish it 
 in 8 hours or less. The Hounds are fun and easy to operate and some missions are fun, but most 
 are so easy, you'll yawn in boredom.
  
  Multiplayer is where is begins. You are thrust into an online version of the Necromius War where 
 you can choose your side, in the 3 country war, make donations to your country, be active in politics, 
 join squads, and of course, battle until your hearts content. So many options in multi you will 
 have to play to believe. You can customize you Hound making a speedy Scout, or a heavy-armed Defender, 
 of a mix of any of the 6 types, the choice is yours. Of course you can download (for a small fee) , 
 new weapons and armour.
  
  All in all Chromehounds is only a worthy game when taken online. If you do not have Xbox Live then 
 skip this game. Otherwise, if you have Xbox Live, like customization, and mech-like things, this 
 is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benboz
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 28, 2007 9:26 pm PT
Review:  Chromehounds is a new game on the Xbox 360. This game is where you control a massive robot machine 
 and attack other chromehounds or destroy bases. This game also has online play where you can verus 
 your friends. The graphics and gameplay are so amazing but there are a few textures that could 
 be better and maybe a bit more polish in the game to make it look better. 
  The single player campaign is not really that exciting and is really hard. So if you have no internet 
 or the internet is too far from your Xbox 360, I say you shouldn't get this game because without 
 online gaming, its a totally waste of money and time. But Chromehounds is really strong in the 
 online part not the offline part of the game because it is really bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Game21x
Rating: 8.1
Date: Oct 27, 2006 9:31 pm PT
Review:  Chromehounds for the Xbox 360 is the first game of its kind on the console and a welcome addition 
 to the Xbox 360s library. This game hails from developers From Software, producers of hit mech 
 series, Armored Core. Seeing as they already have experience creating mech sims, one should not 
 be surprised when they discover just how deep this game really is.
  
  As a whole, Chromehounds is pretty much a mixed bag in the graphics department. The Hounds themselves 
 very detailed and look amazing in motion. The explosions and weapon effects? A work of pyrotechnic 
 art. The lighting effects are also very impressive, particularly during the night time missions. 
 The light from the flares youll often have to fire to aid your teammates looks incredibly realistic 
 bouncing off your Hounds metallic frame. But on the flipside, everything else is rather bland 
 in comparison. The environments are often very sparsely detailed and incredibly dull. The populated 
 areas are a bit more detailed but still lack that extra layer of polish that wouldve made them 
 shine. Another positive worth mentioning is the mostly impressive framerate. While it stutters 
 from time to time when looking at an explosion or when walking or rolling through a river or desert 
 from the weapon camera perspective, it is incredibly smooth and doesnt bog down enough to ruin 
 the fun. Simply put, if the environments were as detailed and alive as the Hounds are, this couldve 
 easily been the best looking game on the Xbox 360 thus far. As it stands, its only slightly above 
 average.
  
  The combat is another mixed bag. At times, it feels great, strategically paced, well executed and 
 just plain fun and other times; it feels rather dull and uninspired. Thankfully, the dull portions 
 were offset by the overall very strategic and entertaining combat which became commonplace online. 
 The sometimes dull single player moments are mainly due to your sometimes overwhelmingly powerful 
 hound. The only real challenge comes from the terribly infrequent encounters with Hounds similar 
 to your own. Throughout the single player campaign, the enemies you encounter are woefully underpowered 
 compared to your often very powerful Hound.
  
  The story mode is a bit on the slim side in terms of depth. Taking place in the present day, the 
 republics of Tarakia, Sal Kar and Morskoj (loosely based on the US, Middle Eastern nations and 
 Russia, respectively) are locked in a global conflict, but instead of the war machines of today, 
 they have constructed 40 foot tall walking tanks called Hounds with which to kill each other. These 
 Hounds fall under one of six categories called Role Types. The RTs, Soldier, Sniper, Scout, Defender, 
 Heavy Gunner and Tactics Commander, all boast their own unique set of strengths and weaknesses. 
 The storyline for each of the RTs is pretty decent but its not implemented as well as it couldve 
 been. It consists of a half dozen missions (seven when counting the mandatory training sessions) 
 for each of the six RTs. These missions feel like little more than basic training for the real 
 war online. They do a good job of getting you acquainted with the nuances of each RT and their 
 individual strengths and weaknesses, but outside of that, they feel pretty shallow. The Soldier 
 and Sniper RTs are the two easiest to master, moving up to the Scout and Defender at medium difficulty 
 and finally Heavy Gunner and Commander, the two most difficult. I found them all to be fairly easy. 
 Newbies can easily blaze through the Soldier and Sniper RTs anywhere between twenty minutes to 
 forty five minutes depending on the players skill level.
  
  The garage is where youll likely be spending a lot of your time. This is where you custom build 
 your Hound, from a wide variety of parts you unlock as you progress through the story mode and 
 Neroimus War. The customization here is very deep. Not as deep as some mech sims (Armored Core) 
 but deep enough to satisfy the gearheads in all of us. Once youve unlocked enough parts, you can 
 build a truly unique and powerful Hound for each of the six RTs. There is a wide selection of 
 weapons to add to your hound, such as missile launchers, machineguns, shotguns and howitzers. Starting 
 with the mandatory mobility base, chassis and generator, players then build from there, adding 
 weapons on top of weapons, and support parts such as an extra fuel tank, armor plating or a radiator. 
 The weapons are a mixed bag in terms of effectiveness, and all have their strengths and weaknesses. 
 While Howitzers are extremely powerful, they are somewhat difficult to wield properly. Sniper cannons 
 have devastating attack power and the ability to effectively hit targets from long distances but 
 have long reloading times. Support parts are pretty much underutilized in the campaign mode, but 
 are almost necessary for survival online, youll want to spend some time testing out individual 
 parts before you head online, to see how they function.
  
  Regardless of what Hound you end up creating from the wealth of customization options, the practice 
 field is where youll likely be spending a lot of your time, testing your Hound, seeing how it 
 handles and testing weapon groupings and support parts.
  
  The Multiplayer mode is where the real meat of the game is and where youll get your moneys worth. 
 It consists of a persistent online campaign, in which the three nations mentioned above from the 
 Single player mode wage war for control over the Neroimus region. In the beginning of your first 
 multiplayer campaign, you are asked to align yourself with one of the three warring nations and 
 take part in that nations campaign for control. You do this by selecting missions on contested 
 battlefields, and you along with up to five other members of your squad battle players from other 
 squads, attempting to gain control of the region for their country. Winning gets you more money 
 to spend on your hound and gives your nation more control over the region. Communication between 
 you and the other members of your squad is crucial to victory in these conflicts. If you do not 
 work well together as a team, you will not fare well in this mode. The level of depth and complexity 
 of this mode is surprising and gives dedicated players further incentive to play.
  
  Along with the in depth Neroimus war campaign, there is also the free battle mode, to allow players 
 to wage war against each other without having to worry about the fees and penalties of losing a 
 battle to another nation. There is a good variety of multiplayer modes, ranging from the traditional 
 Deathmatch to the COMBAS keeper mode, which has you capturing COMBAS towers and then defending 
 them from enemy assaults. Assault the HQ is a pretty exciting mode in which the two teams wage 
 war to destroy the enemy headquarters and prevent them from doing the same. My only complaints 
 stem from issues with the interface, which make it rather difficult to jump into a quick battle 
 when you want to. Each Neroimus war lasts for a set period of time (a few weeks) or until a victor 
 is declared between the three nations. Once the war is over, the server goes down for maintenance 
 and to restart the war. This can be a hassle, as players are completely unable to participate in 
 any online conflicts, even outside of the Neroimus war for the duration of the maintenance. Another 
 problem is that you are forced to sit through the Neroimus war filter (updates on campaign status) 
 and theres no way to get around it, even if you do not want to participate in the war itself.
 
  
  In the end, Chromehounds is a fun, original title for the Xbox 360. While the single player game 
 is lackluster in comparison, the multiplayer modes make up for it in spades. On the other hand, 
 this makes it hard to recommend to a player who doesnt have Xbox Live. This makes the experience 
 a love it or hate it affair. Those who love it will probably really love it. Those who dont will 
 likely be turned off by one of the numerous problems and complications with the interface, and 
 the sometimes dull combat. Fans of mech sims should definitely give this game a try, as they will 
 likely be hooked. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: S22391
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 25, 2006 4:07 pm PT
Review:  Ok, I'll admit that the campaign mode is utterly boring and at points, annoying at best trying 
 to get all S ranks, but in a lot of respects the game is quite underrated. The amount of possibilities 
 of different combinations of customization is absolutely mind boggling. The download parts from 
 Xbox Live Marketplace are also a nice added bonus. The graphics do seem a little strange however. 
 Everything always seems to be so clean- there are never any battle scars or dirt/dust residue on 
 your Hound. But the sound is superb along with the fast and exciting gameplay that will vary depending 
 on the way your Hound was constructed. Overall, the game is basically pretty fun, despite the flaws 
 in its campaign mode. The multiplayer is what the game was made for, so if you dont have Xbox 
 live, or a lot of Xboxes, DONT GET THIS GAME! PS. The reason I rated the value and tilt so high 
 was because it was a welcome new game after my friends and I were tired of playing COD2 and Oblivion. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nick0091
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 23, 2006 5:29 pm PT
Review:  Game play: 8/10
  
  First off this game has amazing game play, You can make a squad, play against humans or bots for 
 territory, play free battles, customize your mech anyway you want with a very detailed decal system 
 were your imagination is the limit. The game play is fast paced with bullets flying by dodging 
 missiles and such but you can adjust your game play to what you want based on what type of mech 
 you want. If you want to be a player that sits back and snipes then you can do that, if you want 
 to be a fast mech that is basically used for capturing points and a distraction make your mech 
 like that, you can play this game your way with the excellent mech customization. You can built 
 your mech from the ground up and change it anytime you want. You can choose from computer chips, 
 chassis, weapons, cockpits, assist parts such as night vision, armour, etc
  
  If you are looking for a game with lots of customization this game may be for you.
  
  Graphics 
 9/10
  
  Simply amazing! Explosions look incredible as well as the mechs, There is nothing bad about the 
 graphics in this game everything looks sharp and crisp.
  
  sound: 8/10
  
  Great sound gun firing sounds excellent as well as explosions and mech movement, The most impressing 
 thing about this game for sound is the way your headsets work, In missions you have to capture 
 radio towers and if you exit the range of your radio towers you lose communication with your team, 
 of course someone can make a commander mech which is like a walking radio tower.
  
  Value: 9/10
  
  Worth its money a great game that no 360 owner should miss unless of course 
 they don't have xbl or xbl gold membership this is strictly an online game.
  
  Reviewers tilt 9/10
  
  There is nothing bad about this game it is a must buy and my personal 
 favourite thing about this game is how you can play in a war and help your country gain points 
 to capture locations, You can do many things for your country including voting for a new prime 
 minister or president. You gain personally renown, skill level and money when helping your country 
 take over different area's of the land it is quite amazing. You can do this by your self vs. bots 
 or other players you can have up to 6 squad mates in a mission.
  
  This game is a step forward for mech games and sets a new standard doing new and innovative things. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firedragonghost
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 19, 2006 7:29 pm PT
Review:  This isnt one of the best games out there but it sure is fun when u get farther in the game because 
 of all the stuff u can do. Like in offline u choose what kind of hound like soldier or sniper that 
 u use through 5 or 6 missions i cant rlly remember. The offline isnt that great considering its 
 extremely boring and doesnt have that great of a story line. Online is a little better but not 
 to much. Whats fun is joining a country and defending it from other hounds so that ur country is 
 the most sucesfful so ur constantly fighting other ppl. You can also cuztimize ur hound in tons 
 of ways which makes it fun also. The postive of this game is its got great cuztimization, fun multiplayer 
 maps, and fun levels. But the other hand the hounds move incredibly slow, the story line is kind 
 of suky, and it gets boring after awhile. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fagsi
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 18, 2006 10:28 am PT
Review:  Yep, theres your problem right there. Your overhead camshaft, a Tarakian XM-2032, aint got but 
 a few more miles in it, and it sure dont benefit from being welded to a Morskoj 404 generator 
 assembly. Youre gonna need to junk at least half of this thing, replace the ball bearings in the 
 rotary drive, and upgrade your electronic doo-hickeys. I can do it for ya, but its gonna cost 
 at least a million Sal Kar dollars and dont expect it to be out of the shop until Sunday. You 
 can see yourself that Im all backed up here. Oh, you want to go into the business of mech construction 
 and maintenance for yourself? Well, kid, heres a tip: go out and get Chromehounds, Segas mech 
 maintenance simulator. Get familiar with the parts and dont undercharge for labor. It aint going 
 to be quick, but the game will get you up to speed. And that speed is five miles per hour. Calling 
 a mech game slow is like criticizing a model for being hungry, but Chromehounds seeps pacing problems 
 out of every loose nut. Between the plodding Hounds (mechs) , the endless customization, the creeping 
 single-player game and the incessant waiting in lobbies for online play, its not for the ADD afflicted. 
 But if you can customize tank decals and weaponry alignment until your room reeks of unwashed sweat 
 and grease, then this, my budding Lockheed Martin engineer, is the game for you. The premise has 
 three superpowers battling over a region of the world surprisingly shaped like the Middle East. 
 Americans back the democratic state of Tarakia, Russians back the Morskoj, and some unnamed Asian 
 country (or possibly Middle-Eastern) backs the Sal Kar. Its unclear how the mix of real and fake 
 countries makes the game any more compelling, and lord knows why the developers put up a disclaimer 
 on the opening screen asserting that the events in this game are fictional and not based on 
 real events. Um, you drive thousand-ton tanks that walk on legs. Wait, is this the secret robot 
 war that my history teachers neglected to tell me about? I think it happened sometime between the 
 Haymarket riots and the Monroe Doctrine. AHA! This not-so-historical conflict is fought by giant, 
 vaguely anthropomorphic tanks called Hounds. The single-player campaign is divided into scenarios 
 introducing you to the various types; as you progress through each story, you learn the various 
 tactical differences between, say, a Scout Hound on wheels (great for recon) and a Heavy Gunner 
 Hound on crab legs (great for killing) . As a tutorial, the missions perform adequately, but the 
 storytelling is as dry and stale as Morskojs communist toast. Perhaps this is because the story 
 is told entirely through disembodied dialogue - or rather, monologue. I get that the woman telling 
 me her sad story about being raised on Morskoj toast is supposed to be inside the tank in front 
 of me, but tanks dont have lips (yet) . Imagine looking at an immobile tank while listening to 
 a five-minute speech about some political strife that is obviously not based on real events. Its 
 like the History Channel, except fake and more boring. Ultimately, the paltry single-player campaign 
 is a giant smoking wreck out of which you can only salvage a few choice parts, literally. After 
 each mission, you receive a part as a reward. In time, those little gears and guns become the only 
 reason to play the single-player game, as it is just no fun at all. But while you wont care at 
 all about the war, you will care about your Hound. Before too long, youll ditch the pre-set junkers 
 the game gives you and begin building your own from the ground up. You will spend at least one-third 
 of your time in the garage, fitting and refitting your Hound with guns, ammunition, computer chips, 
 generators, heat sinks, armor, night vision, etc. The game comes from From Software, the guys behind 
 the Armored Core series, after all. The kitchen sink, I imagine, will be available for download 
 soon. Since the campaign sucks, most of the action in Chromehounds is found online. After joining 
 one of the three warring countries, youll immediately wait while your other squad members fiddle 
 with their Hounds or feed their cats. Getting a squad together and ready is like herding rabbits, 
 as the lure of tweaking one more armor plate or reconfiguring a rifle draws players back into their 
 garages. Thankfully, you can jump into the garage and tweak your machine while still maintaining 
 voice contact with the other members of your squad. Once everyones ready, you can battle squads 
 from other countries, but that means another wait in another lobby as they get their squads together. 
 Did I mention that the game was slow? But the battles are over quickly. For all the time youve 
 spent agonizing over the placement of your secondary generator, staring at lobby screens, and piloting 
 your Hound across the expansive map to flank the enemy, you can die in a heartbeat. Get hit with 
 a few enemy missiles in the space of a few seconds and your Hound is dead. It may put a premium 
 on strategy and planning, but it also means inevitable frustration as you wait the rest of the 
 game back at your base, Houndless and whining. And with the exception of long-range bombardments, 
 the battles are usually just circling and firing as fast as possible. The bigger the Hound, the 
 slower it moves and turns, but the bigger Hounds usually carry more weapons, making them more lethal. 
 Theres a kind of breathlessness while you wait to see who will blow up first, but it really isnt 
 action in the fast-paced, acrobatic sense. Not all is lost, however, thanks to the inclusion of 
 various role types. Commanders, for instance, can see enemy units on their maps, while quick Scouts 
 are useful for taking control of radar towers that expand the Commanders range of view and your 
 squads communication perimeter. Communication is very essential in the game, making it doubly 
 essential that you find a squad without the annoying screaming kid who just learned the word gay 
 Most of the other sounds are far less annoying. The background music is okay and the sound effects 
 are crisp and atmospheric. You can hear the thudding booms and machine gun chatter from the next 
 valley and watch tracer fire streak across the sky, even while your hound lumbers slowly to join 
 in the fight. Ive managed to make it this far without saying much about the games look or control, 
 mainly because the game is more about designing, strategizing, and waiting than it is about precise 
 control or special effects. But even so, the game looks good: the hounds are well animated and 
 the environments are nicely textured and feature big, gorgeous skylines. The picture-in-picture 
 display is particularly elegant, allowing you to see both first-person and third-person views at 
 the same time and toggle them with a button press. However, the maps are too sparse and indistinct. 
 The sandy desert area looks a lot like the grassy flatland area, which is just a green version 
 of the arctic snowy area. There are few trees or buildings to liven up the look. The control is 
 solid and intuitive, allowing you to move, target and fire without having to think too much about 
 it. But there are also some noticeable gaps; for instance, you can cycle your weapons with your 
 right bumper in one direction, but you cant cycle your weapons in the other direction. I dont 
 have to explain how annoying that can be to seasoned shooters. Even more annoying is the inability 
 to quit a game or leave a match in progress. No quitting? Its a shallow oversight in what is otherwise 
 a deep and complex game. [CORRECTION: Since the initial publish of this review, it has been brought 
 to the writer's attention that there is a way to quit during the middle of a game, but the process 
 is unwieldly and obtuse. As no one will be able to figure it out without researching the small 
 print of the manual or bribing me with several Tarakian dollars, I feel partially justified in 
 my initial, albeit unfounded, astonishment.] To its credit, the game does deliver some groovy little 
 features, such as the ability to design and place decals on your hound, the ability to check out 
 your other squad members hounds while waiting in the lobbies, and unique shops for each of the 
 three warring countries. You can even bid for experimental or captured enemy parts, which are distributed 
 via a lottery system. Nothing says winner like a virtual tank tread. And nothing says uneven 
 like Chromehounds. It stumbles in its lame single-player and brutally slow pacing, but offers a 
 nice amount of customization for would-be mech mechanics, leading to a game perfect for the chop 
 shop and lousy for the road. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheThreeSeat
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 15, 2006 4:12 pm PT
Review:  Chromehounds without Xbox Live Gold is a waste. That I have to put out there, you will run through 
 it and be left feeling very dissapointed. It consists of only a few missions in single player, 
 and you'll be very sad when its all done.
  
  Now you are probably wondering why I gave this game a high score after saying that. This is because 
 the real game, the multiplayer, is excellent. It will take you a long time to get very good at 
 this game, hence the high learning curve, but once you are in a clan and taking names, it gets 
 to be extremely enthralling.
  
  Multiplayer puts you into a world introduced by the single player, and takes off the training wheels. 
 You ally yourself with one of three nations that are at war, and you can then choose to join a 
 clan (choose wisely) . Once you are in, you will face off against other clans allied with other 
 nations in an attempt to gain control of the hundreds of maps in the game, and ultimately wipe 
 out the other two nations. Your country will supply you with unique mech parts, weapons, systems, 
 skins, and more that are uniqe to that country, so in order to gain a massive variety of weapons, 
 your clan may or may not change their alliances every so often. This is combined with fairly good 
 extra content on live, and you will have a fun time customizing your mech to work the best within 
 your team. And you will make many mistakes before you are happy with your mech. The level of realism 
 that has been worked into the game is deep, and you may well spend hours working and retooling 
 your mech to gain firepower, accuracy, and speed. These wars continue until only one country remains, 
 or is reset if a war lasts two months or longer. After a war ends, the members of the victorious 
 country are awarded based on their level of involvement, and then the fighting begins anew. Now 
 that I have covered gameplay thoroughly, I'll move on to some of the specs. The sound is fairly 
 convincing, and I have yet to have any real issues. The music is moderate, which is why the game 
 only got a nine in sound, but all in all the combat noise is very visceral. Graphically the game 
 is very enjoyable, however small issues hold it back from the perfect score. While all the explosions 
 are gorgeous, and the mechs look and move convincingly, the buildings and foilage do not collaps 
 all that well, as they merely become piles of rubbage. This doesn't bother most people who play 
 it, but for some that is a huge turn off. To summarize, this game has one of the best, most fleshed 
 out multiplayer worlds I have ever seen or heard of, and deserves far better than the ratings it 
 has recieved. It is enjoyable, it has a lot of strategy and team based tactics, and you can enjoy 
 some very harrowing combat to boot. The game definately rewards teamwork, and the game is better 
 for it. I understand that many people have been dissappointed by this game, so perhaps I would 
 reccommend renting before you buy, but I was very pleasently suprised. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andrew_LL
Rating: 7.3
Date: Oct 14, 2006 1:52 pm PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong, this is a game with potential. But the problem is the unhumanly slowness of 
 it. Call it tactical, call it immersive, I just call it being boring. I rented this with high expectations 
 and got a huge letdown. The online is fun, but as the Gamespot review said it takes an investment 
 of time. And for those who hate reading walls of text, here is a quick look at the pros/cons of 
 this mech game.
  
  Pros
  + Great-looking Mechs
  + Has Potential + Well thought out Online gameplay Cons
  - Mechs move slower than snails - Games 
 can last for upwards of an hour - Environments look drab and jagged for a next-gen title 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trevor_25
Rating: 5.2
Date: Oct 13, 2006 6:48 am PT
Review:  I am still waiting to play a great mech sim game. Chromehounds had potential but in the end falls 
 short in every possible way. From the completely ridiculous story and laughable dialogue, to the 
 tedious mech battles, this game misses the mark of even a good rental.
  
  The one supposed strength of this game, online play, is not even very fun. You cannot set up your 
 own matches and choose the types of mech battles you want to create. So you end up fighting people 
 online who create small fast mechs to run up to your base and destroy it in 10 seconds while you 
 are out looking for them. This defeats the whole purpose behing playing multiplayer with HUGE FREAKING 
 TANKS OF DESTRUCTION. I do like the idea of playing your multiplayer battles amidst a larger war, 
 where winning and losing impacts the war. You can pick and choose the battlefields to play and 
 even donate money to your faction's cause. This is a nice idea, just not very well accomplished. 
 I love the fact you can take your customizable mech with all of the parts you have won in single 
 player campaign and use it in multiplayer. So there is some good, just not enough here.
  
  If the multiplayer has potential but is poorly executed, the single player campaign is just bad. 
 Its basically set up to train you on how to use each RT, thats role type. The problem is that many 
 of the missions are vague as to their objective. Its easy to miss dialogue given to you while you 
 are fighting that lets you know what your next objective is and you find yourself wandering around 
 some of the maps aimlessly trying to find one remaining enemy. This can take a while to say the 
 least. You will struggle to get through these missions just from sheer boredom.
  
  The graphics are average at best and the audio is just plain repetitive and uninspiring. In some 
 cases the text display interferes with your ability to pilot your mech, big NO NO in any game.
 
  
  The one redeeming factor for this game is YOU CAN CREATE YOUR OWN MECH. I like this a lot. You 
 win parts as complete the SP campaign and then you can even buy parts online in the multiplayer 
 mode. You can literally customize your mech's appearance, RT, color scheme, etc. Its very cool. 
 Plus, as I mentioned before, you can use it online.
  
  All in all I would avoid this game. unless you need to blow up huge robot style tanks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: natedoggy11
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 12, 2006 9:14 pm PT
Review:  Ok as of right now I can't really give a full review since I don't have my Xbox live set up. But 
 what I can give you is a full review of the single player mode. Ok to start off there are 6 different 
 modes (role types) or (Rt's) they consist of: Scout, Soldier, Sniper, Tactics Commander, Heavy 
 Gunner and Defender. each Role type has its unique stats and weapons. the levels go like this:
 
  
  0.) scenario level (easy) (1 level)
  1.) Soldier (easy) (7 levels)
  2.) Sniper (easy) (7 levels)
  3.) Defender (medium) (7 levels)
  4.) Scout (medium) (7 levels)
 
  5.) Heavy Gunner (hard) (7 levels)
  6.) Tactics Commander (hard) (7 levels)
  0.1) Final Level (hard) (1 level)
  
  After each level you will gain part depending on how you 
 did. an S rank will get you 2 parts and any other rank will get you 1. after beating every thing 
 with an S rank you should have 176 parts (Weapons, Chases, Spacers, Generators ect...) the point 
 of the singe player mode is only to prepare you for online mode to make sure you are ready before 
 you get killed online. So far for the single player mode I am pretty satisfied with the game, It 
 is definitely worth a rental and I would suggest even to buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Decibyte
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 9, 2006 4:31 am PT
Review:  When I first picked up this game, I wasn't feeling to keen about it, but was able to score it for 
 $44 (Canadian) . I took it home and started the single player offline which was stated that it is 
 a campaign which is to train you about parts and types of HOUNDs. The game right off the bat was 
 amazing. Highly customizable, you can even add decals. If anything I would say the detail of customization 
 was on par with Forza. The only acception was that you trade tires and rims for firearms and generators.
 
  While reading reviews I saw that the biggest downfall of the game was it's short offline single 
 player. If you don't have an xbox gold account you should not purchase this game. However if you 
 do, this game is for you. The single player offline as I stated is only for training purposes. 
 Anyone who stated it is a downfall did not pay attention, just assumed that it was supposed to 
 be an offline game. When playing online you join or create a squad and play in the Neroimus war. 
 In this war you choose one of three sides and your nation battles for supremacy. You earn or loose 
 money in this way, but you can also fight the computer for an easy victory instead of people and 
 when low on cash, make yourself very wealthy within 10 minutes. Also online, you can do free battle 
 and fight against anyone with no loses of credits for fun. There is also a ranked system which 
 will allow you to fight for the spot of #1. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: remixmasta
Rating: 7.4
Date: Oct 7, 2006 7:47 pm PT
Review:  i made this cool friend who gives me money and then he gets his friend and tells him to let me 
 join his klan so i do and his friend gives me a whole hound and some money also i get to build 
 my own which is time consuming but extremely fun and then u get to test them out if you like it 
 u keep it but it would suck if u knew no one and was and outcast also u have to start off with 
 some money and then gain from there are ur screwed casue the way u make money is by playing missions 
 with ur squad or by ur self on xbox live but if you have no good robots you will surely only lose 
 money so as i wus sayin that only if u have friends that r williing to help u buy this game or 
 else scew it and buy call of duty3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NicG360
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 6, 2006 10:39 pm PT
Review:  Chrome Hounds is in my opinion on of the best online games for the Xbox 360 to date. The campaign 
 mode is not the best but gives you the feel for each type of class. Online is amazing, wither you 
 with a group of friends from you school or at home playing from some kids hundreds of miles away. 
 It leaves you with an unforgettable experience. Any Xbox 360 owner should try this game if only 
 once I guaranty you it will not let you down. So go to you local game store buy or rent a copy 
 and go home to have the most un forgettable experience in your life, that truly makes the Xbox 
 360 next-gene technology. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aurelien48
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 3, 2006 3:42 pm PT
Review:  This game is fun too play and I hope that everyone at leat tried that game because its great!!!! 
 The graphic are pretty good, the sound is alright, the value are ok the game play is great. It 
 is slow, is not war every second. it does get boring after a while. its cool that oyu can buy stuff 
 for your robot and make it better and cooler! this game is way better then mechassault. multiplayer 
 online is the best on this game. it si fun too play and the achievment are not that hard to get. 
 It is a game tto try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: berkner_ram77
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 27, 2006 5:11 pm PT
Review:  The multiplayer is amazing other than a few minor balance issues here and there, but there are 
 always counters to any hound out there. Single player on the other hand is essentially useless 
 unless you want the achievements. The single player was so boring to me, that the achievements 
 couldnt get me to play it all the way through. So i just focus on the Neroimus War always striving 
 to get to Colonel. Also, the free battle mode is excellent, especially if you need to try out a 
 new hound and none of your fellow squad mates are online to give you their two cents about it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: princeof-persia
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 26, 2006 4:16 pm PT
Review:  So If you want a fast paced, fun game, you will have no doubt in getting this game. The game should 
 be start off trying the single player, but there is one problem with it. The story isn't that deep, 
 and it feels like it is a tutorial acting like a single player game. But don't let this discourage 
 you, this game is pure fun. It's multiplayer is a real time, addictive persistent world in which 
 you engage in battles against the enemy to claim the land for you country you work with. There 
 are three countries that you work with : Tarakia, Morskoj, and Sal Kar. Each country has different 
 parts that you can buy, and you can elect the president or prime minister depending on which country 
 which you are working for. The war ends in two ways. One way of course if you win the war by dominating 
 the other two nations (or your's is) or the war ends is a draw due to time constrants. For a really 
 fun mech game, you have to try this one! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nxtrder
Rating: 8.1
Date: Sep 26, 2006 11:03 am PT
Review:  The single player mode is just ok. The characters and story lines are pretty much useless. These 
 single player missions serve to train you for mulitplayer. As well as unlock some parts for your 
 hound building. If you happen to get on a squad with a bunch of good guys or girls you'l have a 
 ton of fun. Multiplayer is where chromhound shines. The whole 3 country war, territory take over 
 and playstyle is great. The only drawback I've been experiencing is that the multi player war is 
 getting repetitive. Even though there are tons of maps it's still feeling like the same thing over 
 and over. But hopefully they will come out with an expansion or downloadable maps and missions. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uncommon
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 25, 2006 1:40 pm PT
Review:  I have logged about 21 hours into the game so far and feel it's time to give a review. I understand 
 that no one will really read my review but I feel it's important to maintain a level of involvement 
 inside the video game community. I started the game in story mode and played for about two hours. 
 I made my way through the soldier story line and it worked as a very good introduction to the game 
 mechanics. The story was alright but it was far from epic. Just a few days in the life of a merc.
 
  
  The online mulitplayer is where the game really shines. With the ability to completely customize 
 your hound, you'll find yourself spending hours developing configurations just for a few moments 
 on the battlefield. This game is really incredible in this aspect alone and deserves a much higher 
 rating game spot gives it. It doesn't have much of an offline component but that really isn't the 
 focus of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slacker1900
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 25, 2006 9:00 am PT
Review:  Review: Chormehounds
  
  Chormehounds is set in a world where sunspots have made airplanes and ballistic missiles unreliable, 
 Your a merc thats hired to fight a war.
  single player for the most part is training for multiplayer, its boring and uninspired. Overall 
 the gameplay is good but it does have some issues. Graphics are good for the most part, the mechs 
 a very detailed but the environments are empty and uninspired. Sound is good and gives you the 
 feel that your in a 30 ft tall mech. The games best feature is its multiplayer, its a persistent 
 online game and it features great clan support and great communtiy .
  
  
  
  
  Pros
  -Great Multiplayer
  -Lots of mech custom ability -Great clan support
  -Very detailed Mechs
 
  
  Cons
  -Boring single player
  -Empty Environments
  -Some Sever issues
  
  ------------------------------------------------- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weaponman5000
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 24, 2006 7:55 pm PT
Review:  For all people who enjoy an intense game of squad tactics, keeping in constant contact with your 
 squad members, working together and making moves as a team to outwit and eliminate the enemy... 
 I highly suggest you get this game. You will without a doubt enjoy it. Chromehounds is far from 
 anything like Mech Assault. Pure mayhem may at times seem what this game is about, but many more 
 elements play into this game to make it more tactical and require more use of your noggin. Oh and 
 just to let you know, if you dont have xbox live, then do not buy this game. Sure, the campaign 
 is exciting. Has a good experience with all RTs (role types) of the game, but there is a lack of 
 strategic play when you have no one else to work with. Plus, the campaign isn't one to last weeks 
 upon weeks. Spend a good couple hours with it, you can get a chunk of it out of the way with not 
 much to play. The story line isnt exactly immersive either. No real detailed cut scenes or anything 
 like that. I love a good story line in a game, but i wasnt really paying much attention to it. 
 So basically, its about the mulitplayer. Once online, you can participate in just regular free-battle 
 or join one of the three nations and fight in the Neromius War. Battle is constantly going on and 
 a percentage of how much control your nation has over the world is constantly going up and down. 
 But fighting isnt as simple as picking your favorite hound and going into battle. You must build 
 your fighting machine from the ground up. From legs to guns, there is all sorts of different parts 
 you can use to make your own unique hound. Once you have built a hound, depending on the parts, 
 the game distinguishes which kind of RT it is. Soldier, Scout, Defender, Sniper, Heavy Gunner and 
 Commander are the different kinds of RTs hounds can become. A battle fought is never alike and 
 always is fun, everytime. The excitement never ends and i promise all who enjoy strategy, action 
 and mechs will love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Woozy_Gem
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 22, 2006 6:41 pm PT
Review:  The controls are kinda hard at first, and getting used to you reticle on the top right corner is 
 kind of difficult, but you will get used to it in a snap. The multiplayer is highly addictive. 
 You can make any hound you want and use it on anyone. One of the best parts is the rank system. 
 You will do your best to get it higher, and you will achieve. The combat is just plain fun. The 
 single player mode is easy, but kind of dull. If you don't have a headset, buy one, because you 
 will have to be communicating with your team mates alot to win the battle. Don't but this game 
 if you don't have xbox live. This is one of my favorite games on my 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firebird024
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 8, 2006 12:38 pm PT
Review:  The story missions teach you how to use each hound. You get parts for every story mission FOR FREE! 
 Xbox 360 live is the best you get to test your skills against different hounds. You get medals 
 for a lot of things. You get to buy parts, go to different nations and fight with a squad. One 
 of the best games for xbox 360 live!! If you are a recruit and are looking for a squad join mine 
 im on Republic of Morskoj my sqaud name is EVIL24 i will be with this nation for a very long time 
 if i change i will change my review so it will say witch nation i am with. IF YOU DONT HAVE THE 
 GAME GET IT!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bewarethehorns
Rating: 7.4
Date: Sep 19, 2006 4:58 pm PT
Review:  The one thing that got me hooked on the game in the beginning was how intuitive the controls where. 
 If you've played even one third or first person shooter you already have a good idea of how things 
 work and the tutorials filled in everything else nicely. The story line is very short and in my 
 opinion the game slides downhill during the first set of missions. Very quickly you learn that 
 if you run and gun you'll do just fine and as for the units that tag along for your support usually 
 end up needing your help before the mission is over. The online component pretty much saves the 
 game from anything less than a 7/10 and I'm not a big fan of online play to begin with. And of 
 course, being able to customize your own mech to suit your own tactical preference is a long overdue 
 feature in this genre. If only the storyline game play was more compelling and immersive, then 
 you'd have an easy 8 or even 9 out of 10. In the end though, it's a well polished game with not 
 much inside. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hind9999
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 17, 2006 4:38 am PT
Review:  this game is worth to buy and spend a lot of time it is sooo good gameplay and the graphic is just 
 so nice i love this game there is a lot fun in it and there is lot of action and machines in the 
 game really fun and good i play it nearly everyday it is not waste of time 2 play!... :D u gotta 
 love it there is so much to say about it and i dont know what more there is to say this game is 
 worth to buy and spend a lot of time it is sooo good gameplay and the graphic is just so nice i 
 love this game there is a lot fun in it and there is lot of action and machines in the game really 
 fun and good i play it nearly everyday it is not waste of time 2 play!... :D u gotta love it there 
 is so much to say about it and i dont know what more there is to say this game is worth to buy 
 and spend a lot of time it is sooo good gameplay and the graphic is just so nice i love this game 
 there is a lot fun in it and there is lot of action and machines in the game really fun and good 
 i play it nearly everyday it is not waste of time 2 play!... :D u gotta love it there is so much 
 to say about it and i dont know what more there is to say this game is worth to buy and spend a 
 lot of time it is sooo good gameplay and the graphic is just so nice i love this game there is 
 a lot fun in it and there is lot of action and machines in the game really fun and good i play 
 it nearly everyday it is not waste of time 2 play!... :D u gotta love it there is so much to say 
 about it and i dont know what more there is to say 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fatality4u
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 15, 2006 10:58 am PT
Review:  Whether it is a pile straight through the cockpit at point blank or a snipers bullet from 750 
 meters out, you are already gone. Chromehounds provides the player with the capability and tools 
 to choose the style of play best suited for his or her enjoyment. While the customization aspect 
 breathes life into the mechanized battlefield, the game suffers from a lackluster single player 
 experience that detracts from the whole experience.
  
  In a not so distant alternate universe, three counties with different values and constricting boundaries 
 battle for supremacy of the land. To vie for control of their enemies each country uses massive 
 battle vehicles called hounds. The single-player portion, which has its merits and pit falls, serves 
 primarily as a training course. The storyline contains six different story arcs: Soldier, Sniper, 
 Defender, Scout, Heavy Gunner, and Commander. Each story arc has a certain difficulty rating associated 
 with them, but they all seem to be about the same difficulty in the end. Through the different 
 story arcs the developers are trying to tell stories for each side of the war, which consistently 
 seem half baked.
  
  While the single-player portion does provide you with a beneficial background for success on the 
 online portion of the game, it is far too short to actually provide any substance. As an incentive 
 to play through the storyline of the game, you are rewarded with parts upon completion of the mission 
 and an extra part for the highest rank. It may sound like playing through the storyline would provide 
 you with great parts for online play, but alas the capability of purchasing better parts online 
 overshadows the incentive. The most in depth and intriguing part of Chromehounds is the customization 
 of your own hound. You will have the opportunity to construct your hound from the legs up, picking 
 different cockpits, weapons and armor. During the construction of your hound, you will always be 
 constantly looking at some of the important statistics of your such as the load, energy use, and 
 speed. Depending on your style of play you will want to work with each of these statistics to figure 
 out exactly how to load up your hound. If you would like to be fast you will want to use wheels 
 and not load up your hound with lots of weapons or if you want to be a walking gun you will want 
 legs with a lot of load and a lot of weapons.
  
  Customization of the hounds is seen as a central part of this game, but it should be noted that 
 it is not necessary to do during the storyline. During each of the missions you will have the choice 
 to use your own hound or a borrowed hound. Building your own hound for use during the missions 
 may sound like a good idea, but you have very limited parts in the beginning and the borrowed hound 
 will always be sufficient to complete all of the missions for the highest rank.
  
  The bulk of the rewarding experience will be gained from the online experience. It is obvious that 
 the developers of the game have really put a lot of work into the persistent online world with 
 the Neroimus War. During this sect of the game you will be required to join one of the three nations: 
 Sal Kar, Tarakia, or Morskoj. Once you have chosen your side you will fight over the entire region 
 with the goal of conquering the enemy nations capitals. To help reinforce the idea of working 
 as a squad, you will be required to join one if you want to fight in the Neroimus War. This squad 
 concept is very much a double edged sword. On the one hand, if you are able to constantly join 
 up with your squad for matches you will have a great online experience. Conversely, if your squad 
 never seems to get together or you are with a particularly bad squad you will constantly find yourself 
 frustrated. If you are not particularly fond of having to constantly be with the same people or 
 you happen to be the only squad member on at the time there, is the option to do Free Battle. In 
 Free Battle you will have the opportunity to play against other people regardless of your affiliation 
 in the Neroimus War. While this is a good concept, it would have been better suited for application 
 within the Neroimus War rather than separate play.
  
  To help foster the use of teamwork further the game makes judicious use of communications. In order 
 to communicate your other squad members you need to capture COMBAS. Essentially these are large 
 towers that once controlled allow contact with your squad within a certain radius. The areas for 
 communication, or NA for short, can be connected so that you will not lose communication over long 
 distances. This feature makes you work for something that is usually taken for granted and helps 
 to give the game some unique qualities.
  
  The online portion of the game will be the most enjoyable part, but it is not without its flaws. 
 With the online portion you will constantly have to be loading up the information for your live 
 account from your hard drive. While loading up the information is not a big obstacle to overcome 
 it feels rather clumsy when it could have been streamlined better. Another inevitable annoyance 
 is the communiqu&eacute; s for each of the countries upon entrance of the Neroimus War. After you 
 logon you will be bombarded with news about the war that you are not able to bypass. While this 
 only takes about 5 minutes to pass through it is none the less a feature that could be done without. 
 Regardless of the few errors that are found online they should not be enough to deter people from 
 the rewarding online experience.
  
  Graphically, the look of Chromehounds is very sharp. The game has around 80 different maps that 
 range from the roaming snow hills to the down and dirty urban fighting for the capitals. Each of 
 the maps feels unique, except for the trees which feel like carbon copies to be plopped at random 
 intervals and areas. The effects of your hounds weapons against the environment can be seen at 
 all times in great splendor. Trees will fall from fire and even dirt will be kicked up when the 
 ammunition hits the ground. During urban fighting buildings can be knocked down in order to make 
 easier paths for your hounds to travel, and will fall down in a heap of rubble. Each of the weapons 
 seems to have a great visual effect associated with them. Missiles will leave smoke trails, chains 
 of machine gun fire will glow, and cannons will appear as lights of destruction. The graphical 
 effects are not lost on the hounds either. Your hound will begin to catch fire and even smoke as 
 the enemy destroys parts of your hound. Even at the end, your hound will go out in a blaze of glory 
 that is befitting the destruction of a heavily armed beast.
  
  Sounds of machine guns and missiles will bounce through your head. Each of the different types 
 of weapons has an exquisite sound associated with them. The machine guns, missiles, and cannons 
 all sound as if plenty of time were spent perfecting the sound. Your hound itself will boom in 
 power with each step and buildings will collapse with an appropriate rumble. If it was not for 
 the mundane sound track the sound could be considered perfect. The slow and methodical soundtrack 
 only seems to last for an hour and is on a continuous loop, which gets old rather quickly. Fortunately 
 the soundtrack is not heard very much and you will eventually forget about it all together as you 
 are enjoyably listening to sound of your weapons ripping the enemy to shreds.
  
  If you are willing to put time and effort into Chromehounds, you will be rewarded with an overwhelming 
 experience that will satisfy your action hunger. Finding the right squad to battle with online 
 may take more time that some will find they are willing to put into it, but once you do your options 
 are nearly endless. Despite the lack luster single-player portion, the online portion well makes 
 up for it and leaves a great game to spend your time and money with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sircalmar
Rating: 9.8
Date: Sep 15, 2006 1:54 am PT
Review:  Mech games have been a long time favorite... from the old cardboard cutout games to the best computer 
 games out there, many greats have passed the screen. Most of them had some major flaws though, 
 something to hold back your enjoyment. The interfaces may have sucked, the graphics may have been 
 old compared to the rest of the world, or there wasn't the customization that you really wanted 
 to make your mech.
  MechWarriors... fret no more, your savior is here.
  IMO Chromehounds is the best Mech combat game since the old battletech board that you played with 
 your friends. Graphically, it's amazing, and everything is destructable. Weapons? More than you 
 can comfortably use. Customization, after a few missions you can build your own mech with spare 
 parts... go online and you can buy (with in game $$) all the parts you want. 4 legs? Check. Wheeled 
 Mech? Check. Tracked? Check. 2 legs? Check!
  
  Gameplay - Amazing... as the saying goes, easy to learn, hard to master. Lots of options to give 
 the game ultimate replayability. Then you can go online and take place in a live warzone that resets 
 once someone wins. Join the mighty and crush the weak.... or join the underdogs and try and change 
 the tide of the war!
  
  Graphics - This game looks great. The graphics aren't as good as Oblvion or Fight Night, but this 
 is the best looking mech game out there.
  
  Sounds - The sounds are wonderful, be it the bombs bursting in air or your comrades screaming as 
 they are destroyed. Value - If you like strategy or Mechs, there is no question. BUY THIS GAME. 
 If you aren't sure, rent it and give it a shot, you won't be dissapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: llc012
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 11, 2006 12:59 am PT
Review:  This review is based solely on multiplayer, single player is only training for multiplayer in my 
 view. If you don't have xbox live, pass on this game.
  
  I've played chromehounds for over 50 hours on xbox live now and I must say this game has grown 
 on me. Once you start customizing your mech you start to appreciate just how different you can 
 make your hound and the advantages that each hounds has on each other. In short you can make a 
 slow hound with mega firepower or a fast hound with less firepower. What makes the game good though 
 is that the faster/weaker mechs can definitely take out the slower/stronger hounds. That's what 
 I like about this game, no matter what hound you make, if you can operate it correctly you can 
 do well. The graphics for the game are very nice and sharp for this kind of game. The graphics 
 that need to look well on this game do, such as the mechs themselves and the explosions. The environments 
 looks good also and there is good diversity in the environments offered such as deserts, snowy 
 areas, forested areas, and water areas (harbors are fun with hovercrafts btw) . My main complaint 
 with chromehounds is that there are numerous bugs. Patches are being released to help handle these 
 bugs but one patch was just released and I still notice weird things occuring such as not seeing 
 teammates in the same lobby, disconnect issues, sloooooow load times, and game freeze issues. If 
 these bugs were not there this game is easily 8.5 overall. If you are a mech fan and have xbox 
 live I recommend this game. Give it time, learn the game (and how to configure mechs properly, 
 it's not that complicated if you think about it) , and have fun online.
  
  Tilt: As stated before, this game is 8.5 with no bugs for multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adragon_hart
Rating: 7.8
Date: Sep 10, 2006 6:15 pm PT
Review:  If you really enjoy 'mech type shooters this game is one-of-a-kind. I enjoyed the versatility in 
 the customization with all the parts available, however, out of the box some of the equipment you 
 startwith seems too underpowered to be of any use in multiplayer. The ongoing war is great, but 
 you can always tell who has the most players, I've been in wars that last several days with no 
 one really making any decicive moves and also been in where my faction is doing quite well only 
 to return later that evening to find that we have been defeated. While the connection issues are 
 unfortunate it doesn't take too much away from the game. The role-based classes for the Hounds 
 was a nice touch, especially if you can manage to get all six people from your sqaud into a game. 
 The 20 member restriction is a bit frustrating however because sometimes it is difficult to find 
 only those people online to play with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamer_199
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 10, 2006 3:24 pm PT
Review:  I was pretty suprised about this game, BECAUSE ITS SOOOOO GOOD, i thought it was gonna be good, 
 but i was wrong, IT WAS GREAT, get this game you guys, offline is really fun, and online is a Non-turnbased 
 verison of risk, with squads in any 3 of the countries, with your squads you move from battle to 
 battle without leaving them, its like a never ending clan battle with the opposing country, you 
 can make your own squad or join one that your friend is in, or try and build up your rank so you 
 can join a well known one. Get this game, its really good you guys. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xhybrid_bombX
Rating: 7.7
Date: Sep 9, 2006 9:25 am PT
Review:  The game's story line is a little slow ,directions are confusing at first and its easy to blow 
 up your teammates. But who cares yur in a mech up things that you don't need to blow up. The worst 
 things I think is in this game is they don't give directions twice and the map is confusing and 
 there is no cross-hair on 3rd person veiw. But the graphics are amazing and game play is mostly 
 same but with a catchy twist . After every mission you complete you get to parts for your own mech 
 to build. I have yet to play this online but I heard from very many people that it owns so i might 
 play sometime later but now im working on to beat enchanted arms. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yanks43215
Rating: 6.7
Date: Sep 7, 2006 1:02 am PT
Review:  When i first heard of this game i was thinking yes, another mech game. I was brought back to memories 
 of mechassault. Well, this game is nothing like mechassault. The story moade was horrible. You 
 just go around and complete these missions. There is always an annoying person on the other end 
 of your transmitter, so they're always talking to you and other times when you get lost they won't 
 say anything. The multi-player is squad based so you have to either go into rooms by yourself or 
 with some squad members. Buliding your own mech is cool because you can try so many variations, 
 but i think thats the only thing that made it worthwhile. I thought this was a loss of a game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Necromace2938
Rating: 7.6
Date: Sep 3, 2006 7:02 pm PT
Review:  Wow. i had such high hopes for this game. pitty. Well here comes another mech game that looks just 
 like all the rest. and what a surprise., it is a mech game that is just like all the rest. This 
 game really has no single player campaign, just a really long tutorial that has a story. The multiplayer 
 can be pretty fun actually saving this game from mediocry if you have a good team that is able 
 to play their own positions well. Mech designing is fun and intuitive and you can make dozens of 
 different models with the exact same pieces. All this is fine and dandy until u see what combat 
 is like. Mechs move slow and everyone is so far away. Graphically these battle scenes are good, 
 but im tlaking like later xbox 1 game good, not really 360 quality. But anyway back to combat. 
 Mechs are slow, many weapons dont do noticable damage or take to long to recharge to make them 
 usful in direct combat. This game isnt all bad. as i mentioned b4, designing ur hound is pretty 
 good fun, and the online campagin can keep u playing longer than u wood play any other game that 
 is the same quality. It's a good team builder game, so when you play games that are actually fun 
 like halo 2 and GRAW, ppl u play with in those games alogn with chromehounds are better at assuming 
 their role in other games. You can buy this game and it will entertain u for a day or 2, but ull 
 soon come crawling back to more polished titles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KamakazeNinja08
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 2, 2006 11:22 pm PT
Review:  The creators of this game are giniouses!! This is one of the best games that I have ever played 
 in my life! When I first saw it on the shelfs I thought that it was going to be an OK game but 
 when I played It I was amazed by it. The story is pritty good and tha game play is pritty sweet! 
 I could not stop playing it for 13 hours strait! I was hooked on it! but I finally come to my senses 
 and stoped playing it for a while. If you have not bought this game then you should buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zartnic
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 2, 2006 11:03 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: fun If you get whole bunch of friends to make a squad together friendly fire bit is annoying 
 but squad colours and lights can fix that. yes the mechs can be slow but then be a scount or something! 
 If you enjoy shooting more than running around the sniper and the heavy gunner are for you. And 
 for those ADHD-types just stick to scout. Mech customization is this games strong point with all 
 the parts you never truly have a "amazing" mech with a bunch of different parts to choose. oh and 
 don't buy this game If you don't have live the offline play, which I liked alot, leave most people 
 something to be desired. One thing I have to bi+ch about is the fact that you can't skip the neroimus 
 report (the thing that tells you about what happened for you noobs out there.)
  
  Graphics: The mechs are briliantly rendered but the landscape is so-so but you don't really notice 
 it that much anyway. Night battles are amazing with a whole bunch of visual treats like flare and 
 night vision. night-time battles can be beautiful with a 6 on 6.
  
  Sound: The sound isn't really that great but even so the sound like how they are suppose to sound 
 and nothing more.
  
  Achievements: Some achievements are hard to get but some are easy. The "valor" achievements are 
 extremely hard to get (you have to get to lvl 99, I think.)
  
  Overall: to me this is one of the best games I have ever bought next to Halo 2 and oblivion. The 
 squad feature is fun and customization is great and the online play still keeps me entertained. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrzyOz300
Rating: 7.8
Date: Sep 2, 2006 7:22 pm PT
Review:  If you don't have xbox live don't get this game period. If you have xbox live and you enjoyed mechassasult 
 this is the game for you. This game takes patience and stratagie and isn't a one man hero game. 
 You can't rush out there and get three kills. You need to work with your teammates to win. There 
 isn't much lag in the game and even when there is lag it isn't that noticable except when your 
 a sniper since it messes with your shot. The creation of your hound is actually very fun once you 
 get the hang of it. when you do you can find yourself spending hour build the perfect mech. If 
 you enjoyed mechassault just a little rent this game. Give it a week learn the basics, and then 
 some. See if you enjoy it. If you hated Mechassault then don't even look at this game. To me it's 
 a game at least worth renting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 01casey
Rating: 4.2
Date: Sep 2, 2006 3:26 pm PT
Review:  Dont buy it. Dont rent it. Dont even think about it. End of review. At least it should be, as 
 I shouldnt have to explain in detail why not to play this game. But, I suppose thats the way 
 the world goes round. Okay, let the slating begin
  
  Gameplay Flaw Number 1: Chromehounds is so God damned slow. Fair enough, its a mech game, and 
 the majority of todays mech games try to be realistic, therefore the speed of the mech has to 
 be at a believable rate. But what about Mech Assault? That wasnt slow, and it was as fun as hell! 
 I mean, lets admit it, our eyes might like realism nowadays, but who truly gives a damn? All 
 we need is true, fun, gameplay. I mean, come on  did From Software really think that people would 
 have fun with this game? Really? If so, they need their heads checking out, as its about as fun 
 as cold chips. And as slow as a snail with arthritis.
  
  Flaw Number 2: The graphics are appalling. Fair enough, I said that realism didnt matter in games 
 earlier, but you expect a slight bit of eye-candy from a next-gen game. This wouldnt even do the 
 Dreamcast proud. Still, I wish SEGA would go running back to the Dreamcast so that I didnt have 
 to be this angry about a game. Yes, SEGA who gave us the likes of Sonic, have actually managed 
 to make me truly angry.
  
  Lets stuff the Gameplay Flaw rubbish  Chromehounds is without a doubt one of the worst games 
 on the 360. No, lets make that, one of the worst games Ive reviewed in a long time. Its also 
 a damned hard game to review as well, because how many paragraphs can we write saying dont buy 
 it? Also, a game has never made me use the word damned or damn so many times. I dont want 
 to sound awkward people, but just dont even try it. You are going to be disappointed like we are, 
 you are going to want your time and money back, and you are going to want to go round to From Software 
 HQ and give them a good shouting at (although I do not recommend this  Ed) .
  
  Finally, with no further hesitation, I will say one last time people, please dont buy it. You 
 are going to make yourself upset, and make me upset. Dont ignore me or Ill be angry *Looks at 
 the latest charts and sees Chromehounds at 5th*  Psst, I pity you fools. The game certainly needs 
 a great On-Live score if its to get your pennies.
  
  FINAL VERDICT: Chromehounds does nothing well in single player, and its very rare that a game 
 does nothing at all. Only a decent multiplayer mode would save this from the fiery pits of gaming 
 Hell.
  
  (Originally exclusively written for Xpress magazine, now ceases to exist) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: c3ya
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 2, 2006 11:03 am PT
Review:  First off gameplay. Single player is fun but easy. Dosent have enough missions and no storyline. 
 Mutiplayer is a different story. It has awesome customizabillity, great squad tactics and actually 
 some story. (ok no story but has a war map) . Now the actual playing of the game is little different 
 than most other mech games. It is slightly slow and can get boring after a while. If you dont like 
 slower more tactical games dont get this. If anyone here has played Phantom Crash for XBOX knows 
 about fast paced mech games.
  
  Graphics are up to par for 360 and sound could be better. Value not worth 60 bucks to me but if 
 you like tactical games is worth it.
  
  Single Player. Not going to spend much time here cause it is pretty straight forward. You take 
 the mech the loan you go shoot some tanks and mini-mechs. Every now and then like at the end of 
 each role type campaign you get to battle a actual MECH. Role Types.
  The role types are as follows: Commander, Solider, Sniper, Heavy Gunner, Defender, and Scout. Commander 
 is pretty much unnessacary because everyone can see the map and everyone can talk to eachother 
 if you are in the Network Area which you get by standing next to a COMBA or you can get one by 
 completely weighing down your mech and put a NA creator on your mech. The commander is supossed 
 to communicate and direct the other mechs which is useless when your squadleader can be whatever 
 he wants and stll be leader. Solider a medium weight fighter. Nothing special. Sniper. Pretty straight 
 forward. Heavy Gunner is a long range artillary mech and can be very effective if they have a good 
 pilot. Defender is suppoused to Defend the HQ and commander. Pretty much useless too. Scout is 
 a light fast mech with light guns and is supposed to go out first and get COMBAs. Pretty much useless 
 unless you stick a weapon called a PILE on it. A PILE is a melee weapon the devostates on one hit 
 sometimes. Very effective against slower mechs.
  
  Multiplayer.
  Big squad based battles which will win points for your army if your team wins. Multiplayer is fun 
 but will get old as it is slow in game and slow to set one up.
  
  Overall a fun game if you like tactics. My suggestion is rent it see if you like it and if you 
 do buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grimboj
Rating: 3.4
Date: Sep 2, 2006 4:41 am PT
Review:  Amazing graphics, excellent ideas and lore but F- gameplay. They took the coolest looking robots 
 at a great perspective with amazing weapons and then jus forgot to make it fun. The whole game 
 is slow and sluggish and the multiplayer is so dark that you cant actually see who you are shooting. 
 You have to join a guild before you can play in the RvR part of the multiplayer and all guilds 
 reject n00bs, deathmatches are just too random with 5v5 in pitch black maps - worse than king kong. 
 Possibly worth a rent but it lasted a matter of hours for me as the single player is just a bit 
 of training in each class with no purpose, leading to a very unfulfilling multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tyuzfuny
Rating: 7.2
Date: Sep 1, 2006 9:30 pm PT
Review:  I am a mech fan.
  
  I always have been, and probably always will be. When I heard that Armored Core was coming to the 
 PSP, I searched for a very long time to get my hands on it, but finally, it was mine.
  
  So, needless to say, I came into this game with high expectations. Did it disappoint? Well, I can't 
 quite some that up in a word, but I hope this review helps clear it all up.
  
  Gameplay: The action part of this game is great. Lots of explosions and weapons, and great control 
 of your hound. The controls are a lot more simplified than most mech games, making the action part 
 easy to jump into. Now, when it came to the customizing of your hound, I was a bit let down. The 
 whole thing is just way more complicated then necessary, which kinda left me thinking "What's the 
 pont of customizing for hours, if I can hardly read what it's actually helping?" So, a bit let 
 down in customizing ease of use department, but for number of possibilities for your hound, you 
 can't help but be excited.
  
  Graphics: A great looking game. All of the parts to your hound are very detailed, meaning all of 
 the various hounds via Live all look different. The textures are quite average, but the explosions 
 look great. Overall, it looks quite next-gen, even on my non-HD set.
  
  Sound: I was ramming my head against the wall listening to this "Music". I'll be blunt; I can't 
 stand it. Seriously, if you didn't have the option of listening to your own music on your Xbox, 
 I would've quit playing it right then. Luckily, you can, so this disc kept spinning. The voice 
 acting isn't bad as well as the sound effects, so there are some redeeming qualities.
  
  Value: The single player looks to be quite exciting from what I've played so far, but the real 
 draw here is the online. It's great. You can play and play and play, and hardly put a dent into 
 the whole story, but still feel your time went to good use. You could literally play this online 
 non-stop with how lengthy it is. So, I'm glad I've rented this game. I would recommend that to 
 anyone. Would I recommend a purchase? I just don't know. The whole thing is just so deep and difficult 
 to get into, that it is hard to recommend to anyone outside the hardcore. It's just a very complex 
 game that I can guarantee no one person will ever completely grasp. It's just a real thinker, I 
 guess you could say...
  
  Positives:
  + Great mech action
  + Tons of customization possibilities
  + Good looking hounds and explosions
  + The voice acting 
 and sound effects aren't bad
  + The online alone will last you forever
  
  Negatives:
  - Very difficult to get into
  - The music is absolutely awful
  - Average textures
  - Very 
 difficult to get into 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paddles136
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 3, 2006 5:27 pm PT
Review:  This game is plain and simple an MMO. The single player "campaign" is just a longer than normal 
 tutorial on how to play. There are various types of Mecs or "hounds" Soldier, Sniper, Scout, Defender, 
 Commander... anyways each one does what it's name says. The single player campaign gives you several 
 missions to learn how to play that type. Each mission only lasts about 10 minutes or less. You 
 could finish the single player in a few hours. The graphics are passable, but the mechs look like 
 they were put together in a backyard by a couple of kids. They dont look cool, just a mixed match 
 set of parts. The boards are large and if you pic the bigger hounds it will feel like you are crawling. 
 You can pick a faster hound but you give up a lot in firepower and armor. When you get thru the 
 single player and can go online the game still suffers. The menu is poorly laid out and not very 
 intuitive. Once you get into a game you can be going up against a player with 500 more matches 
 than you and a much better hound. It really takes the fun out when you get killed ever minute or 
 so while trying to get enough money to get a better hound so you can hold your own. This would 
 be a good game if they had some sort of single player campaign instead of some extended tutorial.
 
  
  Overall don't buy this unless you have xlive and "world of warcraft" time available to spend on 
 getting a better hound. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkImpulse988
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 30, 2006 5:08 pm PT
Review:  The first time you pop this game in, it seems like an amazing game that will keep your attention 
 for months. This can be very true or sadly not. After beating the story mode, you really don't 
 feel the need to play it again. You'll probably only go back just to get the Tact. Instructor Accomplishment 
 (getting top marks on all missions) Multiplayer is a different story. If your pathetic and don't 
 find yourself a squad to join, you will definitely loose interest in the game very quickly. (Free 
 battle is available but playing in the real war is just more appealing) But that probably won't 
 happen. Usually you will find a squad that always excepts players. (like ours "Sin City") When 
 you have a squad, you use team work, and strategy to defeat computers or other squads to up your 
 rank as well as your squads rank. You can create a variety of different mechs to command depending 
 on the mission or mechs your other team mates command. Cannons, howitzers, assault rifles, machine 
 guns, piles (giant spikes... they're awesome) and much more are available to fit the way you like 
 to maul down your opponents. This game isn't a primary game. What i mean is, have another game 
 to play, because if none of your friends are on... it's just not going to hold your attention very 
 long. So if you want some mech combat that you can stuff other bots like thanksgiving turkeys in 
 MANY different ways, and enjoy lots of customization, then i definitely recommend this game to 
 you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paullywog
Rating: 6.8
Date: Aug 26, 2006 2:18 pm PT
Review:  After hearing all the hype around it, I thought I'd give this a rent. The first and last time i'll 
 play this game.
  
  Chromehounds controls the way you'd expect, using the analog sticks to move and turn your mech. 
 There are no button combinations, so a quick look at the instruction manual will get you set to 
 go. When I first popped it in, the thing I noticed first was the graphics. I started a tutorial, 
 and looked in horror at the repeated lines in the landscape. Were the developers really this lazy? 
 They were. The single player is just training for online which could be so much better.
  
  Going online, I found a system of squads which you would have to join in order to play online. 
 That's cool, as when you aren't playing you are brought to the squad's chat room, if you will. 
 The whole setup isn't too bad, but the gameplay on and offline in Chromehounds is lacking.
  
  As it turns out, enemy mechs are too easy to kill in single player and too hard to kill in 
 multiplayer. As a result, Chromehounds feels unbalanced. You'll basically end up standing in lines 
 shooting at each other with no visible damage until someone blows up in a pretty explosion. Needless 
 to say it's nothing to write home about.
  
  A cool feature allows you to customize your mech, or "hound", by changing, adding, and removing 
 parts. It's confusing and frustrating to get a mech that will both be tough and mobile. A cool 
 thing is that you can go online and earn money for winning and killing mechs to buy new parts, 
 but as a whole the system coud have been done much better.
  
  Unless you're starved for mech action, look past Chromehounds. And if you do decide to play it, 
 i beg you rent it first as it is a lazy, boring mech game that you'll tire of all to quickly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cygnusloop99
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 25, 2006 9:39 am PT
Review:  Chromhounds is the kind of game that someday will be recognized as a game that started things. 
 This game is online based, meaning if you dont have the internet or dont play online much, dont 
 buy the game, rent it or just dont even think about it. The single player campaign is about 6-8 
 hours of play time if you dont go for any of the S rankings. It is basically one big training 
 mission for the online play. Online is where it hits the fan. You have different options for online 
 play and it is similar to most games where you play ranked, unranked, and squad (clan) matches. 
 The first two are pretty normal, but the squad based play is where the true colors of chromehounds 
 shines. Squad games revolve around a fictions online war versus the three countries in the game. 
 You pick your side and vie for control of the region until a winner emerges and then the war resets 
 its self. In this mode the game forces you to join a team and become more involved by participating 
 is the war to earn money. The money you then earn pays for new parts and upgrades. Each "hound" 
 you make is totally customizable. The game gives you about 50 parts for completing single player 
 mode, and then there are possibly hundreds more online to "buy". Parts are supplies by each of 
 the three individual countries and each one makes some parts better than the other. In addition 
 all countries are researching "experimental parts" which are released on a lottery system. Throw 
 in customizational camo patterns and user made icons, the odds of you running into your twin in 
 battle are nearly non existent. What chromehounds lacks are stable servers. The game relies on 
 player connections to each other rather than a central server. For a game based on online play 
 this occasionally poses problems for larger groups and limits game sizes to 6v6. But do have the 
 option of subbing out human vs human 6v6 matches for human vs computer, which does lead to an occasional 
 higher difficulty match when sometimes there are multiple computers loaded out with nothing but 
 the big guns. With such high customization, and a engaging online play this game is going to be 
 around for a while and will be a basis for future games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CreatureRising
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 24, 2006 12:44 pm PT
Review:  After awhile the game tends to get boring. In the beginning, it is not so bad, but after a while 
 you start to not like the characters. The customization is excellent, but as you progress you end 
 up using the garage hounds (the one's already built) . The weapons needed a little more tweaking. 
 The sounds could have sounded better. It sort of stinks that there are no pop out weapons. The 
 game is very easy to control and for new gamers this should be an easy experience. I like the fact 
 that the hounds function pretty well. I also like that the customization is easy to get into and 
 use. It is very easy to create a hound right off the bat. If you like robot games, this is totally 
 for you. But if you are looking for a good split screen multiplayer this is not the game for you. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: survey77
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 23, 2006 7:58 pm PT
Review:  the story mode is very BORING, but to receive all the parts available then you must not only finish 
 the story mode, but finish with an S on each chapter.
  
  Online is very fun. Having a good squad is a must, because losing can start to cost in-game currency 
 ... meaning lost time trying to re-earn it.
  
  There is just something fun about building a massive machine and blasting other people with it.
 
  
  One downside is that some of the content is only available with microsoft points ... which cost 
 100cr each for download. Granted. .. you may not need these parts ... but every competitve edge 
 counts.
  
  I am sure there will be a neverending amount of updated maps n such. Battle is realistic, but whomever 
 hosts the battles must have a strong net connection or it will fall short and burp shooting you 
 back to the main menu. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stinkycheese_70
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 23, 2006 1:36 pm PT
Review:  Okay I openly admit that the single player sucks big time, but the single player is just a necessary 
 evil to a fun squad game. The multiplayer game allows online squad based team vs. team or squad 
 coop. This makes for some serious fun. The graphics are good and the action is intense if you take 
 the time to learn the intricacies. If you want the underrated game of the year this is IT!! Take 
 a chance and give a run if you like multiplayer coop or squad based competition. It beats anything 
 out there in the new release category since Oblivion came out. Do to the single player snafus you 
 cna probably find in used for a good price so take a chance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: knights435
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 26, 2006 8:15 pm PT
Review:  This game deserves a lot more credit. The reviews make me think what are people on. This game has 
 it all, it has great graphics, awesome sound and music, and sick detail. People said there is not 
 enough trees or obstacles but who wants a lot of trees to slow you down. Each map is awesome and 
 has features like hills, really high edges for sniping, most have water and bridges. I mean the 
 explosions and graphics of the hounds and lighting is insane. The singleplayer is easy but neccessary 
 and a good tutorial slash storyline setup. I personally don't think the hounds go slow I mean lets 
 not be unrealistic and make them go as fast as the ones in mechassault personally i didn't like 
 mechassault it was a badly crafted game chromehoungs is the best mech game out. I would say rent 
 first but only because thats me no specific reason. But I reccomend this game to anyone who likes 
 awesome graphics combined with lighting and sound and anyone who has online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Meteor7
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 22, 2006 1:22 am PT
Review:  Chrome Hounds has some good points and bad points that most people spot out. Like Creating your 
 own Hound is fun making it look totally unique and scary. The classes are easy/hard to lean in 
 the game like Sniper Mech= Easy, Solider= Easy, Armor=Medium, Commander= Easy, Artillary= Hard, 
 Scout= Medium. 
  
  The game takes a while to learn, but then it becomes addictive and you don't want to put it down 
 when it's dinner time or bedtime. 
  
  The only thing that sadden my was that there was no Split Screen and Split Screen Co-op so I couldn't 
 play with my friends unless the had live. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ninja-Vox
Rating: 6.3
Date: Aug 21, 2006 7:40 pm PT
Review:  In many ways, Chromehounds could be considered a unique experience. There are plenty of mech games 
 on the market, from Steel Battalion all the way to Mech Assault, but Chromehounds manages to distinguish 
 itself to such an extent that it arguably deserves a genre of it's own. From the second you jump 
 in, it's clear that you haven't played anything quite like this on any machine, and whether or 
 not you enjoy the experience is completely up to the player.
  
  The game comes complete with 40 single player missions, each one lasting no more than 10 minutes. 
 Within these missions, you'll assume the role of a pilot operating a huge, walking battle tank 
 known as a Hounds. These mechs span a variety of classes, called Roll Types, allowing you to choose 
 a specific style of play that suits you; from sniping and recon, to more gung-ho, guns blazing 
 approaches.
  
  Each class is given it's own series of missions which carry you through the various functions and 
 tactics you'll need to take advantage of to be successful with a certain type of mech. The single 
 player portion of the game feels much like a glorified tutorial, with massively repetitive missions 
 guiding you through a storyline which has very little depth to it. Basically, you are a mercenary 
 caught up in a war between several, fictional nations. You go from place to place, carrying out 
 objectives which rarely go beyond "defend this", "blow up that".
  
  Indeed, the single player campaigns are little more than a distraction when compared with the online 
 mode, which really represents the bulk of the game. The major down-side here is that you must play 
 through all 40 missions in order to aquire parts to create a decent mech; otherwise, you'll find 
 that your basic creation cant really compete in the online world.
  
  Immediately, you're required to spend a significant amount of time playing through something you'd 
 rather not bother with, in order to play and enjoy the online experience. This is just one of many 
 moments in the game which feels more like a chore than a piece of entertainment. 
  
  Online modes do not discriminate between the hounds you play with, so if you enter the online battle 
 using a basic hound with basic parts, you're often thrown into a game against player with mechs 
 twice your size, with firepower that dwarves what little armaments are available to you. This isn't 
 the only matchmaking problem, as i often found myself being thrown into games against people who 
 carry tags of "Professional +" when i had no more than "Rookie". You could be playing your very 
 first game, against an opponant playing his 500th. 
  
  Again, you find an obstacle preventing you from truly enjoying the game, as you force yourself 
 through games where you cant really compete at all, simply to earn some cash and improve your Hound. 
 It takes a lot of patience to keep playing, and some serious hope that there's fun to be had - 
 which there is. If you're one for quick thrills and early trade-ins, Chromehounds is definately 
 not for you.
  
  Should you be dedicated enough to endure the punishment of the early online sorties, there is light 
 at the end of the tunnel. When you finally create a Hound with some serious firepower, there's 
 serious fun to be had as you blast away at other mechs in huge, open environments. Games can be 
 tense and exciting, especially when playing last-man-standing, with two damaged mechs left in the 
 game. 
  
  But as you play, you're going to have to build and improve your mech. This is where the Garage 
 function comes into practice, and it's wonderfully done. There are literally millions of combinations 
 for you to experiement with in order to create a mech which truly suits your playing style. The 
 only down-side is the massive wealth of parts on offer, compared with the tiny amount of parts 
 you're supplied with at the start. It really doesn't make any sense to be so restrictive and leave 
 beginners with so little to work with. After you earn some cash and buy yourself some new hardware, 
 creating the perfect hound is really a whole game in itself. 
  
  Overall, Chromehounds is a game with potential to be brilliant, but it shoots itself in the foot 
 at every turn. You'll be faced with a long, tedious task to endure before you finally earn a mech 
 which can compete in the online battle ground. The dedication is only really worth it if you're 
 a big fan of mech games, and dont mind having to put in some serious work before you can unlock 
 a game's potential.
  
  Chromehounds is a great game, but it's horribly inaccessible it's difficult to recommend to anyone 
 other than the hardcore mech fans, who are few and far between. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blacksabbathjd
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 20, 2006 6:42 pm PT
Review:  well if you don't have xbox live don't bother with this game its realy only for the rely hard core 
 mech fans if the gameplay played a lot better this game could have been great but disappointingly 
 the gameplay is way to slow past. on the bright side you can customize your mech thourgh hundreds 
 of parts shoutguns snipers missles you name it its there. ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok 
 ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok 
 ok ok o kok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok oko 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bern20
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 20, 2006 1:15 pm PT
Review:  This game overall is good, not the best mech game in the world but it stands out from all the rest. 
 The real cool thing about this game is the customization features. No doubt there is no same hound 
 in the game.
  
  The single player mode is lacking, really lacking. They are pretty straight forward missions and 
 they seem to repeat themselves every time. The story line isn't all that good. It could of been 
 way better. So if your picking up this game for the SP mode, its not worth it.
  
  Now the real deal is the multiplayer action. Although somewhat slow (the hounds are slow) because 
 after you die in a Dm or TDM game you spawn far away from the battle and if you have a slow hound 
 its going to take a while to get back to the action. Its not always but sometimes. The multiplayer 
 game is great because like I said earlier the customization is tremendous. No two hounds are the 
 same in the game. You can build your own hound with unlimited possibilities. The game also seems 
 that it was heavily emphasis for online play because it has a huge battlefield for online play 
 where you can do missions with your clan to take part of your teams land back. 
  
  This game is good, but probably not worth 60, maybe 40? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gokumangt
Rating: 5.3
Date: Aug 20, 2006 8:27 am PT
Review:  Yeah, I have always hated the thought of microtransactions... even though I have done a lot of that 
 myself playing games like "There", "Secondlife", and other MMOs where you buy everything....
  
  The main reason I hate it is because when big MMOs come out and create a large system of where 
 over half of their most rare/best items can be purchased its going to be crazy. You will have all 
 these people who either have a nice income, have rich parents, don't give a crap... and just max 
 out their credit card and people who are just lucky running around with the best stuff while people 
 like me will be running around with average stuff. 
  
  Now this is not a big problem if the game is based only around PvE, well it is... cause most likely 
 the rich/luck.. (you get the idea) will be bragging about their items, but it will not be a serious 
 issue. 
  
  With games that are either based on PvP or have developed a large optional system dedicated to 
 PvP... this will be horrible. Like said... I will be running around with average stuff while these 
 other people will have awsome items and most likely take me down in PvP like nothing.
  
  Now, I know there will most likely be other ways to get the items ingame without purchasing them, 
 and I will most likely do it that way. That will of course take time while other people will log 
 in and two seconds later they have the item and is off with it.
  
  Now, it really is not a really big issue either way, I just hope that everything that can be purchased 
 can also be achieved in game without spending any real life money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halohelldaddy45
Rating: 6.7
Date: Aug 19, 2006 11:59 pm PT
Review:  Who, on god's green earth, doesn't like to stomp around on giant robots?? Well, I'm one of the 
 many that do like to do that! Although, I must say that this game didn't particurly hit my excitement 
 bone... I usually found myself wondering what the heck just happened and how many more shots does 
 it take to kill this guy? In this review, I'll take you on the goods and bads of Chromehounds!
 
  Well, lets begin with the graphics since that seems like a classic! The graphics are kinda mediocre, 
 due to the fact that the environments look like something out of a nintendo 64 game. Who doesn't 
 like to look at the shine of your mech just rolling over hills and mountains though? I admit that 
 the mechs do look good and so do the explosions but the environment just cannot be ignored no matter 
 how much you want to ignore it. 
  I also found myself wondering if my teammate even knew who I was! If your not careful and you aren't 
 near your friends during this game you may just have some serious issues with team killing. Even 
 though I didnt know if it was my teammate, I'd tear into the mech almost immediately! I did find 
 a certain satisfaction when I saw the bullets pinging off my opponent's armor even if that was 
 not good though.
  Through its faults, the dudes that spent hours on this game did a good job on the assembly of the 
 hounds. Sometimes I even felt like I was doing a real simple puzzle so I didnt have a single problem 
 with it. I know you guys were waiting for me to say it but there is a mode in the game called the 
 Neroimus War. Now this war occurs over Xbox Live and not on the single player so if your getting 
 this game for its single player put it back down and don't ever touch it again. In the Neroimus 
 War you choose your faction. The factions of the game are the Republic of Morskoj, the Kingdom 
 of Salkar, and the democracy of Tamakia. These factions all have a certain amount of money, land, 
 and military troops. Normally you want to choose the one with the most money and land. This will 
 give you an advantage in the war so choose the faction you want wisely. Once you choose your faction 
 you get to make a squad, or you make a squad then join a faction... not to sure. The point is that 
 you can make a squad and invite some good friends and you can have a good day.
  Although this game has some serious problems its also very fun! So if you ever just wanna pick 
 up a game that you want to play with your friends, then grab this piece of hardware and don't put 
 it down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iamtheleg
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 19, 2006 2:48 pm PT
Review:  This was a game that I was looking forward to for many months before release. However, hearing 
 some of the reviews worried me some. I chose to buy the game anyway, and I was not disappointed. 
 I went straight to the single player to get it out of the way. I must admit, it was very bad, but 
 I do not think it was as bad as some people have claimed. After I was done with that I went to 
 the multiplayer and found a squad. It was a lot of fun fighting in the Neromius War, as long as 
 you had 3 or more people with you at a time (in my opinion) . 
  
  The multiplayer is a lot of fun and will keep you playing and customizing your hound for maximum 
 performance is always fun. 
  
  The vehicle graphics are wonderful and the sounds and explosions are great, but the environment 
 is a bit lacking. 
  
  Chromehounds is a great sim and is not missing much. Definitely worth a buy if you have xbox live. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshgarcia89
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 19, 2006 2:29 pm PT
Review:  This game starts out great and extremely addictive. You'll spend hours on this game when you first 
 get it but after you've gotten most of the achievements your going to get bored with it. If your 
 not in it for the achievements then your most likely going to play to achieve a high rank or get 
 yourself on the leaderboards. I played for over 100 hours without losing interest so this game 
 will entertain you in the long run. I highly recommend this game for people who are playing it 
 for fun and not for achievements. If your playing this game for the achievements I suggest you 
 go look for another game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CleveBROWN
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 19, 2006 11:09 am PT
Review:  Chromehounds has got to be the best game ive played this year... I love this game. The only downside 
 to the game is the story mode. I found it highly boring and only did some of it to get more parts 
 for online mode. The online mode is fantastic it allows you to take on enemies of human and Computer 
 A. I. The computers are generaly easy but human oponents an provide a challenge. The differnt classes 
 of the chromhounds gives you the choice of who you are wheather you are a comander and control 
 your squad or a solidier and so one. Chromehounds is a fun challenging and exciting game to play!!!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackdog144
Rating: 6.8
Date: Aug 19, 2006 8:52 am PT
Review:  Chromehounds is not a game i would recommend to a person that played Mech assault for awhile. This 
 game is slow paced, very slow paced. You start out the game training with your hound walking, running, 
 and blowing stuff up, which is fun but very disatisfying, espessially for me.
  
  i only got to play this on a normal sdtv but the graphics still looked amazing. Though this game 
 was basically only made for xbox live, i could tell that it was. Campaine mode was boring, and 
 i only played it for about 30 min. and i just quit. 
  
  If you like slow paced games then i would reccommend renting this game. If you dont have xbox live 
 dont get this game, its not worth it. You can only have one save file on the system, and if you 
 want to start a new game you can but you cant save. 
  
  Chromehounds isnt for everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jsn187
Rating: 4.4
Date: Aug 19, 2006 7:17 am PT
Review:  i found chromehounds to be one of the biggest wastes of time. The thing is based on a gaint robot 
 which you control. The first thing that is wrong with this game is that the gaint robot walks soooooo 
 damn slow. The devlopers should have really made a run ablitiy that would have made the game a 
 bit better then it already is. I found that this game would be a waste of money. to pay 69.99 for 
 a game that is all you do is walk slowly around and shoot things i would be better off buying the 
 orginal game for ps2 mech warriors at least in theres your could actually run. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slope2578
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 18, 2006 12:55 pm PT
Review:  I have seen many mixed reviews on this game, and here goes another one. I think this game is a 
 definite step in the right direction. I have played this game for approximately 75 hours and have 
 had a good bit of enjoyment out of it. Heres my review of each portion of the game.
  
  Story mode- It is definitely worth playing through, as you will get some nice parts for your hound 
 and some good experience for online play. If you do not plan on playing online, do not get this 
 game for the story mode. It is simply a mode to get you some parts and experience before online 
 play. It is what it is.
  
  Online- You definitely want to get a good squad of all 20 members. This way, you'll always havew 
 a few people on to play. I have enjoyed playing anywhere from 2v2 to 6v6, all requiring different 
 hound strategies. This can be extremely fun, but can get repetative and boring. Waiting for a versus 
 team can get quite annoying as well. There have been times that it takes an hour to get a game 
 going, due to lag, people dropping or hosts being disconnected. With some patches this should no 
 longer be an annoyance. Waiting to read through all of the news after you've been disconnected 
 can wear on your nerves as well. Overall though I think it is a pretty good team based experience.
 
  
  Customization- What can I say... this is where the game really rocks. There are limitless possibilities 
 to what you can do to your hound, cosmetically and functionally. There are no uber ftw hounds. 
 You can make a balanced hound or something super in one area (yes, I used the word super) and completely 
 defenseless in another, which keeps the game well balanced. A+ on FROM's part . They put a lot 
 of work in this and it definitely shows.
  
  Overall- This game is worth a try, you'll either get really involved or end up returning it, either 
 way give it a shot if Mech action is what you're into, it has a little bit of work to make it truly 
 great, but with downloadable content on XBL and the opportunity to make some changes to this server 
 being an option, we may not have to wait for Chromehounds 2 for them to get it perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seanokc
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 17, 2006 9:27 pm PT
Review:  I have been patiently waiting for a 360 answer to my MechWarrior Jones and Chromehounds filled 
 the need. 
  
  The graphics are amazing and the controls are logical and customizable. 
  
  The training is kind of slow, if you have any experience with mech-type games, but if you ace 
 them you can get a quick boost to your achievements and there are tons more to acquire with further 
 play. 
  
  I got through to the scout level on my first sit down, without a break. Really fun and challenging 
 in some parts. 
  
  A key strategy to remember with this release is to think before you act. full on Braveheart style 
 confrontation is not always your best bet. Especially, when dealing with an overwhelming foe, later 
 in the game. Don't always take the borrowed hound, either. you can customize from the first lone 
 mission you do. 
  
  I only had one problem during my first real battle with the heavy weapon missile launching missions. 
 
  
  You can't turn off the captioning!!!!! 
  
  If you attempt to zone in on your target using the range-finder, the dang captioning covers your 
 targets. And the mouthy chick you run with during the most frantic onslaught of enemy hounds, WILL 
 NOT SHUT UP!!!! So, you have her endless warnings of "the enemy is close" and she's the one throwing 
 a wrench in the works with her backseat driving. 
  
  Who missed this during testing????
  
  You can get through that level by being fully aware of all enemies on the field. 
  
  Don't 
 fall for obvious distraction and you'll soon be lighting up the landscape with the broken and charred 
 remains of your foolish attackers. 
  
  This is game is easy to drop right into and start having fun, but you'll need some strategy and 
 a defined goal hierarchy as the game's later levels require you to command several other units 
 in order to win the battle and the war.
  
  **** Graphics, Totally Awesome Sound, Sick Hound Weapons available, Tripindicular acheivements 
 for you to earn. Get it.
  
  Big O. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uknowpuddin
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 17, 2006 2:33 pm PT
Review:  e. First off the single player is terible, boring, and dull. The only reason anyone should play 
 the single player is to get the medals and get some parts you can't get online. When you start 
 basically you wont know what your doing but the game does explain a little on how to get started. 
 The first tutorial will explain about combass's or NA how you have to capture them in order to 
 talk to teamates see enemies ect...... But also when building hound there is whats called assembly 
 data guide which helps quite abit on the restrictions of building one. Now what the game was meant 
 for is the Mutiplayer. When you log on for the first time on Xbox live just like the singleplayer 
 you dont know what your doing, but once you look around it starts looking very impresive there 
 are three contries Sal kar (Iran) , Morskoj (Russia) and Tarakia (U. S.) . And in the online menu 
 you see a map of these three contries with flags acting as command points. Each country when the 
 Nerioumas (i spelt that wrong) war starts have every flag in there respected area. To take the other 
 country's flags you need to have a squad either look for one or create yourself. You can fight 
 with up 6 squad mates either against the computer or other human players. However the major problem 
 i have found with this game is the connection issues starting a 6v6 human game is very rare because 
 the online is peer to peer conecting the host must have at least a T1 connection in order to hold 
 that many people but a person with a decent conection can up to 4v4 and usually 5v5. Now on to 
 the Hound building, personally i have spent half of the 100 hours spent on this game just building 
 hounds, this is what i believe in being the best part of the game, You can either build a wall 
 of armor, or a huge triple huge cannon with massive fire power or mix and match. The game features 
 6 classes of Hounds Soldier, Sniper, Scout, Defender, Heavy Gunner and Commander. While you never 
 have to be strictly a certain class there are some advantages for being a certain one. A soldier 
 is your front man in a war with assault rifles for medium range and rockets and shotguns for close. 
 Sniper..... well hes a sniper with either sniper rifles or Sniper canons. Scout is you Combass taker 
 and recon man alot of times this might have machine guns or whats called PILES a weapon where large 
 spikes come out of the end used for very close range. Defender is my personal Favorite they will 
 usually stay behind and defend the base which means they dont have to move much so they can have 
 extreme firepower, from cannons, huge cannons, missle launchers, shotguns etc. Heavy gunner like 
 the defender also can have very heavy fire power with Howitzers for long range firing while these 
 are probably the most dificult to use there are the most powerful weapon to use as well so getting 
 good with these can be a very big blessing. And finnaly Commander in order to be a Commander every 
 hound must have whats called an NA maker basically is a combass on a back of a hound except that 
 anything inside the commanders NA he can see whether its an enemy or friendly or just little tiny 
 computer mechs he can see them. This is a great asset on a team being able to see where the enemy 
 is coming from and watching for sneaky hounds as well. All and all this game has very good online 
 replay value if you can find a squad of decent people it can be one the most satisfing experiences 
 online the way you have to use teamwork is very important in Chromehounds and can be frustrating 
 but very fun as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ARice89
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 17, 2006 12:35 pm PT
Review:  I'd like to say that Chromehounds is one of the most underrated games for the 360 to date. I have 
 had a ton of fun playing this game online. 
  
  The thing that is so great about it is the individuality of each mech. Every time you play a game 
 you think of ways to tweak your Hound and make it better. This makes the game extremely addictive. 
 It takes a while to get accustomed to all the different parts and how the attributes the parts 
 provide will contribiute to your Hound.
  
  The graphics are beautiful and I love the way the game is set up online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kalo01
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 17, 2006 9:21 am PT
Review:  this game is not like all the other mech warrior games youve played in this game there is over 
 like 500 ltems to put on ur "hound" now dont get me wrong but the single player mode SUCKS!! the 
 only reason to play single player is to learn how to play or to get parts by winning lvls. Now 
 is u do not have xbox live then dont get the game its usless if u dont heave live. now back to 
 the game the graphics are amazing the gameplay is even better and the sound is sick. i suggest 
 this game to anyone that love robots, mechs, or war but if u are not the biggest fish in ocean 
 then u probably will be able to make a mech but a really crappy one. oh and one more thing the 
 multiplyer kicks ass!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamesfreak4ever
Rating: 8.1
Date: Aug 16, 2006 10:06 pm PT
Review:  , it'll take you all of maybe 10 hours, passing with mostly S, and A rank scores, the highest you 
 can be awarded. The last mission is hard if you try to be a hero and kill all of the other enemies, 
 but if you go by only the objective, it's fairly easy.
  
  I felt very unattached to my computer allies, due to their sort of 2 dimensional backrounds and 
 personalities. You stick around with the same people for 6 or 7 missions and then you never see 
 them again... if for even that long. Even when one of them is killed off, you have a hard time 
 feeling anything for them. 
  
  What I also found little of was squad based tactical warfare using the hounds, which was supposed 
 to be one of the big draws to the game. Most of the time, I found myself pulling all the weight 
 for my side because I was the only one with a hound, while everybody else got something that even 
 a weak hound could chew up and spit out like nobodies business.
  
  My last gripe was the sounds... the sounds for the Assault rifles seem... too chirpy. It doesn't 
 sound like the gun report of a weapon that has a 1 foot diameter. Although everything else seemed 
 fine. The other thing I didn't like was the title screen music. If you listen to it long enough 
 I guarentee it'll drive you to insanity. Though one of the beautiful things about 360 is it's ability 
 to play your music of choice over the game music.
  
  However, the game redeems all of this when you get passed the final mission and embark into the 
 multiplayer adventure. (By the way I definetly recommend those who haven't bought the game yet 
 to go all the way through the single player first, because it sets up the multiplayer scenario, 
 and also gives you a bunch of necessary equipment.) This is where things get interesting... especially 
 if you choose to join a squad, and get to know your fellow squad members. Here you'll develop yourself 
 into a suitable role for your squad, develop strategies, and technique that becomes quite complex. 
 
  
  From simple things such as learning what works and what doesn't work against a calculating, rational 
 opponent, to working together with your squad to set up ambushes, defenses, and raids, using your 
 suited RT to get the job done efficiently. Yet despite all these complexities, the game is easy 
 to play, and easy to get immersed in. It comes together perfectly. The news system keeps the player 
 immersed in what's going on around the map, and it's easy to get involved with a campaign to push 
 an enemy into their Capitol, or die trying to defend your own. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: l0uciferr
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 16, 2006 1:45 pm PT
Review:  I have watched the development of chromehounds lo this many months and had crazy high expectations 
 of it up untill its release. The demo arrived and i went out of my way to create a UK account just 
 so i could download it and get my hands on it, I was so dissapointed in the demo that i thought 
 i was going to cry. It was slow, no aim recticle, just plain enviroments.. I dissmissed it and 
 moved on with my life. One of my online GRAW buddies had got his hands on it and was PREACHING 
 to me to run out and get it, he told me he traded GRAW in just to buy it. I had to have it.. his 
 opinion is pretty high so i had to see for myself, boy am i glad i did.
  
  In Chromehounds singleplayer you are basically a merc for hire for different armies in a 3 way 
 war between countries.. single player is just a morsel.. an appetizer if you will for the online. 
 The SP is very short each mission is about 10 - 15 mintues and there are like 6 or 7 missions for 
 each mech type (Scout, Heavy Gunner, Sniper, Soilder, Commander, Defender) Only reason to go thru 
 single player is to work on your aim and to earn parts to use online. ONLY BUY THIS GAME IF YOU 
 ARE ONLINE!! otherwise your not going to get your moneys worth. The online campaign places you 
 in the middle of a 3 way war. You can choose what country you want to represent and go online with 
 you buddies and whup behind. You can create your mech from scratch your you can buy a full mech 
 if you want (But i suggest you tweak it if you do that.) You can go into war scenarios and try 
 to take over parts of the huge map that is set up for takeover. You can choose to fight against 
 the computer, or against humans, whatever you want. you can go in with 6 of your buddies against 
 another 6 on huge awesome maps. and there are over 100+ mutiplayer maps to play on. If you like 
 Mech games you should def own this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: capthavic
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 15, 2006 9:27 pm PT
Review:  Chrome Hounds is the first Mech game for the 360. And for the most part it succeeds. The single 
 player details the events leading up to the multiplayer war and serves as the tutorial. Its divided 
 in to six sections and teaches the player about each RT or Role Type. The missions can be tough 
 because while you teammates love to chat but don't offer much in terms of mission objectives. This 
 added to the incompetence of your allies can make completing them a challenge. The reward for doing 
 these missions is the unlockable parts that can give you a leg up. But the real meat and potatoes 
 of the game is the multiplayer. In this you choose one of three funny named countries and join 
 a group of other hound pilots (kind of like a guild in a MMO) . The online campaign can go on for 
 weeks or months until one side wins and the game resets. Some parts of the game may turn players 
 off. For example there is no targeting reticule in third person mode. Also there is no markings 
 to indicate friend and foe which can lead to friendly fire. I find most people complain too much 
 about that but its a minor annoyance in a good game. Its not the best Mech game but its not the 
 worst. Get Chrome Hounds if you want some multiplayer Mech action. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seebeeman
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 15, 2006 11:20 am PT
Review:  I'll make this blunt, the graphics are so-so, enviroments are a little bland but the mechs have 
 huge amounts of detail on them. The enviroments range form baren deserts to hectres of farm land, 
 clustered with crop fields and houses. The explosions look spectacular. 
  
  The mech building is awesome. As you progress through the game, you unlock new parts. These are 
 used to design your own HOUND. The choicesa are endless. You can attach things to other weapons, 
 tilt them, creat a cluster of guns, have a lanky monstrosity, you name it!
  
  The multiplayer's biggest feature is the world war mode. This features teams of 6 players fighting 
 another team from another country to take control of certain land under the command of another 
 player. There are over 120 areas to capture, each made from about 25 capital cities and areas of 
 interest such as pipe lines, and the gameplay will be endlessly fun. I talk in the future sense 
 as I'm yet to try the multiplayer, but judging from what I've seen, it'll be great.
  
  Buy this game. I don't care how. Get it off Ebay people, if you give it a chance, you won't regret 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scott911
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 15, 2006 10:21 am PT
Review:  Chromehounds is a game only for hose with xbox Live. Why?, the singleplayer is awful, but worth 
 playing before the online mode. playing the singleplayer will accustom players to the controls, 
 the six role types, and supply a good ammount of parts before going online so the player can have 
 a decent starting mech. the gamesplay is usually a little slow in the singleplayer but picks up 
 in the multiplayer,
  In multiplayer, first you have to choose one of three countries to fight for in the "Neromous" 
 War and each has thier own streangths and weaknesses. Then you must join a squad of 20 maximum 
 people in order to play in the War, otherwise you are limited to playing free battles which are 
 basically quick matches where you are thrown in with other people. Once you find a good squad, 
 all matches are played with your teammates ( you can go solo if noone is around but that is no 
 fun) in which you must strategise with eachother in order to defeat the enemy which consists of 
 destroying all enemy mechs, or destroying the enemy base. a good team will be well balances, covering 
 most, is not all of the role types (soldier, defender, sniper, commander, scout, and heavy gunner) . 
 in matches, you can eithr play people or a computer your choice. there is a ranking system which 
 gives you points if you win a match and loose points if you loose a match. If you play people, 
 they must be at least at your level or higher to make it fair. Also, you win a match, you make 
 money, you loose a match, you loose money. you use money to buy new parts from a shop and upgrade 
 your mech. all in all, multiplayer is a blast.
  Customization is also big. there are about 20 parts online to customize your mech, and these parts 
 can go almost anywhere you want them to as long as they fit in the allotted area and weight. On 
 top of that, you can create your own color scheme with the given patterns and color chooser- so 
 you can have your own color (though online squads usually have a standard squad color) . Also, there 
 is a decal maker where you can make decals with up to 16 layers with the given templates (there 
 are a lot) where you can change the color, size orientaion etc. just about everything. then you 
 can put that decal anywhere on the mech you want in any orientation, shape, size, etc., so customization 
 is huge.
  the graphics an the mechs are great. you can see pistons moving to move the legs, smoke comes out 
 of weapons, the rattling generator if you get close enough to it. the mechs just look plain great. 
 Explosions also look amazing in this game. The landscapes are usually barren unless you're in a 
 capital area in which case you are surrounded by buildings. Sounds- nothing here is speial- you 
 can hear every bullet/shell pistons, explosions everything, but nothing absolutely spectacular.
 
  In the end, if you like online mech games and you have a 360, you should at least give this one 
 a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leon-RE4
Rating: 2.3
Date: Aug 15, 2006 8:50 am PT
Review:  Eell talking about Chromehounds I"d say this game isn"t even worth trying. This whole game depends 
 on a sick robot kinda think which we are supposed to control and secondly we have to move to other 
 places by walking eg to defeat or battle against an enmy, we have to walk to him and the sick robot 
 walks toooooooooo slow. Even if you try the demo you"ll decide not to touch the game as were my 
 feelings when i played it. What is the use of online mode even, defeating other bots like nuts and 
 walking too slow that you get killed in the act. I"d say this game really SUCK! or it is that what 
 i think only, others may like it but you know depends on choice and i"m really sorry if anybody 
 got hurt with what i said. This is what i think u know. I"m sorry once again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DS-man
Rating: 6.7
Date: Aug 14, 2006 12:46 pm PT
Review:  Chromehounds is based in the future with realistic mechs
  
  GOOD- Great graphics;
  BAD- Boring movement and gamplay; boring story mode; no decent background music
  
  GAMEPLAY:
 
  The gameplay in Chromehounds is'nt realy that good, the mechs move realy slow and combat is only 
 aim and shoot.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  The best thing about this game is the graphics, its rich and wonderful and great rippels in the 
 water, no glitches and no bugs.... well, i hav'nt noticed any!.
  
  SOUND:
  The background music is'nt realy that good, it does has decent sound effect!, 
  
  WHY SHOULD 
 I BUY THIS GAME?
  The game is pretty good if you look at it propply but it is'nt for everyone, a basic rentel or 
 borrow would be good enough!. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BR0M
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 14, 2006 9:53 am PT
Review:  This game has a few pre-requisites in order for you to enjoy the game:
  Xbox Live GOLD
  
  A good committed squad
  
  Time and patience
  
  This game has no value in its single player! 
 You must have Xbox Live to enjoy this game!
  A committed squad is needed. It isn't hard to search for one on the 360 or look for posts here 
 on Gamespot advertising a squad.
  You must have time to put into this game and you must have the patience to wait for a new war to 
 come around once you purchase this game. If you jump in mid-war, you will be spamming the same 
 battlefield trying to push the enemy back. This gets repetitive, so it is important you don't get 
 turned off of this game in such case. If you do begin mid-war, and you aren't asked to help your 
 squad, there is tons of fun in the usual Xbox Live quick and opti-matches.
  
  That having been said, this is my favorite title on the 360 so far. I had all the pre-requisites 
 and now I am absolutely addicted. The customization is endless and you are never really hindered 
 from building your dream hounds due to lack of money. After every mission, you earn around 100,000 
 currency which is enough to build a completely new hound if you wish. The only hindrance is the 
 fact you can only build with parts from your own country. You must capture parts from the other 
 countries in order to obtain some important parts. This is done with a neat lottery feature that 
 is fun in and of itself.
  
  The graphics and sound are top notch and the gameplay is fun and smooth. You gain big satisfaction 
 everytime you destroy an enemy hound and watch it blow into pieces and then hear your squad-mates 
 congratulating you in the background. Having a squad is very important for getting the most out 
 of this game.
  
  Remember, this game is not for you if you don't have the pre-requisites. If you do have them, this 
 game has potential to be one of your favorites and is easy to recommend to you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rokkendoom
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 14, 2006 8:02 am PT
Review:  Big, Action-Packed and more explosive than a molotov cocktail. This game is all about the big stuff. 
 Not the standard chasing your average baddy thru tunnels with a shotgun. Chrome Hounds is all about 
 big noisy machines of war.
  
  The most positive thing I noticed in this game is that you actually felt that you were controlling 
 a machine. The lack of a crossair is the main cause of this, I've played my fair share of mecha-games 
 and it never quite appealed to me that much. In an online match you would start lumbering towards 
 your enemy and you would'nt stop firing until it dropped to the floor and exploded. You did not 
 have the actual feeling of piloting a machine, with the crossair in there it could have been anything 
 the designers have wanted, Chrome Hounds totally eliminates this problem. For this I give game 
 play a nice 7.
  
  The audio was pretty good, the heavy sound of a HOUNDs feet stomping on the paved road in a capital 
 city, the blast of a heavy gunner firing it's cannons. All done real good, but the soundtrack was 
 below average, it would be more fitting in Mario's Mushroom War or something. During some parts 
 of the game some dramatic track would play and you actually felt that a "Thanks for saving me Mario, 
 but the Princess is in another castle!" message would appear any moment. Luckily the Xbox360 has 
 a custom soundtrack option so this shouldn't stop the game from being good.
  
  The big downside of this game is the multiplayer value, you're gonna be disapointed if you are 
 not subscribed to Xbox Live. The lack of split-screen options, Player vs Bot etc. won't keep the 
 offline player excited for long. The true part of this game begins as you go Live and create your 
 squad, buy parts from the store and win them in the lotto. The thrill of participating in the Neroimus 
 War. And the option to customize your hound also makes this game far more appealing than the Mech 
 Warrior series. 
  The feeling that you get when you win a battle and know it was your design that was superior to 
 your enemy's, this also works vice versa.
  
  All in all this game should keep anyone busy for some time. I know it kept me playing longer than 
 2 days. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CaptainCrazy
Rating: 7.2
Date: Aug 13, 2006 5:54 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game knowing that it would take a lot of hardcore devotion in the online aspect to 
 get any enjoyment out of it and that is definitely the case. I said it is a beast of game because 
 although some parts of it are deep and strategic, there is a lot of rough edges and poor execution 
 that hold the game back from being a classic mech shooter.
  
  To start off, the models of the hounds (mechs) are of course amazingly detailed. There are many 
 moving parts like pistons, joints, rotors and missile launchers that all make the hounds seem very 
 realistic as if they could be made in real life. And finally this is a game that have explosions 
 done right. No other game makes them look so real. I've been in some intense firefights at close 
 range unleashing dozens of rockets, and machine gun fire while my opponent erupted into a blaze 
 of ferocious and smoke that clogged up the whole screen. The combat visuals are such a tasty fiest 
 for the eyes. 
  
  Night fighting is perhaps even more impressive as your hound's lights shine life-like onto other 
 objects and flashes of tracer fire and explosions far away light up the sky. This really helps 
 to make players feel that they are really in a real war zone.
  
  The ugly side is that the environments are sparce and devoid of any life. I wouldn't say it's a 
 big deal though since your attention is always focused on fighting other hounds.
  
  Chromehound's tries to groom players for the online persistent war by providing a series of single 
 player missions designed to train you in each of the different hound types (commander, soldier, 
 scout, defender, sniper and heavy gunner) . The characters and voice acting are pretty numb and 
 the fake accents border on being racist they are so bad. The story elements are pretty weak but 
 just enough to keep you mildly interested.
  
  The really annoying part of single player though is how some of the missions are very poorly structured. 
 Sometimes you are given almost no direction on what you are supposed to do. This usually results 
 in you failing the mission for some specific reason that you won't know about until after many 
 frustrating attempts. But all in all I faily enjoyed the single player missions because the action 
 was pretty intense and there was a good variety of tasks to practice.
  
  Before I talk about online I must mention that although the sound effects in the game are top notch, 
 the music is absolutely putrid! I have no idea what the Japanese think is good music but the tunes 
 in this game are horribly boring and depressing.
  
  Now to the meat of this game, the online Neroimus war. This is a pretty cool concept but executed 
 very poorly. The idea is that there is a persistent online world that you battle in. In order to 
 play the game the way it was meant in a team based role, you are forced to join a squad (20 people 
 max, 6 play at any one time) . The leader picks an area of the map that is under attack and you 
 may or may not end up fighting against other human opponents. Sometimes you're just fighting bots, 
 other times humans and only 6 on each team. You need to be constantly communicating over the headset 
 to co-ordinate your attacks and build hounds that compliment each other. If you don't play as a 
 team, it's no fun and you will end up being someone else's b**** real fast.
  
  But there are all sorts of annoying things in this game. For example, every time you go online 
 you have to sit through a serious of info screens telling you what's going on in the war and who 
 donated money. Surprisingly, every time someone donates money to their country, said country is 
 surprised! Wow, you have to read this like 5 times every time you go online with no option to skip. 
 
  
  Starting up a game online especially outside of a squad can be pretty glitchy and time consuming 
 and there have been a fair amount of server problems. 
  
  There is also this strange oversight of not having a quit button during SP missions. You have to 
 actually self destruct by holding down the back button a few seconds to quit a mission. Stupid. 
 And another stupid thing is that there is no crosshair in the 3rd person perspective making aiming 
 extremely difficult when you don't want to use the weapon cam which often zooms in too much when 
 you are fighting up close and personal.
  
  The ability to create your own custom hound's is possibly the game's greatest strength. There are 
 hundreds of parts to buy online and depending on how well you do in the squad missions determins 
 how much money you get to spend on parts. The hound creator is pretty robust and satisfying tool 
 to use and you can easily spend an hour or more at a time just tinkering around.
  
  Ultimately, Chromehounds will end up being one of the few games that makes heavy use of Xbox Live's 
 features to bring people closer togther online and I'm glad that so much effort has gone into giving 
 the game lasting value online. But there are enough flaws to get in the way of the enjoyment of 
 the game so that it just isn't as fun as it could have been. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deagler_
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 13, 2006 4:50 pm PT
Review:  Chrome hounds is now in with the mech fighting genre. The game is created by the makers of Armored 
 Core and is no stranger to that genre. I Do believe though that there not that good at single player 
 experiences...
  
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Gameplay: The single-player gameplay is rather tedious and boring throughout the campaign. You 
 get missions to defend, patrol, and attack. There is really no real incredible experience from 
 the campaign. The real fun to be had is right in the Multi-player. Its also safe to say that this 
 game is much 'like' the old Mech Warrior games. Which by the way I think is way better than the 
 Mech Assault games. 
  
  The multi-player is where there's thousands of other people playing it and has an addicting gameplay 
 experience. Building your hounds reminded me of playing Front Mission 3, where the setup and the 
 amount of depth you have to customize your Hounds. When you get online, it makes you join a squad. 
 People say you wont have fun on it if your randomized with people and you need friends in order 
 to play it. I must have been lucky cause I got on right away and I got mature adults and even some 
 teenagers playing and acting there age and made the experience even more enjoyable. So you know 
 its not always the case.
  
  Graphics: Right away you will notice the great and superb graphics on your HD setup. Gives you 
 stunning visuals, through all types environments (Snow, forest, urban, dark, day, etc) . I did not 
 mind when the weaker opponents disappeared after they were destroyed, you can understand it too 
 because so much going on that somethings just can't take up space. The shadows and lighting effects 
 would be the first thing you will noticed when you pop this game in.
  
  Sound: The sound isn't amazing, nor isn't bad. The explosion sounds and the moving of the Hounds 
 gives you a feel that you are actually controlling it, even the rotation on the Hound makes a sound. 
 The musical scores were really good at first but than you realise thats all they got and it eventually 
 becomes a headache.
  
  Value: The games value depends on how much you love playing in a squad and in a team. Yes you can 
 Lone wolf it, but you would need permission or tell your teammates where you at and whats going 
 on, kinda deal. Theres no value for the single-player, but great value in the multi-player especially 
 with the Hound building and they many, many different war zones out there.
  
  This game basically tells you straight up! "If you have xbox live... Play it.. If you don't... Don't 
 bother". The single-player game will leave you hating this game. Only reason im playing the single-player 
 is to get the points, but I have/still having a lot of fun playing the multi-player.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Icy-X
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 13, 2006 1:50 am PT
Review:  This game is pretty awsome. Yes the singleplayer does suck pretty much just cuz there isn't much 
 to it really, so yeah if you don't got XBL, then don't bother. 
  
  Speaking of online play... It is awsome. Basically it is a war campaign going on. You choose what 
 side to be on, then join or create a squad, and then go out and do missions to take over territories 
 to help your country win the war. 
  
  All these missions will be "Destroy Enemy HQ" missions wich you can face human or CPU opponents. 
 How you win is destroy enemy HQ or kill every one on the other team first. A third way to win is 
 by haveing the most Comba's by the time the time limit is up. (Comba's are like radio towers you 
 can capture so you can talk to teammates.)
  
  Doing this online campaign isn't the only thing you can do. You can play "Free Play" mode wich 
 lets you play such game modes as Death Match, Team Death Match, Capture The Flag, Survival (have 
 one life) , Team Survival, Unlimited (DM with unlimited ammo) , Team Unlimited, and Standard (Destroy 
 Enemy HQ) . Sadly though I must say most people only play DM and TDM some Unlimited and some not. 
 Personally I've only seen one CTF game ever and it was with Japanese people (wich a bit of them 
 do play) , and the one CTF game I made no one joined. So basically there is pretty much DM and TDM 
 for the most part......
  
  Anyways the online play is awsome. I have had the game for nearly a week now and have played for 
 about 75 hours. So yeah this is the perfect online game for the hardcore gamer to play mainly the 
 online campaign. If you aren't a real hardcore gamer, more of a casual gamer, then this game maybe 
 not for you unless you want to just play Free Play mode, but you get no money that way so you can't 
 buy better parts and stuff, so you will need to take part in the online campaign some.
  
  So yeah it is awsome online, and the audio is pretty great too. The graphics are good too, still 
 better offline than they are online ofcourse, but still great nextgen looking.
  
  Really I think this is the type of game that sure maybe eventually you could get tired of, but 
 I don't imagine you would for some time. Especially if you want to get all the achievements, wich 
 actually not even what all the achievements are known to be what they are! (There is Secret ones 
 that no people have yet)
  
  Overall it is an awsome game I regret that I didn't buy as soon as it came out. If you like mechs, 
 love to play online, if you're a hardcore gamer, if you like playing as a team online, then this 
 is the perfect game for you :)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spartan_753
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 12, 2006 11:22 am PT
Review:  This game is a strategy game and you run-and-gun fans will NOT like this game. It is fairly slow 
 paced but the action is wonderful. Stunning explosions and great sounds. I would reccomend rent 
 before a buy though, not everyone will like this game.
  
  Gameplay -
  Singleplayer: The single player gets bashed upon by everyone, but they do not realize what it can 
 be good for.
  
  -Pros: Parts for multiplayer and a good tutorial for all the role types (Soldier, Sniper, Heavy 
 Gunner, Scout, Commander, Defender) . I would reccomend doing the Soldier campaign and the First 
 mission of every Type to get a hang of it before getting into multiplayer.
  
  -Cons: Gameplay isn't so great and could have been thought through a little better.
  
  Multiplayer: 
 Most definately the high point of this game. There is a great Persistant War, and Free Battles 
 (including Deathmatch and Team Deathmatch) for quality fun.
  
  -Pros: The main war is great. Persistant battles occuring whether you are online or offline, Squad 
 Combat so you can team up with your friends to own the enemy. A shop to buy parts to customize 
 your hounds. and 3 Different Countries to side with.
  
  -Cons: Connection issues are a big downfall of this game. Sometimes you are not able to get into 
 a game with your friends and you can also get dropped from the servers without warning. (Sometimes 
 it is not the servers, make sure your NAT setting on your router are set to open.) Even with all 
 that, there is weekly server maintenance to try and fix this all.
  
  Graphics - Another high point in this game. Explosions are stunning and that hounds look great 
 too. 
  
  -Pros: Explosions, Hounds, Backgrounds, Footprints that never disappear.
  
  -Cons: After an explosion, Hounds and the bots around the map will disappear, but this was done 
 for gameplay purposes. A hound will stay if you are facing the computers in the Persistant war.
 
  
  Sound - Amazing, explosions, the Hounds movement, everything is very immersive.
  
  I love this game, and if you are a strategy game fan, you will too.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brasslvlonkey55
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 12, 2006 8:30 am PT
Review:  When I first heard of Chromehound, I was expecting another attempt at mech battles that Mechwarrior 
 2 so sorely ruined. However, when my friend informed me that it has an actively-going war for multiplayer, 
 I had to see what was up. I purchased the game, and immediately recognized it as Mechwarrior's 
 superior.
  
  First I will talk about the single player: who cares? All single player was put there for is to 
 teach players how to use the six different classifications of "hounds". However, there's no reason 
 to degrade the game for this fact, because that was probably From Software's intention. There is 
 also an added bonus from playing single player: it unlocks better parts for multiplayer.
  
  And now onto the multiplayer aspect. I have been up and down in this department. Sometimes, you 
 can have a blast, entering the battlefield with a few of your friends (or people you just met a 
 few hours ago) , crusading through the plains, lakes or cities, destroying the other team's hounds 
 or headquarters. Sometimes, you can wait forever for the other team to ready up to start the match, 
 or you can wait forever for anyone to even join yours. This wouldn't be too much of a nuisance, 
 if it didn't happen very often. I would assume it doesn't happen very often when you play a 6v6 
 match, because I believe those are the most fun matches. I, however, have not been able to experience 
 one of those battles, because I am in a squad of 4, 2 of which never even play. I believe this 
 game is only fun when you're in a large squad of people who play often, and those can be hard to 
 come by. So while you're sitting there, searching for a squad of more than 5 people who are classified 
 under "play every day", you're just adding to more of the downtime between matches, that's occupied 
 either by trying to make your hound protected against the quick players who rush you and kill you 
 in one hit, or the players that use nothing but heat-seeking missiles, and trying to find a match 
 that will actually have some worth playing.
  
  And now for the point breakdown:
  
  Gameplay: 8
  This game was really fun for a while, entering battles and having massive shootouts 
 with one or two hounds at a time. And such battles weren't abusive on the fingers either, because 
 the controls are pretty simple: move with one stick, aim with another, shoot with the trigger. 
 
  
  Graphics: 9
  The graphics in this game were really done well. They didn't have the "cartoon" feel that Mechwarrior 
 2 gave me; instead, it was a more serious approach. The hounds are very well detailed, and each 
 step or rotation of the tread leavs a trail, that can also be used by other players to determine 
 where you are going or have been.
  
  Sound: 8
  While I wasn't too proud of the voice acting in the single player, that's not the fine point of 
 the game, so I suppose it doesn't matter too much. There isn't much music in the game, and there 
 isn't any during battles online. However, I was one of the people who found the song at the map 
 screen to be very enticing, and sat there listening to it and enjoying it during all the downtime.
 
  
  Value: 8
  Multiplayer has the possibility of being very fun and very addicting. It was for a while, but I 
 was never privileged enough to be in a squad of dedicated members with whom I could wage war. However, 
 just because I didn't, doesn't mean that it's not there, so there is an endless possibility of 
 replay through multiplayer wars.
  
  Final score: 8.2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alternativeplus
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 12, 2006 9:54 pm PT
Review:  Only buy this if u have a gold account to play online because single player is only fun the first 
 time through. The Graphics are pretty good, explosions are cool, but there are some bad looking 
 parts (your legs will shake around when on a ledge) . Xbox live multiplayer is really fun even with 
 one other friend playing against the computers. When playing on live with more than 4 other people 
 it starts disconnecting people in the middle of the game, but it seems like having your nat on 
 on "moderate" or "open" stops this. There are hundreds of parts to use from three different nations. 
 You can make a slow and heavy hound, a fast and light one, or somewhere in between. Nobody's hound 
 looks alike even if you are using the same type of hound and weapons. There are so many ways to 
 build your hounds, you will always be fixing them up or making new ones. Some like it some don't, 
 rent it first and see what you think. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vektron11
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 11, 2006 1:39 pm PT
Review:  Chromehound a game with soild graphics gameplay is great . The sound is right on. The story is to 
 short but the xbox live makes up for it .Live matters how fast you are or how powerful you are 
 but you have weaknesses if your big and powerful your slow if your fast your weak but it matters 
 what your stradegy is flank, snipe , go as a group or go right in and hope for the best and it 
 sometime matters how good your aim is . I' v learned if you change your mec's color it's hard for 
 them to aim at you. Play this game you'll love it enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KernalBackhand
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 9, 2006 5:41 pm PT
Review:  Good graphics, smooth gameplay, and able to play 6 on 6, and after you die you turn into a human 
 with a small m16 that cant do anything. The offline play sucks its so boring. The online play is 
 fun with the squad based gameplay its so fun. when you sign on you automatically get put in a lobby 
 with your clan. then you go into game lobbys with the people you waanna play with. the bad thing 
 is you can only have 20 people in a squad, were in halo 2 a xbox 1 game you could have 100 people 
 in a clan. The graphics on the buildings arent the best but there ok, and when you walk with legs 
 they look choppy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hyabusa-san
Rating: 3.3
Date: Aug 9, 2006 4:25 pm PT
Review:  The game is a half finished piece of crap. It's has a good concept, great graphics, and an interesting 
 mech building mechanic. 
  
  Unfortunately the game also has essentially no reason to campaign, nothing to do with accumulated 
 money except 'donation' or entering 'lotteries' for mediocre upgrades. Everyone is limited to buying 
 the same crap so in the long run, aside from gaining 'rank' there is no positive to playing this 
 game for more than a week or two.
  
  The absolute worst part of the game, aside from the terrible menu/lack of configuration options, 
 is the online connections. If you have a group of more than two people good luck getting everyone 
 into one game. Good luck getting all of your squad into the same lobby even. Often random players 
 would get 'ported' into an alternate reality lobby where it said you were online in Chrome Hounds 
 but you couldn't join games or talk with your squad.
  
  Today, Aug 9, it's been so bad that my group of 3 has been able to play exactly 1 game to completion 
 in three hours... it should be 10-15...
  
  Worst game soundtrack ever too.... just some opera chick repeating 'cannonball' or something every 
 5 seconds... wth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xgamer40
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 19, 2006 5:19 pm PT
Review:  I love this game but the thing is its not for all people, you may wish to rent it first, i didnt 
 and im glad i didnt, it takes time to get the fun out of this game.
  
  Gameplay: At first this game seemed really boring and slow and i was thinking why on earth did 
 i buy this game but after i did a few missions in story mode the game seemed to move faster and 
 got alot more fun because i knew what i was doing, the story mode is slightly fun, there basically 
 isnt any story to the game at all which is dissapointing, its mostly just about you working for 
 a bunch of people from different countries and you have to investigate something or just plain 
 destroy the intruders. The mech customization is one of the greatest things in the game, there 
 is so much to customize, you can add anything to your mech, you can make your mech a sniper mech, 
 a heavey gunner, a frontline soldier, a small fast scout, basically any type of mech you want they'll 
 have it, the multiplaer is amazing, basically its like this 3 countries are at war you choose a 
 country, then join a squad for that country, and you go out on battles with your squad to defend 
 your country, there are also free play, and ranked matches if joining a squad isnt your thing.
 
  
  Graphics and sound: The graphics in this game are great, one of the first things i noticed was 
 how the mechs left behind footprints or tracks from their treads it was really cool how they did 
 that, also the mechs themselves look amazing, and the explosions are really cool looking, the sound 
 in this game is great but ot amazing the explosions just dont have the same feel when they make 
 a pop noise instead of a boom noise, but the sounds of the mechs walking and shooting are really 
 good
  
  The replay value in this game is quite large with all the customization and the online wars...
 
  
  Pros: Great and very fun online, Tons of customization, Smooth great looking graphics, the game 
 is extremely fun once you get into it even the single player
  
  Cons: May seem very boring at first, may also seem slow at first, no real single player story, 
 may want to rent it first as it isnt a game for everyone 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supercole810
Rating: 4.2
Date: Aug 8, 2006 1:11 pm PT
Review:  Please RENT before you buy this one. It is simply a boring game. THe sound is like elevator music 
 and the menus are thrown together. The positive of this game are the hounds themselves. The many 
 different options make that process a neat one. Otherwise the gameplay is not interesting at all, 
 I expected a Crimson Skies type mech war but it is nothing of the sort. The online is simply a 
 run around and getting into a game can take an hour. Please try before you buy. The graphics are 
 tired and when you destroy another hound, it blows up unimpressively then disappears.... you would 
 hate it if you saw it. If your expecting a fun, all out mech war.... go somewhere else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phy2004
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 8, 2006 10:31 am PT
Review:  While not for everyone, CH is my kind of game. There's just something addictive to me about constructing 
 a hound, taking it out on the battlefield, tweaking its performance to better suit your style, 
 taking it back out, tweaking some more, etc.
  
  And the vast number of weapons and systems are any gearhead's delight. One assault rifle may give 
 you better reload time and weight characteristics than another, but at the exense of ammo count 
 and penetration power. A sniper rifle gives you great reload time and decent penetration power 
 in a lighter weight package, but the sniper cannon gives you farther range and slightly better 
 pennetration at the cost of weight, reload time, and larger hit profile. And etc.
  
  SP really is teh suck. But most online squads won't even bother with you unless you complete all 
 of it. And the bonus is you get enough items out of it to build some decent hounds to enter into 
 the online community.
  
  The only downside to this game, IMO, is the music. Luckily, Chromehounds takes very well to dashboard-fed 
 music.
  
  -phy2004 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheJustin
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 8, 2006 1:02 am PT
Review:  I played through Singleplayer before I hopped onto live. So I'll cover singleplayer first.
  
  Singleplayer: Basically training for multiplayer. Simple easy levels that get you parts that 
 you can use for multiplayer. There are about 7 levels for eatch RT (role type) and those include 
 Soldier, Sniper, Scout, Defender, Heavy Gunner, and Commander. Nothing special there.
  
  Multiplayer: The multiplayer is where it is at for this game! You can participate in matches like 
 deathmatch or team deathmatch you can capture combas' which is like capter the flag, but with multiple 
 things to capture. Pretty much anything like that. To participate in the war is the funnest part 
 though. The only downside is you NEED to join a squad to participate in the war and new people 
 don't get accepted very easily sometimes. Customization is AWESOME you can spend literally hours 
 if not more trying out different setups.
  
  Basically if you want the japan flying mechs with super swords and jetpacks with super fantasy 
 action this game is not for you. This is basically a simulator of how mechs would work if they 
 were real. Lots and lots of tactics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marmin
Rating: 5.8
Date: Aug 7, 2006 12:27 pm PT
Review:  While Chromhounds has wonderful ideas behind what the developers were trying to do the execution 
 of the game was far from perfect. If you are looking for a single player mech game for the 360 
 you will still have to wait as this title is only a series of short training missions included, 
 it seems, only to prepare you for the multiplayer aspect of the game. Clumsy controls and a movement 
 rate that felt far too slow for most of the maps left little room for error during missions and 
 the underplayed voice acting never pulled you into the story of the war torn regions of the game. 
 I found myself skipping over most of the dialogue to jump straight to the action, but once there 
 lacked any sort of objective screen to keep me updated on where I had to go and what I had to do 
 over the course of the mission. While it was not a stunning game in regards to the single player 
 missions, the visuals and lighting effects were very well done. Overall I would say rent it if 
 you absolutely have to get your hands on a giant robot blow stuff up game, otherwise you'd be better 
 off waiting for the next attempt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gryvon
Rating: 1.5
Date: Aug 7, 2006 12:27 pm PT
Review:  This is the type of game that deceives you and lies right in your face. From the looks of the cover 
 and the E3 trailer Chromhounds seems like a fast paced Mech game. But underneath, this game is 
 actually one of the most boring and frustrating games I have ever seen. It is actually more like 
 a Real Time Strategy game, A very crappy one where you control only one mech instead of an army 
 of mechs. The objectives are frustrating because 
  1. Instead of pinpointing the objective on the radar they just tell you the coordinates to the 
 objective, that means you will have to pull the map up and find the location yourself.
  
  2. Instead of the crosshair being in the center of the screen at all times they placed it in the 
 right hand corner of the screen so you will have to go into first person view in order to shoot 
 the enemy which does not make sense.
  
  3. the radar and map system is crap because the only way you can see where your enemies are on 
 the map is to locate a stupid tower in that area and hack into it, by then the enemies you were 
 trying to snipe out are now ambushing you.
  
  The graphics are not that impressive, not even for XBOX 1 terms. Chromehounds tries to be a Mech 
 game and an RTS game at the same time but instead of an innovative game, Chromehounds turns out 
 to be a boring pile of crap that should not be bought nor rented. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lucin13
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 6, 2006 7:14 am PT
Review:  the only reason i didnt give it a ten is because when ever you blow up a building or something 
 it just falls through the ground. they could of tried to make it more realistic.  
 GGGGAAAMMMMMMMMEEEE IIIISSSSSSSSS AAWSEEEEMMM. THATTTS AAAALLLLLLL IIIII HHHHHHHHHHAAAAAAAAAVVVVVVVVEE 
 TTTTTTTTTTOOOOOOO SSSSSSSSSAAAAAYYYYY.   
 aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa  
    
 aaaaaaaaaaaaa   
 aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa  
    
 aaaaaaaaaaaaa   
 aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa  
    
 aaaaaaaaaaaaa   
 aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa  
    
 aaaaaaaaaaaaa  aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa 
 aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa   
   aaaaaaaaaaaaa  
  aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa 
    
  aaaaaaaaaaaaa   
 aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa  
    
 aaaaaaaaaaaa 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alcoholado
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 5, 2006 4:04 pm PT
Review:  When IGN said about this game: 6.9, an others reviews make really bad commentaries about Chroumhounds, 
 i had not high expectations about it.
  But still i bought it, because i dont believe the taste of others. I want to prove by my self 
 the value of the things. MGS3 have a 9, and i didnt like it. IGN give a 9 to Prey, and it deserves 
 a 7. 
  Every review said that the single player sucks, and the online was a good idea but very complicated 
 one to perform (many boards, etc) . (the exception was GameSpot) .
  Well, the single player is not that bad, is average, and you LEARN all the stuff about the hounds, 
 and you gain a lot of parts to build your hound online. I enjoy it. 4 days and you are done for 
 the multiplayer.
  Well, the multiplayer shines!!!!!!!. The first day was a little complicated to understand all the 
 menus, but after 48 hours you will be rocking my friend. It is really easy to find a squad. Every 
 squad needs hounds and people to play. And when you are in a battle with 4 or 5 friends, well, 
 you are playing Chromehouns, the best part of it. 
  The customization is amazing; every hound that you built have weak points and strong areas. You 
 need to learn it. This can be a great team game online, or a solitary game online. You decide. 
 Graphics are good, many maps, and the idea of a continue war, happennnig every day is excellent. 
 Probably many FPS will take this great idea soon.
  I dont like every game. I have subtle taste about food, women and videogames. And this game online, 
 rocks. 
  Finally, i must to say that Sal-Kar will prevail. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Master-Mykol
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 5, 2006 2:58 pm PT
Review:  I feel like an idiot, i just wasted 8 bucks on this awful game. After 30 mins, i couldnt take it 
 anymore, i had to shut it off.
  
  One of the worst games ive ever played. Honestly this game makes charlie and the chocolate factory 
 look good. Extremely boring, repetitive, the next gen graphics are comparable to ps1 pixalated 
 flat. I made the mistake of renting this worthless piece of crap, dont you go do the same unless 
 youre an immature moron. Sega throws yet another piece of garbage into the mainstream, along side 
 Full auto. How do horrible games like this even get released, while others are cancled?
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gex99999
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 5, 2006 5:40 am PT
Review:  Ive played a lot of Robot games over the years but most of them are dissapointing and have one 
 of the worst control setups on any platform, so this game was a great suprise to me when i put 
 the disc in the console. The first thing i noticed was just how easy it was to control the hounds 
 and I thought the weapons system was well designed to quick weapon changes on the frontline so 
 theres no being pumeled by machine gun bullets and bazookas while your trying to find the right 
 button to activate your own weapons of mass destruction. Not long after i discovered my favourite 
 part of these games, the customization of your own personal robot I thought it was very detailed 
 and everything about your bot could be adjusted to meet your needs but one problem with this i 
 found is that some of the parts you get for your missions seem weird as choise like for example 
 getting a close-range shotgun for a sniper mission but i quickly overcame this as i progressed 
 through the game. The missions overall were very well planned and werent too hard or too soft so 
 there was an equal line between enjoyment and the frustration of dying because you were too slow. 
 One problem i did find was that the missions werent always as specific as they could be and this 
 can cause minor confusion. I think that this is a really good game for war fans especialy but if 
 your looking for acheivements without an internet connection dont come near because theyre very 
 limited, but overall its a great game with lots of playback value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Schurmy
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 4, 2006 10:01 pm PT
Review:  Alright at first I was really sceptical about this game getting a 7.9 and even lower scores on 
 different sites such as IGN but dang this game is worth every penny. I've found my self losing 
 track of time im just so focused on the game. The singleplayer part of the game is basically training 
 for your multiplayer experience.
  The multiplayer part of the game is very fun you find your self playing the game for hours on end 
 to get your rank up and to get new parts for your hound which there are MANY to chose from. If 
 any of you are looking for a game to keep you in the action and to keep playing keep CHROMEHOUNDS 
 in mind.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrarmagedon
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 3, 2006 11:27 pm PT
Review:  Chomohounds is a pretty decent xbox live game. Since I'm bad at writing a review in a paragraph 
 I'll just divide it into sections.
  
  Multiplayer
  Chromohound shas a very original and creative style of game play for it's multiplayer portion. 
 The main bulk of the multiplayer is the on going war between three countries that is going on in 
 real time. Countless squads are battling it out for territories. You also get rewards, parts, and 
 styles that are unique with the country your fighting for. This is pretty cool you almost gain 
 a sense of loyalty to the country your fighting for. Aside from the war mode there are the classics 
 including death match, capture the flag and etc. But multiplayer does have it's down side. For 
 one it is very hard to enjoy multiplayer when you don't have a squad or just have a really unreliable 
 one. If that's the case you will either not be able to participate in war mode or just be ineffective 
 during it. And during the run of the mill death match your team will be very unorganized. So multiplayer 
 will just be a miserable waste of time. It also uses the infamous lobby system. Which I think sucks.
 
  
  Graphics
  Chromohounds actually does have great graphics. Despite the lack of smoldering rebel when a mech 
 blows up, the graphics are very decent.
  
  Single player
  The weakest point of the game. The whole portion of single player is really just to prepare you 
 for multiplayer. So unless you want to unlock new parts and achievements stay as far as you can 
 from this.
  
  Value
  If you have a good squad then you will be playing this game for months if not years on in. For 
 one there are endless parts you can add to your mech. So you can work your way up to dominating 
 in each class. And with all the variety of parts and mech classes, this adds up to a lot of game 
 time.
  
  Overall
  Despite it's lacking single player chromohounds can be a blast. But like I said your squad is the 
 thing that will makes or breaks this game. With a good one this game will rock. I would recommend 
 renting it first just to see if it's really your style if game or not. Personally I was not expecting 
 at all for this game to be so dependent on multiplayer as it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Clinton015
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 3, 2006 9:16 pm PT
Review:  This game may revolutionize online gaming as we know it. Instead of pitting 16 players against 
 eachother on the same maps over and over trying to build up a winning record it lets you fight 
 for territory. Territory on a map with three countries where you can choose you allegiance. Fight 
 for Tarakia, Morskoj, or Sal Kar. You are a Mercenary capable of winning the war for whomever you 
 choose. It is an online game that has more of a point then trying to elevate a little number. Of 
 course you have all that with the ranks but there is so much more to it. Money, Power, Skill... all 
 three blended together to balance the onlien experience. To have money you need Skill, to have 
 Power you need money, and to increase skill you need power. It is an endless cycle that has been 
 absent from any game I have ever seen before. 
  The online gets an A++ for innovation and balance. Of course there are flaws as there are in all 
 games but it all works out. It also gets top marks for fun. There is nothing like building a huge 
 robot death machine and then piloting it to destroy other people's. The gameplay is fun, but the 
 team factor adds so much more fun to it. Build or join a squad with up to twenty friends and use 
 teamwork to eliminate your enemies and build up renown. Which will also let you gain money to upgrade 
 your armaments. Team is more of a Factor in Chromehounds then any otehr games because it is not 
 who your playing against but who your playing with. It is like a massive onlien coop game that 
 you play against real people as enemies. 
  
  This game is a must buy. It has fun mech combat, unending online fun, and it is team oriented so 
 you can have fun with your friends.
  
  I only had a few problems with the game.
  
  - They spent about 3% of developing time and funds on single player. The single player is not even 
 close to its potential. It is still fun but they could have done so much more for it.
  
  -Online Lag has been an issue since day one. We are still on those Japanese servers and tehy can't 
 support what they are trying to now. Glitches in Joining and being in games. And sometiems squads 
 have seperate lobbies.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dimsey
Rating: 7.4
Date: Aug 3, 2006 6:25 pm PT
Review:  I played the demo of this game and I wasn't impressed.
  Still, it didn't stop me from picking it up a few weeks later when it was released.
  Is it any 
 better then the demo would let you believe?
  Yeah, it is. Not that much. But it is.
  
  Graphically the game is decent, atleast a far as mech's and explosions go.
  Everything else is 
 about or below average.
  The ground textures are especially horrid and it looks weird having these magnifciant mech's roaming 
 about on such crappy landscape. 
  They look quite out of place, which is a minor annoyance.
  
  Sound effects are okay.
  What 
 little music there is is decent and the voice acting, though not terrific is passable.
  
  The game really shines in the garage, where you build your mech with parts unlocked and bought. 
 
  Theres a large variety of different part, so customization is massive.
  
  I wish I could say actual gameplay was as interesting.
  It's point. It's shoot.
  And usually 
 whoever has the bigger guns will win.
  Or sometimes, the faster one who can circle around the slower one's continuously firing.
  
 
  Singleplayer is relatively dull, and the only reason you'd have to play through it would be to 
 unlock more parts.
  Online is where it's at.
  Playing deathmatch is fine enough.
  But the meat is the persistant online war.
  Which I have yet to take part in.
  I have trouble 
 finding a squad of like minded individuals who play for fun and won't whine if we don't win. I'm 
 aussuming if you could find a squad, the fun factor will jump up significantly, but I can't.
  And theres no way you can influence the war by your lonesome, which sucks.
  
  Anyway, if you 
 like team based games, this one's definately a keeper.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BK-Sleeper
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 3, 2006 12:24 pm PT
Review:  Chromeounds. The first mech game on the Xbox 360, by the makers of Armored Core.
  
  Set in the early part of the year 2000 to 2020 or so, the plot takes place on a continent between 
 three countries, though that's about all you'll really need to know. The plot is somewhat difficult 
 to follow at times, and other times just too cliched. Though, when you get online, it's like you're 
 playing an MMOFPS, or something, because it's that deep.
  
  First off, the graphics. The hounds themselves look very fancy and detailed, spanning to every 
 part, corner, tip, and shine, the hounds look exactly as they would if they were real. The explosions 
 as well are very immersive as smoke and debris flys into the air after a satisfying kill on an 
 enemy tank or hound. Though, all of this is countered with the bland terrain, buildings that fall 
 into the ground, and enemy units that just disappear into the air, just like the hounds do.
  
  Some of the voice acting is either too dramatic or completely horrible, though it does somewhat 
 set a mood from the accents of the other characters, at least offline. The music is just so-so, 
 with a soothing trumpet playing once in a while that reminds you of the war a little.
  
  Gameplay is one of the game's most strong points, though, again, only online. When you're just 
 beginning the game with your hound, you have no targetting crosshairs, but a small window at the 
 top right that shows the crosshairs, and when you click the right control stick to zoom in, the 
 window enlarges and your third person view is shown in the window, allowing you to fire your weapons 
 through a zoomed camera that sometimes changes depending on if you're using rifles, rockets, or 
 sniper rifles. The hounds are slow, of course, because of their size, but it's possible to have 
 a hound put on a set of wheels to increase the speed and rid yourself of that problem, though you'll 
 need to adjust yourself accordingly.
  
  Online play is probably the most addictive thing i've done in a long time, if it wasn't for the 
 horrible server issues. Though i'm sure it's just my connection and not the server itself. But 
 nevertheless, online, you take a side in the war, join a squad, and either go on individual missions 
 or invasion. During the course of the game, for however long you play, you can get any medals and 
 achievements in the game such as capital occupation or the humane award. This feature online is 
 one of the strong points in the game as well.
  
  Overall, I'd say this game is a must buy for mech sim and war fanatics, but only a weekend rental 
 for the casual gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shawnm00
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 23, 2006 12:45 pm PT
Review:  Once again Ill say that the impressive video and sound capabilities of the Xbox360 has encouraged 
 me to branch out into more gaming genres than I have ever tried in the past. Mech combat is one 
 of those genres that just never interested me before. But, the trailer for Chromehounds was so 
 impressive, I had to try it. I was pleasantly surprised how much I enjoyed it and how addicting 
 it is.
  
  If youve never played mech combat before, then youre like me. Basically, its using some kind 
 of supped up combat vehicle to participate in mechanized warfare. But, were not talking about 
 simple tanks and hummers. This is almost robotic warfare in a sense, except that your character 
 is inside the machine your fighting with. I imagine many in this genre are similar in that you 
 can customize your ACV (armored combat vehicle) . However, in Chromhounds, you can really build 
 your ACV from the ground up. You can choose the base (legs, wheels, tracks, hovercraft) , your cockpit, 
 weapons, generators, communication devices and pretty much anything else you can imagine. For a 
 guy who likes to tinker with things and construct things, I really enjoy that aspect of the game. 
 Its fun to try different combinations, especially because different pieces are awarded with each 
 stage of the game you complete.
  
  As far as graphics go, Chromehounds looks very nice. The overall atmosphere is well done, the vehicles 
 look great and the detail is impressive. Some pieces are kind of simple looking, but the lighting 
 effects are really well done and the weather conditions are realistic and dont affect performance 
 at all. Some missions are night and extremely dark, but even there, the detail is well done. Its 
 not as good looking as, say Tomb Raider or PGR, but its definitely a 360 game and looks great.
 
  
  The audio in Chromehounds is pretty good as well. The music is dramatic and pretty repetitive, 
 but not annoying. The voice talent is decent. Some are better than others. That can get a little 
 annoying because you hear the same things over and over again on certain levels. Also, I wish there 
 was a away to shut off the subtitles. They get in the way a lot when they show up. As far as sound 
 effects go, Chromehounds does a nice job. The sound of bullets rattling off of your armor and shells 
 exploding at your midsection is really quite realistic (I could imagine) . The launch of rockets 
 and other weapons firing is also very cool. Still, not the best Ive heard, but good. To me, when 
 an explosion rattles the room like it does in Burnout Revenge of Call of Duty 2, thats impressive. 
 This is good, but not that good.
  
  Online Mode (updated 8/23/06) : I had trouble getting into the online mode at first because it's 
 not all the user-friendly. Some instructions and maybe a "wizard" to get you acquainted with all 
 the online features would probably be nice. But, I have to say that after finding a fun bunch of 
 guys to play in a squad with, I'm having a real blast! Playing online, in a simulated war is an 
 experience like I haven't had in any other game on any other console. I usually shy away from online 
 gaming because I'm not as good as a lot of people. But, getting paired up with a group on your 
 level really makes a difference. The additional weapons and parts available online add a whole 
 new dimension to the game. If you're afraid of online gaming, Chrome Hounds may help you get over 
 that fear.
  
  Ok, so what are my complaints? First off, the single player mission could be a bit longer. It was 
 good. It varied pretty well from mission to mission. But, it didnt take too long to beat. Some 
 more bonus missions, especially against the mystery black hounds would have been more fun. I 
 will say that the difficulty was just right. It wasnt tough to learn, but was certainly challenging 
 at times, especially if youre trying to get the highest rank available.
  
  My second complain is that lack of a split screen mode. This is the kind of game I would love to 
 play with my nephews when they visit, but its not available. I know theres a lot of detail in 
 the game that may make it difficult, but, other games pull it off. I would like to see a at least 
 a few co-cop missions for two to four people on split-screen.
  
  All in all, Chromehounds is a worthy game of the 360 and more fun than I would have imagined. Ive 
 been addicted to this for a while, and the online mode makes it even harder to put down. Originally, 
 I got frustrated with the online mode and didn't see much value in this game long-term. Now that 
 I'm into the online version, I may never stop playing. I will just ask this of Sega and From software: 
 for the next installment of this game, provide split screen and co-op missions, and make the online 
 world easier to figure out, and this game could be the best ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mickeyg
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 3, 2006 1:49 am PT
Review:  The single player is a fun but too short game on "HOW TO PLAY". It seemed like it was just showing 
 you how to play. the single payer game like i said is also pertty fun and you can have some fun 
 making your "hounds". The graphics are nice and shiny nothin special really. The look of the buildings 
 falling is cool far a while. There are like 6 enemys and some other hounds to fight in single player. 
 the modles of the enemys are cool the first time you see them and the enemy hounds are pertty cool. 
 Like i said this is a "HOW TO PLAY ONLINE" game and will out a doubt it is the real atraction. 
 There are hours opon hours of the same carp....... O wait when you go on line its the same thing... 
 sorry to say this because i am a armor core fan boy but this wasn't the greatest games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Toasted_Gnome
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 2, 2006 8:40 pm PT
Review:  Well. I think that the xbox 360 needed a game like this. I absolutely love this game and i have 
 created a squad with few of my buddies and we have a great time.
  
  First and foremost, the game looks pretty damn good. After playing many, many mech games, this 
 one easily looks the best and is dressed to impress. The explosions themselves are enough to make 
 you say "wow". This makes the entire experience much more lifelike, and very, very detailed.
  
  Secondly, customization is amazing. No other game has ever offered such great customization, 
 anywhere, on any console. You can choose whatever guns and weapons you please, and place them virtually 
 wherever you want on your hound. Your hound can even fire up to 16 weapons, assuming you have worked 
 out a way to hold that many. My hound personally has 1 large double barrel cannon on a quad-legged 
 chassis, along with 2 missile launchers on the sides, and 2 machine guns. Along with a large generator 
 and plenty of armor, the thing is a tank. The only downfall is that it moves VERY slowly, making 
 teamwork essential.
  
  The online world is also impressive. With tons of battlefields, spanning three countries, it can 
 supply endless amounts of on-the-fly strategy making. With the Neroimus War constantly surging 
 forward, the three nations battle for supremacy. Each nation having its own unique set of parts 
 and weapons that can be purchased. If you like squad based games you NEED this game. 
  
  I would also like to point out that this game takes alot of brains. Customizing a hound is not 
 done simply by slapping as many cool looking guns on top of a set of legs as possible. It takes 
 time. Lots of time. If you want a perfect hound, you will need to take your time in the garage, 
 aswell, you will need to test it often. Every part has its own stats. Adding weight, energy consumption, 
 weapon power (in chemical energy and/or kinetic energy) , and even heat radiation. If you have a 
 hound that generates alot of heat, HEAT missiles will easily track you and hot you when fired at 
 you. Cockpits have certain amounts of sockets, in which you put computer chips that will control 
 things like stability, rotation speed, acceleration, top speed, aswell as weapons. If you have 
 a bad weapons card, you will not be able to fire as many weapons simultaneously as you would witha 
 decent card. Same goes with every card. Sometimes you must sacrifice certain performance options 
 for more muscle and raw power, or vice versa.
  
  Complicated, yet very streamlined.
  
  Good work Sega, From Software etc. Awesome job
  
  i would write more, but i am very tired, 
 and i have to work tommorow, and im goin to hit the hay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Keith4RFC17
Rating: 5.8
Date: Aug 2, 2006 6:26 am PT
Review:  I never was stupid enough to buy chromehounds i rented it out due to the demo of chromehounds scaring 
 me from splashing out 50 quid for it im just glad they did have a demo of it.
  Its just really boring not what i expected you dont even have any things that'd make you go fast, 
 half the time when your playing it your reloading your weapon everytime you shoot, i know it'd 
 be like that in real life but it just slows the game down alot, less reloading more shooting or 
 something like that and i cant believe gamespot gave it 7.9 but nothing suprises me with them considering 
 they put PDZ in the 9 geez 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Roffkaiser
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 2, 2006 12:07 am PT
Review:  Fromsoftware is known for their Armored Core series and other games like Tenchu, which all have 
 great single player experiances. This game marks the first major xbox title for them and they got 
 it right in the multiplayer department, but the single player seems to be lacking a little, more 
 on that later.
  
  The Multiplayer is set in a persistant conflict between 3 fighting nations, Sal Kar, Tarakia, and 
 Morskoj. They fighting for supremacy in the "Neromius War", which is where the player comes in 
 as a mercenary fighting for one of these three nations. There are 3 online modes of fighting, first 
 is free battle which is your open battles where you decide game types ranging from CTF to Combas 
 Capture (where you capture the communication towers scattered throughout the map) to deathmatch. 
 Next is the Co-Op mode which lets you fighting alone or with some of your squad mates against computers 
 for money. Finally there is the bread and butter, the actual Neromius war. 
  
  Also the customization of your mech is handled by buying parts at the national shop you have access 
 to. You gain money through the war and co-op and can put it towards donations to your nation, parts, 
 or the lottery (special parts) Some rather unique examples of design can by made in this way, several 
 have made me laugh during a match or two.
  
  In this war you can form a squad with up to 20 of your buddys and fighting in 6v6 battles vs players 
 or CPU enemies. You are given the task of destroying the enemy HQ while protecting your own. Alternative 
 paths to victory are to kill all the enemy hounds, or secure more COMBAS towers than the enemy. 
 This gives you some room to develope the best strategy for the situation but has led to some problems 
 in the online community with players who decide to go 1v1 versus computers with mechs that carry 
 nothing but Piles which are basically giant hydrolic battering rams that deal large amounts of 
 damage. This results in a massive number of people fighting the PC rather than other players and 
 a lack of competition is noticeble from this event. 
  
  Sega/FromNetworks has done a good job so far of addressing certain issues in a timely manner, with 
 them already partially ending the 6 hours wars that seemed to have ensued from over population 
 of the game. So things are slowly being tweeked and balanced.
  
  Now for the single player, sadly this does not stack up to previous FromSoftware games like Armored 
 Core where 100% completion could take a very long time. The single player is quick and uninspired 
 but gives a good tutorial of job types, piloting, and the world affairs going on, while trying 
 to convey the human side of wars (though this is somewhat hindered by the kind of voice overs done 
 in Armored Core where they are rather unemotional) All in all it is merely an average experiance 
 leaving you with nothing new really at the end. 
  
  The game has its strong points, with customization and strategy being among them, as well as its 
 weak, single player and rather shorter wars than the invisioned 2 month wars. Though it is probably 
 one of the best multiplayer experiances on a FPS dominated console and worth a try even for those 
 unfamiliar with the Mecha gaming community. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 360player
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 1, 2006 10:54 pm PT
Review:  This is an alright game. definitely not worth it if you don't have live.
  
  The online is really fun if you have a few friends that have the game. Basically, there's this 
 war going on in the online part of the game, and you choose a nation to participate in. you can 
 fight in the war, against AI, or just a regular death match game. 
  
  You also have your squads, which can play against the AI, and participate in the war. You can have 
 up to 20 people in your squad, which of course, can fight other squads.
  
  You can customize the crap out of your mech. Which can be useful when you add like 4 machine guns 
 that fire at the same time. Or a huge sniper cannon and stuff like that.
  
  But really, if you don't have live, don't get this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NightRogue77
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 1, 2006 6:19 pm PT
Review:  Quite simply, the reviews being given on this game reflect the state of gaming in general. Gaming 
 has been reduced to a shell of it's former self - with little kids and mass production taking the 
 originality and the quality out of my beloved pasttime.
  
  The same people giving crappy reviews to this game are the very same people who gave Ninja Gaiden 
 bad reviews because "it was too hard".
  
  Granted, the single player is pretty dull, but it serves it's purpose: getting you ready for the 
 lovliness that is the online play.
  
  I am no huge fan of squad-based gaming, mainly because it is generally done extremely poorly - 
 however this game has taken the squad mechanic and elevated it to stellar levels of gaming sweetness. 
 
  
  The learning curve posted on this site is misrepresented. You will need some time to figure out 
 how to make a mech that suits your needs and your gameplay style. You may also need someone to 
 walk you through the finer points of gameplay if you don't want to spend the time learning yourself.
 
  
  People have discussed the "slow" gameplay. This is utterly rediculous to discuss. You are piloting 
 a presumably umpteen hundred ton walking mechanized machine. Do you expect it to run around like 
 a human being? Get real people. MechAssault BLEW huge chunks. If you ever had a chance to play 
 Steel Battalion, then you will appreciate this game.
  
  Bottom line is this: the graphics are rather impressive, the sound is pretty good, (except for 
 the monotonous chanting in the online menu) and the gameplay is extremely tight. Everything is 
 balanced beautifully - every mech has a weakness, and every weapon set has a way to be countered 
 if you are skilled enough. Even the lame morons that make the tall, skinny snakes with only heat 
 seeking rockets can be beaten - I've never lost to one yet, though they are a pain. The true beauty 
 of this game, though, is the strategical elements that come into play once you get three+ people 
 on you squad in a match. It makes for insanely intense battles that are extremely satisfying when 
 won. 
  
  I haven't been this addicted to a game since Halo2. It's very well done and deserves an honest 
 look. However, if you are a kid looking for a halo quick fight fix, don't bother - and honestly, 
 I don't want your cheating bums on my new game anyway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxinshoes
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 2, 2006 7:34 am PT
Review:  Pros:
  ------
  Creating mechs is fun once you have unlocked all the parts you need, fun multiplayer.
  
  Cons:
 
  --------
  Slow and sluggish gameplay, single player campaign mode is pointless, repetitive and a hacked up 
 excuse to unlock mech pieces.
  
  Chromehounds is a decent mech game (if not the only mech game to come out in the past year) and 
 has all the points that a mech game should have, right there. Every other point about the game 
 is pretty much to do with the games slow performance and uninteresting campaign mode. Chromehounds 
 sound is one of the major points of the game, along side Call of Duty 2 and King Kong, the sound 
 adds to most of the battles intensity. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killocity
Rating: 6.1
Date: Jul 31, 2006 9:13 pm PT
Review:  That's pretty much the feeling you'll have after playing the campaign mode of Chrome Hounds. Why 
 I bought this game, the world may never know. Well, okay... mostly because there's jack else out 
 there for 360 right now and I utterly refuse to believe that there can be this many bad games out 
 at once. However, after playing Chrome Hounds offline, I have to say... I'm a believer. What went 
 wrong? What did Sega do right? And more importantly, is the game playable? Well... here's the Game 
 Breakdown:
  
  Graphics: Excellent except for ONE thing. I would love it if the vehicles you destroy didn't disappear 
 into thin air within seconds. I mean, the explosions and smoke look cool, but then you see the 
 shell of what you destroyed for about two seconds... MAYBE... before it's gone. Sometimes the smoke 
 clears and you can still see the UNDAMAGED model of the enemy sitting there before disappearing. 
 Um... Sega? Beta-testing owns you. ;) . The hounds do look good, and the gunfire is realistic. Honestly, 
 the cheesy disappearing carcasses are my only complaint. Environments look nice except for at night. 
 Then, you can't see a dang thing... and when a flare goes off and you can finally see, there is 
 no telling who you are looking at. Way to go..... have us all blasting our own team for no good 
 reason and label the game "realistically challenging".... riiiiiiiiight. 
  
  Sound: Not too bad. Voiceovers could be better... but I've given up on that. Music is forgettable... I 
 mean, as I sit here not five minutes after turning the game off, I can't remember a single score 
 in it. Sound effects are passable, but I would have loved some major explosive sound effects. 
 
  
  Control: Surprisingly simple. At first glance, there's a ton of crap on the HUD that will have 
 you scratching your head and asking yourself, "WTF does that mean?" if you are new to mech games 
 like myself. But once you get going, it's a cakewalk to move around. Being able to click the right 
 thumbstick and enter sniping mode is also a blessing. Not much to complain about here. And to all 
 those who said the mechs are too slow: They are mechs. They're heavy. Deal with it. I've never 
 played a mech game before, and I don't think they are too slow. Yes, sometimes you have to walk 
 aways to get where you are going, but it didn't feel that slow to me. Oh, and the map in this game... not 
 so bright. Think of it as a replica of the kind of map you use to play  
 Not such a good idea. 
  
  Entertainment: Please picture this: You are creeping through the night in your sniper mech. Your 
 lead officer has ordered you to move into position to snipe an enemy patrol that is moving along 
 the roadway. Quietly, you move into position. You ready your guns so that when the flare goes up, 
 you can scope in and own. You wait..... you wait.... the flare goes up, and you open fire on the 
 mechs below. Three seconds later, GAME OVER. Congratulations. You just leveled your team. Thus 
 the joy of Chrome Hounds. The even GREATER joy? Restarting the mission, moving to the same spot, 
 and firing on the other group of mechs..... just to hit the GAME OVER screen a few seconds later. 
 Seems those are your guys too. Which would beg the question...... WTF is the enemy???! My major 
 complaint on multiple levels in this game is that you never know who is who. You see mechs, but 
 literally I found myself waiting to see if they were going to shoot me just to tell if they were 
 friendly. That's bottom-end, sorry-excuse, bargain-bin game design right there. All that technology.... and 
 they can't make a map that points out the enemies from the friendlies..*ahem*Ghost Recon *ahem*. 
 The single player mode of this game suffers from Battlefield 2 syndrome bad.... it blows. Horribly. 
 Not even mech junkies are gonna like this. Sure, the online is alright. But I didn't pay $60 for 
 a so-so multiplayer mode and a god-awful single player mode. The formula for next gen games has 
 finally been figured out. Less Game + Less Monetary investment (why bother? We don't have to make 
 it good... we've got the only new game coming out for THREE WEEKS) + $60 price tag = Happy corporations 
 and disappointed gamers. When I shut off my $400 triple-core console with a $60 software disc in 
 it to go play my $130 Nintendo DS and New Super Mario Bros., there is a very big problem. And that's 
 what happened here. Hounds has alot of potential, but it seems like they tried to make the game 
 almost an online-only affair.... which is a shame because not all of us feel like playing on Xbox 
 Live all the time. I would love to see some non-Live games come out that don't suck horribly. Unfortunately, 
 the wait continues. 
  
  If you're looking for a game to play during the summer BS... er... drought... period, then maybe you 
 should rent Chrome Hounds. However, I feel like I just got robbed at gunpoint for my $60 and would 
 love to have it back. The bottom line: Rental? Meh... if you want... and you have Xbox Live. Purchase? 
 Nah. There's just nothing here. It's a shell of what the game could have been... and that's sad. 
 Sorry, but I'm just not impressed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nepis
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 1, 2006 8:36 pm PT
Review:  Chromehounds provides hours of online bliss if you can find a clan you actually enjoy. You can 
 only play with friends that are in your clan in the Neroimus War. I initially joined a squad through 
 a fan site and it was a mistake. The leader hardly ever played the game and when he did he yelled 
 at people and told everybody what to do! Just be careful about what squad you chose because of 
 aholes like this. The bright side is you can leave and create squads freely. I've spent many hours 
 just making hounds. You can even save your custom hounds to the hard drive/memory card. Fighting 
 people online is a mixed bag. You either get new players who search for upper ranked matches of 
 any type or people who are unusually strong or doing some sort of gimmick with their hound. I've 
 had fun playing people don't get me wrong, but if you pin your hopes on the play of humans you're 
 gonna be disappointed. My friends and I have a blast playing the computer or humans. I love this 
 game. If you are waiting for the next Armored Core give this game a try. You may enjoy the familiarity 
 with the past Core games. See you online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperRacerC91
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 31, 2006 3:07 pm PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying that this game is definitely not for everybody. To be able to play and 
 enjoy this game you need to have a certain type of mindset. The problem with most people is that 
 the current generation of gamers want that instant gratification of winning immediately. This game 
 takes a very high level of skill and understanding that few will ever master. 
  The customization in this game is ridiculously fun and entertaining. You could probably spend an 
 entire night with your buddies just build HOUNDS and then testing them. There are literally millions 
 of combinations and it is a lot to take in at once. While you start off with a very limited amount 
 of weapons, your library will soon grow as you play. You can buy some good pieces in the online 
 shop, or get some free cruddy ones from the marketplace. The most evolved weaponry however comes 
 from ascertaining the highest ranks of S off the single player missions. To achieve and S ranking 
 you need to score 3000 points on a mission (A very helpful pointer) . 
  Single player takes you through a war and has playing as a mercenary that helps each country in 
 a different way. While it is a little bit dull in the early stages, but can become very fun at 
 the latter stages of the game with plenty of gunning enemies. The way that the game is set up however 
 practically forces you to play single player to be able to even compete online. So heed my warning 
 and play at least half of the single player before joining into clans online, you'll thank me for 
 the pieces you'll recieve. 
  Like most games, multiplayer is where it's at. This game mode can provide hours of unenduring fun, 
 or an ego crushing blow. I like to think of it as HALO in a way with the way multiplayer skills 
 work out. There are ranks but you aren't matched with your ranks. You have to be able to understand 
 what the best piece of weaponry will be against an enemy or if you should just call for backup. 
 When fighting online you will undoubtedly come across highly skilled players that crush everything 
 in their path, however the past thing to do in these situations is OBSERVE your enemy. Just like 
 in real warfare you can learn alot from skilled players just by watching them blow you away. 
 
  You will be able to join into a country and a clan in online play and this is where it can become 
 an interesting type of a game. Your clan will fight other clans from other nations to gain territory 
 and become the supernation of the world. If you can get into a group of dedicated players who are 
 helpful and skilled that you'll have a great time, but when you're with a bunch of people who don't 
 care at all what happens it can become very frustrating. Another key part of online play will be 
 to capture Combas's or communication towers along the path to victory. These Combas towers are 
 in different points on each map and once controlled will set up a communcation area, so that this 
 will enable anyone inside of the communication area will be able to talk other members of the team. 
 So this is a vital point in the game as without any Combas's than your team just can't communicate 
 and will be crushed and picked off one by one by the enemy.
  Finally this game offers 6 very unique positions, Soldier (Close Combat) . Sniper (Provides Cover 
 Fire or Acts a Diversion) . Scout (Fast Moving Diversions That Secure Combas's for The Team) . Heavy 
 Gunners (The guys with missiles and cannons who move at about 2 MPH) . Commanders (Gather intel 
 and inform the team on what they should do and were to strike.) Defender (Defends the Commander 
 and the Heavy Gunners) . Becoming a master of just one position won't do you to much good. I view 
 it like a college degree, you should major in one are and minor in another. A very simple combination 
 is being a Major Soldier and a Minor Sniper. While people who can incorporate a Heavy Gunner and 
 Defender into one HOUND will be almost unbeatable as they won't have to many weak spots, and they'll 
 have masterful firepower.
  So as I said earlier this is a game that will take alot of patience to master and can be a great 
 amount of fun if you know what you're doing and are surrounded by other dedicated players. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Echelon_One
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 31, 2006 8:25 am PT
Review:  What can I say about chromehounds as a whole. Well to be honest I can't. It really does feel like 
 you are playing two completely different games on one disc.
  
  Lets start with the strong point. The multiplayer.
  
  Chromehounds Multiplayer is more than 
 just robust, it is truely amazing. You will lose interest in many other aspects in your life to 
 it. The multiplayer includes so many features including: Economy, Political elections, customizing 
 mechs, Artistic Logo creation, lotteries, world conquest, and clan warfare. In fact the way everything 
 in chromehounds is set up is almost MMO esque. The core combat and missions are simple in design 
 but hard enough to keep you interested. All Multiplayer games break down to is Kill the enemy or 
 kill their base before they can do the same to you. Simple right. But the fact that Combas (radio 
 towers and nav points) and limiting communications is a factor as well as your Hounds performance 
 and role type you then all the depth of gameplay that players these days demand. The game also 
 forces well organized team gameplay. Which is nice because it then limits the amount of Big F'in 
 Mech on the field and adds balance to the chromehounds universe. This is the ideal game for starting 
 a lasting clan. I will as far to say that Chromehounds Multiplayer offer one (if not the) most 
 complete multiplayer games ever.
  
  Now to the lows. The Single Player.
  
  Lacking on all fronts, unless you take it for what it is worth. Training. Yes the single player 
 first comes off as this strong epic WWIII battle setup then disappoints with lack of challenge 
 and lack of story. If you are a fan of Ghost Recon esque story lines where the game is a narration 
 of military operation told in a debriefing style then you will enjoy what little story there is. 
 I have to give the single player credit because it does show you the real purpose of each mech 
 type and how they are meant to be played. The Single also offers a good amount of achievement points 
 and unlockable parts but in the end those parts are nerfed by parts on the multiplayer section. 
 So before you enter the single player expecting grand things remember it is just training no more 
 no less.
  
  In the end I do believe that Chromehounds is greater than the sum of its two parts. Multiplayer 
 is enough to warranty a try. The game online universe will cause many a sleepless night but will 
 reward them for doing so. Not the killer app that the 360 need but a game to add to its list of 
 good A titles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmbadabing
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 31, 2006 8:21 am PT
Review:  First let me start out by saying that I usually hate this type of game. Now with that out of the 
 way I have to say that I love playing this game. Online play is was this game is all about. There 
 is a persistent war going on with 3 nations and your squad fights for control of the map. 
  
  It's a lot of fun if you are playing with people you like. There is a good amount of communication 
 and strategy involved, but it's a pretty straight forward game. The customization for your "Hound" 
 is a lot of fun also as there are strengths and weaknesses to every arch type. 
  
  I rented this game to check it out and I now plan on buying it. Again, I must repeat that the offline 
 mode of this game is nothing more than training for the online mode. So don't get this unless you 
 plan on playing online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timmygal3
Rating: 4.7
Date: Jul 31, 2006 6:48 am PT
Review:  okay so i bought this game and played single player it was so boring i just did it for the gamer 
 score.
  
  Then i went online and for like the first few hours i found that that the hounds move really slow 
 (even scouts!) I also found the fighting is very boring! Then i got into a squad and i thought 
 it would be great! But my mic broke and this game sucks without a mic and then my game kept on 
 freezing!
  i would play like 5 minutes and then it would freeze! 
  At first it only happenned with this game but then it happenned with all my games and i had to 
 send my xbox 360 to be repaired!!!!!
  so my conclusion is if like getting virus for your game and like boring games get this one 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shott_Gunn
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 31, 2006 5:56 am PT
Review:  all i can say is if you dont have xbox live, dont buy it as th offline story mode is absolutely 
 minimal and rather short, the real story is online, however if you have online and you like to 
 make a clan with your friends and battle with them against other players or cpu's aswell earning 
 money to make your chrome mech become the ultimate destorying beast then this game is for you.
 
  
  The graphics are very realistic giving you a real experience which lures you in more and play this 
 game.
  
  The gameplay is good, however the mech seem rather slow, the action is slow and to me it can get 
 quite boring or quite repetitive.
  
  The sounds is good if you have surround sound hich really boosts the expoerince to a 3d effect, 
 you feel you are in the action as the sounds of explosions are all around you which adds to the 
 overall pace.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: djord02
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 15, 2006 6:37 am PT
Review:  (Updated Review: 8/15/06)
  
  I had high hopes for Segas Chromehounds because I have been a fan of mech games since Mech Warrior 
 II first appeared on the PC, which many people still consider to be the best of the genre. Unfortunately, 
 Chromehounds misses a huge opportunity to capitalize on the strengths of previous Mech games, and 
 instead, shows a lot of potential with poor execution.
  
  Like many people here, I was hoping Chromehounds would be the definitive next-gen mech combat game. 
 What we get, however, lacks polish, creativity and much of the "WOW' factor you would expect from 
 getting to run around in a giant mech  or hound as they are called in Chromehounds. Even so, 
 it features an addictive multiplayer game involving territorial battles between nations that can 
 be quite engrossing. 
  
  What's good? Three things stand out:
  
  1) The mechs look fantastic. 
  They feature hydraulic moving parts, spinning treads and other 
 neat details. I have no reservation saying this is the best graphical rendition of mechs I have 
 ever seen.
  
  2) Customization: 
  Other mech games have capitalized on this aspect of play as well, but Chromehounds does an exceptional 
 job at allowing you to build your own mech from scratch. This is easily one of the best features 
 of the game. A feature -- I should add -- that is completely lacking from the single player experience! 
 However, the game does do a good job of allowing you to obtain new parts, both online and off through 
 completing the single player missions. 
  
  3) Online play: 
  If you buy this game, this is where you ultimately want to be. The online play is rich and interesting, 
 though it has its issues, which I'll soon explain. But overall, online play is fun and addictive 
 with a dedicated group of mature players/friends. 
  
  The Bad: Unfortunately, much has gone wrong in this game. Allow me to list my personal peeves.
 
  
  1) The graphics on everything OTHER than the mechs. 
  Expecting next-gen environments like the beautiful wonder that is Oblivion? Think again. The environments 
 are inexcusably bare and plain. MechAssault for the original Xbox had better environments -- and 
 when I say better, I mean MUCH better. Buildings are plain, so is the grass, and there are barely 
 any trees. When you do see trees you can rest assured they are plain too -- at least you can knock 
 them over.
  
  2) The speed of your mech.
  Paint dries faster than these mechs move, which makes moving through the horribly bland environments 
 that much more excruciating. Even fast mechs feel slow, which makes slow mechs feel, well . . . 
 you get the picture. Needless to say, this game won't have you on the edge of your seat with lightning 
 fast action and quick firefights. That said, there is strategy involved in building a slow versus 
 "not as slow" mech. Faster mechs can attack the enemy base quickly and capture combas points. Slower 
 mechs can lay down heavy artillery and firepower for defending your base or eventually pounding 
 the enemy base. 
  
  3) The HUD (Heads up Display) : 
  It's just plain disappointing. Why isn't there an inside the cockpit view? That would surely be 
 immersive with all kinds of radar and navigational equipment around you. Maybe Sega could have 
 displayed physical damage on your glass window. As it stands, you can hardly fire your weapons 
 from the default behind-the-mech view because the aiming camera positioned in the upper right portion 
 of the screen is awkward. You have to zoom in to hit anything, which means you can't move well 
 while aiming, and isn't that the point of a mech?!! Also, the HUD for the "heavy gunner" mech borders 
 on worthless. It tells you nothing about how far your target is or how you should aim to hit it. 
 It's really just a guessing game as to how far you should tilt your upper torso back to arc the 
 shot onto the target. 
  
  4) The damage effects: 
  Oh this is a big peeve for me. I was looking forward to turning my enemies into hulks of smoldering 
 metal and sparks on the battlefield, and maybe even being able to salvage the parts that I didn't 
 blow up. Unfortunately, this isn't the case. If you kill something in this game, it disappears 
 . . . POOF! Reminds me of alien vaporizer beam from "War of the Worlds.. It's disappointing, hugely 
 disappointing. The same goes for blowing up building and tanks . . . poof! Nothing. No satisfaction 
 from the wreckage whatsoever. The one exception to this rule occurs when you blow up another hound. 
 Hounds (big mechs) actually do remain on the battlefield in smoking, sparkling glory. Its just 
 too bad not everything else does.
  
  5) The single player campaign:
  Oh it's horrible. It's plain, it's tedious, you don't care about any of the characters, and you 
 don't get to build or customize a mech -- which is just plain sloppy on the part of the programmers, 
 since this is one of the greatest features of the game. There's no sense of scale, no sense of 
 accomplishment, and you'll just want to beat it to unlock parts for your online play so you can 
 be done with it.
  
  6) The radar: 
  It's frustratingly difficult to distinguish friend from foe, as both show up as colorless dots 
 on your radar. Only the commander can accurately tell the difference, and he/she can only do so 
 by staring at the map while out of combat. It would be nice if the Commander could assign enemy 
 locations to teammates that would actually show up on their HUD. Instead, assigning objectives 
 and enemy locations requires the commander to type in coordinates like A5, E2, B7  similar to 
 the classic board-game, Battleship. These coordinates arent really that intuitive to the gamer, 
 as they dont show up on your HUD. So you inevitably have to pause to open up your map to see what 
 the commander is talking about. This can be quite frustrating, and I can think of a handful of 
 ways this could have been better implemented.
  
  Overall, if you like mech games, this one may be for you, but just be prepared for all the rough 
 spots and the disappointment of knowing that it could have been spectacular. That said, if you 
 invest the time necessary to join a mature squad of players online, you may have a blast, at least 
 until something better comes out.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: metalsnake79745
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 30, 2006 8:01 pm PT
Review:  The game is made by a game publisher by the name from software the creaters of the series Armored 
 Core on the ps2. they made a great game here that is alot of fun. the game is based on an oline 
 war in which you choose and build you mech and try to defend one of three territorys with your 
 squad. the gameplay is good and the graphics are well polished in the cg's but when you are sitting 
 in the online lobbys or building your mech the music deos get a littlle reppeditive ( custom soundtracks 
 work great) . also it hard to get a free battle with more then 10 players going because the rooms 
 tend to lag out. this comes from the fact that the game runs it own servers. the other bad thing 
 about this is the fact that they have to update there servers every other week. but all in all 
 if you can get a good squad going and you have a good connection try this one out its worth the 
 money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megaskrilz
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 30, 2006 5:10 pm PT
Review:  this game is not slow or boring most the ppl up above who rated this game must be ether handicap 
 or have had there head crashed in a wall... this game is highly addictive online and if u have alot 
 of friends on ur list encourage them to buy this game which most ppl do them selfs who liek mech 
 games and LOOK CAREFULY AT GAME REVIEWS AND NOT RATINGS espeically the rateing it got on ign .... 
 that was retarded. if u liked mechassult which sucks compared to this game u will be addictied 
 highly to this games awsome customization and its awsome online war that u fight in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snipercomplete
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 30, 2006 11:56 am PT
Review:  This game was going to be a hit, every1 new it, but when those people without xbox live got it 
 well, tey were dissapointed. but the live people got the best game ever, every1 says its confusing 
 to get in a game or something like that, but what is so hard about clicking squad rondevous, eh?
 
  nothing. thats what. the learning curve isnt all that bad, and graphics are very good. i have to 
 admit the sound needs a lil work, and the explosions are only explosions, no hound parts everywhere 
 and what not, the hound just dissapears after a while, ( unless u fight cp in the war then the cp 
 bodies stay) but still no hound parts everywhere! but if u dont have live, or dont have a squad to 
 join, this game is garbage, but if you do, get ready for 1 heck of an experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterMidget
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 30, 2006 9:52 am PT
Review:  This game is perfect for online. The buying, the selling, the squad, the war. There are some bad 
 things about the online. I have to tell people how to go into a game that me or somebody in my 
 squad created because it is a little difficult to find how to rendezvous to the mission. What would 
 be great with squads is if there were squad ranks. Not like recruit, private, etc; like the squad 
 leader gives rights to people in the squad like kicking people out. I'd also love if the HOUNDS 
 were a little faster. A speed of 200 is some-what fast, but I'd rather have that be 500+ with the 
 same artillery. The online servers need to be fixed because me or somebody else is falling out 
 of the game. There needs to be more weapons, cockpits, etc. I've bought all the things I can buy 
 already in the shop. 
  What this game is lacking is the single player. It's just boring. The annoying talking at times 
 (like in the commander missions) . I pretty much use it for the levels you get when finishing the 
 RT (role type) , the achievements, and the weapons and stuff. If there were a sequel with better 
 single player, rock-solid online play, more customizing, and a better interface, I'd buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HissingNewt
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 29, 2006 10:48 pm PT
Review:  This game is an amazingly well done multiplayer game. I would not recommend it for people who do 
 not have live though because you just can't get your money's worth out of it unless you have live. 
 The online play consists of the nations of Tarakia, Kal Sar, and Morskoj battling for control of 
 the region. You can customize your hound with weapons bought in the shop and you can also buy sensors 
 and extra armor plates. There is a lottery for captured parts and prototypes that you cannot buy. 
 I think you can eventually buy the prototypes but I'm not sure if that's true. I highly recommend 
 this game for live members. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheNIM
Rating: 2.9
Date: Jan 7, 2007 12:43 am PT
Review:  While I have never beena huge fan of the mech genre of video games, I was really looking forward 
 to playing a mech game on the 360. I figured the graphical improvement and gameplay would blow 
 me away. I thought it would grasp me the way GRAW did for TS games and PDZ did for FPS. Boy was 
 I wrong
  
  I don't think I have played a more uneventful game on the 360. I played for about 2 hours the other 
 day and it went by like 2 days. The graphics are average. You can tell it's an upgrade over any 
 mech games on the current gen systems, but the realism of the graphics just dont seem to be there 
 as much as other 360 games. The sound is just plain generic. The gameplay is just awful. Major 
 lag in online play and offline play is so mundane you will fall asleep before you're able to be 
 compete.
  
  Glitchy as hell and this mech game moves slower than dirt. It takes forever to build, create and 
 be competitive enough to compete online. I would say you need to buy this not rent it, but renting 
 it is pointless because the game is drawn out and buying it isnt a good idea unless you can get 
 it for $20 and even that is pushing it.
  
  I am sure not many fanboys will give me support on this, but the average gamer will understand 
 what I mean if they have played this game. If this is the standard mech games have to follow, then 
 the road is very gloomy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xerxes5678
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 29, 2006 3:05 pm PT
Review:  When you first see CH, many thought it was a mechassault rip-off, but the guys from Armored Core 
 did right in this game.
  The story is set in an alternate timeline, with three nations duking it out for supremacy. Although 
 this game is about the multiplayer aspect, one should not neglect the story mode.
  Story mode is, in essence, a set of training missions to prepare you for the multiplayer side of 
 the game, as well as a place to get some nice parts. When you beat a mission, it rates you on your 
 performance. The better the rank, the more parts you get. You can always go into Free Play and 
 try to get an S rank (the highest) on any previous missions.
  The story is divided into six campaigns, each seven missions long. Each campaign is focused on 
 honing your skills in a certain role type. Your role type defines what your mech is going to excel 
 in, but the system isn't rigid, and you could make countless hybrids.
  But it's the multiplayer that most will be interested in. It is focused on the Neroimus War, a 
 conflict between the three factions of Tarakia, Morskoj, and Sal Kar. Here you join a squad (like 
 a clan) and fight other squads in enemy nations. After one nation wins, the war is reset.
  And there you have it, my opinion is that this game is pretty good, and if you like mech sims, 
 you'll really want to get this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JohnPraser
Rating: 4.9
Date: Jul 29, 2006 2:36 pm PT
Review:  First off, caution yourself before considering purchasing this game. There are a few reasons why, 
 so follow along and let me explain why this game is a total letdown.
  
  First of all, the online part of this game is perhaps a fascinating idea, but yet, the campaign 
 was garbage. You start off having to go through all this training before you take on any of the 
 campaigns, and the campaign selection ranges from soldier, sniper, defender, scout, heavy gunner, 
 etc. And the good thing is that you can play any of these campaigns at the same time. But the bad 
 is... you have to go through training in every campaign first before going through the actual campaign. 
 The main part of communication of the Hounds is handled by the Hounds going to these communication 
 towers called COMBAS, and you're supposed to let your Hound sit next to one until your pull up 
 map has a communication light-up, which means you can communicate in the lighted zone. But overrall, 
 unfortunately, the campaign is pretty much ruined, and after a few hours of gameplay with the campaign, 
 you'll probably want to move into the online part of Chromehounds, which is perhaps a wiser choice.
 
  
  The good thing is that the online part of Chromehounds is perhaps very interesting and has a lot 
 of good ideas in it. You of course have to join a squad online, but the problem is that you have 
 to apply to the squad, and you have to wait a period of time before you're asked to join. After 
 you join a squad, you get to participate in a Neriomous War (I forgot to pronounce it) and you 
 get to choose which nation you want to fight for, which includes Morskoj, Sal-Kar, and a nation 
 that has desert terrain (I forgot what it was called) . And then you'll be able to participate in 
 the war (s) and raise your merit and ranking, in which the rankings are actually real life military 
 rankings. One con about the online is that it's a interesting but yet very confusing concept, in 
 which you have to capture as much COMBAS and enemy land as you can in a certain amount of time, 
 and if you fail a mission, it's possible that your merit can lower (it's happened to me a few times 
 before) . The online part of Chromehounds is probably the best part in the game, and although it 
 has interesting concepts, it still falls short to the Chromehounds base gameplay.
  
  The customization features are really interesting too, in which you can spend hours customizing 
 your own hound. You get your parts from the campaign, or you can get them from purchasing them 
 while shopping in the online part of Chromehounds, in which it has the shop part because in the 
 online part of Chromehounds, you of course have to use your own customized hound. So the customization 
 is another good part of the game, and it can attach you for awhile on some occassions...
  
  2 big cons of Chromehounds are the replay value and the sound. Once you play Chromehounds, it's 
 not going to keep you interested for a very long time unfortunately, which makes a big defect with 
 the replay value. There is some good sound in Chromehounds, but the music overrall just isn't great 
 and the way people talk and sound is in a very strange accent and they speak very quietly, and 
 that can damage the Sound score in the game.
  
  But overrall, unfortunately, you could most likely become disappointed with Chromehounds once you 
 play it. Although the online and customization are the big parts of Chromehounds, the single-player 
 is extremely boring and shallow, and overrall, the base gameplay of Chromehounds is actually pretty 
 boring, so I advise you to caution yourself before thinking about purchasing Chromehounds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elementjdg06
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 29, 2006 1:15 pm PT
Review:  THE BEST MULTI PLAYER EVER U WILL BECOME ADDICTED! it might take a little bit for some noobs to 
 get it but if u spend the time and hav basic knowledge of how a more realistic game works u will 
 most definitely love this game! there is just so many different kinds of combinations that u can 
 make like whatever chassis light arms heavy arms assist parts na makers generators cockpits whatever 
 there is so much to choose from its almost impossible to count them all and they keep adding new 
 ones also which is something that many games are missing and all shud hav! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nas-tmayne2k6
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 29, 2006 11:47 am PT
Review:  first this game had no hype surrounding it, it kindof just popped out of nowhere, i saw a couple 
 of people on my friends list playing it for a few weeks, so i finally asked them how is the game, 
 they told me it had some glitches but it was very good. I went out and bought it, put it in, built 
 a mech and then joined a friends squad. we started doing squad battles , all i can say is wow. 
 What a well done game. 
  -Graphically the explosions, lighting effects and mechs look amazing, when fighting in one of the 
 middle eastern cities, we were fighting 6 on 6, explosions from howitzers took down buildings, 
 created explosions 200 feet high, dust kicked up from the explosions made it almost impossible 
 to see, just amazing effects. if you are hundreds of yards away the explosions light up the sky 
 just topnotch, some of the textures are kindoff low res but easily overlooked.
  -sound, excellent, especially on 5.1, thunderous explosions, standard military type soundtrack 
 fits the game, com system very well thought out, you control com towers you get a larger com area 
 which means you can communicate with your teamates through the headset.
  - control, excellent, responsive and realistic, all the buttons are mapped well, weapons systems 
 can be assigned in anyway you wish, movement speed etc is determined by computer, weight etc. aiming 
 mortors, howitzers take some practice because of theyre arch. every class has a learning curve 
 to its corrosponding weapons and takes practice, when you master these skills controls are a breeze.
 
  -value, 10+ easily, what we should have been getting on 360, not GRAW with 10 maps, less guns, 
 modes than previous versions and 15 dollar expansion. This is how its done, check DL content, there 
 are DL weapons available already for FREE. I dont know how many maps there are but ive seen over 
 20 maps. 600+ parts, deep customization, mulitple ways to win a match means its pretty much a bunch 
 of modes in one, excellent squad interface, its like the RISK board game in the online lobby, its 
 really a MMO shooter, you just participate in a platoon of the larger army. 
  
  FUN FUN FUN, real mech game, mechassualt was fun for about an hour, this is how you do mech games 
 MS, its slower paced but the only makes the action more enjoyable. IDK what all these reviewers 
 were playing but they seem to have no credibility anymore, this game is a must have and its ashame 
 that its overshadowed by far less quality games like GRAW , PDO. but the PEOPLE have spoken id 
 say the consensus is this is a must have 
::::::

::::::
UserName: perryjd1
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jul 28, 2006 8:58 am PT
Review:  I did like this game, but it is slower (ie the mechs seem to have weight) and less graphically 
 appealing then I had hoped for. The game has somewhat sparse environments, with cheap enemy deaths 
 and not very impressive polish. The game's multiplayer - though fun at times- is a pain in the 
 ass and not very user friendly. It could have been SO much more then what was given. It feels rushed 
 and uninspired at times - but tons of fun and quite enjoyable at others - it is almost what I'd 
 expect from newer developers - and the hack stuff I usually see from sega. I say give it a shot 
 - but keep the hopes low and you will be very impressed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_spartan_11
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 27, 2006 6:55 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Fun shoot em' up game, but I was confused on the mission objective alot, it was pretty 
 slow, and it got repetive.
  
  Graphics: I liked the games graphics alot, it was fun to look at the machines and see how they 
 work. The enciroments were destructable, and looked good as well.
  
  Sound: Some of the sparking and repetive noises were annoying, but the guns sounded good.
  
 
  I say if your going to buy it, rent it first, its fun online and is pretty solid, but im a Mech 
 Warrior guy. And i like things simple. This game was just too complicated and convoluted. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Point2Point
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 27, 2006 2:28 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are great, and explosions matches the special effects made by hollywood movies, however, 
 this Japanese game has flaws.
  It has great online gameplay, which would draw most player to and covers the single player gameplay 
 in shadow. With the ability to create your own hound and squad (clan) many would find themselves 
 playing with a fun and unique HOUND. Strategic and original.
  The single player action, however, left many in wonders. It is often times unfair and frustrating. 
 The unfair part is that although it's a shooter, they added the element of hundreds of enemies, 
 all attacking you at the same time and expecting you to survive and win. With the lack of "superpowers" 
 to defeat the enemies (as you would see in dynasty warriors or other japanese action games) , it 
 is frustrating.
  Still, unfair single player gameplay does not mean that it is not fun. The story mode for each 
 HOUND types (there are six) features a different perspective of the war and a different cause in 
 which the characters are fighting. The dialogs are extremely cheesy, though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ihateyou_right
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 27, 2006 1:32 pm PT
Review:  First off I'll start by saying that this game will not please everybody. Especially those without 
 live access, those without xbox live will not be able to see the brilliance of the game.
  The game is set out it two halves the first half being the single player mode which to say the 
 least is abysmil, however the single player game is only supposed to serve as a training albeit 
 a very long one. If you do look at the single player as training then it serves a purpose of getting 
 you used to each class and does a good job of getting you ready for the online mode, where the 
 game comes into it's own.
  The second half is the online. The online is confusing to start with throwing multiple menus at 
 you and asking you to pick things that will later afect you in the game. Once the start is over 
 it's time to find a squad, I recommend you get into one as soon as possible as they are what makes 
 the game so much fun. Once in a squad you will be able to fight along side them using different 
 classes to complete missions effectively. 
  Customising a mech is hard at first but soon becomes second nature and it won't be long before 
 you are spending hours getting the right weapon combonation. 
  Chromeoundscombat is also ver very fun when in a battle you will get so tense it is unbeleiveable 
 .
  However chromehounds isn't without fault. At times it can be slow and it may seem like you are 
 doing an awful lot of walking round. The most annoying problem with the game is when a host leaves 
 the game instead of saying the other team has won it completely disconnects you and shows nothing 
 for your efforts. other than it's little problems chromehounds is awsome and well wrth a buy. However 
 I warn that this will not be to everybodies tastes as it is tactical and requires you to think, 
 so if you only really like run and gun games this is not for you.
  
  Gameplay: Increadbly fun as soon as you are in a squad.
  
  Ghraphics: Mechs look amazing and 
 so do explosions, but the bland scenery and the disapperence of mechs after the explosions takes 
 away from realisim.
  
  Sound: nothing to shout about, can be a little annoying at times.
  
  Value: will have you playing for a long time especially if sega continue to release new parts 
 for the mechs.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: itsdanaman
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 27, 2006 10:01 am PT
Review:  I really wanted to like this game. I love Mech combat games and have for years but, this game moves 
 so slow that you could fall asleep while getting to the "action". Even the Mechs with wheels move 
 like they are in a school zone. The graphics are ok, the explosions and smoke effects are good, 
 but the environments are dull and plain. The game simply benefits from being on the 360, with an 
 HD picture everything looks better, but if you are looking for something new and revolutionary 
 you will be disappointed. If you enjoy slow lumbering combat with pretty explosions then this is 
 the perfect game. Rent this one first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: odamkevin
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jul 27, 2006 8:53 am PT
Review:  nothing like moving 2 miles per hour through a huge map, right? very boring gameplay. destroying 
 enemies gets very repetitive, very fast. online is pointless if you dont know people with this 
 game. campaign is not very solid, nor complex. this game has very beautiful graphics and a very 
 unique and fun online experience if done properly and with a reliable community of people. no offline 
 multiplayer only hurts this game further. not one of 360's solid titles. takes a very strong fan 
 of mechs to enjoy this game. limited freedom. weapons get old quick. would barely reccomend for 
 a rental, but definitely not a purchase unless this is exactly what you are looking for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danthekilla
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 27, 2006 2:51 am PT
Review:  Amazing online, adverage single player but who wants to play that. The person that reviewed this 
 must have been drunk
  
  2nd only to halo 2 online
  9.5/10
  
  * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * 
 * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * 
 * * * * * * 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mike-GNR
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 27, 2006 1:45 am PT
Review:  I've spent many sleepless nights staying up, trying to find out how to put one more rifle on. This 
 game is simply addictive. You have your main story, and you have the main beef of the story, the 
 online play.
  Now I recommend to you stay clear of this game if all you do is play offline. It just does not 
 have any beef. You have 6 different Role Types (RT's) . In these 6 RT's you have 8 missions. The 
 basic RT's are Soldier, Sniper, Scout, Defender, Heavy Gunner, and Commander. This is all great 
 and what not, but it's a short story that really only sets you up for the Neroimus War (Online) .
 
  Online. This is where the game truly shines. There is a constant war that is going on between 
 the three Nations (Sal Kar, Morskoj, Tarakia) The objective is to take over all the capitals. That's 
 your objective. There are millions, upon millions of HOUND configurations. It's stunning. You will 
 never see two mechs alike. Never. They are like snowflakes. So after you have your HOUND set up, 
 it's time to join a squad. It's almost impossible to play the game with out a squad. You set up 
 strategies, to defeat the other team. The battlefields vastly vary. From CQ urban combat to open 
 dessert. It all comes down to how your team works together, like a well oiled machine. Just don't 
 pick this game if you're not willing to spend countless hours customizing, and tweaking your HOUNDs 
 performance.
  Basically what I'm going to tell you, is that if you don't have Xbox live, don't bother with this 
 game. But if you do, pick it up and join the fight, you won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DoE_bOi
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 26, 2006 9:58 pm PT
Review:  This game can be summed up in one word amazing, BECAUSE of a few reasons. 1. The graphics are sweet 
 and the detail is awesome. 2. The customization and color schemes are diverse and enthralling. 
 3. If you really love customization and mechs you can sit for hours trying to come up with the 
 coolest and best design for your mech. 4. AND THE BEST REASON!!!!!!!!! the online play is fun and 
 intense if you get into a descent to awesome squad. if your serious about this game, best game 
 i have ever played, no joke, better than HALO and Oblivion!!!!!! get this game, but only if u have 
 XBL, and why do you even have and xbox 360 if you dont have live. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobstos
Rating: 5.7
Date: Jul 26, 2006 8:19 pm PT
Review:  A general overview of Chromehounds:
  
  The Good: Shiny graphics, deep customization, cool looking explosions
  
  The Bad: Lackluster 
 campaign, extreme learning curve, dull ambiance and sound effects, boring terrain, slower paced 
 than most mech fighting games, 60 dollar price tag, horrible voice acting, story is non-existent.
 
  
  Overview: Single player is a snore, if you dont have Xbox live, dont bother, unless you were some 
 kind of hardcore mech fan who can forgive the half ass single player campaign. I mean, with a game 
 that was this anticipated, you would think that they devs would have put a little more effort into 
 the single player portion before putting it on shelves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BthSdesOfTheGun
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 26, 2006 7:50 pm PT
Review:  You start off the campaign and it is basically just walking around and shooting little tanks, not 
 so fun right? well you go online, join a good squad and you play a match... then you get HOOKED! 
 it is brilliant, beatiful explosions wonderful gameplay. the only bad parts is that it is a little 
 hard to kill the enemies... and the neroimus war only lasts about 2-3 days because moskoj are too 
 much of a power house... but i'm sure they'll fix that... The customization is wonderful and fun. 
 the sound isn't that great either :/ but other than that the game is addicting and fun... especially 
 if you have some close pals who love playing games with you, screaming girlishly when you see 4 
 or more hounds running at you shooting missiles and cannons and machine guns. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ricetopher
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 26, 2006 4:15 pm PT
Review:  Chrome Hounds is a mech combat game that appeals to a very specific crowd.
  -The mechs move slow (realistically slow though)
  -Prepare to spend plenty of time in the garage
 
  -You'll want Xbox Live Gold
  -When online, don't expect to be a hero
  -THIS IS NOT HALO OR MECHASSUALT
  
  If you can handle the above, then you'll probably enjoy 
 this game-after you breeze through the brief, mediocre single player to get some decent parts. 
 Then you can assemble a mech and hop online. Or you can buy a premade mech if all the assembly 
 seems to boring and confusing.
  
  The options online are huge. Free Battle (ranked or unranked) allows for simple deathmatchs/team 
 DM's. Then there is the Neromius War. In order to participate in it fully, you'll want to join 
 a squad (clan) so you can fight for territory of one of three countries- Morskoj, Tarakia, or Sal 
 Kar -or participate in individual missions for money, which you can use to buy parts or premade 
 mechs.
  
  It wil take time and commitment to get the full value of Chrome Hounds' online play, but that value 
 is one of the best for an online multiplayer game on the 360 thus far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: m34d
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 26, 2006 9:10 am PT
Review:  I really liked this game and am proud to say that i am pretty sure they will make another one in 
 the not to distant future. Nothing in this world excites me more than a game that lets me customize 
 my own character or vehicle. That my friends is waht has revolutionized the gaming indestry is 
 the extream amount of customization brought about by EA games sports titles. This game features 
 a pretty bland storyline, but enjoyable killing sprees. I love a challenge so achievements are 
 really nice but in this game kinda bland. But I will Buy this game after I return it to Hollywood 
 Video. This is a nice game and I would deffinately say yes rent it buy it unlimited playability 
 online. Happy gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: littleg2002
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 25, 2006 2:08 pm PT
Review:  The sinlge player campaign is very blan, it seems like it's there just as a really long training 
 campaign so you can learn how to use all the hounds on xbox live. The campaign also is probably 
 the best way to unlock some good items, it seems that the items unlocked in the campaign are slightly 
 better then the counter parts of the ones you purchase when you play, not comparing them to the 
 expirimental parts you can buy when your country's research advances (ill get back to that in a 
 sec) . Now to get to the real game, the online play of Chromehounds is amazing, far beyond what 
 I expected of the game. There is a war between nations and you can either start or join a squad 
 of other mercenaries and as each war session ends you can change sides. Each of the three nations 
 have there own types of parts for your hound so if you fight for each side you can have parts from 
 all sides. There are a multitude of Achievements and items to unlock, and as the war wages on more 
 and more things become available. There are quite a few things they could have done to make the 
 online play a little bit more manageable, such as they should have made it available to invite 
 friends into your squad rather then making them search for your squad. I have also ran into quite 
 a few connection issues. Over all this game rocks and is by far one of the best games I have played 
 for 360 online. I cant wait for all the future updates and any expantions they might come out with 
 for this game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpookyX
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jul 25, 2006 11:01 am PT
Review:  Have you ever noticed how the same game title can be one kind of game on the PC but then a totally 
 different one on the console? The Battlefield and the early Rainbow Six franchises are great examples 
 of this. Both had multiple layers of depth to their gameplay and very strong strategic elements 
 on the PC. As soon as they appeared on consoles they were watered down to the point that it was 
 hard to even recognize the connection to their PC predecessors. I used to wonder if this was due 
 to the technological deficits faced by consoles more than design choice. 
  
  It seems that publishers have felt that console gamers are only looking for the quick gaming fix 
 without going into a lot of depth or strategic planning. I'm sorry but I do my most strategic thinking 
 on the couch (ok, well maybe second only to the porcelain throne) . Fortunately, it seems that some 
 publishers are starting to give console gamers a little more credit and are testing the waters. 
 Chromehounds is definitely a fine example of giving gamers the ability to think a little more than 
 just deciding on whether to use the sniper rifle or energy sword.
  
  First thing to note is that basically if you do not have Xbox Live than you really, really need 
 to think about getting this game before you buy it. The Single player game makes the story in MechAssault 
 look like War and Peace in comparison. It is nothing more than disembodied voices telling you why 
 you are doing this and how you are going to do it. Its an extended training level but a very much 
 needed one and has the benefit of unlocking awesome loot to customize your mech with. Each class 
 of Mech has eight missions that put you in different situations that best demonstrates the strengths 
 and weaknesses of that class. You have Soldier, Sniper, Scout, Defender, Heavy Gunner, and Commander. 
 
  
  The soldier is your basic tank (as in MMORPGs not military) where you go in hot and heavy for close 
 combat because you have heavier armor and shorter range. Your sniper is pretty self explanatory. 
 Scouts are small and quick with light weapons whose main goal is to... wait for it.. scout and also 
 capture cell towers called COMBAS to help your team keep in communication. Defenders are slow and 
 heavy but good at protecting your HQ and certain key COMBAS. Heavy Gunners have just an awesome 
 ability of Shock and Awe where their weapons not only do direct damage at a distance but also splash 
 damage. Finally, Commanders are the most unique in that they act as a mobile COMBAS and are also 
 the only ones that can see who are enemies and who are friendlies on the map. Commanders are less 
 powerful like the scouts but some people swear that they can kick mech butt with them because of 
 their speed and mobility. 
  
  Each class has an awesome amount of selections to choose from such as cockpits, generators, weapon 
 systems, weapons, accessories such as mine detectors and much more. If you have played Kingdom 
 Hearts, think of the GUMMI editor without the annoying chipmunks. . The editor really allows you 
 to choose the look, feel, and ability of your very own mech but it also can be pretty overwhelming 
 for those new to the genre. Luckily, you get a pre-built hound you can use and even buy other pre-built 
 hounds by earning in game money doing missions. However, who likes buying off the rack.
  
  The controls are just something that I find really disappointing. First, I know mechs are supposed 
 to be unwieldy because all the mech-heads tell me so. However, I found myself getting stuck in 
 places due to the combination of unforgiving terrain and not so tight controls. This I can deal 
 with. However, you will need to play the game mostly in third person but their own know third person 
 crosshairs except for in a little picture in picture window in the corner of the screen. Granted, 
 you can go into weapon view (a. k. a. first person) but that is more useful for ranged combat than 
 close up. You will get used to it but my question is why should we get used to it? Either give 
 us the ability to turn on a third person cross hair or give us a cockpit view. Those certainly 
 are more simulation like than what they offer and a heckuva a lot easier.
  
  The multi-player world is the house From Software built Chromehounds on and is the only reason 
 you would want to invest the time required into learning the intricacies of the game. Not only 
 do you have the standard missions like Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, Capture the Flag, and other 
 variations to play around with but the real draw is the persistent online war that you can take 
 part in. You choose one of three factions and choose which battles you want to help out in off 
 a Risk type map. Wars last either until one faction wins the war or in the case of a stalemate 
 the server will reset the war every two months. Battles take place in a variety of locales typical 
 for these types of games including snowy hilltops, urban cities, and generic wilderness. Be warned 
 though that understanding how to actually get into things is not very intuitive so you will need 
 to read the manual and ask questions. Once you do though you will be in for a treat that really 
 shows how well balanced the game is and team focused it is. You should also beware that this is 
 the first time a server has been introduced into the world of Xbox which has its good points but 
 also bad points such as the server being down now and then.
  
  The graphics are really a mixed bag where the mechs themselves look really detailed and amazing 
 but everything around them is just passable. Destroying stuff should have been a lot more explosive 
 but instead things kind of just limply blow up and then conveniently disappear. Funny thing is 
 that tracks from tread and footprints stay throughout the battle. I think I would have focused 
 on leaving burned down buildings and dead bodies of soldiers but maybe real life hunter's will 
 have an edge by following their prey's footsteps.
  
  Overall, Chromehounds is not an easy game to love. Like any long-term relationship it requires 
 nurturing and patience. Those who were enthralled with MechAssault will probably be scratching 
 their heads while those who have fond memories of MechWarrior may rekindle that flame on the 360. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chiefinator
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 25, 2006 10:25 am PT
Review:  This is one of the best mech games designed to date. This is not for a person who rents their games 
 first, doesn't own xbox live, or simply will buy a game for the achievment points. This game is 
 for the multiplayer mech addict. You can easily dump 50 hours into this game just doing multiplayer 
 in the first week. (the achievments take time but you will have fun gettting them)
  
  You will see some reviews giving this game a bad review because of this fact. The person rented 
 it or doesn't have xbox live take a look at their playing time, no wonder they didn't like it they 
 probably only played it for 10 hrs. But back to the game. 
  
  Single Player- its a great opportunity to learn the hounds, and get some great weapons. Its not 
 hard by any means and is fun for a little while but that isn't where the game is mulitplayer is.
 
  
  Multiplayer-
  Its gameplay, although slow at some times, (faster than oblivion) is fun, when you shoot it actually 
 does damage to parts on the other mech and you do get a "reward" for shooting certain parts if 
 you shoot the cockpit-the mech blows up, weapons-they blow up, legs-it moves slower, radar-it loses 
 its radar etc... If you played mech 1-2 or mechwarrior series this game applies to you because 
 you can do Neriomius war which is essentially conquest or for those of you who don't know, alot 
 like the board game risk, and there are also "free battles" alot like in Call of duty 2, mech 2 
 and mech 1. It also is much like the mechwarrior series because these are your machines that you 
 designed put up to the test of fighting other pilots. It requires more brains and strategy than 
 many of the other games on xbox live.
  
  The graphics on this game are out of this world, the mechs look and play like they are real, the 
 levels are plain to a degree but get the job done compared to other games.
  
  As far as sound goes that is where the game is laking, the mechs sound real, but the guns could 
 sound a little more realistic not that I have heard a huge howitzer/rocket pod lately but it could 
 sound better, the menu music just sucks so simply go to the options and turn it off.
  
  This game if you like playing multiplayer holds its value for a long time. You can dump tons of 
 time in this game possibly more than oblivion in no time.
  
  It is a great addition to any mech fans game library. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joyster
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 24, 2006 10:48 pm PT
Review:  This suprised me how fun it is to team up with friends and try and make a difference in a online 
 war. Is just plan awesome with the effects. I would say that this is way better game online than 
 any game to date the customizing is crazy. Pick this up and you wont be sorry. You may have to 
 stumble through the single player but make sure you do to get an S rating on all the missions cause 
 you get some sweet parts that you can only in single player to use online. Over all if you are 
 a robot fan this is a dream the customizing goes crazy with paint and symbols...
  There has already been another release with some new weapons. The devolpment team is standing behind 
 this one with shining colors and cant wait for the next set of free downloadable weapons and such 
 . 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ceasar015
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 24, 2006 8:23 pm PT
Review:  This is a really good game, The single player is Great in some areas and poor in others. Being able 
 to create your own hound is one of the best aspects of the game. The ones who gave this game anything 
 lower than a 7.5 are the ones who really didnt give the game a chance. Graphics are definitely 
 next Gen. Buy a strategy guide because it can get really confusing on how to do things but you 
 get used to it and its worth it. The online of course is where its all at but over all the whole 
 game is most definitely worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jviper57
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 24, 2006 6:32 pm PT
Review:  So far I have not run into any glitches or problems with the game play and the online play could 
 not have been better. The only problem is when you shoot buildings and objects they sink into the 
 ground and vanish without much if any rubble. The good part about having things blow up is that 
 everything is virtually destructible in some way except for the mountains. Another bad part is 
 when you are shooting at any vehicle when they blow up the flaming mess disappears right after 
 exploding. This game is one of the most integrative games on the market. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spartan3669
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 24, 2006 6:14 pm PT
Review:  chromehounds has a boring single player that has amazing explosions and delivers great sound effects. 
 The music doesn't seem to flow through the game and the friendly AI isnot that great. This game 
 is however lots of fun online, the mech battles with 12 people are fun and nerve racking at the 
 same time. The game has a good value if you have XBOX live because then if all you have is single 
 player then it is just a waste. The controls are solid and it makes the gameplay more real. The 
 story of the game is boring and not much of a pointe. However this game is well worth the mentioning 
 of gamers to at least try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JuJuBomb
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 24, 2006 2:18 pm PT
Review:  This game has taken a bad rap on a lot of sites, but for me it is a total blast!! Yes, the single 
 player aspect is a little easy and not much to it, but the on-line experience MORE that makes up 
 for it. The customizing of your hounds turns into an art form. Then take them out and battle with 
 your buddies to dominate the War!! The game does play much like MechAssault, but with the mech 
 customizing you have thousands of variations that make everyones hounds unique. This game isn't 
 a "must buy", but it takes the cake for fun factor!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PrebuiltKiller
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 25, 2006 5:54 pm PT
Review:  i think that this game is awesome great gameplay and i think that the online is one of the best 
 i have ever played i think that it is better than Halo 2 because in Halo 2 there is no clan to 
 join in the main lobby like in chromehounds the only way that u could join a clan is by going to 
 game battles. So another thing that chromehounds has that is good is the graphics on it, and also 
 i like the sound because for a game like that when you get online and everybody shoots at the same 
 time the game gets it well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Foehammer111
Rating: 6.4
Date: Jul 24, 2006 12:45 pm PT
Review:  Who doesnt like Mech games? Theres just something about blowing up stuff in a giant robot thats 
 appealing. Ive been playing the Battletech tabletop game since the early 90s, and these types 
 of games hold a special place in my heart.
  
  Unfortunately, the first mech-combat game on the 360 doesnt live up to the hype. Chromehounds 
 is a fun game in its own right, and does some new things for the genre. But at the same time, 
 it does a lot of clich stuff that holds it back.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  I expect my mech games to give me a strong sense of just how huge these metal beasts are. Chromehounds 
 has this in spades. In fact, it does it too well. To the point that even the fast hounds feel slow 
 and unresponsive. The combat just isnt fun. Each hound has a health bar that you need to deplete 
 to destroy it. Some weapons do this faster, but the bottom line is that fights just devolve into 
 circle strafing. 
  
  Theres little skill required to pilot these mechs, and you arent rewarded for precise shots. 
 It also becomes very annoying to have to constantly switch to the 1st person view since 3rd person 
 doesnt have an aiming cursor of any kind. There arent any other controllable vehicles other than 
 the hounds. No tanks or planes. This means the combat gets even more boring.
  
  Customizing your hound is great, and allows you to blend different role types instead of having 
 clear-cut hounds. The downside is that all the mechs tend to look the same, and lack that artistic 
 wow factor. At lot of the maps look bland, and empty as well.
  
  GRAPHICS
  This is a mixed bag. The explosions look great, and some other effects look nice. But the graphics 
 are lacking in some spots. For example, whats up with a hound disappearing after it blows up? 
 It just looks bad. You can also walk through trees, but a simple wooden barn is an immoveable object 
 for a 100-ton hound. Buildings just collapse into the ground, and leave no rubble behind when destroyed. 
 Overall, CH is just not up to 360 standards
  
  SOUND
  Heres another mixed bag for the sound department. The gunshots sound great, and the hounds have 
 a nice thump to their movements. But theres little else in the way of sound effects. Very rarely 
 will you notice any environmental sounds, and the same applies to the music. Its almost non-existent 
 except for at the main title screen.
  
  VALUE
  Oddly enough, Chromehounds biggest draw is also its biggest problem. First, theres almost a complete 
 lack of a single player game. The single player game is nothing more than a series of training 
 missions to get you familiar with the controls and each role-type. You can unlock parts from the 
 training, but theres little reason to fully play them. The story could have been great, but its 
 all conveyed through your maps, and thus you dont get attached to any of the characters.
  
  The online play is decent, and has a persistent online war being fought. First you pick a country, 
 and a squad or clan to join. Then you fight in battles to take over territory from the two enemy 
 countries. Sounds good on the surface, but the boring game play holds it back. Combat is just slow, 
 and repetitive when youre winning. While ugly and frustrating if youre losing. Like a lot of 
 MMORPGs, you need to devote a lot of time to playing if you want to get anything out of it. In 
 addition, your fun with it is only as good as the people you play with. Get with a bad team, and 
 youll not be playing for very long.
  
  Single and casual players need not apply. This game wasnt designed for you. That said, you could 
 still have a lot of fun with Chromehounds if youre willing to put time and effort into playing. 
 But overall, you wont find a whole lot thats new from other games in this genre.
  
  The graphics and sound just arent up to 360 standards, and the gameplay gets old fast. Some faster 
 movement, or other vehicles to mix things up would have been great. This might be addressed as 
 patches or add-ons are released, but for now I wouldnt jump right in. Rent it first if youre 
 dying for a new mech game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zdiddy85
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 24, 2006 12:21 pm PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying I am a HUGE mech fan. Since the beginning of Earthsiege, and all the 
 way through Mechwarrior, I have been a mech whore. Just the feel of a 5,000 ton robot under your 
 control is breath taking. And when I heard that they were going to bring that feeling to me on 
 the 360, I instantly was hooked.
  
  Earlier this month, they released the demo for Netherlands and UK only. For US, you could "buy" 
 the demo if you bought some crap magazine too. So my two options were A: Buy the magazine, or B: 
 Move out of the US. While B was looking like a more suitable choice, I went with C: Make a UK XBOX 
 Live account name. It's free and I also got to pick a cool new user name. 
  
  After downloading the demo (which I wish I wouldn't have) I soon realized how shallow and lacking 
 the Single Player was. The missions were so linear ("Go to C and kill guys, then go to D and kill 
 more guys") I soon became disappointed and put the demo away. Luckily my friend had more faith 
 in it than I did and went out and bought the game on release. I bashed him for it, feeling for 
 sure that he had just wasted 60 bucks. That's when I realized that I had made one more big mistake.
 
  
  He called me over to show me the online aspects of the game. I came over, thinking I was going 
 be bored within the next 5 minutes. I was wrong. He immediately got accepted into a Squad (Clan) 
 and they gave him the option to pick a starter-pre-made-mech (Borrowed Hound) . He instantly went 
 into battle after chatting with his comrades in the lobby. While his mech look rather bland, the 
 rest of the squad's mechs had been highly upgraded and fully customized. Everything from decals 
 to extra plates of armor had been added, giving each hound it's own personality. My favorite was 
 a hound who had a evil-grinning face painted on it's cockpit, similar to the A-10 Bombers in Desert 
 Storm. 
  
  The mission started and everyone headed out, some on wheels, others on treads, and the rest on 
 either bipedal or multi pedal legs. The wheeled hounds headed towards COMBAS which are communication 
 towers so that you can chat with your teammates. Each COMBA only provides a certain radius of communication, 
 and if you stepped out of it, you were cut off from communications with your team. This added a 
 very complicated factor to the game play, which in turn for me meant more fun. 
  
  My friend had picked the Soldier Borrowed Hound and found it to be quite pleasing. With a flick 
 of a button, he switched between 3 machine guns, 2 shotguns, and 2 rocket launchers. His speed 
 was pretty decent too. He followed the rest of the pack which headed straight towards the enemies' 
 HQ.
  
  Let me pause and tell you how victory can be achieved. You can either A: Blow up all enemies (the 
 most common victory) , B: Blow up the enemy's HQ, or C: Have either more COMBAS captured or more 
 men alive when the time runs out. (Very rare victory condition) 
  
  Back to the fight, my friends squad soon encountered heavy enemy fire. Long range "Heavy Gunners" (HG) 
 were shelling the hell out the group from afar, while two hover Hounds with machine guns and rockets 
 lit them up up-close. The hover hounds were taken out rather quickly but sadly enough two mortar 
 shells from the HGs destroyed my friends mech. After dying, you spawn as a little infantry soldier 
 with a M-16 that does hardly any damage at all. 
  
  This is when I realized how amazing this game can be.
  
  The next day I picked it up and went 
 straight to online mode at home. I picked a borrowed hound and joined a clan. I went to the Garage 
 where I bought and added 2 machine guns to my Hound. I also applied my Squad's colors to my mech 
 in a form of camouflage. I then painted the Squad's emblem on my right leg panel which looked F-ing 
 amazing. After that, I was ready for battle.
  
  The control scheme is easy to pick up, as well as tactics in battle. You learn the range of your 
 weapons quick and realize what weapons should be grouped with others (Weapon Settings) . Strafing 
 from side to side is a Must when rushing long-range hounds. Communication also plays a huge role 
 in your success of the mission. If an enemy unit sneaks by and captures a COMBAS in your area, 
 you are blacked out from the rest of your squad, causing a bit of trouble. Multiplayer is by-far, 
 and amazing heart-pounding experience.
  
  Single Player is a different issue. Single player is made just for honing your skills for multiplayer 
 and learning what class of hound (AT) you'd prefer. Not only do you increase in skill, you also 
 earn free parts to use on your multiplayer hound. I'd suggest going through single player just 
 the parts you can get.
  
  Other than that, this game is great. It's a solid online game with excellent graphics and sound. 
 The replay value is unlimited with the hundreds of parts available to customize your mech. And 
 new content is being added regularly too to keep the veterans happy. Go out and rent the bad boy 
 to see if it's the game for you.
  
  Happy Hunting.
  zuffdaddy (Xenon)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wolfcub1111
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 24, 2006 9:42 am PT
Review:  This is an MMO with all the Flash but not the extra Cash!!!
  
  So single player SUCKS but you sorta have to play at least play the first lvl or 2 to learn the 
 gameplay. The Single Player is basically a Shooting Gallery!:?: you ask? Thats because all the 
 AI is are watered down "Hounds" with ULTRA weak armor and guns.
  But enough of the sucky SP... On to the MP!!!
  
  I call this an MMO because the game world is 
 constantly changing. Heres a quick rundown. You pick one of 3 nations to fight for who is trying 
 to take over the continent of "Nemerius". Then you join a squad of up to 20 other people of the 
 same country. Next you choose where to attack and you and you comrades do it. So it sounds sorta 
 like Mechassault 2's conquest mode eh? Well here's the best part thats fixed from MA2. BOTS!!! YES 
 AI CONTROLED PLAYERS!!! So you don't always have to wait for other players to join! But unfortunately 
 if someone on the defending nation joins Than you do have o wait for that team to ready up.: (But 
 hey you get paid more for real players.
  
  Now on to my favorite part!!! Hound Building!!!!!!!!!!!!!:!::!::!:
  
  You can literally get 
 lost for HOURS building the perfect hound!!! But alas you need money to buy parts!! Basicly there 
 are 6 Role Types or RT's to base your "Hound" around.
  Soldier, Scout, Sniper (lol 3 s) : wink: Heavy Gunner, Defender, and Commander.
  You don't actually 
 pick you RT per say. It gets determined my a bar graph depending on your parts layout. For example, 
 putting a NA Marker (radar beacon) on your hound will raise the Commander bar, but the others will 
 go down as like you hound is 60% commander and like 8% everything else.
  
  So I just basically told you about the WHOLE game didn't I. Oh well if actually read this far well 
 I congratulate you for surviving my monologing so long .: wink:
  
  Pros:
  GREAT online
  Superb Construction
  If you really get into it you can get obsessed!!! (Thats why the learning 
 curve is so high:) )
  
  Cons: ( (yes there are some) :
  Not the best Graphics or sound but are still good quality.
  (I base this off of my regular big 
 screen TV ad Optical Sound) (ie. non HDTV and Best quality sound possible)
  Also at releas there were Server issues and still are as of 7/24/2006 but not very many now!!! 
 :phew:
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tnt53
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 24, 2006 6:59 am PT
Review:  Great online multi-player alot of fun to play with squad. Tons of mech creation possibilities. Single 
 player is ok it's more of training sim. Some online server problems hopefully they will be fixed 
 soon. I highly recommend this game if you have XBL and enjoy war games with some strategy involved. I 
 rented this game first because of all the bad reviews and was hooked as for the server problems 
 they seem to shut down once aweek so far for maintenance to correct the current problems which 
 myself has only happened a few times connecting to an online battle but other than that every thing 
 else is great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MTBare
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 23, 2006 10:59 pm PT
Review:  Most of the reviews are correct and accurate but there are a few that are low, and it's simply 
 because 1 thing, they do not have/did not play this game online. The single player is basically 
 training for online play. I've played over 30 hours and I've barely played any of it offline.
 
  
  One reviewer said that he did not get to kill 1 single enemy mech while playing the game.. Definitely 
 not an accurate review and I don't see how that's possible considering I don't know of any missions 
 where you dont shoot anyone..
  
  Another reason for bad reviews is "I played for 2 hours and never got into an online game!" That's 
 simply because the majority of the people who play think they can play in a 6 vs 6 free battle 
 game, which is pointless cuz some will get dropped, then there's always the possibility one person 
 won't ready up and everyone has to wait. 3vs3, and 4vs4 work just fine and you don't have to wait 
 to play.
  
  This game online is amazing. Best online game of the 360 at this point definitely. If you have 
 xbox live this is a must
  
  Pros: 
  Great squad play, tactics and teamwork play a vital role
  Awesome customization, some people 
 have some crazy designs.
  the satisfaction of seeing that giant explosion when you kill an enemy.
  BIG ROBOTS with BIG 
 WEAPONS.
  Great replay value.
  The war.
  
  Cons:
  Graphics aren't the best, but they also aren't the worst.
  Single player.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Codefox
Rating: 5.3
Date: Jul 23, 2006 6:12 pm PT
Review:  I wanted to like this game, I really did. I haven't seen a great Mech sim since the PC Mechwarrior 
 series.
  
  Sadly I still haven't.
  
  I'll be honest, I didn't play the online part of the game but when the single player portion is 
 as terrible as it was, I had no desire to do so. I barely even want to write about it. The plot 
 was lukewarm. The graphics were mediocre and dark. The sound was uninspired.
  
  I had no reason to want to play. I didn't even get to fight a single enemy mech in the entire time 
 I tried the game.
  
  Not even a good try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Halo-IV
Rating: 2.8
Date: Jul 23, 2006 5:02 pm PT
Review:  I wasn't really looking forward to this game because it seemed like just another mechassault, but 
 it turned out worse. I rented it and I feel the game is so bleak and boring. The mechs arn't even 
 that cool looking and the weapons don't really do anything new in terms of mech games (hounds in 
 this) . 
  
  Gameplay - is.... simple and boring ... what more.
  
  Graphics - explosions are cool, but Graws were much better and COD2 had much better smoke. Hounds 
 are plain and don't take advantage of SM 3.0. Sure a few lighting effects so what, plain texture. 
 The enemy tanks/soldiers and landscapes are ugly.
  
  Sound - music, not much and its bad. Not very loud or thunder like sounding hounds like the vehicles 
 should be, there huge guns should be more louder than they are and more powerful in sound.
  
  Don't even rent, not even worth $6. Stay away from this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joestuart
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 23, 2006 4:31 pm PT
Review:  This game puts you in a mech (or HOUNDs in this game) as a mercenary in a alternate reality where 
 the Cold War led to WW3. While the single player is shallow, only consisting of five levels for 
 each class, it's more designed as a training session for the multiplayer to get you ready. The 
 multiplayer is highly addictive and can eat away hours of your time if you get into it. Enormous 
 amounts of customization and detail to the building of your HOUND leads to hundreds of different 
 designs, and you'll rarely ever see the same one twice unless it's the guy you played with last 
 game. Another big downside to this is that there are many different things you have to monitor 
 during a single game, including the health of each of your weapons and the HOUND itself can lead 
 to lots of confusion at first if you're lacking a instruction manual. If you're into any Gundam 
 or MechAssault type game you'll easily enjoy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hydrolite
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 8, 2006 10:22 pm PT
Review:  Chromehounds breathes the first mechanized breath into next gen consoles with a modest attempt 
 at the genre. While the game was optimized for online play it seems as though that might have compromised 
 other aspects of the project.
  
  The games twist on the genre is the fact that it is squad based but the solo aspect only makes 
 a half baked attempt at this. Although you are usually given a squad it is usually more efficent 
 to work alone, over time you will find that your squadmates are just inferior to your skill. Also 
 you can only give commands when you are playing as a Commander RT which is kind of misrepresented 
 in all of the advertisement. Even when you have this capability it is still difficult to give precise 
 commands, majority of the time you will find yourself simply giving coordinates and having units 
 capture combases, which are the communication hub of the game. Combases is a nice addition and 
 i think that it is a good move from mech action games to mech simulations. This is the main deterent 
 for majority of the players. This is not a run and gun mech game. Instead you will be much more 
 successful analyzing the situation and playing accordingly. Each RT has its own distinct pros and 
 cons. You will definently see this when you take the battle to Xbox Live. 
  
  The games squad based gameplay finally comes to life when you take place in the Neroimus War online. 
 This ever changing, living campaign will wrap you up very fast. You will find yourself deploying 
 to several regions with your squad to help your country gain supremecy over the whole map. When 
 you work with a squad you must utilize each RT and deploy them affectivly. A squad full of one 
 RT will not last long. This will plunge you into the garage, the pride and joy of this game. The 
 sky is the limit with the amount of weapons and parts that allow you to custom make your Hound 
 into the killing machine you always dreamed of. This allows the player to get infinite replayability 
 with the online aspect. 
  
  The parts are very well detailed but the battlefields and landscapes don't look that great. The 
 textures are bland and just boring and every map is pretty much the same with different weather. 
 The entire game it will seem like you are walking through a desolute wasteland that just isn't 
 fun to look at. If this game was ported to the Xbox it would look the exact same. The destruction 
 of buildings and other object could've been a bit more realistic for my tastes. If a building is 
 hit from the side only that side should blow away instead of the entire building collapsing. The 
 mech explosions and weapon impact is well done and looks very realistic. 
  
  The sound is well done and has great effects for every faccet the hound. The weapons have sharp, 
 crisp sounds that puts a nice oomph into the guns. Along with that the impact and whizzing of bullets 
 sounds very well. The music fits the game and situations well but gets old after awile. 
  
  The menus are an absolute horror show lacking even some of the very basic options. They are very 
 drawn out and difficult to get around. This is more prevelant in online matches do to the fact 
 that you cannot exit from a match. In many areas it could've been streamlined and made much better. 
 This a definent slap on the wrist for this game. The Hound building portion was well put together 
 with many options and easy to use. The hound stats are extremly intricate and allows you to see 
 each Hound's needs and how it could be made better. 
  
  Chromehounds is a very diverse title for the Xbox 360's catalogue of games and makes an earnest, 
 but not well put together, attempt at reinventing the genre. For this I believe it deserve praise 
 but a little coaching along the way. Now it stands alone in this genre but I am looking forward 
 to seeing how it will influence the making of future mech games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: akaredspider
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 23, 2006 1:31 am PT
Review:  Every bad review that I have read for this game is focused to much on the campign when this game 
 is clearly not about the campign. If you book tells you that the story mode is more to train you 
 on the 6 roles you can be for online play and then it teaches you how to play those roles. Then 
 when your done with campign you ready to get going on the real battle. If you are a true gamer 
 and live the experince diffculty games like me then this is the game to buy, because everytime 
 you lose to oppenant better then you, you will go back to the garage to fix your make to improve 
 you hound, and that is the greatest thing because everytime you come out with something new. If 
 you like to communicate with people to get things right then buy this game because this game is 
 all about strategizing and coordinating then this game is the place to do it. Then online war is 
 the best thing about this game and something I myself has never seen before but i think its the 
 best thing anyone has made. Give this game a shot before you read those bad reviews. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pookers47
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jul 23, 2006 12:49 am PT
Review:  I really expected more from this game, I wanted a decent mech game that was similar to Armored 
 Core because it was made by the same developers but it was a total let down. I still to date am 
 trying to play it, find something to like about it and get my money's worth but it takes a lot 
 of believing that the game is what you want it to be but it just lacks so much. I'll just start 
 with the negativity since it is just too hard to ignore. The game has you playing as a mercenary 
 soldier work for various organizations in a post WW3 scenario. You start out with various loaned 
 mechs and must complete empty, simple and just plain annoying missions. Its like a chore to do 
 but it is necessary if you want to get the parts to build your own mechs. The single player is 
 not even worthy of being talked about it's just blah and barren, shoot this go here in your ever 
 so slow mech while shooting stationary and moving objects with your mech's various weapons. In 
 my experience it has the worse mech single player mode. Even Mechassault was more fun than this 
 and I'm not a big fan of mechassault. The HUD is stupid, you are pretty much required to zoom into 
 a first person view to shoot things which would of been a nice additional feature to have but there 
 is no reticule to aim with in third person view. Most mechs move slow and it just feels very unsolid 
 and weak corresponding to the poor level design. Now I understand that a lot of people are defending 
 this game with the fact that it is not suppose to be like other mech games and is more strategic 
 which is true but its not even that good of doing that job of offering a different and unique experience. 
 The only good thing in this game is the online content which could be fun and maybe a little addictive 
 but only if you have a lot of patience and dedication. Its not a game where you just pick up for 
 some quick action it is solely based on a team cooperation and you need to be in a clan which could 
 cause some trouble finding one that you like and you have to organize with other teammates to come 
 on for matches or practice, it can be a lot of unnecessary work and quite a headache but some people 
 like it. The custimization is done really well with a lot of detail and can be fun making them 
 but it all boils done to having the best parts and it can be quite complex to some people and the 
 menus are quite clunky and could been designed better. Another thing about this game in the single 
 player is that you often do not know what to do and the game does not help you much in aiding you, 
 as they only tell you what to do once which proves to be quite tedious in an already weak comprised 
 mission setup which just adds more to the list of turn offs. There is not even an in game menu 
 in which you can exit or change some options or check objectives, you have to self destruct to 
 go back to the main menu. The graphics are pretty good both in game and in cutscenes but nothing 
 too special, better than most mech games to date. The sound is ok in the department of weapon firing 
 but the soundtrack is so annoying, its like 10 seconds of annoying 8 bit gameboy music that just 
 seems to repeat, it is just annoying and ever so irritating. Overall I haved played many games 
 and I believe I am very open minded and have good taste in a wide variety of games but this one 
 just does not cut it and is highly a big disappointment, I really expected more out of it. Hopefully 
 Armored Core 4 will not follow the same path of this game. What it boils down to is that it will 
 turn off most gamers but those who are willing to put the time and dedication into it will find 
 it to be a rewarding experience but only for the online play and only if they are willing to work 
 with other people. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DonutGuard
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 23, 2006 12:14 am PT
Review:  Just like the summary says, you won't be very much satisfied with the single player campaign in 
 Chromehounds. If you're good, it'll take you all of maybe 10 hours, passing with mostly S, and 
 A rank scores, the highest you can be awarded. The last mission is hard if you try to be a hero 
 and kill all of the other enemies, but if you go by only the objective, it's fairly easy.
  
  I felt very unattached to my computer allies, due to their sort of 2 dimensional backrounds 
 and personalities. You stick around with the same people for 6 or 7 missions and then you never 
 see them again... if for even that long. Even when one of them is killed off, you have a hard time 
 feeling anything for them. 
  
  What I also found little of was squad based tactical warfare using the hounds, which was supposed 
 to be one of the big draws to the game. Most of the time, I found myself pulling all the weight 
 for my side because I was the only one with a hound, while everybody else got something that even 
 a weak hound could chew up and spit out like nobodies business.
  
  My last gripe was the sounds... the sounds for the Assault rifles seem... too chirpy. It doesn't 
 sound like the gun report of a weapon that has a 1 foot diameter. Although everything else seemed 
 fine. The other thing I didn't like was the title screen music. If you listen to it long enough 
 I guarentee it'll drive you to insanity. Though one of the beautiful things about 360 is it's ability 
 to play your music of choice over the game music.
  
  However, the game redeems all of this when you get passed the final mission and embark into the 
 multiplayer adventure. (By the way I definetly recommend those who haven't bought the game yet 
 to go all the way through the single player first, because it sets up the multiplayer scenario, 
 and also gives you a bunch of necessary equipment.) This is where things get interesting... especially 
 if you choose to join a squad, and get to know your fellow squad members. Here you'll develop yourself 
 into a suitable role for your squad, develop strategies, and technique that becomes quite complex. 
 
  
  From simple things such as learning what works and what doesn't work against a calculating, rational 
 opponent, to working together with your squad to set up ambushes, defenses, and raids, using your 
 suited RT to get the job done efficiently. Yet despite all these complexities, the game is easy 
 to play, and easy to get immersed in. It comes together perfectly. The news system keeps the player 
 immersed in what's going on around the map, and it's easy to get involved with a campaign to push 
 an enemy into their Capitol, or die trying to defend your own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gunslingerfyre
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 22, 2006 11:35 pm PT
Review:  This game is really a conundrum. Single player is rather elementary, and kind of boring. However, 
 it does give you a good preparation for the main portion of the game, which is the Neroimus War. 
 This takes place over Xbox Live. Join a squad of up to 20, and fight it out with up to 6 at a time. 
 Large scale maps, with very diverse environments, give quite a bit of variety to the online element. 
 Graphics are pretty good, even better in HD. The level of detail on the mechs is amazing, while 
 the environments are just a little bland. Controls are easy to learn, and the Hound construction 
 will easily eat hours out of your day. If you're looking for a fast-paced, Gundam style mech game, 
 STAY AWAY. This is more realistic, more "near-future" technology. The mechs lumber their way through 
 the level, while a good weapon setup will absolutely annihilate anything that stands in your way. 
 Anyway, for a great Xbox Live experience (short of some connectivity issues) , definitely pick up 
 Chromehounds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Camper_On_Creat
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 22, 2006 11:00 pm PT
Review:  I hate Mech games. Mech games always seemed like a cool concept to me, and I always tried them 
 out. I have hated every single one of them. Yep, even the ones that everybody else said were awesome. 
 Then came Chromehounds. Yet another mech game that interests me. I prepare to be horribly dissapointed. 
 But for the first time, I was not dissapointed. Chromehounds pulls through. It has a lot of things 
 wrong with it, but the bad things are far outweighed by the great areas in this game. First I will 
 start with the cons. 
  
  Cons:
  1. All buildings sink like quicksand when you destroy them.
  2. All trees after being struck pause 
 for a moment, and then fall down. So in other words, if your giant mech rolling around and it hits 
 this skinny little tree, the tree will stop you, as opposed to it just falling down under your 
 destructive might.
  3. All hounds dont just blow up. When you destroy it they sit there for a moment, and then blow 
 up. I found this dissapointing.
  4. Graphically, the mechs, explosions, water, and smoke look amazing. While everything else such 
 as trees grass and buildings, dont look that great. They look kind of plain jane.
  5. As you might have heard, horrible interface options as far as the menus go, but I dont find this 
 surprising since it is not made by an American developer. Some examples of this is whenever you 
 are in the middle of any type of game, you cant leave that game. This includes single player as 
 well.
  6. Minus the scout RT, mechs move slow. 
  
  Pros:
  1. The single player is not as lame as everyone says it is. Yea the stroy is lame, but I found that 
 I easily got over this. PRESS A BUTTON PPL to skip out on the story explanation. Anyway, you should 
 play the single player to earn weapons and parts, and you get training for certain RTs. Earning 
 weapons and parts via single player is good because you can carry these over online, hence you 
 dont have to use your money earned in the game on parts. So I saw that as a nice edition. 
  2. Building your own mech is fun. Satisfies the inventor in everyone. Also, you have to keep in 
 mind that your mech has to be part of a TEAM. Cool guns and parts to add. 
  3. TEAM, that is a very important aspect of this game. That is what makes this game so special. 
 It just almost forces team cooperation in it. Everyone tries to stick to there role type as much 
 as possible. 
  4. The squad feature is another pro. Makes it very easy to join a squad. There is something about 
 THIS IS YOUR SQUAD that gets into ppl, and they will want to communicate and coordinate with you. 
 
  5. The shop, where you buy stuff with money that you earned in other parts of the game. 
  6. You can earn that money by participating in the war, another very cool feature in this game. 
 You can participate in the war with your squad. 
  7. Dont listen to ppl who say that some RTs are superfluous. Every single one of them has a purpose, 
 just depends on how you use it. 
  
  This game is not for everyone. It is kind of slow paced, and most everyone likes to talk and plan 
 ahead of time before starting the game. Stick to Call of Duty if yoiu are into faster more widly 
 paced games.
  
  Another solid 360 title. 
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: deadesa
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 19, 2007 1:48 pm PT
Review:  Even though most consider all mech games the same, i find this one to be just a bit different. 
 As most know this game was never intended for single player alone. The single player mission are 
 horribly easy and anticlimactic. This game was built around multiplayer, so having Xbox live is 
 a must! If you don't have Xbox live don't even think about buying this game, you will be disappointed. 
 But if you're a live gold member, get rdy for some fun. The online campaign is immersing and interesting. 
 You will become addicted quickly. But all in all this game is great, amazing addition to your game 
 library, as long as you have live! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amnesicanova
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 22, 2006 9:01 pm PT
Review:  this is one of the best games to date of the 360. i was not a fan of mech games before i played 
 this but this has changed that. If you like playing online buy this game and join the massive battle. 
 this game has action and substance. it has hundreds of hours worth of customization. so do not 
 listen to gamespots review. this is one of the most under rated games i have ever seen. this game 
 does not get old. this game does not bring problems to your xbox. this game is amazing. buy this 
 game. buy this game. buy this game. buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TrickieNL
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 22, 2006 5:06 am PT
Review:  Single player: 
  The single player mode isn't really strong, you just learn how to control each HOUND type, the 
 missions are quite simpel and they aren't really a challenge. I'm giving the single player a 6.8
 
  
  Multiplayer:
  The power of the game really hides in the online mode, online there is a game type called ''Neromious 
 War'', in this gametype you have a big map with the 3 nations on them, your target is to conquer 
 al of the 3 capitals, when you did this your nation wil win the war. When you play Neromious War 
 you will earn money, you can donate this money to your country or you can by parts (also special 
 parts) for your HOUND. The nations are, Sal Kar, Morskoj and America. You can create squads online 
 to play with your friends. Also there is a free play but the really strong gameplay hides in Neromious 
 War. I'm giving the multiplayer a 8.
  
  Special:
  The special thing on Chromehounds is that you can customise your HOUND forever, there are over 
 100 parts to unlock and put on your HOUND no HOUND will be the same online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 8bitantichrist
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 22, 2006 2:19 am PT
Review:  Mechassault for the Xbox was one of my favorite games, and my favorite mech game ever, and I was 
 hoping that Chromehounds would rekindle my love of causing massive property damage with a giant 
 robot, but sadly it hasn't. The biggest gripe with Chromehounds? THEY MOVE TOO GODDAMN SLOW. Even 
 the "fastest" available mechs feel like piloting a oil tanker. A heavily armed, badass looking 
 oil tanker, but an oil tanker nonetheless. The missions are the expected "blow this up", "escort 
 these guys", "defend this" variety of missions, meaning they aren't particularly inventive or unique. 
 The objectives are oftentimes frustrating or plain vague. For example, I wandered the hills for 
 a good twenty minutes trying to figure out exactly what I was supposed to be doing. Then the mission 
 ended saying I failed. Or the early mission that expects you to chase a quick moving enemy in a 
 mech the size of a parking garage. Yes, I had a bit of fun with the customizing, but when every 
 mission is a slow-moving (literally) , frustrating affair, why bother? On the plus side, it is a 
 good looking game, with large open environments and impressive mech models and explosions, which 
 look stunning on an HDTV. The weapons are cool and useful, like the triple-mounted shotguns or 
 the cluster missile launcher, so once you actually get to fighting, it's actually kinda fun. Firing 
 salvos of rifle rounds into a fuel station is fun too. I may sound like I'm bending Chromehounds 
 over my knee and giving it a beating, but it is a decent game if you're already tired of Oblivion. 
 If you're bored or in the mood to rent (or get a woody by the thought of giant robots like some 
 people) , Chromehounds may just be a good weekend fix of blowing sh*t up, or your dream come true. 
 Oh, and one last thing Sega; get rid of the stupid singing on the menu screens. Thanks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crunchb3rry
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jul 21, 2006 9:19 pm PT
Review:  Chromehounds has been catching a lot of flak. The general concensus is the game isn't too spectacular. 
 Players might take a chance and try it out anyway, thinking the reviewers might have been wrong 
 after an hour or so of gameplay, only to realize the reviewers were correct once you get past those 
 initial first hours.
  
  Singleplayer is pretty lame (especially the poor story that seems to be a rediculous mix of Ace 
 Combat and Front Mission) , so online is clearly the draw. But online is a frustrating experience. 
 Players must belong to a clan in order to even enjoy the main War mode. Meaning those who want 
 to play have to jump through hoops and deal with the typically juvenile clan politics, assuming 
 they are not lucky enough to have an existing group of real friends to play onine with, all of 
 which have no problems potentially wasting $60 on this game. Another issue with online is the fact 
 it takes way too long to join a match. First you have to search for a match, then join the lobby 
 to pick teams, then jump to a second lobby where you can pick and tweak your Hound, then finally 
 start the game. At the end of the match you are booted to the main menu, no postgame lobby or ability 
 for rematches. In fact, just about everything you do gets you booted back to the initial Xbox Live 
 login. Trying to join a standard deathmatch? Better hope the game isn't full or already launched, 
 because you'll get booted back to the initial login again, not to logically go back one step to 
 the list of servers. Another annoyance is the trivial "updates" when you login. Prepare to sit 
 through 2-3+ notices of other players who earned achievements for donating money to their army. 
 And once the "season" for the war is over, you have to sit through a painfully long screen telling 
 a melodramatic story of your victory/loss, followed by a few more screens describing who won the 
 post-war awards. To sum it up, if you thought the gameplay itself was incredibly slow, the experience 
 of finding, joining, or even trying to get online in the first place is also incredibly slow. Lots 
 of waiting and illogical menu choices.
  
  The Hounds are pretty interesting though. You can design to your heart's content. But the only 
 way to stand a chance online is to build the same cheap-tactic Hounds other players use. Such as 
 a Hound with nothing but missiles (since they are heat-seaking and require no real skill to use) 
 or the Piles (a jackhammer-like nail for melee combat) that people use so they can rush other Hounds 
 and basically kill them in one hit a la the Halo 2 sword. You could possibly defend against the 
 fast Pile whores by overloading your Hound with weapons such as the shotgun or snipe them from 
 afar, but you'll do so at the loss of speed and weight for other weapons. The balance is very poor 
 in this game, and it requires too much research and tweaking to close the gap between casual players 
 and smartass griefers. Online is also a pain because the color of player names has bad contrast, 
 meaning you'll likely shoot at friendly players often. And you'll only see other players by their 
 names above the Hound, while your team is listed at the bottom by a number assigned based on when 
 they joined the lobby before the match. So you'll have to remember what number you are so you can 
 know another player saying "Hey, 5, stop shooting at me." is talking to you.
  
  Casual gamers will want to skip this game, as the singleplayer is both short and poor, and the 
 online modes are full of frustration as well as requiring you to spend your valuable time pouring 
 over weapon stats and making do with whatever parts you can collect to build a Hound. You can rent 
 the game to check out singleplayer, but a rental won't give you enough time to play online... which 
 is no big loss considering the flaws.
  
  The developers clearly spent more time designing parts than a solid gameplay system. Singleplayer 
 is a waste of time since the only parts you get from it are quickly obsolete online compared to 
 what you can buy. And online is very, very sloppy. I'll give the game the benefit of the doubt 
 and add a point to my score, since the flaws could theoretically be fixed through patches. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpikeJones767
Rating: 2.6
Date: Jul 21, 2006 8:09 pm PT
Review:  The single player missions are absolutely boring... The story isn't anything that will pull you 
 in or make you feel the battle has a sense of urgency... The whole way in which the story is presented 
 is lame... For example its simply a text box in dead center of the screen which ends up being more 
 than annoying when its blocking your view of the battle during combat...
  
  Capturing combas isn't very exciting at all but ts something the game makes you have to do... 
 
  
  The enviornments are mostly barren with just a few houses or oil refinerys and maybe a half dozen 
 combas per map... Its a total waste considering the graphics are the only thing thats top notch 
 in the game... 
  
  Theres not much of an infantry threat... enemy tanks are ok but theres no variety... none... They 
 could've at least added a few humvees, mlrs or apache gunships... but theres absolutely NO AIR 
 UNITS...
  
  The switching to first person view while shooting your weapons is a pain after a while... They 
 could've at least added a target to 3rd person or maybe have added a cockpit view...
  
  The mechs are all slower than my grandmothers 57 desoto... So don't think you'll be getting anywhere 
 in a hurry... Thats especially true when your damaged... I mean for crying out loud a turtle went 
 racing by my hound...
  
  The only fun at all was customizing the parts to make my own hound... other than that this game 
 is a huge disappointment...
  
  I wonder how much money sega's going to make off selling hound parts and weapons on xbox market 
 place for $2.99 each...
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FailSafe
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 21, 2006 7:40 am PT
Review:  This game is one of the best games for the Xbox 360, even if people don't think so. Its like a 
 newer version of Mechassault. I know people have been waiting for Mechassault 2 to come out as 
 backwards compatible, so this should suffice. I also think that the online play is also great because 
 its like your fighting a real war. There are also 6 RT's or HOUNDS that come in handy in action. 
 The most valuable one, and the most heavy one is the Network Area HOUND, or the NA maker, and THIS 
 GAME IS FREAKIN AWSOME!! I would definately get it if i were you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LouieV13
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 20, 2006 12:38 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Gameplay is cromehounds strong point. Altho there is a major problem with the servers, 
 the game is still incredibly fun. You will have to get alot of money and build up your hound whitch 
 will take a hour or two to figure out witch class you would like to be. 
  
  Graphics: The graphics are pretty good. They look good, but some stuff looks bland. Pretty hard 
 to describe.
  
  Sound: There is not much music and when there is the sounds of your hound cover it up. The other 
 sounds are top notch.
  
  Value: With the online being so dam fun, ill be playing for months!
  
  Tilt: Only for people 
 who can get dedicated into the game like GS review said. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anziex
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 20, 2006 10:37 am PT
Review:  Nice Mechs and gameplay, but:
  
  Maps display could have been much better on showing terrain features.
  
  Pictures and Numbers 
 of Weapons don't readily tell you what they are (problem for borrowed hounds in early game) . Would 
 prefer Missiles 1234 or Shotgun 65443, instead of vague naming systems.
  
  Targeting camera window is a pain . . . should just zoom in based on weapon (s) selected
  
  
 Feedback on destroyed vehicles seems to lag as the explosion happens and the image of the vehicle 
 remains a moment before fading . . . how about seeing Hound bits flying and it's hulk remaining 
 on the combat field as a hazard?
  
  The window -in-window could be used to follow action when commanding others (be able to watch the 
 action from a distance) . The Tactics Commander's role looks to be more of a mini-game using the 
 Map . . . I want to be able to see the action! The TC should also be able to see the health of 
 those under command . . . 
  
  How about a repairing module or other support vehicles? (repair, ammo, etc.)
  
  Nice, but could 
 have been so much easier to use and better gameplay for Tactics Commander.
  
  No Alpha strike with all weapons? No jumpjets? Sigh . . .
  
  Anz.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SamuraiSarge
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 20, 2006 10:30 am PT
Review:  now this is the second game I've bought for my 360 because i havent seen any other games out there 
 yet that have peeked my interests so much that i was willing to spend $60 on it. But Chromehounds 
 is a WHOLE different breed altogether. Now although like many online-focused games the single player 
 campaign on Chromehounds is pretty boring and quite frustrating sometimes (although you can unlock 
 new parts which can be used in the online mode) , the multiplayer is where it REALLY shines. From 
 the graphics and awesome lighting effects (the night-time explosions blew my mind) to the highly 
 strategic gameplay this game just plain ROCKS! I would reccommend this game to any mech-genre fan 
 and even some FPS lovers (like myself) . But if you are only into games with fast-paced, run and 
 gun action then i dont think this game is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DakoGuyver
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 20, 2006 9:50 am PT
Review:  Ahhh, what do we have here? A new mech game, and one for the 360 no less. Now, I'm an old school 
 mech game fan, some I played on cardboard, while the rest where on the PC. In other words, I'm 
 a sucker for a good mech game (note the word good) . So when I heard about Chromehounds, I looked 
 started looking up on it. I watched the previews, and read some info on it. From all I read/saw, 
 I had some high hopes for Chromehounds, and MOST of those hopes have come true... thankfully.
 
  
  Lets start off with the main thing of the game first, the mechs (or HOUNDS) themselves, and of 
 course like the majority of mech games now-a-days, you can build your own killing machine from 
 parts you get, during the story mode. But the machines themselves look great. Just walking around 
 you can see each moving part move smoothly, or not so smoothly if you haven't taken care of it 
 during a mission. Even the act of shooting will cause it to flinch a little bit from the recoil 
 of your weapon. The only thing that I would wish more on would be more detail on the battle damage. 
 If you snipe a leg out of a mech, leave them on the ground with no leg, not that I'm saying I don't 
 love the explosions that occur when you defeat an enemy.
  
  The game play itself is good, the game gets a little more difficult as you move through the story, 
 of course, but that brings it to one of the weak points of Chromehounds, the story. While the back 
 story of the alternate time line earth is all good and gold, the story mode itself is rather bland. 
 Of course this is fixed, somewhat, by the fact that you yourself are just a merc joining whatever 
 group pays for your service, or in this case when you move to the next role type (Sniper, Solider, 
 Defender, etc) . Being a merc is fine, but it still made the story a little weak in my opinion. 
 
  
  But as I have heard many times before, the story mode is more of a training mode for the online 
 play. I've really only played a little bit of the online play itself, but if you get into the main 
 part of the online play, it pretty much becomes a MMO. You join one of the sides, and fight for 
 world dominance (like Planetside, but not under the control of SOE) . I hope to be able to spend 
 some more time on this one, but I will wait to finish the story mode. 
  
  All together, this is a pretty good mech game. It looks great, controls good, music could be better 
 (thankfully you can use your own) , online play is great, but the story mode is rather bland. So 
 if you like mech games but don't want to play online, you might be a little sad with this, but 
 if you plan to play online, you can't go wrong.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: awia
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 20, 2006 9:36 am PT
Review:  I bought this game thinking the Campaign would keep me intensely busy. I had heard doing campaign 
 would give you a "leg-up" on the guy who simply jumped online. I figured this would be true, and 
 hoping to be able to beat the campaign and get more parts for my mechs, before going online. Come 
 to find out this is not what happened.
  
  CAMPAIGN
  
  In the Campaign, I started through the 44 missions, and progressed through the levels. The story 
 turned out to be quite boring as the cut-scenes never showed a human-being. I am all for a good 
 story line, but when you have cut-scenes with stationary mechs, and simple dialogue, its not too 
 fun. Most of the time I skipped these mini cut-scenes and went for the action. 
  
  The mechs in Campaign did seem really slow, and it was sometimes hard to keep up with my objectives. 
 I turned out failing some missions, restarting, and then moving the direction I knew I had to go 
 right away. The only hard part about this game is moving to where you need to be. The AI is not 
 too bad, and I was always stunned with the detail of the levels, and especially the smoke. 
  
  It was a bit annoying to see destroyed enemies disappear right after you blew them up. I would 
 want to see the vehicle fall, and see the actual carnage I am producing. The parts that you do 
 get from campaign didnt really help me at all. They were week, and I didnt use them. You can complete 
 the storyline with a borrowed HOUND. I did enjoy the points it gave me towards buying new parts. 
 which, regrettably, is only online.
  
  MULTIPLAYER
  
  The Multiplayer however is the bright side to this game. Not only can you buy new parts, but you 
 can trade them, enter the lottery to win them, and request the parts salvaged off the enemies you 
 fight. You design your own mechs and customize them with frightening detail. You can spend hours 
 just configuring your mech.
  
  Beware of what country you choose. Though it is not all that important, choosing a good country 
 can improve the chance of getting better upgrades, and more money. Sal Kar seems to get beat up 
 every war, and the wars only last 1-3 days maximum. I would choose another country, or perhaps 
 help out Sal Kar as they struggle to be a challenge at all.
  Getting into a Squad is easy enough, and can be quickly done. I suggest joining the "Sal Kar Knights", 
 they are a bunch of good guys. :)
  
  RT's, or "Role-Types", are very essential to know about. I would suggest running through the campaign 
 and doing some missions for each RT, then choosing what seems most fun to you. Like speed? Be a 
 Scout. Like to snipe? Be a Sniper. Its not too hard to choose, and once you are a certain type, 
 youll get right into it.
  
  BEWARE! The online Multiplayer is addicting, if you DO buy this game, don't be suprised to find 
 yourself up late and configuring your mech to be the best it can be. You dont need energy drinks, 
 just entering a fight is excitement enough.
  
  One last note: I had problems with this game on one Xbox 360. I would play for an certain amount 
 of time, and the game would freeze. This can get frustrating. I made it through the campaign fine 
 on that 360, but whenever I hovered towards online play, it would freeze. I hope Sega, and Microsoft 
 have something planned to fix this, or there will be a lot of angry youngsters and adults out there. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phoenixrebirth
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 19, 2006 10:32 pm PT
Review:  Kinda had a feeling this game wouldnt be up to par with all the hype. The graphics are solid I'll 
 give it that. The customizing of the mechs is a cool idea. But the single player campaign is kinda.... blah. 
 And it does take u a minute to learn how to manuver the hounds. I prefer the bi peds in the Lost 
 Planet demo. More manuverable, and u can climb in and out of them. In fact after playing chromehounds 
 I played the Lost Planet demo just to make sure I wasnt being too hard on the game. I wasnt. Basically 
 the game is a good idea but they needed to work on the story mode some more. Im hearing the online 
 action is what makes the game hot. After the single player campaign not willing to give the online 
 play a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sithlord
Rating: 3.2
Date: Jul 19, 2006 9:28 pm PT
Review:  It seems I might be in the minority here, but I do not care for this game. It is slow paced, the 
 mission quests are vague and the briefings you get before hand seem like an afterthought of the 
 developers to get you into the thick of battle. If you can call it that.
  
  When I mentioned slow, I mean SLOW. Even the fastest mech can clip along at a good pace, but the 
 weapons take forever to load, and trying to fire only 1 of 3 guns is near impossible, thanks to 
 the sensitive trigger buttons. The soldier mechs can give a snail a good run for its money, but 
 it wont win any marathons.
  
  The "training" you get in the beginning is a joke. Trying to turn your mech if you are being fired 
 upon by more than one group at one time, takes an act of congress.
  
  The graphics are nice and smooth, but the explosions are lame compared to other games, the landscapes 
 have nothing really there except wide open spaces, most likely to keep the framerate up. Blow up 
 a building? Watch it fall in about 10 puzzle pieces, instead of the 100+ the system is capable 
 of 
  
  So... lets sum up... slow game pace, slow weapon reloads, slow movement, slow turning, and boring 
 storyline, empty environments and confusing gameplay = pass this one up, unless you are DYING to 
 play a game about as fun as watching grass grow.
  
  Wait for Paradise Lost... DL it off XBlive now, and play that. Now THAT small demo, is what action 
 is about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EXxile
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 19, 2006 10:16 pm PT
Review:  With a single player mode that offers you very little, as well as a semi cheesy storyline, you 
 gotta be thankful for online play, especially one as this. This is my most favored Live game as 
 of now, and I will not lie about how badly addictive it is once you get into the right squad. As 
 you can tell, the name "ChromeHounds" makes perfect sense here due to the fact that you must act 
 as a pack, a team of hounds. Without your team, you are nowhere as strong as what you could be. 
 
  
  The single player mode brings little to the table, and if you do not have Live, I recommend you 
 not buy this game but rather rent. During single player you unlock parts while going through the 
 campaign trying to help the nation of Tarakia. But seeing theres not much to the single player 
 campaign, I'd much rather just get onto the Live play. 
  
  During Live you can choose from a load of options. You can do freeplay mode where you have several 
 options to choose but it will never affect your status in the war. Yes, I said war. Online play 
 has its own little story mode going on and it all revolves around a war between three nations. 
 Your squad can choose who they fight alongside of, and you will be heading into battlegrounds laying 
 waste to nations that threaten your nation's capital. But the way it plays is outstanding. Everything 
 from capturing COMBAS towers to speak from flanking the enemy. Its all strategic. Think a mix of 
 Mechassault mixed with G. R. A. W.. The whole war that goes on during Live will make you itch at coming 
 back, make you want to stay to take back your capital or to claim theirs. Simply put, the game 
 is f***** badass. The graphics add to the realism by showing some beautifully detailed mechs, as 
 well as an EXTREME amount of customizable options. Seriously, with this many options to customize 
 your mech, you will rarely see another mech bearing the same look as yours. If you own the 360 
 and Live, you must must must get this game. And make sure to join the right squad that has their 
 heads on straight, don't plan to go in it alone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bayani789
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 19, 2006 12:23 pm PT
Review:  First off I'll make this snappy.
  
  Im sure you all know already that the single player is one big training mission. This game is all 
 about the multi player, although sometimes its a pain getting into a good game and squad. Nevertheless, 
 its still very, I mean very, very fun! And thats all that matters. The customization factor of 
 the mechs alone made me fall in love with the game. So those of you with a creative personality 
 (those who loved legos as a kid for example) will absolutley have a ball with making tons of different 
 mech builds. I like my mech which uses smoke bombs to mask his offensive approach, then uses thermal 
 vision to see through the smoke at his enemy.. so sweet! So if your someone who is thinkning about 
 getting this game, I say get it. It took me a week or so of reading reviews to decide to buy the 
 game. Even then I was iffy about what I was getting myself into. Bottomline - It is worth the dough! 
 This will keep you plenty busy up until quarter four when all the crazy stuff comes out. Only drawback 
 about the game which gets on my nerves is how the online interface is kind of odd. In addition 
 the single player is very easy also. They could have made it more streamlined I guess. Hope this 
 helps some of you out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshismetal
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 18, 2006 11:17 pm PT
Review:  This new mech games is a very good addition to the already large mech world. A solid story that 
 transfers well to online and tons of extra content will keep you busy. The main campaign is pretty 
 straight forward, theres 6 major classes ranging from a sniper class to a heavy weapons class. 
 Your objective is to beat 6 missions and move on to the next class.
  Online play is awesome because you pick up where you left off in the single play and join the large 
 scale war that is online.
  What i like th most about this games is the building of mechs. you can just keep pileing on weapons 
 and you even have the option of launching 4 seperate weapons at once. Thats awesome.
  Anyone who love mech games should pick up chromehounds because it is a wonderful acquisition. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ppickeri
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 18, 2006 8:38 pm PT
Review:  I'm a little surprised by the quality of the single player campaign. It is downright awful. The 
 upside to this game is the fun online play.
  
  The graphics are good, the controls are easy to get used to and the framerate is pretty smooth, 
 even when in the midst of a heated battle.
  
  I've played 3-4 hours online so far and I have to admit that I'm impressed. It is easy to find 
 a quick game and get into the action, much different than the typical 30 minute waits I have for 
 Ghost Recon. The persistent war keeps things interesting since your missions have a purpose. 
 
  
  By far my favorite aspect of the game is the customizable mechs. A myriad of options allows you 
 to experiment with different styles... and so far the roles seem well balanced. While there are 
 six preset roles (i. e. soldier, sniper, scout, defender, commander, heavy-gunner) , you can combine 
 any type of weapons and are not pre-disposed to any specific role. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arc_Angel2k4
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 18, 2006 5:50 pm PT
Review:  Warning: this game is extreamly team based and you need Xbox live (Gold) to get the full value 
 of this game.
  
  This game is a very indepth mech sim, it has endless posoblites for your Hound (aka Mech) for any 
 playing style. Also is very team based and has a very rich online play that is most likely the 
 reason anyone would get this game. The singel player to this game is a prelude and long tutorial 
 to get skilled and experience to the 6 Cts and how the game is played. Trust me single player is 
 worth it because it gets you iteams that you will need to be any sort of treat on online play. 
 Yes multiplayer stuff is much better than the single player stuff if you got the cash. There are 
 3 major multiplayer modes each offering something diffrent to play. There is The something war, 
 and a fun CTF and friendly battle that has no effect on the wars turnout, and a longer single player 
 missions that can be co-oped. But before your even gunna step on the field you need a team, This 
 will make or break your experience. Your team is the people you play with, if your not lucky and 
 join a team full of kids who dont listen or use team work or just plane dont care if they win or 
 lose, this will make your bank decrase very fast because you pay for every loss in the war mode 
 and you will not like how you guys may or may not play. If you feel you joined the wrong side to 
 play on then just wait 2 weeks and swap then. If you join a team that has people who listen and 
 people who lead and has some comunication on how you build your hond as a group then you will enjoy 
 the game. Because this game is new there are no uber teams who are gods, there are good teams but 
 there good because they are a team and they have courdination. What you select as a CT you are 
 not restricted to, but people will think you will folow the class you picked. I feel CTs are not 
 the most important thing, Your hound is who you are. Every hound has its place Heavy guys are slow 
 but very powerful and strong, the light build are fast and agile but do little amouts of damage, 
 the medium build are hounds who move at a resniable speed and do decient damage. I use a rounded 
 medium build that can do most things so im never restricted to a few things. This game is not for 
 the lone wolfs out there who feel they can be a one many army, this game is for the wolf pack for 
 people who rely of each other and are very deadly as a team.
  as for the stuff that pops up you log into the war room, its not very important and to most people 
 it is usless information, i read it to see what teams on my side are doing good and what teams 
 i should be looking/looking out for.
  
  The Gameplay for this game is very good and is solid for being the first non mechassult game for 
 the Xbox and first mech game for the 360.
  Graphics are awsome but lack huge diverity with destruction. The mechs are clear and well defined 
 and the world does not look bad (1080i HD) .
  The sounds for the mechs and wepons are not bad, exposions are good but the sound track is not 
 for every one (thats why we store music on or 360 to listen to when we dont like what we hear) .
 
  The online value is limitless becasue of the never ending and always changeing war along with 
 the constant changeing and upgradeing/tuneing of your hound (of you want to) alows for a truely 
 endless game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iQuaKe
Rating: 4.9
Date: Jul 18, 2006 2:42 pm PT
Review:  Remember when mech games took place inside the cockpit of the mect (first person) ? Yeah those were 
 the good ol' mech days. WTF is up with 3rd person now. It sucks and it takes away from the intensity 
 of the combat. Sega did a nice job of showing off their mechs but a crappy one when it comes to 
 gameplay. This game has probbly the worst singleplayer ive ever played. Can you say boring? I can 
 and i did through the entire campaign. After i got good at this game, i took it to live. Another 
 WTF. the interface is confusing as mess. When i was finally able figure out how to get a squad, 
 i was about ready to snap the game in half, but i couldn't because i rented it. :/ I played only 
 a few matches online before i had to return the game and I wasn't suprised to find that it was 
 as boring as the campaign. The customization is nothing special either. I dont care about graphics 
 so im not going to post on that, but i do want to mention that there is absolutely no replay value 
 in this game, and for those posters the mention this game being for hardcore mech fans... I don't 
 think so. If you think this is hardcore, then you haven't played steel batallion. This game is 
 way to arcady to be hardcore. Also, by being in thind person, nobody should consider it a sim cause 
 its not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hades_30
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 18, 2006 12:17 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game for my Xbox 360 knowing very well that I would be playing it on Xbox Live nearly 
 100% of the time, except at first, when I would run the tutorials and single player campaigns to 
 learn the ropes of each Role Type (RT) .
  
  Graphics, sounds, and overall presentation are all very good. The game can use a good soundtrack, 
 though. Weapons sounds and effects are great. Environmental effects are ok. The menus and interface 
 is easy to use until I get into the garage. That's when I sometimes have trouble painting on decals 
 or doing some of the finer work on my Hound. The Xbox Live Squad feature is great, allowing you 
 to easily find your teammates, communicate, and join in for some missions.
  
  So, I was right, I am now playing on Xbox Live only, but I thought that the single player campaigns 
 would be better, more involved, and just more fun. What they are very good for is learning the 
 basics of each RT - Soldier, Sniper, Scout, Defender, Heavy Gunner, and Tactics Commander.
  
  Each RT varies in it's specialty and has specific roles. Try to enter combat with a Scout, 
 and you'll find your hound in a flaming wreck, unless you are really very talented, or just plain 
 lucky. The contributions of each RT on the battle field makes for a very fun experience. When working 
 with other players in a Squad, it is all the more enjoyable.
  
  The basic movements, animations, combat, etc. of Chromehounds is good. It is a bit slow, but this 
 quickly is forgotten when you are out on the battlefield and everything is going down all at once 
 - you'll wish things moved even slower then. The biggest battle I have been in so far is a 6 on 
 6 fight. There was a good variety of Hounds, and what appeared to be some interesting strategies 
 being played out. In most battles with few players per team, it winds up being a shoot-out, deathmatch 
 type of game. But once you get more Hounds on the battlefield, with Tactics Commanders, you start 
 to see the game shine.
  
  The persistant war for control of Neroimus is great. This is a feature I wasn't fully aware of 
 even after I purchased the game. It is a definite plus, added incentive and creating motivation 
 to help you faction by going on missions. Upon logging into Xbox Live, you will be given up to 
 date news about the war. You will be told where the hotspots are, where it would be most beneficial 
 to take on missions, and who is winning the war.
  
  Hound assembly and customization is pretty deep so far. I haven't gotten too involved yet, because 
 I am still beginning to understand what each piece can do and how I should be putting them all 
 together to create the ultimate Hound for my RT. Hound assembly is like a "virtual legos" game. 
 I can spend a lot of time in the garage building Hounds and then taking them out on Trial Sorties 
 to test them.
  
  I haven't played any of the other forms of multiplayer yet, so I cannot comment, but I will surely 
 try them and update this review (if I remember) .
  
  Overall, I am very pleased with Chromehounds, and was pleasantly surprised by the depth in the 
 Xbox Live persisant war. I liek the way the Hounds function and I really enjoy the "team" aspect 
 of the game. Go out alone, and you will come back in pieces. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tirreg
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 18, 2006 10:11 am PT
Review:  The incredibly mixed reviews on this game is a very interesting phenomenon. There are respectable 
 game review sites that have rated this one at 40/100. I very sincerely, just don't get it. This 
 is certainly one of the most immersive and comprehensive online experiences you are likely to have.
 
  
  First of all, when it comes to the single-player portion of the game, JUST DISMISS IT. The story 
 and dialogue are incredibly dumb. The mission design is half-hearted. It only serves as a way to 
 train a bit for the online portion of the game, which is what I will be discussing here. Moving 
 on . . . 
  
  Innovation of online play . . . .
  
  The most frustrating thing about playing online games, is ofcourse, the people you play with-and-against 
 quite often. From Halo 2 multiplayer to World of Warcraft, annoyances, TK'ers, and just plain stupidity 
 are a common problem. FROM has pretty much come up with THE solution to this in Chromehounds: squads.
 
  
  In CH, in order to participate in the bulk of the online play, you must join a squad. Whenever 
 you log in, you enter the lobby of your squad. The only players that you will play with are your 
 "squadmates." Since beginning the online portion of the game and joining a squad, every problem 
 member was promptly given the boot. All of the battles I have participated have been at least somewhat 
 coordinated (many of the people I have played with are newbies, ofcourse, as we all are at this 
 point) and all of my squad mates seem pretty cool. Whine, be uncooperative, TK, and you are GONE. 
 That's my squad. "Lame people problem": solved. Ingenious. I am actually feeling a bit attached 
 to my squad, already (smiles) .
  
  Now on to the game play . . . . 
  
  For a good description of the basic structure of the online campaign, please see the excellent 
 synopsis given in the main review on this site. For this review, I will focus on what really stands 
 out.
  
  1) Pacing. When you enter a new online game, you and your squad are placed together in a large 
 map on the opposite side of the opposing forces. This allows you plenty of time to really asses 
 the region, decide how to take advantage of the particular topography and surroundings of the particular 
 map, and devise a strategy of attack, defence, etc.
  
  2) Need for cooperation and communication. Another ingenious thing that CH does is to not obviously 
 ID your friendly combatants. There are no "floating names" above their HOUND no map ID'ers, etc. 
 You simply have to keep communicating on each other's location and intentions. This makes the battle 
 MUCH more immersive. You have to experience it to know what I mean.
  
  3) Weapon balance, and the role that HOUND-creation plays in the game. The incredibly fun experience 
 of totally customizing your HOUND for a particular scenario, can be done in the "secondary" lobby, 
 where you arrive once you enter a specific battle. You have approximately 15 minutes to customize 
 you HOUND with the appropriate equipment for a particular role in a particular mission. Sometimes 
 your choices will be ideal, other times you'll struggle with a poorly thought-out HOUND. Trust 
 me. This is fantastic fun. You really feel as if your mech is a creation of your own. Everyone 
 in the battle looks very unique.
  
  Graphics . . . . 
  
  This is probably THE most underrated title for the 360 in the graphics department. To really experience 
 this one in it's full glory, HDTV (preferably 1080i) is a must. I've seen it on 480p, and the difference 
 is tremendous. The "sharpness" of the picture in 1080i is the best I've seen in any game to date. 
 The textures are of very good resolution, everywhere on the game map. The objects details and color 
 choice makes for an "ultra realistic" look. In fact, that has actually been the complaint I've 
 heard for some people - "it's not very colorful." It looks REAL. For me that ups the immersion 
 factor hugely. 
  
  There are NO draw-in issues. Everything is visible out to a realistic horizon. Often, there are 
 hundreds of detailed buildings, pylons, vehicles. etc. No Level-of-Detail scaling from what I can 
 tell, either. Everything lit with the most realistic lighting in a game like this, ever.
  
  The HDR lighting, shadowing - everything from gun tracers to burning heaps of rubble light up the 
 world with incredible realism (the best so far) .
  
  And . . . . all of this at 60fps (well, fields per second, in 1080) . Sometimes you will notice 
 a drop to 30 fps or so when things are going nuts on screen. Believe me again here - no big deal.
 
  
  Conclusion . . . the most innovative game in a long time. If you like squad-based multiplayer - 
 a line as been drawn in the sand - Chromehounds on one side, everything else on the other side. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: colegallop
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 18, 2006 8:45 am PT
Review:  Chrome hounds is a new and fun experience. You get to make you own mech from scratch and take it 
 online and play against other people's mechs. The explosions and mechs graphics are really nice 
 and will keep entertained till you shut off your 360. When you join a clan you can freely chat with 
 everyone in you clan on the main menu. The countrys are always updated with pop-ups telling you 
 where they are attacking. If you have xbox live this game will be very addictive and its great 
 for getting together and playing with friends. You will spend hours upon hours, making ur weapon 
 of mass destruction the greatest of all.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AsylumEscapee
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 18, 2006 3:14 am PT
Review:  Let's get this out of the way right off the bat. Chromehounds is a multiplayer focused game. The 
 story mode isn't quite a tutorial, but its definetly nothing to write home about. One thing I did 
 enjoy about the single player campaigns was that the story was told in a classier, more mature 
 manner than what I'm used to, and sick of, seeing in video games. Judging this game by its single 
 player merit is like calling Half-life a bad racing simulator.
  
  The attention was focused on the development of multiplayer Xbox Live play, and here is where Chromehounds 
 shines. You have your standard player and ranked free battle. You have single missions that can 
 be completed solo or co-op to raise your funds. Then theres the persistant online war that forces 
 you into a squad (clan) of up to twenty people to battle it out for world domination. I hope you 
 like your squadmates, because you'll be seeing them often. This system creates a band of brothers 
 type squad pride that a lot of multiplayer games lack. You're not just thrown into the fray with 
 strangers. Instead youre part of a team that has to share command, special lottery parts, and every 
 defeat and victory. A lot of games carry multiplayer support nowdays, but few let you see your 
 fellow gamer as an actual individual playing towards a cause, instead of frag number 50.
  
  The gameplay consists of giant robots blah blah blah. 
  Yes, they walk slowly, but if it wasn't 
 for that, this game would just be another shooter. The amount of strategy used by either an individual 
 Hound customizer, or the co-op tactic planning that takes place during almost every match is remarkable. 
 If you want to read about the different role types and interactions that go on during a typical 
 match, go elsewhere. You can find such information all over the internets. I'm not about to write 
 a strategy guide. The bottom line is that a quick trigger finger will help you take matches, but 
 not as much as your sense of situational awareness of the battlefield. Needless to say, Youll have 
 a hard time finding a squad without a headset comunicator, it's a requirement here.
  
  Here's a quick rundown:
  -Don't bother if you're not a Live Gold member. Play a game called "what 
 the hell is wrong with me?" instead.
  -The multiplayer is fantastic. It forces people to communicate and strategize. It FORCES people 
 to communicate and strategize.
  -The graphics are great.
  -The graphics aren't fantastic.
  -The sound is... minimal.
  -The insane customization of every 
 hound on the battlefield makes for very intresting interactions. (Anti-heat-seeking-missle flares, 
 armor plates, system chips, light and heavy weapons, thermal vision, radiators, wheels/treads/legs/hover 
 chasis, radar dishes, spacers, sniper rifles, grenade launchers, multi-rockets, shotguns, howitzers, 
 cannons, generators, melee weapons, ect ect ect.)
  -A demo, trailer, or quick play through isn't going to show you what this game is like, you have 
 to put down the $60 and risk it.
  -The first Xbox 360 Live game worth obsessing over. Think Counter-strike, World of Warcraft, ect. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigroy666
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 19, 2006 5:55 am PT
Review:  Ok. To start I havn't played the online portion so this is just a single player review. First off, 
 it seems the single player part of the has been getting alot of bad reviews.... Why? I think its 
 great. Call me simple call me stupid, call me whatever you want but I think its great. I know the 
 single player is just suppose to be training for the online modes, but to me its much more than 
 that.
  
  I think the story in this game is better than the story from mech assault, its more realistic anyways, 
 and there are basically 6 story lines one for each role type. Its not like its a riveting blockbuster 
 story but it is pretty awsome, just in the way it builds you up to the online war.
  
  graphically I think the game is outstanding. Shadows and particle effects are great, textures are 
 good., some say its drab and dull, but what would a war torn world look like? Probably just like 
 this game, a bit drab and dull at times, but I feel it just adds to the realism.
  
  The sound is great too. The guns sound good, and the explosions, and the mech themselves creak, 
 and boom while moving around and turning.
  
  Controls are a bit akward at first but they get easier over time.
  
  Replay value is where 
 this game gets a definate 10. With all the parts you can only get online, and the constant war 
 going on, each country with its own economy and etc. I will take this game over any MMORPG anyday. 
 I cant wait to dig into the online portion of it.
  
  Well those are my thoughts for now. For me this game is a definate buy. For every one else you 
 may want to rent it first, because you are going to have to put alot of time into it.
  
  Edit: Saturday august 19th 2006.
  
  I have finnally got onto the online portion.... Actually 
 Ive been in a squad for some time now. And I must say its the best live game Ive ever played to 
 date.... but a little repetetive. Its not for Everyone so rent first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chapster81
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 17, 2006 11:06 pm PT
Review:  Might not sound like a lot to some of you gamers out there, but for me, someone with a job (a crappy 
 one I might add) , thats a long time to sit in front of the tv playing online. I can honestly say 
 I've never played that long with any other game without stopping. This game is f-ing awesome online. 
 Everyones right, the single player is rather slow and maybe even boring, but its just basic training 
 in most ways, or helpful for getting free parts -- most of which arent that great once you start 
 playing for real. So if you dont have xlive, then dont buy... You will be dissapointed. If you 
 do have xlive then youre in for a treat. There are so many levels to the online game, lets just 
 say once you join a squad with people that play regularly, you will understand the concept of builing 
 a real mech. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hardvectorman
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 17, 2006 9:14 pm PT
Review:  the game is ok the online part need work the interface is not great but i am sure they will work 
 on that need work. The single player is off by a million it could been a pleasure to play with 
 more work into it. the graphics are good if you got a good hi def set up. the sound is great i 
 like hearing the big Mec walk. Value the game has a lot of online value but off line well that 
 another story it is very weak. The learning curve is short. i plated the online game and the interface 
 was off they were working on the site. so could not not get a good workout on the online part. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trenken
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 17, 2006 5:14 pm PT
Review:  This is a very unbiased review. I don't love or hate mech games. I just look for good games, I 
 don't care what I'm doing as long as it's fun. 
  
  So, this a decent rental, but if you don't have a special place in your heart for mechs, there's 
 a good chance you will regret buying this game since it will be pretty difficult to find any value 
 in it after a couple days. 
  
  It's just another mech game where you run, roll, hover, etc. around firing rockets or bullets. 
 Yep, it can get very boring pretty quickly. There is no point in even mentioning the SP mode, it's 
 not that compelling. The MP is much better which is basically what I'm reviewing this game on. 
 But in the end, the MP is just not as exciting as some of the other 360 online games. I actually 
 found Table Tennis to be much more exciting.
  
  There are worse games out there you could be playing, but when it gets to that point where to are 
 playing average games at best to pass the time, then I would have to think that time is better 
 spent doing something other than playing games like this just because you're bored of your other 
 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 36O
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 17, 2006 3:16 pm PT
Review:  Chromehounds truly delivers on my scale. Any Mech fan will at the least like this game. 
  
  The Customization extends beyond any mech game so far, with several classes: Sniper, Heavy Gunner, 
 Soldier, Defender, Scout and Commander. Each class has its own parts that are suggested for use, 
 but when it comes right down to it, you make your own class. The customizing is easy after about 
 half-an-hour. And with the ever-loved Xbox Live system, theirs always downloadable content available. 
 
  
  Gameplay is awesome. the game does great with fighting, you have to be very strategic with it though. 
 Working with your partners is the way to go, if you don't you won't get anywhere (and its not as 
 fun) . People complain that Single Player sucks, but its training really for the nerioumus war, 
 and I thought it was decently good.
  
  Sound isn't that great, theirs some good tunes here and their but on the battle-field its nothin 
 more than mechs movin-an'-shootin.
  
  Graphics are great. Whats their is very detailed, the ground is fine. But its the major objects 
 like hounds and Combas's that really show off. And I will be truthfull here, at night-time, flashing 
 your flash-light on other hounds and obstacles IS the best graphics I've seen so far on the 360.
 
  
  The game will last you a LONG time, the Single player is a good 10-15 hours and the online is really 
 where it lasts.
  
  Final Thought: Any mech fan will love this game. It is very persistant, customizable and jsut plain 
 fun. But really, if you don't have xbox live gold, you'll never have the real fun. And getting 
 a Head-set is a definite want. So if you got xbox live and have ever even liked a mech-game, you 
 will need to, at the least rent this game and trust me after that, you'll probably love it enough 
 for a buy.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hiimbob3
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 17, 2006 2:47 pm PT
Review:  this game is squad based online in purest form. you pick between 6 different classes that you can 
 intermix, and then you duke it out online. The singleplayer serves as entertainment when the servers 
 are down or as a tutorial, but DONT BUY THIS GAME IF YOU DON"T HAVE XBL!!!
  
  the gameplay is fun and addictive, but there are many cheap builds out there that diminish the 
 fun value, hence 1 point dropped.
  
  the graphics are beautiful when the mechs are in motion or battle, but some enemies tend to dissappear 
 after death, granted after a neat explosion and smoke, hence 1 pont dropped.
  
  The sound is ok, but doesn't sound very loud, which takes a little away from the realism (a 400mm 
 cannon should not make a whoosh sound on exit and sounds rather wimpy on impact) . the lobby music 
 may get old, but it grew on me.
  
  The value is great, as you could probably create 4 mech designs per person in the world, theres 
 just so many options. The online servers are very laggy and buggy at the time, but i believe that 
 they are going to fix that.
  
  I love this game, and is my favorite xbl game that I own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SilentDeath777
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 17, 2006 2:00 pm PT
Review:  "Chromehounds" is a strategy game with Mechs. If your hoping for a "Mechassault" clone, please 
 stop right now as this game is not for you.
  You must take your time with "Chromhounds" and understand what each Mech's strengths and weakness's 
 are. Also unlike "Mechassault" you can not simply run around and destroy everything. There are 
 no power ups, health, or anything to give you more ammo. If your low on armor or ammo, you better 
 hope the enemy is weak enough to go down in a few shots.
  
  You play a lone mercenary in this war. You have no history or background to speak of, so you can 
 just put yourself in that role. There are six different classes of Mechs and each are a different 
 skill level. Soldier and Sniper is the easy skill level. Defender and Scout is medium level. Finally 
 Heavy Gunner and Commander are the hard skill level. Each class has a story with seven levels each. 
 You do not have to play the game in order, just pick a class and begin your game. After finishing 
 a game, you will get parts to build your own Mech for online play. If you do not have Xbox Live, 
 fear not as there is a training room where you can test out the Mech you made on cpu bots.
  
  The sounds are great, the weapons firing, the Mechs walking on different terrain, even the voice 
 acting is better than I thought it would be. The music is ok too, but maybe will not stop you from 
 putting on your own music. They story is good enough that you will want to see what happens and 
 how it will end. If you like strategy war/Mech games, you will get your moneys worth with "Chromehounds". 
 If you want a more fast paced Mech game, you might have to wait for "Armored Core 4" or for Mircosoft/Fasa 
 Studio to make "Mechassault 3". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nappan
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 17, 2006 12:10 pm PT
Review:  Chromehounds is as far from what I am used to playing in terms of mech sims or action games as 
 I can imagine. There was a time when I loved games like Armored Core (before that series took a 
 nosedive) , Mechwarrior, Mechassault, and even Phantom Crash. I can say with confidence that the 
 simple, yet addictive multiplayer combat in Chromehounds, along with it's fairly deep mech building 
 concept breaks any one of the afformentioned molds. 
  
  From a technical perspective, I have a HD (1080i) tv and the visuals are absurdly good. The mechs 
 are very detailed, and feel... real. This is less about "big explosions" and more about grinding 
 gears and treads. The very "near future" aspect of the game may dissapoint people who are used 
 to lasers and PPC's on their mechs, but Chromehounds is more sort of the Phillip K. Dick to Mechwarrior/Mechassault's 
 Larry Niven. This takes nothing away from either style of game.
  
  I think the best way to explain the gameplay to someone who hasn't played Chromehounds is twofold: 
 Take equal parts of UT2004 and Team Fortress... mix with another part Armored Core and just the 
 smallest dash of pure vehicle combat generic game. The fact that this game is almost only fun in 
 multiplayer, VERY VERY role based, yet very tactical despite it's initially simple combat is key 
 to it's appeal, and it's shortcomings.
  
  Much as in real combat, the complexity in chromehounds is found in the nature of the mission objectives, 
 and team dynamics, not in the guns themselves. After all, a tank, or a pistol, or a bomb is simple... 
 deploying them to achieve a goal is not. Do not be fooled by a lack of gagues and flashing lights 
 and such, and do NOT judge this game by it's utterly useless Single Player portion. The single 
 player is really just a kind of weak tutorial... and since you don't learn much about teamwork 
 or mech building, it's not too good at that.
  
  This is a multiplayer game. Period. It's not a masterpiece, but it is a lot of fun. This is an 
 ideal game for a younger, but not "kiddy" gamer with other friends with this game. The potential 
 for clans and teams is vast, and as an early game in the 360's lineup, Chromehounds is worth a 
 rental to see if it suits you, and a purchase if it piques your interest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zoldaire
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 17, 2006 11:47 am PT
Review:  At first Chromehound looked like the typical Mech game where you get a pre-made mech and make your 
 way through a series of mission and then ultimately get the best mech available. Chromehounds gives 
 this and lots of more. Customizing is one of them. Building your very own mech (or HOUNDS as they 
 are called in the game) from scratch. Though the single player game is a little bit too short, 
 it is still good. The many mission with each type gives more of the story each time as the single 
 player campaign in the prelude for the multi player game mode, The Neroimus War. In my opinion 
 the single player could have been made better and the use of multiple controllers on the Xbox 360 
 without the use of live could have been used. But for Chromehounds and for many other games, the 
 multi player is the games key. It changes with each time as you go at it and gives you a lot every 
 time you play it. Worth the wait and the cash for sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: natebayne
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 17, 2006 11:45 am PT
Review:  This game is fantastic, yes the single player is a bit dull but you can't say you've played this 
 game until you play online and in the neronimus war. This is defiantly an A+ game, easily one of 
 my favs on the 360; you are missing out if you do not buy this game; its not a rental... its a 
 buy. I have played lots of hours on the multiplayer of this game and i usually am only a casual 
 console gamer, but i just can't put this one down. These 2 weeks have proven to be expensive for 
 me with Chromehounds, BFME2, and NCAA 2007, they will all have my attention but in the end I think 
 Chromehounds will win out., 
::::::

::::::
UserName: y2josh19
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 17, 2006 8:47 am PT
Review:  This game is just a lot of fun online. The campaign mode is pretty dry but if you like playing 
 online then this game is for you. The graphics are simply amazing, controls are a piece of cake 
 and the fun factor online is through the roof. I played Mech Warrior a long time ago so I can't 
 give you an accurate comparison. All I can say is if you like building a character from scratch, 
 lots of guns and mass destruction this is your game. I give this game a 9.7 overall only because 
 the single player mode is not all that it could be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aromon
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 17, 2006 12:42 am PT
Review:  Straight to the basics:
  Gameplay: Great. Comprehensive mechanics that allow for easy aiming. Controlling mech during battle 
 is quite easy too, which allows you to eliminate the enemies as quick as possible. You have four 
 different weapon slots that you can change at any point in time to be acustomed to the situation. 
 Also, you have a color coordinated map and sonar radar which really helps. As far as the RT's (Role 
 Types) go, each offers different and unique gameplay, that of which I really enjoyed because the 
 single player really never got "old" before I beat it.
  Graphics: Excellent. It actually looks like the same type of engine as Moto Gp 06, which is top 
 notch in the graphics catagory. Your mechs have a nice, crisp, clean look upon their surface and 
 the lighting effects are second to none (Keep in mind that is in 1080i HDTV though!) Only downfall 
 is slight processing lines that appear from time to time, but they are very unnoticable most of 
 the time.
  Sound: Good. Mech's sound original, guns and missiles sound great, but voiceacting is somewhat 
 artificial.
  Value: Great. Only mech game on 360, and a great one at that, plus it really plays excellent on 
 Live. Live brings a whole new type of play to the table and it performs flawless on the servers 
 too.
  Tilt: I have never played a mech game, so if me saying this game made me a fan of the genre means 
 anything, there you go.
  Mech fan: BUY. Not: Rent and see if it's for you, chances are you won't want to return it.
  Aromon 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cjmhockey9
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 16, 2006 8:06 pm PT
Review:  A game of futuristic military tactics with Mechs, better known as Hounds in the game, Chromehounds 
 immerses you in an alternate reality where World War 3 has occurred approximately 20 years ago 
 between the two superpowers of the time (U. S. and the U. S. S. R) . While not much else is mentioned 
 of the outcome of the war, Europe was split into three nations, the Democratic Republic of Takaria, 
 the Republic of Morskoj, and the Kingdom of Sal Kar. Tensions run high between these three nations 
 and they all stand on the brink of war with each other. You, yourself are a mercenary for hire 
 caught in the middle of these tensions. 
  
  Single player introduces you to the six different RTs (Role Types) that are in the game: Soldier, 
 Scout, Sniper, Heavy Gunner, Defender, and Tactics Commander. That is the best the single player 
 does though. There are 6 missions for each RT that just give you a feel as to which type of an 
 RT that you would like the most and a feel and sight of some of the others so you can see how your 
 other squad members will work when online. In these missions the action is slow paced a majority 
 of the time and the objectives can be just plain stupid and boring such as one mission as a Scout 
 where you must secure all the Combas (a device used to communicate across the map) in the area. 
 The AI you are facing during these missions can be just plain stupid with actions such as running 
 into your line of fire and just not responding at all when taking fire. Luckily it only takes a 
 short time to pass all the missions for each RT. With single player as bad as it is, I would still 
 suggest that you at least play some of it to get a feel of the controls before going online and 
 playing.
  
  While the single player is bad in Chromehounds, the visuals and vastness of these levels you cross 
 is impressive just not the best that has been seen on the Xbox 360. The detail on the hounds is 
 pretty but in battle they really never look like they take any damage until they spark or get swallowed 
 up in flames. The collapsing buildings and exploding gas tanks are fun to look at the first ten, 
 twenty times but afterwards its just clich because each and every collapse and explosion is exactly 
 the same.
  
  Controls are easy to handle and you should be able to pick up and play within the matter of minutes. 
 They are very simplistic with the right trigger to fire your selected weapon at the time and the 
 right bumper to change the weapon, while the left trigger activates your selected assist part (parts 
 that give special advantages, e. g. thermal vision, night vision) and the left bumper changes the 
 assist part. The analog sticks move your hound in every direction and a quick click of the left 
 trigger turns on your hounds lights and a click of the right gives you your weapon cam. The face 
 buttons do nothing more than bring up the tactical map, Y button, and zoom in and out of it, X 
 button, which you will be using a lot in Chromehounds. The most you will have to worry about though 
 is just how to fire, how to use the weapon cam, and how to open and close your map.
  
  Although an attempt at a story is made to show what is going on leading up to the war, it is really 
 lacking. Each RT you meet a new group within a certain nation that has one objective really and 
 thats all you really follow through on. The man telling the story before battles and describing 
 the situation at the time of your hiring is just plain monotone. Its more like listening to a 
 bad documentary when this guy is speaking. But really how do any of these events matter to you 
 they dont because you are a mercenary with no loyalty to anyone so far, just trying to make an 
 honest dollar (well not really the only thing you are earning is parts) . 
  
  And here we are Multiplayer, the reason to get this game. When first signing into Xbox Live, you 
 will be asked as to which of the three nations you will ally yourself with. Now dont think too 
 much about it but still, remember each nation gives you access to different, unique parts and you 
 will only be allowed to join other squads that are within the nation you have joined. Note: You 
 can change the nation you are a part of once every two weeks. When first signing on you will also 
 be asked as to what RT you would like to start as but once again dont put too much thought to 
 it because you are not bound to the RT you choose, it just gives you a standard hound of that RT 
 to start off with.
  
  You will soon find yourself being debriefed on your nations status in the Neroimus War with announcements 
 of a bunch of different battles outcomes, donations made to the cause, and requests of defense 
 and offense at different fronts. To soon find yourself joining in on this epic war you will also 
 have to first join a squad.
  
  The shop for multiplayer holds a lot more powerful of weapons and parts for your hound than you 
 can earn in single player. Here you will mainly find parts from your faction for sale along with 
 other captured parts that your nation has recovered in the war effort. Also, a lottery is held 
 for test parts that your faction will raffle off periodically. The parts in the shop tend to be 
 a tad bit better than the ones you will have acquired from single player mode. 
  
  Creating a hound is simplistic and even if you need some help with your assembly, there is a guide 
 that you can turn on when in the Assemble hound category. Your hound will start either becoming 
 more specific to one class or having a broader range of uses as the game calculates the RT due 
 to weight, speed, weapons, core, legs, etc. While creating the hound also keep in mind that your 
 hound can only handle so much weight and can only run if it has enough energy, most likely thanks 
 to a generator.
  
  Multiplayer has three modes on Live. Neroimus War as mentioned before pits you up against the other 
 nations in a war to conquer everyones land and also gives out hefty payouts for a success in the 
 mission to be used at the shop. Freeplay gives you chance to play up against anyone regardless 
 of their affiliation. While there is no real reward in money or anything, this gives you a chance 
 to hone your skills with your hound before risking land and money in Neroimus War. And then there 
 is Individual Missions which like it says are done individually. They pretty much say destroy as 
 much of these things as possible in the allotted time and well pay you x for each one that you 
 do destroy. These are faster paced and more action packed than the single player missions. 
  
  This game was clearly designed meant for multiplayer, as can be seen with the lack of attention 
 and detail to the single player story mode. While single player is a lackluster presentation of 
 the game, it is still worth it to play it just to get a feel of the game before going to Live. 
 The Neroimus War and other modes for Live will keep you playing for hours on end. So if you got 
 Live, you enjoy battling mechs, and are looking for a game to buy that will hold you out till this 
 summer game drought is over, this is the game for you. If not then I would think twice and rent 
 it first before buying it, because nobody wants to drop $60 for a game they dont like.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlintstoneKid
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 16, 2006 4:50 pm PT
Review:  Ok... First off... The single player is just training for multiplayer. So as you probably have heard.. the 
 single player is sub-par. But, that's why!
  
  Multiplayer is the real meat of this game and you should love it..... IF... and I mean If you like 
 to strategize, plan and execute in true team fashion. If you are a lone gunner... You will get eaten 
 alive! The neromius war is a nice mode, but you have to join a squad to play it. The persistent 
 world war is a lot of fun and you feel good when you win! Some of the menus could have been more 
 streamlined especially when online, but hey... You get past it!
  
  All in all, Great Graphics... Customization of Mechs is totally insane, and believe me... You'll 
 be building and tweaking mechs until the cows come home. 
  
  I say.... GO Get it.... the Sal Jar needs your help immediately....... and The Venom Gaming Squad 
 could use a few good men!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timmy343
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jul 16, 2006 4:26 pm PT
Review:  When i got this game from gamefly, i knew it wasnt going to be fast paced at all thanks to the 
 demo, and I knew it probably wouldn't be my kind of game. After hearing how awsome the multiplayer 
 was i thought i'd try it out. The single player campaign is slow and very dull to me, and doesnt 
 offer any replay value at all. since i didnt like the single player at all, i went online to see 
 what was up. The interface was wayyy to confusing, and all these screens on the story kept popping 
 up which i didnt read due to being boring as hell. I finally joined a squad, and finally got my 
 frist online mech. I used the one they give you to start off with which was the heavy machine gun 
 mech and it was so slow, by the time i got to the fighting the game was over! then i made my own 
 a few times buying new parts and rebulding everything. the first one i made sucked after building 
 it for 2 hours, and the second one was even worse. It seemed impossible to make a good mech that 
 was fast and somewhat powerfull. The multiplayer wasnt as good as everyone said it was, and has 
 wasted so much of my time sitting in a lobby or the menu, that i will never play it again. The 
 servers are crap to play on, and it usually kicks you out of your games. As far as graffics, the 
 mechs look really good, but the enviroment and buildings look like crap. Buildings collapsing look 
 terrible, but the smoke looks awsome... the controls are simple, and as i said, slow slow gameplay. 
 You probably wont want to waste money on this unless your a hardcore mech fan or an achievements 
 whore... which will take you forever to get anyway 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kyle_1865
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 16, 2006 1:33 pm PT
Review:  ive been waiting for this game since i first saw the screen shots. this game was pretty much evertythin 
 i was expecting, even the repetative robo killing which is fun but repetative, The best way 2 break 
 the repeatingness though is to try playing the other RTs randomly rather then just playin one through 
 then goin 2 the next. this is a great game and the garage mode is simply amazing. If you feel like 
 taking a break from fighting then you can easily spend hours making kickass robots or hounds then 
 testing them out .buy this game, or at least rent it . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cpuchess
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 16, 2006 1:28 pm PT
Review:  Despite some annoyances this game is very well done. If you ever liked the original Mechassault 
 you will love this (second Mechassault sucked) .
  
  The graphics are excellent and feature more realistic weaponry than the original Mechassault. The 
 fact that you can customize your mech makes you think more about what your doing since you don't 
 pick a canned mech and just start fighting.
  
  The maps are really cool and some are down right huge! Very well done!
  
  Things that are annoying:
 
  
  The military communications and reporting of the online campaign. Who the heck cares! Every single 
 time you enter Xbox live you have to go through this crap. I just want to enter the Free Battle.
 
  
  The other annoyance is after people assemble to play a non-team based game, the host launches the 
 game which takes each player to their own room where they have to click "Deploy". However some 
 people don't click it, they just sit there, without them doing this the game won't start! Eventually 
 the host drops. Then it kicks you all the way out, off the Chromehound server!! What the heck were 
 they thinking when they developed this game flow.
  
  As with most computer games, the documentation sucks big time. An example is that main lobby of 
 the game. One aspect is a latency display which is not explained at all in the book. You have no 
 idea what the different signs mean.
  
  All these things considered, the game is worth getting and you won't be disappointed once you actually 
 get to play a game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PAJ89
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 18, 2006 1:53 am PT
Review:  Imagine that the Cold War didn't end as it did, imagine it escalated into World War III. Solar 
 flares hinder communications and technologies, planes can't fly for example. As a result of this, 
 giant war machines, known as "hounds", have been developed by the three super powers of Neroimus, 
 a recently formed nation on Earth, as they begin to wage war. Neroimus consists of Tarkia, Morkoj 
 and Sal Kar. These nations are similar to America, Russia and Asia respectively. This backdrop 
 provides the setting for Chromehounds, Sega's online mech shooter for the Xbox 360. Chromehounds 
 provides meaty online support featuring a war mode, where you can fight for one of three nations 
 against the other two. However, it also has a short and not-so-sweet single-player campaign.
  
  Controlling your hound is clunky at first, but you'll get used to it after a good hour of play. 
 You can assign weapons to four different slots, allowing you to cycle between them at will. However, 
 the problem with this is that you can only cycle through weapons forwards. If you need to switch 
 from slot four to three, you have to go the long way around, which isn't helpful in a firefight. 
 You also have extra parts at your disposal, such as night vision or thermal sensors. Configuring 
 different weapons and assist parts is a breeze thanks to the phenomenal hound customization. After 
 you've put together a chassis, cockpit, and generator, you can begin customizing your hound however 
 you like. The amount of options available is simply staggering. You can chain different weapons 
 together in a given firing slot, rotate and angle your weapons, camouflage it, and much more. This 
 is one of Chromehounds' major selling points. You can personalize your hound in so many different 
 ways it's scary.
  
  Single-player consists of six mini-campaigns. Hounds are split up into six main role types, or 
 RTs: soldier, sniper, defender, scout, heavy gunner and tactics commander. Each campaign centers 
 around one of these RTs, loosely following the story of one of the three Neroimus regions. You 
 are given the choice between a default hound and your own personal war machine, and are assigned 
 a set of objectives to complete. They of course relate to the RT. A scout will have to secure communication 
 towers and act as a decoy, whereas a defender usually guards important locations. However, these 
 campaigns are weak due to the problem is the lack of difficulty. It's not too hard to S-Rank the 
 missions thanks to simple objectives, and there are easy ways out for missions you may be stuck 
 on. You can take your own soldier type hound into the sniper campaign and absolutely blitz through 
 it, obtaining an S-Rank. Ultimately, single-player lacks challenge, which takes a lot of fun out 
 of it, and is also missing a cohesive story. When you feel you are connecting with some of the 
 characters towards the end of the campaign, it ends and you are handed a different cast for the 
 next campaign.
  
  As disappointing as the single-player is, the Xbox Live support more than makes up for any shortcomings. 
 As well as having your free battles, death matches, capture the flag and more, you are also treated 
 to the thriving online world that is the Neroimus War. By forming or joining a squad, you can participate 
 in the war and fight for Tarakia, Morskoj or Sal Kar. A map of Neroimus, containing many locations, 
 allows you to jump into battle and fight squads from other nations. The victor will gain conquest 
 points for the nation in the area they are fighting, helping to conquer the area. It is a very 
 involving option, requiring solid teamwork to win the battles. Capturing COMBAS communication towers 
 is vital, and doing so expands the map range from which your squad mates can talk to each other. 
 You can also obtain prototype hound parts via a lottery and those from enemy regions, which are 
 unobtainable in single-player. You can donate money from mission rewards to your nation, gaining 
 you fame and a mention in the Neroimus report. All key events in the war are recorded, and you 
 can get your name in it if you are skillful or rich enough. You can even vote for the president 
 of your nation! The Neroimus War is more than just an online mode, but a real community thanks 
 to the squad and nation systems. You'll get good use out of your microphone, not only by communicating 
 in the middle of battle, but also chatting to your squad members in the lobby.
  
  As far as the visuals go, they are impressive, but not on the level of detail as some other 360 
 games. The hounds look great. Attention to detail on things such as the ridges in a hounds armor 
 is top-notch. The letdown is the environments. They are bland and boring, ranging from desert, 
 snow, and urban settings. They get a little repetitive after a while, especially since the areas 
 are the same in single-player and the Neroimus War. Hopefully there will be some new maps up on 
 Marketplace in the future.
  
  The menu music is drab, but all the in-game sounds are booming. The sound of a bipedal hound pounding 
 along a road, a machine gun ripping into a hound's armor, a building collapsing; the sounds are 
 fantastic. Voices are used a lot during single-player, and are of a good standard. You can tell 
 what nation a character is affiliated with just by listening to their voice. This quality of voice 
 acting helps bring the cast to life as the characters tell their stories. Many of them are soldiers 
 who love their country, and this is put across excellently in their voices. Music in the middle 
 of the game is underwhelming, and you won't notice it when you're in the heat of battle. Most of 
 the tunes are solemn-sounding and they certainly aren't memorable, but the sound effects and voice 
 acting is the high point of what you hear.
  
  Chromehounds offers an alternative shooting game unlike anything else on the market. It offers 
 a solid system that focuses on teamwork and communication rather than individual skill and one-hit-kills, 
 at the price of a slow pace. As disappointing as the single-player campaigns are, the Neroimus 
 War more than makes up for it. The depth of the whole network is vast, and it could go on forever 
 due to how well it's been constructed. If you are unsure in regards to buying Chromehounds, ask 
 yourself one question: Do I have Xbox Live? If so the answer is yes, go out and buy it, along with 
 a microphone. You'll have loads of fun and it'll last for a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: themtman
Rating: 4.6
Date: Jul 16, 2006 12:01 pm PT
Review:  Well its is very very good to say that mech games are awesome but in Chromehounds only the mulitplayer 
 has any depth or excitment. The single player game is no fun and that says alot about a game and 
 well some games do well without any good single player like battlefield but not chromehounds. It 
 has potential but in my opinion fails. The muliplayer does not do so well in the start up and just 
 play for 5 minutes. The muliplayer is all about a war which makes you need to play the single which 
 is not so great. The only good mech games in my opinion out there are mechassault but this is one 
 of a kind, lots of customization. Thats what people will mostly be doing so its more for the people 
 who like to customize their ride, which i dont like to do much. Some people will like this game 
 and some wont, I'm one of those who don't. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CassiusVII
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 16, 2006 9:33 am PT
Review:  This game tried to be good. It really did! It even had the hype to, but IMO it fell way short of 
 good. I was in the video store the other day and I saw Mech Assault and Im like hm I fell like 
 playing something like this. So I went to go see if this game was in. It was! I was excited. What 
 I didnt know was this game is EXCACTLY like mech assualut with a little better graphics.
  
  Gameplay- The gameplay of course, your in a big Mech. You use these Mechs to advance through wars. 
 Well me and my friend TOGETHER tried to get through this game. One player at a time of course. 
 We couldnt even get past the first sniper mission cuz you cant tell your teammates from your enemies. 
 Its also Really hard to understand. Maybe if you were a computer genious then you would have a 
 good time with this game.
  
  Graphics- They are pretty good. There are of course glitches here and there. The 360 makes this 
 game look good. Thats about the only thing looking good.
  
  Sound- Nothing special at all. Basically its realistic I guess for the movement of your mech. But 
 I wouldnt know cuz I never actually piloted one.
  
  Value- At least there is Online play. This gives the game a long lasting experience. People can 
 play it for a while, I dont know why you would want to play this outside of a couple hours but 
 you could.
  
  The game was a cheap remake of Mech assault. But basically they made it a little more complicated. 
 You need to know what your doing to play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrpieper17comet
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 25, 2006 2:15 pm PT
Review:  First off this game gets a lot of bad review that isnt at all deserved. The demo is boring . However 
 the demo is much different from the games single player and couldnt be more different from the 
 multiplayer. Once again you cannot judge a full game by a single player demo. The graphics are 
 not overly good. The hounds look amazing. However the enviroments look like **** BUT everything 
 in the enviroment can be destroyed so that is a plus. The explosions and smoke are some of the 
 best on the 360. The city envrioments are fairly good. It is amazing looking when you see a city 
 battke at night and you see an explosion on one side of the map and then a massiva explosion right 
 net to you. It also looks great when you see the air light up with machine gun fire. The sound 
 is good but not spectacular. Now to the online. The whole neroimous war is a little complicated 
 to explain but basically everyone is fighting in one war on one map. There are not mulitple maps 
 EVERYONE is on the same map. It works like this you join a squad of up to 20 people and choose 
 a country, there are 3. Then you can choose a location to fight in. Each location has said number 
 of points say 8000. Then you get in a lobby with a group of people fighting for the other country. 
 You get on the map and need to destroy the others HQs. WHen thats done whoever wins gets some of 
 that locations points. Say 125. So now the attacking country has 125 points and the one defending 
 has the rest once all points are controlled by a team it switches control. Its complicated btu 
 once you see it it is fairly simple. The online play is much more intense then single player mostly 
 because it takes a lot of shots to take an opponent down. IT is a slow paced game. That is because 
 it is meant to be very tactical. In this game a team with a better strategy will beat a team with 
 more skill. Now squads are very important. Because you cant fight in the big war without one and 
 you need to be able to get along and communicate. The squad system is really unique in that when 
 you join a squad when you are in the online menu you are all in a chat more or less. You can do 
 anything you want and still talk. I was bored as hell until i got into a good squad. Another huge 
 bonus is the customization options. You have so much control and need to meet so many things. You 
 need to have a radiator so it doesnt overheat but if you get to big of one your machine will be 
 too heavy to use. You need a generator but if you get one too big once again you will be too heavy. 
 This game is not for all groups of people. It requires patience strategy teamwork and most importantly 
 communication. Its not halo it is slow but it all works very well. I reccomend renting this game 
 and giving it a shot. And then if you like it buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danskpete
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 15, 2006 5:06 pm PT
Review:  The single player is short dull and boring with you playing 7 mission of the 6 Role Types. It doesnt 
 do a good job of explaining your objectives and theres no way to check them in the middle of a 
 mission. Multiplayer has you playing online fighting for 1 of three nations against the 2 you didnt 
 pick. you can join a sqaud of 20 people and bring up the sqauds rank as well as your own. The menus 
 take a little while to get used to but when you do youll be customizing your HOUND for hours. If 
 you have xbox live this game will be very addictive and its great for getting together and playing 
 with friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mykey93
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 15, 2006 3:51 pm PT
Review:  it's an insanely great game online, you can fully customize your HOUNDS, mine is neon pink with 
 daisy decals. it can be frustrating making your HOUND at first but the online play is amazing. 
 When you join a clan you can freely chat with everyone in you clan on the main menu. Also you can 
 trade HOUND specs, eblems, money and parts to your clan members. The countrys are always updated 
 with pop-ups telling you where they are attacking you and theyre are lotterys for weapons your 
 country captured and new experimental parts so no HOUND will be the same. one of my favorites so 
 far 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Twisted1111
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 15, 2006 10:55 am PT
Review:  O. k, first off I would like to say I love Mech games, and espcially loved this one, the game had 
 everything, to amazing graphics, and the power of the hounds. One thing i like was the customizing 
 in the game, and what makes it great u never want to settle with just one part, u will spend hours 
 upon hours, making ur weapon of mass destruction the greatest of all. Another great thing about 
 this game is the Online portion. Bascially a huge MMO, a war as broke out, and its ur job, well 
 the squad's to help their country win the war, the only gripe I had with this game is the sizes 
 of the maps, and the lack of game with the SP. Overall a deff. great game to add to the Xbox 360 
 collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Moto19
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 15, 2006 1:06 am PT
Review:  I bought Chromehounds as my 2nd Xbox 360 game and I renewd by Xbox live subscription for the online 
 portion. The single player portion isn't great, it's more of a tutorial towards when you finally 
 play the online portion of Chromehounds where the game is meant to be played, too put in simple 
 terms it's like the Battlefield series you wouldn't judge the game based on it's single player 
 when it's most obviously meant to be played online. The Multiplayer portion is fun, getting to 
 design your own mech, name it, and color it and join a certain faction fighting for online global 
 dominance, exciting isn't it? you also join a sqaud to fight these epic battles through out the 
 landscape.
  
  Now lets get into technical details..
  
  Graphics, In Chromehounds the graphics are amazing, you can see the fine detail on each mech even 
 though I don't have a HDTV, some of the buildings look good, others not, thats the thing about 
 this game, the mechs look good and so do a few buildings, but landscape wise and some of the buildings 
 as well, but no matter the ground still leaves imprints of where your mech was walking. The Smoke 
 and explosion details are gorgeous in this game when you fire a missle a smoke trail is seen coming 
 from the launcher on your mech.
  
  Sound-The Sound is spot on, hearing the grinding metal and gears when your mech gets hit to when 
 the feet move and hit the ground and when you alternate weapons as well, sound great.
  
  Gameplay-The Gameplay is spectacular, choosing from a broad range of classes (example, Sniper, Soldier, Scout) , 
 after choosing a class you have the option to design a tank of that specialized class and like 
 I described in the first part, this part gets fun. There isn't a problem with the speed of the 
 mechs they move at a reasonale speed, just by looking at the size and weight it's not gonna move 
 like a F-22 Raptor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zach115
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 14, 2006 7:40 pm PT
Review:  This Game is a pretty good game considering the other xbox 360 games. It would have been better 
 if the single player mode was a little deeper. Overall this game is a good game for those mech 
 fans. I was hopping that the game was based on all of the Roll Types but it is sort of geared to 
 the sniper class. It would have been cool if the soldier and the heavy gunner Roll Types were a 
 little more advanced. This game is easy to pick up on and if your a new gamer looking for a good 
 mech game this is a game you should go out and buy. It has many of the same controls to moving 
 a shooting as many other shooter and racing games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Matt_Tacular
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 14, 2006 3:07 pm PT
Review:  Chromehounds is a simulator Mech game. And it succeeds at that point very well. The single player 
 can be alittle boring because it's too easy, and then almost right away switch to being very challenging. 
 Not too many levels are just right. The Multiplayer however has a lot of depth that players can 
 be absorbed in for a long time. 
  
  The single player has to be played through to unlock the parts you will use to upgrade better mechs 
 in multiplayer. And achieving s on all levels is how you unlock all the parts. However, doing this 
 can get quite challenging. 
  
  The multiplayer, with the squads, and the war between the 3 factions, is very addictive, and will 
 cause you to be filled with reason to go through the story getting s ranks. Trying to get better 
 parts to build better mechs...
  
  Over all, chromehounds is a buy if you have xbox live, if you don't, then I don't really see how 
 this game could be that fun...
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jd7904
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 14, 2006 2:08 pm PT
Review:  You're in your garage, just finishing up a couple of details on your "Mean Machine" when all of 
 a sudden you realize you forgot to put that new part you just received on it. You get done add 
 a couple of decals and your off to the racetra.... I mean battleground. If you are a fan of trickin' 
 out your um... for lack of a better word, ride than Chrome Hounds is for you. It's not quite as 
 slow paced and cumbersome as some other Mech games. 
  Though Chrome Hounds does not really add anything new to the formula, it does provide a great Mech 
 experience for those who've been turned off by more complex Mech outings. The single player mode 
 is pretty easy and has a tutorial at the beginning to get you destroying your enemies like a pro. 
 The enemy A. I. isn't exactly Kasparov. It seems that they miss more often than not, and they really 
 have no strategy. The A. I. for your side is no Chess Champ either, early on in the game you have 
 to chase what amounts to be a toy tank, and all they do is chase it without firing a single shot. 
 Now this is probably deliberate so that you complete the mission ( like many other games ) . The 
 on line play is where this game shines. Team based combat is always fun, but it's even better with 
 GIANT MECHANIZED TANKS!! 
  All in all I think that you should play this game even if your not a hardcore Armored Core vet, 
 because it seems to be the first Mech game where I could get trick out my "ride" and actually have 
 fun playing the game too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Antor1
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 14, 2006 1:49 pm PT
Review:  Boy was I suprized at how fun it is. I immediately got sucked into the SP, don't believe the negative 
 reviews about SP, SP is still a solid one but is mostly straight forward, but still supplied me 
 with fun times. It's mostly a tutorial on each class but can still give people a challenge. 
  
  I haven't really gotten a chance to try out the mutiplayer yet, but I did get a chance to assemble 
 a mech. Boy oh boy the customization in this game surpassed what I thought it was going to be, 
 in simple terms it's awesome and mech fans should love this part of the game.
  
  Hey if I thought SP was fun, MP must be completely insane. 
  The 8.4 is for SP only just think 
 about that.
  
  I recommend this game for someone who likes alot of customization and someone who wants the most 
 bang for their buck. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blk-Gnome
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 14, 2006 12:05 pm PT
Review:  This game is everything it claimed to be. Most people when they found out a mech. game was coming 
 out for the 360 was a fast run n gun shooter. This game is a slow paced strategic mech. sim. so 
 if your looking for your anime sleek and humanoid mech. fighting game, go some where else. as many 
 of the commercals depict this game is about team ability.
  
  The single player story line maybe be weak and at points in time dull, but its mostly there to 
 get you some parts to go online and kill. its probly best to think the single player as a huge 
 tutorial to master each rank and finaly figure out what rank suits you best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zerdo
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 14, 2006 10:49 am PT
Review:  After playing such games as Mech Assault and Mech Assault 2, I was glad to hear that this game 
 would be more strategic. However, they might have made the game too slow to appeal to the majority.
 
  
  The offline campaign can be very boring at times, and only a couple of the missions were really 
 fun. The only reason to complete them is to get the parts rewarded. Aside from that, youll feel 
 like everyone repeats the same lines over and over again. That really made the story a bit less 
 enjoyable. Online the gameplay is much better, but only when you have a nice group of people to 
 play with. Online, you really need to stay in communication with your squad. If you just run out 
 and start shooting things, youll die within seconds. Thats where the strategic elements come 
 into play.
  
  The mechs themselves have very nice models, and you can customize them into whatever you want to 
 specialize in. I myself have had a large amount of fun just constructing my mech and playing around 
 with it.
  
  Although the mechs have lots of detail and when you shine a light on them is looks amazingly real, 
 the environments are lacking. I doubt anyone is really buying this to look at pretty trees or anything 
 of the sort, but it would really have made the game a must buy if they went the extra mile to create 
 amazing envorinments.
  
  Overall, this game did what it set out to do. It created a mech game that requires a decent amount 
 of strategy to obtain victory. Other than that, theres a large sum of boredom waiting for you 
 to sleep through it. In other words, only buy this game if you plan on playing online. If you like 
 mechs and strategy, then you wont be disappointed.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: YankeeDan345
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 14, 2006 10:31 am PT
Review:  When I got this game I expected a so-so robot game to tide me over, what I got was one of the best 
 I've played in years. The garage feature in this game really lets you put together a cool mech 
 to match your personal style. 
  
  If you've ever played Earthseige or Mechwarrior this game will probly take you back. It's got some 
 clear mechwarrior influance though. I had heard this game was slow, it's no slower then the two 
 classics I previsously mentioned. Every now and then you'll find yourself on the wrong side of 
 the map (these maps can be BIG) and the walk to where you need to be can take 2 or 3 minutes.
 
  
  The singleplayer in both those games was great, in this game it is merely passable. Their are voiced 
 mechs abound, but you don't hang with them enough to start caring about them, which is a shame.
 
  
  The multiplayer is the main draw. Theres an ongoing war which will repeat every 2 mouths. Join 
 your country and fight with a squad to win the war. Besides this you've also got your ranked and 
 unranked gametypes which include Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, Cap the Flag, and a few others.
 
  
  If you want an online mech game, buy this. If your looking for something with a strong singleplayer, 
 stay away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghsacidman
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 14, 2006 9:33 am PT
Review:  Most Mech games are either over or under complicated. Chromehounds marries smooth Halo like shooting 
 with mech combat in a way thats easy to understand but hard to master.
  
  Pros: The best thing about Chromehounds is the in game graphics. Forget the cutscenes, those are 
 completely retarded... The graphics in the game are incredible. The dirt puffs up when you shoot 
 it, at the right angles too. The mechs feet imprint into the ground, the smoke from explosions 
 has mass, and you dwarf everything around you. It's a great feeling to be in the cockpit of a giant 
 war machine. The online, though I have little experience, is defenantly something special. Persistant 
 online campaign = I no longer have a life. The garage is more capable then I expected. Building 
 your own mech can be a challenge, but is worth it in the long run. Any color and any configuration 
 you want. Mine kinda looks like a chicken. Anyway, the controls are smooth and work well. This 
 game is definantly Mech Assualt 2.0. Even though I miss the vtaul. The game is one of the best, 
 if not for.....
  
  Cons: You can't invert your controls from what I've found so far, and it pisses me off to no end. 
 The single player missions give you little to no direction. You want to say F the single player, 
 but you have to play it to unlock parts : ( It has it's moments of fun... but the single player 
 is generally just busy work. Once you over come the single player, there is really a great experience 
 to be had with the online.
  
  Bottom Line: This is yet another great game on 360. I love it, and can tell already it's something 
 special. It's a shame I didn't get more time with Pray and BFME 2 before this game came out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BulletproofPat
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 14, 2006 8:59 am PT
Review:  ChromeHounds is a sim, not a MechAssault clone. You have to be aware of key aspects of a hound 
 such as speed and tilt and all that stuff that will make or break combat for your specific hound. 
 Also, the game is all online, the small single player (which consists of 6 roles and 7 missions 
 within each role) is laughable but essential to prep you for the unforgiving online play. The single 
 player's objectives are explained to you once, in the briefing, like a real combat situation which 
 is very sim like. Once you get online you'll find out you are worth absolutely nothing, no matter 
 how cool your hound is, without a team. This is what turned people away from the game in the first 
 place: YOU CAN'T BE A ONE MAN ARMY! There is no "I pwned you" or "you suck". Tactics are what make 
 the game, if you aren't tactical then you are done for. Ther are FFA matches which are a joke but 
 ignorable since you should be playing the Neroimus War online. The Neroimus War is an active control 
 campaign similar to MechAsault 2's Conquest mode except people actually play the Neroimus War. 
 You create a squad and your squad will then go crush any competition from the opposing nations 
 (which there are 3 of including your affiliation) . What you can do online reflects your affiliation's 
 standing in the war. The shop is affected by your country's budget and research. If you don't like 
 your chosen country then you can defect to another, just like real traitors. Overall, without XboxLive 
 you probably won't appreciate what ChromeHounds has to offer. If you do then you'll find a sprawling 
 community that begs to be played for years to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vhuynh67
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 14, 2006 8:33 am PT
Review:  When Mech Assault titles came out several years back, I was disappointed by the arcade version 
 of an outstanding title starting with Mechwarrior 2. Chrome Hounds essentially revives the original 
 Mechwarrior series. Mech battles combines both tactical and strategic elements, especially when 
 combining with lance mates on line. While the single player option is rather dissappointing comparing 
 to the standard single player campaign in current, it is similar to Mech Warrior 2 and 3 and offers 
 its own version of charm. For those looking for a Space Invader version of a mech game would be 
 dissapointing both on or off line.
  
  Graphically, the game looks great. Particle and weapon effects are eye-candy to look at. Mech modelling 
 is quite details and reflect the power of the hardware. The environment is rather spare but given 
 the focus of the game on strategic and tactical elements, having beautify cities or trees to destroy 
 would be inappropriate. Who, save for a few, would want to destroy the archiectural beauty of Oblivion 
 with huge killing machine anyway.
  
  The game audio is dissappointing due to its generic voice over and low volume default. However, 
 explosion and weapon effects are worth listening to.
  
  The major dissapointment of the game is that enemy mechs are too easy to kill comparing to those 
 in Mechwarriors. One should be able to target specific components such as arms or legs to disable 
 then salvage a mech. Such elements added more fun and reality to the Mechwarriror titles. My 10 
 years old didn't complain much about this as it gives him the power to decimate enemy "Space Invader" 
 style. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alexrowe
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 14, 2006 7:28 am PT
Review:  If you are a BattleTech fan of old you are in for a treat. If you are a mecha fan you will be happy. 
 If you like a game that has a strategic effect from every tactical engagement you make... you will 
 be in heaven.
  
  I'm just going to talk a little about the combat in this review, cause' in the end that's what 
 it's all about. Some people have mentioned that the terrain is sparse and plain at times... but 
 they haven't described what things look like when the shooting starts.
  
  Once two sides of heavily armed Hounds meet... the terrain becomes a whirlwind of dust, smoke, 
 debris, fire, rocket and missile contrails, tracers, and air distortions when a gun that looks 
 like it should be mounted on a battleship fires its hellish payload. A "plain" looking terrain 
 can become a chaotic mix of crazy eyes and bacon, shaken vigorously, then sprayed over your face 
 before you can scream "Holy Sh*t!". Suddenly, huge Hounds become obscured by clouds of fire and 
 smoke, and you find yourself trying to search for a shot in a sudden adrenaline high. It's in that 
 first heavy engagement in ChromeHounds that puts a big smile on your face. In a moment, everything 
 you played in the single player missions and tutorials seems woefully inadequate to introduce you 
 to the online banshees that are waiting for you. You're suddenly fighting just to get another shot 
 off and trying to stave off disaster for your side for as long as possible.
  
  Trust me, in that first engagement for territory for the war... you will lose. But it's in that 
 loss that, if you are a mech fan, you will be pushed to play this game even harder. That loss will 
 set the ground rules for what ChromeHounds really is, and what you really have to do to make a 
 difference in the war.
  
  Don't let that terrain lull you into complacency. Don't let it set the tone for ChromeHounds. Be 
 on the edge of your seat in the first fight... cause all freakin' hell is going to break loose. 
 I'm super cereal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedPhantomX
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 14, 2006 12:16 am PT
Review:  Chromehounds is one of those games that get mostly bad reviews (like most mech games) . But for me 
 this game was spectacular. The best mech game to date as far as im concerned. Tonight I really 
 had some time with this game, and noticed some good and bad things about it.
  
  Good: The graphics for chromehounds are great especially for a mech game. The controls are smooth, 
 a little tight (but cmon this is a 6000 ton war machine!) . The garage is one of the greatest parts 
 of this game, building and creating your own mech war machine is too good to be true, the online 
 store in it is great. 
  There is a little corniness to the single player but I learn to ignore it. Other than that the 
 single player is solid and is pretty fun... after your done having fun you get parts :D I really 
 like the neroimous war its a great online element to the game, making a squad for it just extends 
 the coolness of it. 
  
  Bad: There really isnt many bad things about it.. only little details. My first complaint is the 
 slowness, it doesnt bother me much cause I can just change it whenever I want to. If you dont like 
 slow dont pick heavy gunner, or defender. One thing that really erks me (as IGN sort of was saying 
 in their review) is how when
  you blow up any vehicle or building its remains dissapear. Sure there is an explosion but I mean... 
 WHERE THE HECK IS THE HOUNDS BODY! The buildings should crumble and not dissapear... i mean that 
 would be cool wouldn't it? One thing I hate is how you cant send squad invites, people have to 
 find you through this stupid search that takes kind of a long time. 
  
  Well those were the goods and the bads. Not much, I know, but man I 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bjmage16
Rating: 7.9
Date: Nov 10, 2006 10:36 pm PT
Review:  When this first came out, I was in love with it. The concept is awesome, and it really does play 
 well... when you can actually play.
  
  Single-player is boring, but easy. But, multiplayer could have been so much better. Plagued with 
 connection problems and a poorly executed persistent online world hurt the game seriously.
  
  The game is good. Building your mech is easy and fun. Actually getting your mech online to 
 fight is really really exciting. But, nowadays, finding games can be hard, and takes forever. Nobody 
 is playing anymore, sadly. The problems with the game weren't fixed fast enough, so I guess people 
 left.
  
  I'm sad, this could have been an amazing game, but poor support let this game die. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tsiper
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 13, 2006 6:04 pm PT
Review:  This game rocks the campaign is awsome and the online is excellent! alot of fun and the gear heads 
 will enjoy building thier own mechs! I sure did. I can't say enough about this game it really blows 
 mech assult out of the water try it you 'll love it! The persistant world makes sure that there 
 are conseqeunces for how you play. And wow all of the parts. Every thing from generators to radiators 
 to fuel tanks to cockpits to ammo to legs hover craft tracks more legs, spacers , computer modules 
 its all here for you to build better than legos! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NiGHTS8099
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 13, 2006 4:42 pm PT
Review:  The important aspect of this game is the online game. That is it's sole purpose. There are offline 
 missions, but those are designed mainly to teach you how to play a certain type of mech. Seriously, 
 if you are even close to being a mech fan, you'll love this game. Even if you aren't, you'll probably 
 still love it. The single play missions act more as training missions for the online, but once 
 you get in a squad online and start participating in the Neroimus War and using you squad and mech 
 to your advantage, things can become very fun. Teamwork is incredibly key, if you and your team 
 don't work together, defeat is inevitable. Some say this game is a "point and shoot" game, but 
 that's totally not true. They aren't taking into account things like positioning units, capturing 
 COMBAS towers, or using different mechs to support eachother. The skills of one individual are 
 limited here, and success is based off of how one works as a team. Just as in a real war, one guy 
 can't just walk up to an army and just be "good enough" to take them all out. You need to strategize 
 with your army and eliminate the opponent in the most efficient way possible. If you can appreciate 
 how Chromehounds works, then you will love it. Plus, all the online features such as the news flashes 
 for the Neroimus War, the persistent world, and squad set up all are amazing.
  
  This game is totally unique. There is nothing like this anywhere else. No other game can give you 
 the experience this can with the depth of customization and the team online tactics and the immersive 
 Neroimus War. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GabrielRayven
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 13, 2006 10:41 am PT
Review:  The single player missions are quick to pick up some action, fast on the trigger, and customizing 
 your mech is beyond fantastic. Multiplayer though... leaves a lot to be desired. Very rarely is 
 there anyone online in the night hours, and when there are, they are all doing free battles. The 
 point of the online campaign is almost lost on people that seem to think this is Halo 2 still. 
 An excellent game, and I suggest anyone who wants a good next gen game, get this. Just be prepared 
 for a really lonely online experience.
  
  On a side note, should you even find a clan or squad, and you happen to not know them beforehand... best 
 of luck on being included. Most of the people online run their clans like the Third Reich. So, 
 get your mustaches ready, get your arms up... and be prepared to hail the fuhrer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Madroxcide
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 13, 2006 9:58 am PT
Review:  Chromehounds is finally hear and the 360 gets a mech game or hound game whatever floats your boat. 
 Anyways on to the game. 
  
  The graphics of chromehounds is really good, i was very suprised one time when i looked back and 
 i saw huge imprints on whatever i walk on that just let you know a hound was there. Thats just 
 something i really enjoyed seeing but anyways the mechs look very nice the textures of the terrains 
 are very nice and i don't know if this is a rating but i give the explosions a WOW!!! The explosions 
 from a mech or destroying a town or whatever oh especially the ones with what looks to be some 
 oil tanks or whatever explode so nicely creating a thick smoke you can't even see through. I really 
 enjoy seeing all this come in to play. Also the lighting from machinegun fire or launching rockets 
 or anything is a very very nice sight.
  
  The sound in the game is just as you would expect from this kind of game. Machinegun fire, cannon 
 fire, missle launching, hounds exploding buildings falling yah its all here. 
  
  Here we are the gameplay. The controls in this game work very well it is simple and will only take 
 you a few minutes to get used to the controls. The aiming i really enjoy of course if you have 
 seen any gameplay videos or screenshot you have seen the box in the top right that actually has 
 the crosshair on it but it also zooms in or out dependant on the weapon you have selected. So if 
 you have a sniper rifle it zooms in accordingly but if you prefer to have the main screen to aim 
 (for long shots its a must) then you just punch in the right analog stick and boom there you go. 
 One thing i noticed that i thought was a nice addition is now the box in the top right changes 
 from the crosshair to just showing your mech in 3rd person so you can still keep an eye on things 
 around you. 
  
  The hounds handle all well people complain about them being too slow but when you bog down a mech 
 with a ton of weapons yah that will happen, when building your mech you definately need a strategy 
 as far as how you are placing weapons and how you want to fight. For example on the left and right 
 side of my mech i tossed on a cannon on each side set them to fire at the same time and the knockback 
 from those shooting at the same time made them aim horribly. You will always be messing with your 
 mech between the matches online.
  
  The multiplayer in this game is absolutely fantastic. Teamwork and communication is a must if you 
 even want to survive at all. From the beginning you can't even talk to each other you have to find 
 the closest communication tower to set that up and then if you want to go out further you have 
 to capture more. I thought that was a very nice touch to the gameplay. There are many modes to 
 play online which are all pretty fun. The only one i don't like personally is just the flat out 
 deathmatch because i think this is more of a team game but thats just my opinion. Anyways the game 
 online is just great you can make changes to your mech before the game starts so if you forget 
 something change it and you are still in the same channel of the game and what not.
  
  The single player i see it more as a tutorial for the online, because online is where this game 
 is meant to be played. The single player you have a story through each of the different mech types. 
 There are a handful of missions in each which aren't so long which of course is because your mech 
 has fuel so they can't go on too long. Each hound's separate missions will do well introducing 
 you to that type of hound and showing you what to expect especially when building one. 
  
  Also to note during mayhem online i have not noticed framerate drops which is fantastic. A few 
 things i wanted to note as well i thought that was a nice touch is in single player and online 
 the structures are destructible yes you can destroy houses and everything its great. You see a 
 few trees and don't want to go around them??? Well you are a hound just run through them and yes 
 you can do that! Fences cars and even some small buildings you can just run over them. those details 
 just make you feal like you are in a big powerful hound being able to just run through that stuff. 
 I have to say that i am enjoying this game a ton and for what i expected was surpassed by what 
 i actually got. Even though the single player feals more like a tutorial i have enjoyed playing 
 through those but the real deal with this game is the online play. 
  
  Oh yah and how could i forget... Building a hound is a highly addictive part of the game alone. 
 You can change the paint the different colors in the camo paint or whatever type of pattern add 
 and create decals and just make your mech look truly unique. I have to say just messing around 
 with my mech with the weapons and the paint and what not i spent a few hours doing that and didn't 
 even realize it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wpardue777
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 13, 2006 9:56 am PT
Review:  I researched this game a lot before I bought it, studied the features, and what the game play would 
 be like. Once I started playing the game, I really could see a lot of work went into it. 
  
  The single player is a bit dull, however, the missions are usually brief and concise, and the 
 game gives good directions and guides you well. The parts you earn throughout each missions is 
 neat as well. I'd give the single player mode a 7 out of 10, it's well done, but definitely only 
 a tutorial.
  
  The multiplayer is done real well, though the options and multiple menus can get a bit confusing.. 
 The online shop is well laid out and offers many parts and some complete hounds you can buy. When 
 your building your hound, the game offers a ton of detail and costumization. I am still learning, 
 but it's easy to make a Hound into something really unique looking -- whether or not it will do 
 good in a fight is another story lol..
  
  In the multiplayer gaming itself, the game really shows off. Depending on your hound and your equipment, 
 your hound will be slow, normal, or fast, so dont think that ALL hounds are slow, b/c they aren't. 
 Communication towers are spread out across the maps, u have to get these to communicate. Also, 
 the gameplay is very fast when u confront your enemies.. One drag about this game is the aiming 
 though, it's pretty difficult. One cool thing though is that with certain weapons, theres some 
 major recoil. After you fire, it knocks you back a bit, disorienting your view for a moment. This 
 I'm thinking can be alleviated by better parts and such, but havent gotten that far. It's just 
 that if you put a heavy gun on a robot thats not made to handle it, you will pay for it with recoil.
 
  
  One thing I didn't like is that after u play a free player multiplayer game, it kicks u back out 
 to the main multiplayer lobby screen. I'd rather it put me back in the room with my team and the 
 other players and if I want to play again with them, I'd like that option. 
  
  At time of writing this review, I did not have access to the clan war mode, it was disabled. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Codemonkee
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 13, 2006 9:02 am PT
Review:  To quote another review, this game is very "under-appreciated!!" The one thing you need to be aware 
 of when you think about buying this game is that these are walking TANKS!! Not giant robotic sword-swinging 
 ninjas. For any of you familiar with the old mech assault games, this isn't too far out from those. 
 
  
  Graphics are good, and an exploding hound looks real nice. Lighting and real world effects seem 
 to be pretty solid. I was playing a mission at sunset and it actually got darker as the mission 
 progressed, which ads a ton to the explosions. 
  
  Gameplay/Story in the solo missions are adequate. They give you just enough of a story to tell 
 you why you are doing what you are doing. This could have been done better to get you more involved. 
 It doesn't take a lot to get a good story going, just seems like they were a little lazy. 
  
  Actual game controls are straight forward and to the point. learning to run around in these 
 things is actually pretty easy. 
  
  Overall with my experience I think this is a great game. But keep in mind that the events in the 
 single player campaign showcase the conflict that leads up to the "war" - the online component. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chrypt22
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 13, 2006 8:33 am PT
Review:  What is annoying is the fact that a lot of people are saying, "well its not Mechassault". It is 
 not meant to be anything like that. They built this game on the premise that you actually have 
 to use team work instead of run and gun skill. 
  
  The single player game is O. K. and I see it as nothing more than online training for your particular 
 class of hound. There ar e six classes of hounds and the single player missions more or less gets 
 you ready to do some serious damage online. 
  
  Online: I shouldnt have to go into the customization because that alone is unbelievable. You have 
 to earn and buy your parts before you jump into the real online game. The "free games" allow you 
 to compete and earn parts to build your hound for the persistant world action. The persistant world 
 is a giant map that gains and loses territory as you fight. All in all the Multi-player is what 
 makes the game worth it. Teamwork is key online, I know you hear them say it... but if you don't 
 use teamwork then the game will be boring and frustrating. You have to use teamwork, especially 
 if you want to get enough parts and money to build and maintain a half way decent hound. Yeah, 
 you have to maintain your hound... if a weapon gets destroyed in the game, you have to replace 
 it. If you are not a multiplayer type of person, then you may want to look elsewhere.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeathKnight112
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 13, 2006 5:53 am PT
Review:  This game is made by sega. It is not like mech assault in that it is not extremely fast paced there 
 are no energy weapons or booster packs. But although it is slow paced it is very team based and 
 has a great online mode and an average single player. The hgame lets you customize you HOUND to 
 the extreme with over 600 parts. The game has pretty good sound effects and great visuals and it 
 is a joy to play. I would recommend this to fans of simulators and even mechwarrior fans. This 
 game is definately worth the 60 dollars to buy. The online mode is an MMO-like world where you 
 can choose from 3 countries to battle with online against other playes. You join a squad online, 
 and battle it out to gain glory for your country. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nave686
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 12, 2006 6:20 pm PT
Review:  Chromehounds is a game which is set in post World War 3 where all who have survived the global 
 warfare now fight valiantly for their lives in apartment building sized mech suits. By this time 
 most people are saying great another low budget, low graphics, giant robot game. But Chromehounds 
 breaks its way out of that stereotype in nearly every category. This game has three major positive 
 points: The vastly customisable mechs, the special effect graphics, and the exciting online gameplay.
 
  
  At first you have two choices for your mech: online or offline. If you decide to play offline you 
 get to pick between getting your mech on loan from the mercenary company you work for, Rafzakael, 
 or build your own from parts you acumilate by completeing campain missions with higher and higher 
 grades. But before you choose how big of a caliber machine gun you want, you must choose one of 
 the six different story lines which each support a different and specific class. The soldier and 
 the sniper are the two easy campains classes. The Defender and the Scout classes are the mid-range 
 difficulty. Last but not least are the Commander and the Heavy Gunner classes taking the hard dificulty 
 section. 
  
  Each branch of single player will make you more proficent in a certain mech type by uping the amount 
 of tech you can upgrade your war machine with. Unfortunatly you wont be doing that to soon. In 
 order to really get a personalized mech you need to beat a sizable chuck of the campain in any 
 one of the six campain modes or hop online and build a mech for online combat.
  
  Here its a little more basic. You go onto Xbox live and get the oppertunity to build your first 
 mech with the meager parts that you can buy or the parts youve earned from story mode. You then 
 take that Hound online and battle against people on a series of maps that form a big battlefeild 
 that represents the story line fight between the three different factions in the game. After choosing 
 your faction your ready to fight for your new found "country" and win the war. After each battle 
 you earn some cash with which to buy more and more mech parts.
  
  One of the best part about your online mech is you arnt tied to one class or another, you simply 
 add on weapons you want from seperate classes creating crazy hybrids, like scouts with enormous 
 cannons, or heavilly armored fast attack mechs. What ever your style of play is you can easily 
 obtain a model right for you.
  
  As the first Mech combat "simulator" of the next gen gaming era this game wows the eye as much 
 as the ear. When i first sat down and squeezed off a shell at an online oponent only to score a 
 direct hit i was more pleased with the fantastic display of fire and smoke than i was with the 
 fact I'd just blown the cockpit of the enemy hound wide open. The explosions don't only look great, 
 but with a little bass and some mid to high quality speakers, they make you jump. As your mechs 
 health drops it is reflected on your apearance with sparks, fires, and even disabled weapons. It 
 really makes you feel like you could blow up at any time.
  
  Overall I say this game is a rent for you out there unforunate enough not to have a Gold subscription 
 to Xbox live. Otherwise this game has replay value because of its brilliantly done online play. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jypson44
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 3, 2006 2:23 pm PT
Review:  I enjoyed the demo for the most part, heard great things pre-launch, so off I went to Gamestop 
 crossing my fingers that the next $60 I spend won't be flushed down the toilet. Anyway, enough 
 with my pre-review rabble. I can't say I'm disappointed at all. I read some of the other reviews, 
 and they seemed to be disappointed, but I think it's pretty good. I'll start with negatives followed 
 by positives.
  
  Sound - (N) Nothing stands out at all first of all. The guns sound the same basically, and the 
 mech itself isn't very audibly different no matter what you're doing. When you first get damaged 
 (usually in the "legs") it makes this anoying sparking sound over and over in perfect rythem, yikes. 
 (P) Theres just enough static in the voices to seem realistic without getting obnoxious. Even though 
 the guns and explosions all sound the same, they aren't that bad. 
  
  Control - (N) I really don't have too much to complain about with the controls. I guess they don't 
 really utelize all of the buttons well, (P) but it's not that big of a deal and the mechs really 
 control pretty easily. 
  
  Graphics - (N) The mechs dissapear after being blown up?! Yup, it's true, they just dissapear, 
 gay The surrounding are somewhat bland and unremarkable. Te game is also pretty dark, you hardly 
 ever get to fight with the sun on your back, er, back of your marching death machine. The missiles 
 look kinda rough when they are launching as well. (P) The mechs look GREAT! They really made them 
 to look very realistic to what they might actually look like in the future. The smoke, fire, and 
 explosions look pretty cool, and the lighting, when there is some light, looks pretty good as well. 
 I think they did a very good job capturing the ambience of a broken futuristic battlefield. 
  
  Gameplay - (N) Not much of an opposing force to fight off. Most mechs blow up after a few shots 
 of the rifle and the tanks blow up after one. They do deploy the tanks in numbers though, so they 
 can become a challenge if you're a bad shot or just not paying attention. Your mechs are generally 
 SLOW, which can be understood since they are GIANT beasts of war. However, they can get quite cumbersome 
 when you need to march back and forth across the map trying to defend targets or chase down a fleeing 
 Armoured Personnel Carrier. The objectives you are supposed to complete to beat the level are very 
 vague and don't really give you all the intel you need to go and finish the job which can lead 
 to some "Mission Failed" screens even though you're not entirely sure why. (P) It's not that hard 
 to get the reticle over your enemy w/ the provided little box on the top right, and pretty easy 
 to get a good shot when you zoom in. The map is fairly detailed letting you know in advance what 
 hills you can climb/desend and what ones will send you sliding down with some chasis damage to 
 boot. Single player missions are interesting enough to keep you wanting to play the next level, 
 and I'm sure online will be pretty cool as long as you can devote enough time to find people you'll 
 have fun playing with to comprise a team. 
  
  All in all I'm glad I threw down my hard earned green backs and I dont think this is one I'll be 
 trading in any time soon. If you're a mech fan, I'm pretty sure you'll enjoy it, but if you have 
 ANY doubts run out to Blockbuster or wherever to give it a spin, assuming they have a copy. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: STARS_Splinter
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 12, 2006 12:38 pm PT
Review:  Chromehounds. Another 'realistic' 'mech game. Because, lets face it, there just haven't been enough 
 of them, have there?
  
  Well... no, actually. There haven't. Theres something about stomping around a city in a 20-metre 
 tall war machine that somehow never gets old. Its something gamers have been in love with since 
 the first days of Mechwarrior and Front Mission, and whilst the genre has matured and expanded- 
 and is now clearly segregated into two categories- its still that pure fact that you're controlling 
 a 100-ton stomping machine thats the real draw of these games. Whether you're a fan of the quicker 
 paced, more arcadelike experiences of the Xbox Mechassault games or you prefer the deeper, more 
 serious simulations like the MechWarrior series or Steel Battalion, its always that fact that keeps 
 you coming back for more, at the end of the day.
  
  Chromehounds doesn't try to buck this idea. Rather, it delivers on it in spades. From vast tundrid 
 hills to densely packed urban environments, the game does its best from the outset to say: You're 
 in a huge mech. Enjoy. Of the two categories, it falls squarely into the latter; a more serious, 
 tactical mech game. It may not boast the outrageous complexity of some of the Mechwarrior Titles, 
 or have the 40-button controller of Steel Battalion, but Chromehounds focuses precisely on the 
 battlefield roles of the varied mech's in the game, and the myriad of customisation options.
  
  The game's story goes something like this: in the 1980's, the third world war broke out. Since 
 then, nations have changed considerably, and in the continent of Neroimus, three warring nations 
 are battling it out for supremacy. Enter you: a new recruit of a mercenary brigade that hires its 
 services out to the highest bidder.
  
  its all really just an excuse to get you into a mech and onto the battlefield, but as settings 
 go, its fairly interesting, if not particularly developed. The game then throws you into the seat 
 of one of six key 'Role Types' of mech (or Hound as the game calls them) : Soldier, Gunner, Sniper, 
 Defender, Scout, or Commander. Each of the types has a specific role to fulfill on the battlefield, 
 and your choice of RT will determine the kind of actions you'll undertake in game. 
  
  In the single player game, this will be a linear set of just 8 missions for each of the RT's, plus 
 a training mission, for a total of 49 missions. Not a bad count, since they're all fairly varied, 
 but each mission will only take 10-15 minutes to blast through, so its not the longest campaign 
 in the world, and although you can customise your mech to your satisfaction using whatever parts 
 you've unlocked so far in the game, for the first missions at least the parts you have access to 
 are pitiful in comparison to the borrowed Hounds you're given by default. So, whilst the single 
 player mode weighs in at an ok length and is reasonably entertaining, its definately not where 
 the fun of the game lies.
  
  Chromehound's main focus is far and away its multiplayer mode. Taking the form of an ongoing national 
 conquest not unlike Mechassault 2, you must chose to affiliate yourself with one of the three nations 
 and sign up to join a mercenary Squad. Squads can be made up of up to 20 players, and since the 
 conflict is a persistant world you form strong bonds with your squadmates, who you'll be working 
 with on a regular basis. Once you've joined a squad, you can start building your own Hound, and 
 then take part in sorties to any of the many mission areas on the map with up to six of your Squaddies. 
 Each time you win in an area, your faction gains more control in that territory, until ultimately 
 it gains control of it- but each time you lose, your faction loses control too. Theres a great 
 emphasis on teamplay and squad tactics, mainly due to the mix of Hound Role Types in the game- 
 you'll need to make use of all of the different types if you're to overcome your enemy, whether 
 you're fighting against human opponents from another Squad or computer controlled defenders. Its 
 squad mechanic and sense of progress makes the multiplayer game highly addictive- and you'll find 
 yourself coming back often to check out what new gear your Squadmates have and what territories 
 are under threat now.
  
  Visually, Chromehounds is a treat. The Hounds themselves look superb, with incredible detail, and 
 whilst some of the customised designs can look a little clunky, that just adds to the atmosphere. 
 The landscapes look a little bland and desaturated at times, but theres more variety than you'd 
 think at first, and some of the levels - particularly when played at dusk or at night, lit only 
 by your Hound's headlights- can look very impressive.
  
  The sound isn't quite so good; the forgettable background music is best turned off, or better still, 
 replaced with your own soundtrack. The sound effects are pretty good, with some fairly solid weapon 
 sounds and fittingly clunky Hound stomps. The voice acting in the single player campaign is fairly 
 decent too, if not memorable.
  
  Overall, Chromehounds is an enjoyable game if you have an Xbox Live Gold subscription and the time 
 to devote to your Squad. The single player experience is fairly shallow and won't last you long, 
 so I'd reccomend looking elsewhere for your mech thrills instead of buying this. However, if you 
 have a few hours a week to spare to devote to crushing the other nations of the world, and have 
 a penchant for large steel machines, you really can't go far wrong with Chromehounds. Sure, there 
 have been better 'mech games- but the multiplayer experience here makes it worth coming back to 
 again and again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mainboard007
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 12, 2006 12:34 pm PT
Review:  Now just in case some of the highly caffeine, tightly wound, no doze pumped, severe ADHD having, 
 acts like a opinionated 8 year old, screams in the headset, Uber sugar fiends with the attention 
 span of a hummingbird on meth is still around here, I have a message to you...
  
  I hated Mechassault, it was an ok game in of its self. But, it was not a mech simulation by any 
 stretch, it was an arcade action shooter. The teamwork was a joke and it relied heavily on a persons 
 reflexes to win. In Chromehounds one man does not and will not make the difference, teamwork, tactics, 
 and planning does.
  
  Let me rephrase, if you will argue that Mechassault was a great example of a mech game, do not 
 buy Chromehounds. You will not have the discipline nor patience for this game. If you love playing 
 a lone wolf style of multi player, do not buy Chromehounds. If you cannot sit in one place without 
 speaking or moving for one minute, do not buy Chromehounds. If you have to ponder the last sentence 
 and only pause before thinking it has no bearing on a video game, do not buy Chromehounds. 
  
  Anyone left?
  
  I thought so, lets move on.
  
  I am enjoying Chromehounds alot. The 
 single player is a good set of missions linked by a structured campaign. Alone, it is not all that 
 great, but it is fun. Many have called the single player a tutorial of sorts and I will agree with 
 them. The graphics are great, granted the terrain is not mind blowing, but I am not there to look 
 at the ground. The sound ranges from solid to fantastic. The game play is almost like a simulation 
 in the way the game actually plays. But, the controls and its layout are easy enough to make it 
 feels vaguely close to a action game. The controls are fairly easy to pickup but it takes a while 
 to learn the different types of hounds and how everything works. It is a hard mix to describe so 
 I hope that explanation will do.
  
  The game is slower paced than most, think driving a tank and you will get close. Understand that 
 you will be sitting in the cockpit moving to your destination 40 to 60 percent of the time. This 
 may sound boring, but for those of us who enjoyed Steel Battalion it is no big adjustment. The 
 different classes make the game even better, but they are crucial for online play. The 6 different 
 classes are soldier, sniper, defender, scout, heavy gunner, and tactics commander. Each one is 
 unique to play and really makes the multi player game shine. The single player will take you through 
 all of the classes in CH. If you finish the single player campaign before heading online you will 
 find you will be better suited to help your squad. Speaking of online...
  
  The multi player is what made the game for me. If you love team based games you will enjoy Chromhounds. 
 This is where the travel time when heading to your destination starts to mean something. In MP 
 you have time to talk to your squad and make plans. This is a big change to anyone used to just 
 jumping into MP and start playing. But I believe it is a wonderful change. CH is a game that I 
 can finally make plans and use tactics to win in a match. Just as important is the Garage, suffice 
 it to say, WOW it is really deep.
  
  Anyway on to my scores.
  
  Fun (How much fun am I having) : Tons
  
  Graphics (As relates to how well they help or enhance 
 the game) : Wonderful
  
  Sound (How well does the sound help the game) : Dolby 5.1 is fantastic
  
  Longevity (How long 
 is it and will I play it more than once. Including Multi player) : I might be done with it in 2008.
 
  
  BS Curve (How much bad hype, comments, and reviews have I heard of or read and agree with) : Not 
 any.
  
  Gamer Target (Who this game is best suited for) : Battletech & Heavy Gear board gamers, wannabe 
 mech pilots & mecha lovers (Thats me!) , tank pilots, patient people
  
  Similar games: Steel Battalion, Armored Core, Mechwarrior on the PC
  
  Final Grade: A great 
 team based mech psudo-simulation with the best MP on Xbox Live. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gojomez
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 12, 2006 12:33 pm PT
Review:  I love the mech customization, colors and weapons. I like the action. But I'm having serious trouble 
 finding a match. Where is everybody?? I spent 20 minutes trying to find a game with people in it. 
 Then finally the only game I find has 1 person... on my team.
  
  I figure that as soon as people start buying this game, and the matchmaking playlist fills up, 
 it will be a big hit. Mech war games are allways fun, and this one kicks in some Nex gen graphics 
 and some serious long range combat. 
  
  Chrome Hounds delivers, so get it and get online... there is a war to fight! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Legusto
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 12, 2006 7:49 am PT
Review:  Why do you people think that this game is revolutionary!?
  
  Just cause it's the first next-gen Mech game doesn't mean that it's compelteley new
  
  This 
 game is a just mechassault with less polish, a slightly funner mutliplayer and an even worse campaing 
 that brings down the whole experience
  
  Graphics-Nice looking mechs, and nearby sceneray, eveyrthing else is muddy
  
  Sound- Guns and 
 missiles sound cool, voiceovers suck and are just dumb
  
  Value- $60 for just multiplayer? No thank you
  
  Tilt- They are mechs, and that is still cool
 
  
  Gameplay- Been there, done that
  
  Overall it's a rental and u should wait until it drops in price
  
  But pikc up a copy of the 
 original Mech Assault if u want a truly awesome mech game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thatruth283
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 11, 2006 6:20 pm PT
Review:  The single player is pretty easy to complete but the real challenge is getting rank S in all of 
 the missions to unlock the bonus parts. The multi-player is what this game is all about. If you 
 don't have xboxlive, there is no point in purchasing it since most of the work seems to be put 
 in the on-line section of the game. You can purchase a myriad of parts and customize your "hound" 
 in any way imaginable. There is also clan support that is required to play in the on going "war" 
 that the game offers. If you enjoy any aspect of mech games or just pure customization, I urge 
 you to purchase Chromehounds.
  
  I have just got this game and I am just stunned by it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackWarrior024
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 11, 2006 4:33 pm PT
Review:  First off everyone please stop reviewing this game on it's single player component. It is actually 
 pretty decent. First off the single player grabs you in and wants you to play more of it to get 
 more parts. Parts, Parts?? Parts you ask. Yup PARTS, the one thing you need to make your mech better. 
 When you play a single player mission which is in parts like Solidier, Sniper, Defender, Scout, 
 you play each at a difficulty and what you have to do is try to get a S Grade which gives you two 
 parts and an A Grade gives you one part. But the fun thing is if you don't all S Grades and just 
 feel like playing through all the missions to see what the story and gameplay is like then you 
 can play "Free Play" which is like you replay missions to get the S Grade. Now the mission are 
 fairly decent not too hard for say a little kid but it is pretty challenging. Next thing is the 
 Mech Builder. Not going to talk alot about this but all you do is you take all your parts from 
 what you beat from the single player and buil. You can build every part of your mech like cockpit, 
 generator, legs, and paint. Really fun and ppl can see what mech you have in multplayer. NOW FOR 
 THE MULTIPLAYER!!!!
  
  First is I am from Florida, and just got my game today from EB Games very lucky they sold me one, 
 they had 764 on pre-order. The multiplayer is really in depth. You must be in a clan to have the 
 best experience. But once you are in a clan you must get in a terriorty, there are 3 and pick one 
 and fight other clans for territory of the land. Other than that every thing is perfectly matched 
 and fits everywhere. The graphcis gorgeous, sound perfectly crisp and overall value BUY!!! This 
 game will last you!!! Oh yea about the mulitiplayer, before you begin a game your clan leader which 
 is the tactics commander gets a tactical map which he pinpoints with dots so on your map there 
 is a red dot with an objective that tells you to go there and to something. Which is key because 
 that is what strategy is With a Map. Really fun and good value if you get the hang of this.
  
  Hey I was thinking about this game for a few months and I said hey i'll give it a chance so 
 i raised money bought the game and am having so much fun with it. Remember this is a mech game. 
 The mechs move slow, they shoot fast too and the key part is your strategy with your squad mates. 
 Thanks for reading and hope with you are soon to be having fun with the game and good luck with 
 your mech. And we are recruiting for ChromeHounds go to http://paroxwolves. bravehost. com and go 
 to forums and register and send whitedragon a friend request to be in the clan. Thank you 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lutinantsland
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 11, 2006 10:50 am PT
Review:  This game is very good in my opinion but that's because I wasn't expecting a fast paced first person 
 shooter. If you want another Mech Assault where you can use jumpjets and dodge rockets, this isn't 
 for you. This game is meant for the tactical and strategic player. The game's single player isn't 
 as terrible as everyone says. The only problem is walking so slowly that it takes a while to make 
 it to different places. The graphics aren't extremely amazing but the mechs looks beautiful as 
 do the explosions. If Gamespot gives this game anything less than 7.0 I'll be dissapointed. Buy 
 it or rent it at your own risk although I would recomend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deathfish69165
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 11, 2006 10:32 am PT
Review:  This game is both creative and yet lacking. The singleplayer acts as no more then a tutorial for 
 the MP, which the game clearly circles around. Each of the Hound models are set for that exact 
 mission, but you'll hate the standard (borrowed) and want to design you're own. That's only optional 
 after you beat that level and open the free-play mode.
  
  The opening of parts, add-ons, and colors does make it worth while to try your best, but it's to 
 saturated with items to make your mech look good rather then function better, or heavier weapons. 
 Still, it is a joy to unlock that new sniper cannon that really gives Defenders a beating.
  
  Many think: "Guns, guns, and more guns!", but there's more to the weapons then what meets eye. 
 Such an example is of the Scout. Clearly not a weapons heavy Hound, but if you strap on two mine 
 layers along with the standard sensors and long-range communications enhancements, then you've 
 now became a secret defender of a com-tower or base. Don't forget that there are jammers that will 
 nullify a Hounds communications. So, catch a stray from the pack, down his communications, and 
 signal a highlander-snipe to take him out.
  
  That's mostly the rundown of the MP. It's just different for each Hound depending on the way you 
 make it. The main thing to remember is that "you're not alone, your a part of a team." And make 
 sure that every team member know their role and how to follow commands. Because one loose soldier 
 could cost you the entire battle and that territory.
  
  The graphics are beyond spectacular. The smoke and flames add to the beauty of the partical effects 
 in the debre. But, the sound was a real let down. One track: That's all there is. And a gloomy 
 one at that. Luckily, with the 360, there is the option to drown out the background music with 
 you're own music. So, the music may bite, but it's easily fixed to you're style.
  
  I've read several peps over the net saying that gameplay is slow and docial, but they're all comparing 
 it to Mechassault. It's not a sequal. it's not a mock up. It's in no relation to Mechassault at 
 all. This game is a stand alone next-gen mech sim and a great one at that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jerectoff
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 10, 2006 6:05 am PT
Review:  I'm really upset that this game hasn't scored higher with offline mode.
  
  Ok, its quite easy, unless you want to get top marks for each mission, the music sucks and its 
 frustrating that you can't check up the objectives during the mission, but if you look past all 
 those little things, this game is wicked.
  
  You get to fight a war, from three different sides in varied giant metal beasts called hounds. 
 Each one comes in different shapes and sizes but all armed with a huge arsenal of weapons.
  
  My favourite is the Heavy Gunner, armed with one giant Howitzer similar to the Big Bertha's 
 of WWII and 4 sub cannons for a more spread shot.
  
  The way I see it, is that the single player is one massive training mission, letting you get to 
 grips with the different vehicles and letting you decide what role you wish to take, then once 
 thats all over, then the real fun starts, an online world war and the chance to build some of the 
 coolist looking machines ever seen, and then take them onto the battlefield to fight for your chosen 
 country.
  
  But we CH players, we don't care if the magazines and websites rate this poorly, as it just means 
 we get a better connection online and more parts to use.
  
  If you are worried about the reviews from say OXM, which gave this a 6/10, then don't bother, it 
 won't be everyones cup of tea, but if you want something truely original that has the potential 
 to be the best Live game to date, then come on over, but either way, I don't care, as I've got 
 the game and I'm loving it.
  
  And perhaps, you can too... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deadcow1977
Rating: 3.9
Date: Jul 9, 2006 4:59 am PT
Review:  Should have. These are the words that some this game up completely. There should have been a more 
 structured mission system. The missions should have been more flexible. There should have been 
 a much better offline element. I know this game probably absolutely shines on multiplayer, but 
 for those of us who have, and will, buy it for the offline element, its just a shallow experience.
 
  
  So, where to begin? When I bought this game I was hoping for an epic war story, I wanted to march 
 into the fray with my steel soldiers at my side, dodging missiles, while around me buildings turned 
 to dust under a hail of bullets the size of small cars, I wanted to stamp through massive city 
 scapes blowing everything to hell in my enormous death machine while all around the screams of 
 my dying comrades drilled into my ears in a way that only months of therapy would rid me of. I 
 wanted the stuff that I was shown in the attract video, and it was so very far away from what I 
 actually got.
  
  What I actually got was a menu. A menu of choices asking me what kind of soldier I wanted to be. 
 Would you like to play the soldier missions? Or would you like to play the sniper missions? Attacker 
 or defender? One or the other? This should have been different. One of the main cruxs of this 
 game is the ability to build and modify your own mech. What should have happened is that each mission 
 gave you an objective, possibly given you a recommended layout for your machine, but, crucially, 
 let you decide how you wanted to tackle that mission by letting you build your own machine. Want 
 to snipe, and then go in for the close kill? Fine! Build a machine with a sniper rifle and a shot 
 gun. Want to pound enemy emplacements from a distance? Fine slap on a howitzer! But thats not 
 what happens. What happens is that youre told how you are to do the mission, and then youre given 
 a machine to do it, which you might as well use because 1, you generally dont have enough parts 
 to build a functional or effective mech until the end of the mission chain and 2, because the machine 
 youre given is usually exactly right for the rigid mission youre given. Thus, if you only play 
 the single player story (and I use the term story loosely) mode then building your own mech is 
 completely moot, as youre given exactly the right tools to do an exact job.
  
  Next gripe. You will fail. I dont mean youll get killed, because you wont. In fact, I dont 
 think that Ive ever been killed. But I have failed a lot of missions, not usually because Ive 
 actually failed through direct incompetence, but generally because I havent had a frigging clue 
 what the hell was going on, and the annoying thing is that I can give you several examples. Not 
 just one, but several. Sniper missions, level two, standing on top of a hill watching two factions 
 fighting each other, and having absolutely no clue at all who Im supposed to be shooting at. All 
 the machines look the same, its in the dark, Im too far away for anything to show up on radar 
 and the map doesnt show me where anyone is. I failed the mission five times because I was shooting 
 my own men, because they were the only ones I could see. Soldier mission, cant remember what level, 
 but I have to go and destroy the enemy base. Number one, thats a mission for the heavy gunner, 
 who can level a building from three miles away with a howitzer, number two, my mission statement 
 tells me to get to the base on the other side of the map as quickly as possible, mopping up any 
 resistance I meet on the way. But if you take the most direct route, which is the fastest, then 
 you miss the majority of the enemy who go and pound the crap out of your base, while you sit on 
 the far side of the map dropping bombs on theirs (which takes forever) , and about halfway through 
 destroying their base the mission fails because yours has been blown up, so you actually have to 
 go out of your way to find and eliminate the enemy, which would be fine, if I had been told thats 
 what I had to do.
  
  Thirdly, the NA communication system. This is a system of communication rigs that dot the map that 
 you have to own much like a multiplayer domination game. If you dont own an NA then the field 
 of communication around that area is disabled and you cant hear any commands or information relayed 
 to you. This is fine, and would add an interesting element if you were engaged in long battles 
 as you probably are in the multiplayer game, but in the single player game, you just dont have 
 the time to capture the towers meaning that you may occasionally get caught in a situation where 
 you cannot hear commands or requests or get information from your commander, and since they dont 
 repeat themselves you find that you occasionally loose vital information.
  
  Where are the other mechs? You hardly ever see them. Mostly its just the ACVs and small scout 
 vehicles, the missions where you get to take on another Chrome Hound are few and far between and 
 this is a real shame, because they are some of the best missions in the game. The chance to take 
 on another challenger as worthy as you is a welcome break from blasting the ineffectual tanks, 
 but its just not there, so another should have, should have been more enemy chrome hounds.
  
  Offline customisable missions? Where are they? In the absence of a cohesive single player game, 
 you should at least have a decent offline bot game, but theres nothing. Not a sausage. After the 
 scant few hours it takes to finish the single player game theres nothing. Theres a slight replay 
 value to be had from going back through and trying to mop up those elusive S ranks, although, up 
 to now, Ive only had one mission where I didnt get an S off the bat, but when thats over theres 
 absolutely nothing to keep you playing offline. No death matches, no domination, no capture the 
 flag, nothing, zero, sweet F. A.
  
  There are positives. The graphics are pretty astounding, the detail on the little tiny people and 
 on the vehicles is exceptional, and the Hounds themselves are jaw dropping. The explosions and 
 the volumetric smoke that obscures your vision is also a sight to behold. The enemy AI is also 
 pretty good, with different units behaving differently to different threats, and even some of the 
 missions are fun. Do you a favour though, turn the music off?
  
  So, what do I think? This is a game that should have been so much more; it deserved to be so much 
 more. It could have been an absolute classic, the greatest mech game ever, with its simplistic 
 controls belying a much deeper game that should have been just as easy to pick up and play for 
 a quick blast, as for hours and hours of in depth play. It should have been the seminal mech combat 
 game, unsurpassed by anything else, the Halo of mech combat. But it isnt. Its lazy, badly thought 
 out, badly designed and badly executed. This is a 20 game with 50 graphics.
  
  It should have been better Sega, much, much better.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CapcomGroove2
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jul 8, 2006 7:46 pm PT
Review:  Well after downloadiing several vids of this game from gamespot i decided it was a must have, but 
 thats just me and ive always been a big mech fan. In the game there are massive guns and some nice 
 explosions, its really cool when you destroy a mech it blows up and leaves smoke that blocks your 
 vision, so you stomp through it and it gives a realistic affect. 
  Single playa mode is too easy, i managed to get to the commander scenarios in around 10 hours. 
 Also there is very little storyline and it left me feeling that the game is more designed for multiplayer 
 action. After trying it out first hand you can imagine being in a very cool battle with a team 
 of 5 other hounds trying to destroy another team. It calls fora lot of tweaking to perfect your 
 mechs role. 
  In single playa you complete missions and get a rating for meeting certain requirments, if you 
 get an A grade for the mission you get a part to build your own hound with, but if you get an s 
 grade you get 2 parts. So there is a degree of replay value. 
  The thing is you have to get used to the hounds because sometimes they dont look as cool as mechs 
 from say WING gundam, or armoured core. They are more uh realistic i guess is the word. 
  Buidlings are destructable and oil rigs give nice explosions that can damage/destroy nearby enemies. 
 The buildings crumple inwards rather than blow to bits though and backround detail has been dropped 
 for high detail on the hounds and that cool kinda visual tracer effect you get on 360 games. 
 
  You can pick up and play the game quite easily, there are training sessions b4 each scenario to 
 teach you how to use that particular hound but these are boring and annoying. 
  Spoiler* : there seems to be some sideline story about some special team of hounds that think your 
 player has potential, i'm hoping that there are some extra missions if you do some stuff right 
 but who knows, anyway its very reminicent of armoured core storyline the way the enemy 'bigs u 
 up' heh.
  Another simply annoying part of the game is you barely ever fight hounds, please note again that 
 ive not gone through the last scenario, but still thats about 80% of the game done and i only faced 
 4 hounds all of which were defeated with ease. 
  I've not played the multiplaya cos i dont have broadband but im sure it will be great if enough 
 people play it, but thats just my opinion. If you want to know how i think then elder scrolls oblivion 
 is defintely worth a 9.6 as it got from gamespot and marking chromehounds against oblivion i would 
 give chromie an 8... maybe.... because im a mech fan. And thats guessing how good multiplayer will 
 be 
  
  ps watch for the snipers i know theyll be on x box live.... gg
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: neilwb23
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 14, 2006 6:43 am PT
Review:  Firstly, forget what all these other reviews have said. This game really is great. I'm yet to try 
 the multiplayer, but damn, its good already!
  
  I'llmake this blunt, the graphics are so-so, enviroments are a little bland but the mechs have 
 huge amounts of detail on them. The enviroments range form baren deserts to hectres of farm land, 
 clustered with crop fields and houses. The explosions look spectacular. End of story :D
  
  Some people will complain the lack of wreckage from other mechs, and vehicles, but later on in 
 the game, you won't even care, because you'll have another 10 hounds trying to send you to your 
 demise. 
  
  The mech building is awesome. As you progress through the game, you unlock new parts. These are 
 used to design your own HOUND. The choicesa are endless. You can attach things to other weapons, 
 tilt them, creat a cluster of guns, have a lanky monstrosity, you name it! This is great as far 
 as multiplayer goes.
  
  The multiplayer's biggest feature is the world war mode. This features teams of 6 mercinaries (players) 
 fighting another team from another country to take control of certain land under the command of 
 another player. There are over 120 areas to capture, each made from about 25 capital cities and 
 areas of interest such as pipe lines, and the gameplay will be endlessly fun. I talk in the future 
 sense as I'm yet to try the multiplayer, but judging from what I've seen, it'll be great.
  
  The soundtrack is a little bit depressing, and some weapons sounda little flat for the BFGs 
 they are, but this is no real problem, thanks to media streaming :P: P
  
  the story is also non-existant. It's a little like BF2 with bots on, only with a slight story. 
 The unlockable parts are what keeps the rather dull single player mode story together.
  
  I have had little time to try out the Multiplayer as my 360 died on me a few hours ago, but all 
 I can say is WOW, what multiplayer! The biggest match I played was a 4 on 4 TDM. And the feeling 
 is outrageous when you see a wall collapse in fornt of you, and see a Japanese-Super Mech charging 
 at you, along with another butt load of mechs. The teamwork feels great, and one match is enough 
 to get a friends request -the feeling of the community is phenominal. I'm yet to try the Neroimus 
 war mode, as joining a clan is a little bit annoying unless you've joined one on the internet, 
 but that mode is clearly a massive shine. When you sign in, you get news reports of battles and 
 current events- a great little feature, if not a little annoying because you're dying to play a 
 match.
  
  Buy this game. I don't care how. Get it off Ebay form one of the "OMG ITS A SIM OMG THE DEMO SUCKED" 
 people, if you give it a chance, you shan't regret it :D: D: D: D 
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
