-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Clive Barker's Jericho
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/adventure/clivebarkersjericho/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Gorgeously creepy visuals and sound.
 Jumping between teammates makes for a lot of variety.
 Some tense, exciting firefights .
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Horrifically confined level design leaves no room to maneuver.
 Lame final boss caps a stupendously awful ending.
 Long animations and visual effects leave certain characters far too vulnerable in battle.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 29, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 6.5, 55 Review (s)
User Score: 7.3, 1,180 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Codemasters
Developer: Mercury Steam
Genre: Horror Action Adventure
Date: Oct 23, 2007
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Poor level design poisons Jericho's awesome but unrealized potential. 

  Clive Barker's Jericho is an inconsistent first-person shooter, alternating between moments of 
 pure, atmospheric greatness and irritating design paradoxes that suck the fun out of the gameplay. 
 For every incredible set piece -- a battle in a Roman gladiator arena, fearful attacks by ghostly 
 children -- there is a frustrating sequence that puts every shortcoming in the game proudly on display. 
 There's a lot going on, and sometimes it comes together exquisitely. More often, Jericho's various 
 elements get in the way of one another, creating a game you'll love one moment and hate the next. 

           Give me a second while I tally up the damages.      

  Horror writer Clive Barker's touch is most evident in Jericho's overall sense of impending doom. 
 The time-traveling narrative takes you to a number of eras -- World War II, ancient Sumeria -- and 
 all of them are wrapped in a demonic haze of darkness and dread. The architecture is brooding and 
 imposing, shadowed corners look like they could harbor something truly sinister, and soft ambient 
 lighting brings it all together to make for a cohesive look. The sound design is equally sinister, 
 with the quiet, pulsing soundtrack and the sound of dripping water making you wonder what you might 
 be encountering ahead. That isn't to say that Jericho is a truly scary game. It's incredibly dark 
 (you'll get good use of your flashlight) , often intense, and always a little eerie, but you'll 
 never jump out of your seat. It's a Gothic paradise, and as a study in pure atmosphere, it succeeds 
 in spades.  

  The story itself never really takes advantage of all this thick, fearful ambience. The setup is 
 pretty awesome on its own, though. In the beginning, God didn't create Adam and Eve -- He created 
 a sexless being known as the firstborn. Turns out that whole experiment didn't work out too well, 
 and the thing got locked away in an alternate reality, where it occasionally gets too bored and 
 tries to escape. The secretive Jericho squad exists to shove the firstborn back where it belongs. 
 Too bad the script itself is just a thin slice of nonsense, featuring far too many hokey one-liners 
 ("praise the Lord and pass the ammunition!") than good taste allows. And just when you are finally 
 getting into it, the game ends with a lame boss fight without answering any of the main questions 
 it raised. Leaving room for a sequel is one thing; creating a story that literally goes nowhere 
 is something else entirely.  

  Your own character, Ross, can jump from one member of Jericho squad to another, which sets up the 
 game's most intriguing -- and successful -- mechanic. At any point, you can take control of any of 
 the remaining six members of the squad, and each of them handle quite differently from the others. 
 First of all, they come equipped with different weaponry. More importantly, most of them have two 
 special skills at their disposal, from Cole's ability to slow down time, to Delgado's knack for 
 setting foes on fire, to Church's enemy-paralyzing cloud of blood. At first, it's tough to remember 
 which squadmate possesses which weapons and which skills, but the game does a good job of introducing 
 you to the powers one by one, and eventually it becomes second nature.  

  That isn't to say that every character is particularly useful. Church's rooting skill and Cole's 
 time-slowing ability are possibly the most useful powers, since they give you time to act. Jones, 
 on the other hand, only gets an astral projection skill, and it's rarely helpful outside of some 
 of the game's puzzles. You'd think with six different unique characters to control that Jericho 
 might be spreading itself too thin, but while that is true with other elements in Jericho, the 
 different skills give you a lot of variety without making things feel schizophrenic. The characters 
 you aren't in control of at any given time are governed by the game's semiadequate artificial intelligence, 
 and you can give them rudimentary orders to stay behind, fall back, or move to a specified location. 
 But this is where Jericho begins to stumble -- big-time.  

  As the game progresses, you will at first be ready to deplore the teammate AI for dying so easily. 
 You can revive downed teammates, but there are times when you spend more time reviving than you 
 spend shooting guns and performing awesome powers. Yet on its own, the AI isn't half bad. Teammates 
 run for cover when possible and use their special abilities on their own. But what good does it 
 do to program the AI to take cover and flank when the level design features almost nothing but 
 narrow corridors and confined rooms? The reason that your teammates look like they are bullet fodder 
 is because they simply have  nowhere to go . You'll watch as teammates go down over and over again, 
 simply because they are all stuck in the same tiny space.  

  Then, add to the mix the game's most annoying (and annoyingly common) foes: demons that explode 
 upon death. The things lumber along quickly and take down any nearby character when they fall. 
 And, like most of Jericho's supersturdy enemies, they absorb a good number of bullets before they 
 die. On its own, it's a perfectly legitimate enemy design. But in a game with six squad members 
 and the most claustrophobic levels ever devised, it's the opposite of fun. You'll watch in horror 
 as your entire squad goes down at once and you are powerless to stop the violence. Why would you 
 create an enemy that needs to be taken down from a distance, in a game that doesn't let you distance 
 yourself? Maybe it's meant to be a challenge, but in reality, it's just imbalanced and cheap. We 
 suspect it's all done under the guise of being "tactical," but this is no tactical shooter. Enemies 
 just mindlessly traipse toward you, so the extent of your tactics is switching between characters 
 to use their abilities in tandem.  

  And that's the way of Jericho: design elements that are fine on their own, and a disaster when 
 combined together. Slow strafing speed doesn't have to be bad. Slow strafing speed in a level when 
 the exploding monsters continually respawn, and you are only playing as Delgado, is murder. Then 
 you have the pretty animations and special effects. They look neat, but some effects, like the 
 10-second fiasco you have to experience when you revive someone as Rawlings from afar, get in the 
 way. The action leaves you vulnerable for so long that it's better to just run up and use the standard 
 revival skill, letting the AI handle Rawlings (though unsurprisingly, he is almost always the first 
 character to bite the dust) . There are a number of effects like this that take their good old time, 
 which would be fine if you could get yourself out of the way to perform your powers and enjoy the 
 corresponding visual display.  

  When the levels open up, you can see how great Jericho could have been if it had just been given 
 room to breathe. A spectacular Crusades era boss battle and a series of battles in a Roman arena 
 are perfect examples, and had the entire game followed suit, it could have approached greatness. 
 There aren't enough of these moments in Jericho's eight hours of gameplay, but when they arrive, 
 they hint at loads of unrealized potential. In fact, it is your ability to see the potential behind 
 the missteps that will determine how much you like Jericho. This is, without a doubt, a love-it-or-hate-it 
 kind of game: easy to love for the occasionally awesome and intense firefight, easy to hate for 
 its wide array of frustrating design contradictions.  

           A little lower... a little more to the left... that's it...      

  You'll get essentially 
 the same experience regardless of which version you play. All of them look great and run smoothly. 
 The textures in the PlayStation 3 version look a bit cleaner than those in the Xbox 360 version, 
 though the lighting in the 360 and PC releases is a bit more foreboding. But they all feature relatively 
 long loading times between levels, which will make you thankful for the story snippets you can 
 read during them. And none of them feature any kind of multiplayer mode, so once you are done, 
 unless you want to relive the experience at a higher level of difficulty, you are done for good. 

  Jericho is both a triumph and a disaster, and not a lot of games manage to be both of these at 
 once. Frustrating, exciting, inconsistent, linear -- these words and many more describe the various 
 elements of Clive Barker's Jericho. If you've got a high tolerance for gameplay annoyances and 
 like the feeling of imposing dread and claustrophobia this corridor crawl provides, by all means, 
 give it a shot. If you like tight shooting mechanics and smart level design, you'll want to steer 
 clear.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (112 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: BelzebuVlad
Rating: 3
Date: Apr 16, 2009 5:07 pm PT
Review:  Ok, I was surfing on a PS3 forum where I saw a Jericho's topic opened with posts made before the 
 game's release and I felt the duty to come GameSpot and write a review at this (almost huge) crappy 
 game.
  
  So, let's start with the hype that was generated before the game's release, it was promised a great 
 horror game, full of action, with a great story, gore rated M and bla bla bla, all those beautifull 
 things the media say. After reading so many marvellous things about the game I got excited and 
 so anxyous for the game to came out.
  
  When the game came out and I started to play it, quickly I get really mad, because I didn't bought 
 the game that was promised. First thing, the game's difficulty is null, you only need a good aim, 
 because all the puzzles and obstacles you face are solved by a good samaritan squadron mate, yes, 
 and more than that, when you are going to start to think in what to do he has already said what 
 do you have to do. THANKS HOLY MATES!! THANKS!! Then the HORROR, where is it? Ok, I get it... they 
 were talking about your mates IA that is HORROROUS in combat, they are really dummies, more like 
 CS bots at Very very easy mode... They are dying every second, they are worthless against the enemy 
 and more, sometimes they just get in front of your aim. So, in resume in combat you are going to 
 see all your mates dying and the priest, that has the ability to ressurrect, ressing them (or dying 
 too) while you get are kicking some dummy monster butt... So at this time I start thinking why 
 the hell this game is rated M, must be only of the wine-coloured blood, because even a Teletubbies 
 game can be more harder! The last thing I have to say is the poor and OMG story that the game has! 
 The main character of this game "dies" at the beginning of it and you are put in the control of 
 his spirit and with his spirit you can get in any of your mates body to control it, ok, this is 
 consistent, but the true story of the game is totally confusing, out-timed and has no sense!
  
  Dont buy this game, it will be money thrown at the garbage! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: celtic1962
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 19, 2009 6:48 am PT
Review:  When I first heard about Jericho I was quite intrigued as I'm not only a fan of horror themed games 
 in general but I also enjoyed Clive Barker's Undying on the PC several years ago. Undying combined 
 basic FPS action with the ability to also cast magic spells and set it in an incredibly creepy 
 mansion that gave me quite a few genuine scares. When Jericho was released it unfortunately received 
 mostly mediocre reviews which kept me from purchasing the game for quite awhile. However I remained 
 interested and when the game went down in price combined with that fact that other gamers were 
 stating the game was definitely better then the reviewers were giving it credit for, I went ahead 
 and took the plunge into Clive Barker's dark vision.
  
  GAMEPLAY (8.5) - To get through this game and not be constantly frustrated you have to scrap your 
 usual approach to a FPS and embrace Jericho's unique concept. You are actually the spirit of the 
 former team leader that can possess any of the seven members of Team Jericho, each of which have 
 several unique abilities. If you try to do as I did at the start, which is to simply keep gunning 
 your way forward, you'll die. A lot. The problem is that for most of the journey your squad will 
 be in tight passages that offer little to no cover and most of the basic weapons are underpowered 
 to the point where you'll be emptying entire clips before you bring down a single enemy. Adding 
 to this is that many of the monsters you fight are the type that explode when they die, and if 
 you are anywhere near it you'll most likely go down with it. The team AI isn't bad, as they'll 
 usually line up with the sniper staying back and the big guy in front, but with them constantly 
 exposed they will go down if you don't take advantage of the devastating abilities they have. You 
 can't count on them using these special attacks so the strategy is to not waste any time and immediately 
 float from one to the other and use them yourself. Special attacks vary from the sniper's Ghost 
 Bullet, which you control the flight of and can pass through several enemies, to another's ability 
 to cast a ring of fire that will alight any enemy that crosses its path. Once you get used to the 
 different abilities the game becomes much more enjoyable, though if a sequel were to come out I 
 still hope that the environments will be more open and allow some more maneuverability and tactics. 
 After playing a game like Brother's in Arms the limitations I had on controlling the team were 
 quite apparent.
  
  GRAPHICS (9.0) - Jericho offers some incredible visuals, and this includes both the environments 
 and the character models. Most of the places you're at are covered with shiny and grotesque substances 
 that look almost photo realistic. The seven Jericho members are unique and nicely detailed. While 
 there wasn't a huge variety of monsters there were different ones that were appropriate to the 
 era of history you were in and all of them were very creepy and at times somewhat disgusting. Speaking 
 of which, many of the environments would be extremely disturbing if one were to experience this 
 in actuality, as there is very liberal use of dismembered corpses and at times literally rivers 
 of blood. My only complaint is that often the game was extremely dark, which I realize is appropriate 
 for this environment but it still created a lot of eyestrain, and I was always relieved when I 
 would reach a better lit level.
  
  SOUND (7.5) - While not amazing, the sound was done well. The background music always fit the setting, 
 adding to the suspense. Voicework was adequate, especially the enemy bosses that sounded like they 
 came out of Clive's Hellraiser movies. The only fault is that there can be some repetitive lines 
 from your teammates, but that tends to happen in almost all games.
  
  VALUE (7.0) - Jericho is not a long game, though not terribly short. It did not keep track of my 
 playing time but I'm guessing I completed it within 10 hours. Unfortunately there is no multiplayer, 
 and it's especially disappointing that there is no coop, as this game really had the potential 
 to be quite fun with two players taking advantage of the team's abilities. There's not much reason 
 to replay the game except for the fun of concentrating on different teammate's abilities that you 
 may not have taken advantage of in your first playthrough. For 360 players you can rack up different 
 achievements by not only completing levels on the higher difficulty but also by destroying monsters 
 in different ways, such as headshots, melee attacks, explosives etc.
  
  STORY/SUMMARY - For the most part I really appreciate what Clive Barker came up with here. While 
 the initial concept is a bit silly (you're dealing with beings that God created before he created 
 Man, which were a bit too powerful so God locked them away) I enjoyed the fact that this meant 
 your team, while staying in the same geographical location, goes through different eras of time 
 ranging from World War 2 to the Crusades to the Roman Empire. Add to this the ability to quickly 
 shift from one Jericho member to the other and you have some great concepts that separate Jericho 
 from other FPS games. However as I stated before there were some things that can be improved on 
 and if they hopefully make a sequel maybe we'll see a bit more polish, especially in the ability 
 to move around the environments. Also as I previously stated this game can be very grotesque and 
 it more than earns its M rating. If you get squeamish from any videogames this is definitely not 
 for you, but if not and if you're interested in trying a FPS with a unique approach to combat then 
 I recommend you give Jericho a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spazzx625
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 4, 2009 8:15 pm PT
Review:  I will be the first to admit that I originally had high hopes for Clive Barker's Jericho. I am 
 a big fan of Barker's work, and I was hoping this game would capture not only his style, but be 
 a very atmospherically creepy game. While the style doesn't disappoint, the game itself does, and 
 that includes the story. That doesn't mean the game wasn't enjoyable, it just isn't what it could 
 have been.
  
  Let's start with the story. By associating a great horror writer like Clive Barker, one would assume 
 that story would be top priority. One would also be wrong, unfortunately. While the premise of 
 having a seven member special ops squad with supernatural powers seems like a great idea, their 
 adventure falls kind of flat, as do the characters. The story goes like this: God originally created 
 a being that was too godlike and then banished it. This Firstborn somehow comes back to power every 
 so often and needs sacrifices to suppress it. The Jericho team is called in and they end up being 
 that sacrifice.
  
  Throughout the game you will travel through time to fight creatures in World War II, ancient Rome, 
 and Sumeria, and it's cool to be in these different times, but the enemies are all about the same, 
 with the inclusion of some tougher guys later on. The creatures are all thoroughly and wonderfully 
 disgusting, in true Clive Barker glory. Aside from the humdrum regular drone enemies, there are 
 some really unique enemies, particularly later in the game. One major plus is the boss fights are 
 all unique and some are pretty intuitive.
  
  As I mentioned before, there are seven or so characters in the Jericho squad. I say "or so" because 
 I don't really know how many there were because it's only necessary to use four of them. In fact, 
 unless the game forces you to use a particular character, I used a female character named Black 
 that had a sniper rifle with grenade launcher attachment. Not only is the sniper rifle a particular 
 favorite of mine, her special power is called ghost bullet, which puts you in the perspective of 
 her sniper bullet and allows you to take out multiple enemies with a single shot. She is by far 
 the best character in the game, as far as I am concerned. The other characters I only played with 
 when it was deemed necessary to solve a puzzle or whatever. These were few and far between.
  
  *SPOILERS*The above fact is driven home even further in the final boss battle against the Firstborn... because 
 all but four members of your squad are blown to bits right before the fight. What is the point 
 of having so many squad members if the game even knows they are useless?
  *END SPOILERS*
  
  One thing that I liked quite a bit was the short levels. These days, games are getting where 
 the levels are so large that it takes a few hours to get through one level, and that's fine, but 
 there is something to be said for quick bursts and moving on. If there are enough smaller levels, 
 you are getting a good amount of game, it's just broken up in more portable pieces. In Jericho 
 there are about 20-25 levels and some of them are just a few minutes and the longer ones are still 
 under an hour. By the end I think I had beaten the game on hard difficulty after about 10-12 hours 
 of play. Having shorter levels makes finishing up the achievements easier too, as they are tied 
 to beating the levels, and some require you not to "die".
  
  "Dying" is an odd thing in Jericho. Through means that I won't spoil, you really cannot die. Your 
 character can become incapacitated and you fall down, and then you take control of another character, 
 and you can heal the character you were just playing as and switch back. It does take a bit of 
 the edge off the challenge, but it also makes sense given the game's plot.
  
  If there was one thing that I absolutely hated about Jericho it would have to be the quick time 
 events during some parts. There are only a handful of these, but they are insanely quick, need 
 extreme speed and come out of nowhere. You WILL fail them when they first pop up, and likely fail 
 some of them a dozen times or so until you just memorize the pattern. Not only are they annoying, 
 they don't fit in the game at all. After some digging I found that Codemasters has a cheat code 
 where you can automatically 'win' these events, but you need to buy the cheat code from them. I 
 have a hunch that money is the only reason they are in there, which is sad. Luckily, they aren't 
 frequent enough to totally mar the experience.
  
  Playing this, I was constantly reminded of Killzone for the Playstation 2. That game wasn't particularly 
 impressive, but it had some good moments and ended up being pretty enjoyable, yet was panned by 
 most critics. Jericho is not a revolutionary game by any means, but it's fun. If you are a fan 
 of Clive Barker, blood and gore, or just looking for a slight change of pace from most FPS games, 
 this is at least worth a rental. I found it in a bargain bin for under $10, and I am very pleased 
 with the purchase.
  
  For those achievement hunters, the free cheat codes make some of the levels a little easier, especially 
 the infinite ammo code. I was able to get 1000/1000 in less than 15 hours. The only ones I didn't 
 get the first time through are the ones for killing 100 or 250 enemies a certain way, but you can 
 get those after beating the game if you wish. Playing on hard isn't much more difficult than normal, 
 either. I would rate the difficulty to get 1000 a 4 out of 10.
  
  In closing, Jericho has some hits and some misses. A few years from now I likely won't remember 
 much about this game other than some of the enemy design since it is so much like Hellraiser. I 
 wouldn't be surprised to see a sequel sometime in the future, but I would definitely wait for a 
 price drop before picking it up unless they fixed a lot of this games shortcomings. I recommend 
 it as a budget buy or a rental, but don't get your hopes up too high for a high caliber first person 
 shooter. This game is good, but it's far from great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mangaminx
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 31, 2009 11:48 am PT
Review:  The days since I was a big fan of shooters have long since gone by, none of the recent gen of shooters 
 particularly impressed me, Perfect Dark Zero wasn't bad but not a patch on the original, Gears 
 Of War was all right but certainly didn't leave an impression on me and Call Of Duty has outstayed 
 it's welcome. Now along comes Jericho a game I decided to try based souley on watching a "let's 
 play" on youtube that really intrigued me. The game itself received mediocre reviews at best, yet 
 in my opinion this is actually one of the best shooter titles in recent years.
  
  Jericho sees you take the role of Ross leader of "Jericho" a squad of soldiers who tackle supernatural 
 enemies on behalf of the government by using supernatural powers themselves. Upon investigating 
 a supernatural event in a vast desert Ross in the early hours of the title become separated from 
 his bottle and must share a body with one of the remaining six other squad members. Each squad 
 member has their own unique personality, background and abilities, you must utilise all their combined 
 skills to succeed. The characters are all part of what makes Jericho so great, they all have their 
 own unique feel and dialogue and the interactions between them as the game progresses are really 
 involving. The squad that you as Ross must "control" compromises of Black:- A goth, lesbian sniper 
 with the ability to push objects and posses and steer her own sniper bullets into peoples heads, 
 Church:- A blood witch who shoots fire and tentacles out of her own slit wrists that paralyse enemies, 
 Delgado:- A huge macho idiot with a chaingun who shares his body with a fire demon who attacks 
 enemies, Jones:- A psychic who can posses and control enemies, Cole:- A Japanese girl with the 
 ability to "hack" reality, reverse time etc.. and finally Rawlings a priest with twin pistols and 
 healing abilities. When your not sharing a body with one of these guys the rest of the team all 
 act independently of their own accord. Basic orders can be given but if you want complex tasks 
 to be performed you need to possess the right person.
  
  Combat in Jericho takes place against a motley crew of monstrous enemies all straight out of something 
 like the asylum scene in Jacob's Ladder, you use a variety of conventional weapons combined with 
 the characters special abilities to defeat them. As the game takes place across history you battle 
 undead romans, undead crusaders, world war II soldiers, some horrificly huge and vile bosses all 
 in environments strewn with rivers of blood, dismembered limbs and scenes of torture. The combat 
 in the environments works on the premise of "waves" of monsters attacking you and utilising your 
 teams skills to survive and making it to the next save point. This makes each fight all the more 
 exciting as you have to fight to survive if you want to progress to the next chunk of combat and 
 if you die, you have to start the wave all over again. When there loads of enemies on screen your 
 trying to slow them down using Church's tentacles, hopping to Delgado to set them on fire then 
 to Black to pop their heads it's a real adrenalin rush.
  
  The game isn't without it's flaws mind the AI while in principle is reasonable occasionally seems 
 to swap to idiot mode and has your team running head long into enemy gunfire or attempting to fight 
 exploding enemies in melee range. They can occasionally glitch too refusing to move and standing 
 around like muppets until you take control of them. Other than that though, I genuinely can't find 
 much else to complain about in the game. The presence of quick time events usually when your playing 
 as Church can be frustrating at times and as missing a button press can result in instant death 
 more often than not they really shouldn't be included. 
  
  In summary Jericho is an unfairly treated title with a lot more imagination and creativity than 
 most other current gen shooters. It has a great cast, interesting enemies and scenarios and some 
 epic boss battles. It's pretty good to look at too and is backed up with a pretty good score and 
 voice acting. If you want something different and fancy a horrific first person shooter, it's well 
 worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BloodyScabb
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 1, 2008 2:23 pm PT
Review:  At first I thought the game was going to be lame but I played a few levels and began to have tons 
 of fun. The ability to change between characters with different abilities was creative to me. The 
 story I loved a group of physic Demon fighters. The game was very gory which I liked. I played 
 the game on its hardest difficulty and if found the game to be fairly easy and nonfrustrating. 
 If only it had some form of multiplayer it would be amazing. Also there is very little reply value 
 to it so it is kind of a once and done deal unless of course you reply it to get the achievements 
 like I did. But the levels were nicely laid out an fairly straight forward so I didn't have to 
 waste ten minutes trying to find out how to get to the next area in the game. The boss fights were 
 more intense then you would expect. So overall the game is a very fun FPS that didn't receive much 
 recantation to do any good in sales or such. 8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: manolo_1982
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 11, 2008 5:12 pm PT
Review:  Hello i bought this game after playing the dame a few times on my xbox and even though this game 
 didnt received a good review i decided to give it a try, and believe me i wasn't disappointed at 
 all. The story of the game is really good and is really engaging, each character has its own personality 
 and it's own special abilities, the campaign is not that long but its really good and the boss 
 fights are amazing. 
  I guess one thing that would have given this game more life would have been a multiplayer mode 
 which could have been really interesting.
  A lot of people complain about the bad AI of your teammates but i think its ok, there it is no 
 game with perfect AI, i mean u can check Halo 3 and the AI of the other marines was really bad, 
 this game is really fun it has some things that i haven't seen in other shooters , like trying 
 to press a button sequence to avoid an attack or killing a boss, well maybe it has been in other 
 shooters but i haven't had the chance to see it, overall this game is really interesting maybe 
 not so long lived but still is a great game with a great story.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sindath
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 14, 2008 7:04 am PT
Review:  Clive Barker's Jericho Review (Good and Bad)
  
  Good
  
  - Pretty cool how you can switch in and out of characters
  
  - Achievements are pretty easy 
 to get so you will get a 1000 score in no time 
  
  - Graphics are good but could be better 
  
  -The game does its job trying to scare you specially 
 when you encounter some monsters where you have to do button actions
  
  Bad
  
  - Levels are way to short like it would be 3-5 minute levels there you have to wait anoter minute 
 for the load screen to get to another level now some of the levels are longer but i wish they didn't 
 cut the game into all the differnt levels just one play through
  
  - No variety in monsters like there are 4-6 creatures you get to face in your adventures not including 
 the bosses thats very weak gameplay right there
  
  - Story line is very weak you never get into the story line you just play the game and kill stuff 
 thats in your way sometimes thats good but need to have a story in there to make sense of this
 
  
  - The Characters you play should have more skills 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Draylorn
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 20, 2008 11:26 pm PT
Review:  I have to say, I don't beleive that 6.5 is an honest score for Jericho. It's a great game as a 
 whole, and I really can't think of any serious complaint that can be made about it, except maybe 
 that the characters have too many one-liners. Let's just examine the "bad" in the Gamespot review, 
 shall we?
  
  The "Bad"
  
  "Horrifically confined level design leaves no room to maneuver"
  
  Oh, I'm sorry clive didn't 
 see fit to set Jericho in a wide open savannah! 'Gosh, this place sure is confined! Let's just 
 go home, guys!' Yeah, that would have made a lot more sense. Whiner. Maybe you'd have complaned 
 less if you could jump in this game. Then you could bunny hop your way to victory!
  
  "Lame final boss caps a stupendously awful ending"
  
  Ok, the final boss could have been better. 
 But didn't you just get done fighting about a dozen other really awesome bosses? The journey was 
 the reward, man, and as far as the ending goes - well, what did you want?? It's hardly a dealbreaker.
 
  
  "Long animations and visual effects leave certain characters far too vulnerable in battle"
  
 
  LOL! Yeah right! Look, you're very wrong here. This is like badmouthing a WWII FPS because you 
 thought it took too long to reload your guns. Well guess what - in reality, these things can sometimes 
 take more than one second. This is by far the lamest complaint in the Gamespot review.
  
  
  LOOK FOLKS, this game is amazing. What the GS reviewer had failed to do is tell you, the reaser 
 whether or not this game is really worth it. (They should know that most folks won't read beyond 
 their "pros and cons" notes, and most won't even look further than the score.)
  
  Let me assure you - this game IS worth it. 6.5 is not fair to it's merits, and clive Barker's imagination. 
 The flaws in the gameplay are negligible, and the innovations are worth experiencing, as is the 
 sheer gore and horror.
  
  AN END NOTE ON ALL THE GORE:
  Doom 3? Manhunt 2? Kid's games compared to this. We're talking literal rivers of blood. Half the 
 structures in the game are made out of bloody flesh and corpses. There are people getting tortured 
 and disembowed constantly. The blood spray, glistening gore, and violence are endless. This is 
 exactly the kind of game that gets concerned parents all ban-happy - and I loved it. It's absolutely 
 the most disgusting and wonderful visual experience I've had. This game is worth it for the graphics 
 and environments alone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vividnightmare
Rating: 4.5
Date: Sep 20, 2008 5:29 pm PT
Review:  So I finally got my hands on Jericho, I've wanted it for some time but after the demo was cautious 
 of paying 60 bucks for it. So sometime later I found it for 15 dollars on clearance and I've got 
 to say I am rather... surprised.
  
  Graphics - For as old as the game is it looks great but even by todays Gears of War standards it's 
 still rather good. Textures tend to get a little choppy when you zoom in on them or what not but 
 that's just nit picking really. The game presents it's 'nightmarish' style and story well with 
 dark visuals and gore a plenty. While animations work rather smoothly to boot rarely seeing the 
 typical texture issues of barrels of rifles 'slipping' into people when they move or watching their 
 hands slide through their sides. Still you may want to boost the contrast on this one, while the 
 game is supposed to be scary sometimes the level of black just gets annoying as you find yourself 
 blind every few seconds.
  
  Story - While I wouldn't put the story in my top ten for quality or even originality I won't turn 
 my nose at it either. Basically we weren't gods first, man kind was a 'correction' if you would 
 to a mistake. Gods first creation the "Firstborn" as it's called in the game was neither male or 
 female, good or evil. It merely was, but it was too powerful and so god banished it. God couldn't 
 kill it though so could only lock it away for eternity, of course while it may have not been evil 
 before locking it away for all time is guaranteed to piss off even the best of us. So NOW the thing 
 is evil and can't wait to get out and pick a fight, that's where you come in. Some psycho, as there 
 always is, wants to let the "Firstborn" out and it's your team, team Jerichos job, to stop this 
 psycho. Of course one thing leads to another and you end up neck deep in demons and monsters. The 
 story is actually interesting but sadly is presented poorly to the point where I found myself wishing 
 this was a book instead of a game. You get so over whelmed with enemies and sometimes hard to hear 
 dialogue that you really don't catch everything unrolling through the story, aswell the game play 
 just doesn't carry well enough for you to be willing to get through the story.
  
  Gameplay - If there has ever been proof that a good story plus good visuals can be flushed down 
 the proverbial toilet by poor game play this is IT. You are a seven man team sent in to fight evil 
 right? You've got special armor, weapons and to boot you ALL have super natural powers. Yet every 
 time you get to a serious fight you'll find yourself dying and reloading in a repetitious battle 
 of patience. To top that you feel extremely weak from the get go, you find that just to start your 
 main weapon that packs a 45 round clip and 5 shotgun shells typically will use about 45 rounds 
 and 1 shotgun shell to put down even the most basic weak enemy in the game. This is pathetic, why 
 is it in the games where you play as some super secret special forces group designed to fight demons 
 or aliens you always have the WORST weapon imaginable? You feel as if this 'special' team went 
 in completely unprepaired for what they are going up against. Combat only feels 'intense' because 
 baddies NEVER die, eventually you'll find yourself wondering why you're even playing this instead 
 of something like Call of Duty 4 or Halo 3 where enemies die. It's find to make bosses tough, but 
 when it comes to the standard bad guy, the player should be laying waste to armies not being wasted 
 by two or three enemies. 
  Another painful fact is that while every weapon your team mates carry suck, they are stuck with 
 them. That's right unlike other FPS games where you pick up new weapons over time, you don't with 
 this one. What you start with is what you stay with. Now you would think ammo might be a problem 
 if there are no weapon pick ups but the game solves this problem by magically refilling all of 
 your weapon reserves to max every so often. While this might sound cool it's not, to start with 
 it really just feels like a lazy way of solving the ammo issue but to top it off this was obviously 
 done to support the incredibly useless and weak weapons you have. Your basic assault rifle/BB gun 
 has about 600 rounds, that's right a 45 round clip with about 500 rounds to spare. The reason? 
 You're going to need every single round for the next five bad guys. Finally to top it off the game 
 self proclaims 'amazing squad tactics', if squad tactics means spending more time running from 
 dumb ass team mates to dumb ass team mate healing them the entire game and having virtually no 
 time to actually play because your too busy running from person to person reviving them, then yes 
 this is very squad tactics based. With a team of six morons all of which have incredibly weak weapons 
 and powers, they're really just salients being sent to war. You'll find when you get to these 'standoff' 
 scenes where enemies just keep pounding you in waves that after a few minutes you're not even shooting 
 anymore you're spending all your time running from person to person healing them so they'll get 
 back on their feet and fire.
  All of this a side there is a final thought to the game play, this game is supposed to be scary 
 but I say nay to this claim. This game IS dark and gore infested without a doubt but scary it doesn't 
 even come close. It may try but it fails to scare and never even touches creepy.
  
  Sound - When it comes to horror games or anything that's supposed to scare you the audio is the 
 true mood setter. Without good ambiance and music you're game is dead from the starting line. Jericho 
 is exactly that, the soundtrack feels bland and uninspired in most cases. While I wouldn't say 
 it's bad or distracting in reality while playing I wasn't even aware of a soundtrack. Environment 
 sounds always are a strong key to fear aswell but since the game pounds you with enemies and your 
 team mates never shut up there is no way to get absorbed into the game. Don't get me wrong the 
 audio in the game doesn't have poor quality, it just doesn't set up any sort of backdrop for a 
 scary game.
  
  Overall - The fact is this, I waited a long time for this game to drop from 59.99 to the 15 bucks 
 I paid for it and I STILL feel like I got ripped off. I'd return it but I figure it makes a good 
 addition to my collection. Your team is a bunch of morons, enemies never die because your weapons 
 SUCK harder than a black hole and while the audio of the game isn't bad it never comes close to 
 a horror style sound track. My after thought is if this game is based around squad combat why can't 
 I play with a friend CoOp? I might actually have enjoyed this even with it's horrible damage system 
 if I could buddy up and we could get our butts kicked together. When it comes down to it, if you 
 have the choice to buy it, don't and if you get this as a gift don't open it just return it or 
 SOMETHING for store credit or cash. If you want to play an amazing FPS/Horror game, play FEAR. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jojowonderdog
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 27, 2008 1:43 am PT
Review:  Clive Barkers Jericho has the opportunity to be a great game if only it wasn't plagued with death. 
 
  
  You'll find yourself spending most of your time trying to revive your team-mates whilst exploding 
 monsters go on a suicide mission and want to take you with them. And all of this is set in 30+ 
 levels of tight spaced tunnel like paths. 
  
  Good times? not so much.
  
  That is unless you find out what makes this game playable, not easy, but definitely enjoyable.
 
  Cheating. 
  Now i'm not one for using codes to gain health or unlock levels etc, but unless you want to rip 
 out your hair and feel like giving up on the game, the only way to turn Jericho into a great FPS 
 are two words: Dominator Damage.
  
  It just makes killing the monsters that little bit easier. 
  Without it you have an annoying, 
 frustrating, time-consuming game.
  
  CBJ is fun and at points a great joy to play. It is not however scary, not ever, not in the slightest. 
 
  If you have played games like Condemned then you will realise that this is the equivalent of a 
 nursery rhyme about loveable skeletons.
  
  Still fun though.
  
  7.0
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nappan
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 24, 2008 7:37 pm PT
Review:  It's a shame that the flaws in the game are ones that are bound to annoy hardcore FPS'ers, because 
 the use of powers and fun story makes for a great time. This isn't meant to be another cookie cutter 
 FPS, it's really something of a redux of the genre in fact. You control a squad, but in essence 
 you could see each member as a pair of weapons and powers that you might have in ONE character 
 in another game. Fully realized and voiced characters however, that you jump in and out of like 
 a psychic jackrabbit is a LOT more fun than playing as just one guy loaded with juice. 
  
  As a survival horror game, it isn't, as an fps, it really isn't... what Jericho IS... a dark and 
 eerie game that has a great single player experience. This game is fun, and while the mechanics 
 employed are not groundbreaking, they are implemented well, and with polish. To be blunt, the game 
 is fun.
  
  The plot, while basic, provides a plausible and enjoyable framework for action in diverse environments. 
 The enemies are grotesque and well rendered, but sadly, not too bright. One downside of this game 
 is that you spend a lot of time dumping ammo into enemies that are far tougher than their AI is 
 bright. Of course, their number and tenacity is what forces you to utilize your squad effectively, 
 so this factor is mitigated.
  
  Down to basics: The sound effects are excellent, especially the voice acting which is well executed 
 (and there is a lot of it) . Visually the game looks pretty good, with character and enemy models 
 being the high point, and some environmental textures being a bit bland. It is also a dark game 
 seen often with a flashlight that is well implemented... of course, some people hate that kind 
 of visual, so be warned. 
  
  Nearly a year since it's release, it is (mostly) visually on a par with new releases, and at a 
 lower price it's worth spending on a rental or a cheap buy. Treat yourself to a nice single player 
 game with some good horror roots. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dannyoo35
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 22, 2008 7:28 am PT
Review:  
  Clive Barker's Jericho is the 2nd game that has been developed from an idea from the man who is 
 known for his horror films such as Hell raiser. This gives the game a promising start as Barkers 
 horror Stories are well written and intriguing the question is does this translate well into a 
 videogame.
  The game takes place through 5 different times from modern day to the crusaders as god's first 
 creation the Firstborn who is trying to destroy everything that has been created. The Jericho squad 
 have been tasked with destroying the firstborn and saving the world. The team is formed of a 7 
 man group of Psychics / Witches / and Pyromaniacs who are deemed expendable and are the only people 
 for the job. Early on in the game the main character Cpt. Devin Ross is killed by a servant of 
 the firstborn. However instead of dying Ross remains as a ghost and is able to Posses the other 
 6 members of the Jericho squad and carry on their mission to Defeat the Firstborn.
  From this point it is just a dungeon crawler with guns and fancy powers which are both positive 
 and negative as the powers show to the character that Jericho squad is a strong team able to fight 
 off anything but this then subtracts from the idea of the game being horror the team just take 
 it within their stride and make wisecracks and cheesy one-liners This makes the characters feel 
 too overpowered and the story does becomes somewhat overlooked as the player is just testing out 
 all the 6 characters special abilities while going through the different timelines to reach the 
 firstborn. 
  The game has a habit of holding the players hand too much during the game as the other characters 
 in the team will tell you what needs to be done during a puzzle to progress with a level and if 
 you don't do it quickly you are often left with a the same sentence being said over and over. Which 
 happened to me a couple of times as to get through some puzzles you need to use a specific character, 
 for example rubble blocks the path and you need to use Black the teams telekinetic to move the 
 rubble but the game calls the characters by their first names and the character swap screen is 
 all second names so unless you learn all of the 6 team members first and second names you will 
 be consulting the manual frequently. 
  The AI in the game has a few major flaws the enemies stand still a lot during fire fights and just 
 take damage but on occasion they will try to take cover using a random script they have been written 
 which doesn't work properly as they would just stand by an object and still be in plain view and 
 easy to kill. Squad commands could be polished as well they are very simple Attack and Hold Position 
 and at time the Team just ignore these commands and fight regardless which takes away from the 
 squad command side completely.
  The blood and gore in this game is brilliant when an enemy is blown up with a grenade it is very 
 satisfying as the limbs and chunks of enemies fly in all direction and the sound effects found 
 in this game sound too good as if the development team took swords to flesh to get the right sound. 
 The graphics are also very good the character design shines on the enemies with pieces missing 
 and parts of the bodies exposed this becomes apparent during the games quick-time events which 
 show close ups of enemies and bosses and some of the twisted detail gone into their design.
  The levels themselves are good the lighting of the levels makes you wonder what vile monster you 
 are going to find around the corner or in a tomb or graveyard and the blood in the game is found 
 everywhere from dripping from enemies to being soaked into the soil which helps make the game feel 
 more visceral. 
  Clive Barker's Jericho is a visceral first person shooter with some big flaws but has great presentation 
 and sets a good tone unfortunately the characters don't suit their surroundings. If you just want 
 some satisfying bloodshed then Jericho is for you.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lemmy2
Rating: 2
Date: Aug 5, 2008 3:51 pm PT
Review:  First of all FPS is my favorite genre of games, and this is not a good FPS. First of lets start 
 with it's faults. Horrible team AI. Your team mates are constantly being killed, you'd think that 
 with with a team of six, packed with modern day fire power and paranormal abilities, that it wouldn't 
 be a problem taking out the enemy...... wrong!!! Even one enemy is able to spawn and run up and 
 make it through all your team mates fire and get some good whacks in before blowing up and taking 
 some people with him. These guys couldn't hit a barn at point blank range, so if you want something 
 done right you'll have to do it yourself........ well that's if your not too busy resurrecting your 
 team mates all the time. In a fire fight all you'll constantly hear is the shouts of your team 
 mates dieing, and. don't count on them having your back either, or you'll find some enemy getting 
 some hits in on you soon enough. They don't always follow commands either. Some of the worst Team 
 mate AI I've seen in a squadron based FPS ever.
  
  Enemy AI is just as bad, the only tactic the enemy employs is to charge at you swinging or guns 
 a blazing....... nothing else. This gets tiring after a while. It's just a repetitive shooting gallery. 
 The fact that some enemies explode on you is really not any fun at all, but it's the nature of 
 these enemies... so what can you do/? It wouldn't be so bad if your teamates were capable of stopping 
 some of them. The action is nothing but a whole bunch of enemies spawn, they charge at you , you 
 beat them, move forward, and repeat.
  
  The level design is uninteresting, it's just a bunch of straight paths with visuals around the 
 outside.... split paths lead no wheres, with no enemies, nothing to pick up, and nothing to find. 
 So what's the point of them? When you're under fire the hallways offer no cover for you to take 
 so you can at least try to fight back skillfully, by means of shot and cover. This really exposes 
 your team mates who just constantly die, although the game does like to give the enemy some places 
 to duck behind. I never signed on to be a field medic!!!
  I kept wondering what is the point of all these team mates for? Half of them don't have abilities 
 that are really important. The game would have benefited more from a 3-4 well balanced person squad, 
 instead of 6. All of those people just feel in the way.
  
  The graphics I found to be too murky, to the point where detail suffers in order to make the game 
 as black as possible. I just don't feel it was done right here. For good examples of how it's done 
 right play : Doom 3, Dark Watch, Call of Chtulhu, or Condemned, then you'll know what I'm talking 
 about. Im a huge horror fan/artist and this is nothing scary. If you find this scary then you are 
 a serious wimp.
  
  The good points of the game are as such; jumping from player to player is easy. Good controls, 
 but FPS controls are pretty standard now anyway. No one really messes with the basic FPS controls 
 anyway The story is okay, nothing great, and the dialogue is okay. 
  
  Anyway I'm only giving this a 2 based on the jumping system, which is really done well. I'm rating 
 this as hard, because of the frustration of having to always revive dead team members. The enemies 
 would be a joke if you didn't have to worry about your team all teh time. The graphics are too 
 murky to be overly impressive, and hides the detail, which doesn't matter as long as the game is 
 fun and has good game play, which this game isn't or doesn't. ....... Avoid!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ntrentadue
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 3, 2008 10:42 pm PT
Review:  This game was absolutely remarkable. This game has a creepy value of 11 out of ten. The monsters 
 and Jericho team are both highly innovative and fresh on the game scene, thank you Mr Barker and 
 Codemasters, you are the man ! The environments are slimy, dark, bloody as hell, ancient, mystical 
 and beautiful ! The story is nicely explained and immersive. The tight rooms and small spaces totally 
 add to the creepy feeling like doom back in the day but with kick butt graphics, there are areas 
 where your free to roam around and make strategic use for eliminating the pixis foes, its a nice 
 balance. There are so many innovative touches you can explore and if your a horror fan will really 
 appreciate the ability to walk in on a bandaged-crotchless-monster playing with his half-alive 
 half-skin-on-his-body play toy who suddenly hears you coming and runs at you madly, just brilliant 
 !!! Anyone who says this game is lower than an 8.0 has no appreciation for horror or is simply 
 too SCARED TO PLAY !! HAHAHAHAHAHA HAHAHAHAHAHA. Seriously, it looses points for not being longer 
 and not having multiplayer online. The music is also a very important ambience contributor, its 
 really is done well and fits the game nicely. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raptortank4
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 21, 2008 9:58 pm PT
Review:  Don't worry about the graphics, they look great and help set the environment for both the story 
 and the gruesome monsters. 
  
  The story is something that kept me on the edge of my seat, much like watching an intense movie 
 at the theater or reading a really engaging book, and I couldn't stop playing because I wanted 
 to learn more about the plot. Throughout the missions a lot of unexpected plot turns will come 
 at you, so expect an interesting story to be presented.
  
  The sounds were great. You could hear the bullets penetrating the flesh of a self-exploding zombie 
 in a peculiar way that made you think "Awesome. Let's shoot moar bullets." That and the fact the 
 action gets pretty sweet when you're getting swarmed by zombies coming out of the ground from all 
 angles and you and your squad are forced to hole up in a certain part of the level. 
  
  This is a great game to play in the dark and late at night because you'll really get into the action 
 and light up your room from the blasts of your weapons. 
  
  After you progress a bit through the game you're able to take over any squad member, each with 
 their own special powers. With each different squad member comes a different play style, so there's 
 no doubt that you'll find yourself playing one or two members over any other and maybe even ending 
 up hating others. Personally, I liked them all and was pretty well rounded. It also allows you 
 to adapt to the situation yourself and take direct control over the outcome rather than leaving 
 it up to the computer.
  
  The only major gripes I had with the game was the ending, some lack of guidance in not-so-obvious 
 objectives, and the sometimes small levels. The ending which was very hyped and I had high expectations 
 for. It's probably my fault, but just as much the game's because it presents it in such a glorified 
 manner. I still enjoyed the ending and was awed at what happened, without adding spoilers.
  
  A common ridicule in reviews is the small levels. There are a handful of times that this will 
 happen to you, I agree, but you're going to get engrossed in just blasting the hell out of things 
 that it won't matter all the time to you.
  
  There were some parts throughout the game where a squad member or some other would tell you what 
 to do next, or in some cases the game just left you hanging, and you'd have to hunt your way to 
 the next objective. A perfect example that brought me much frustration was the arena during the 
 Roman levels. One, you had to stand on these hidden, tan step stones that were somewhere in the 
 huge arena that was also tan. Two, you had to go through one of the many doors that were spread 
 throughout the huge arena that would be a pain to get to because you had to navigate through traps 
 and more camouflaged step stones in order to activate bridges.
  
  I highly recommend this game to any zombie, horror fans out there. However, don't expect this game 
 to be a lot like any other FPS out there. It's unique by itself and brings a lot for a great action 
 game that'll engross you in its story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xbox360progamer
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 19, 2008 2:25 pm PT
Review:  
  
  The story of this game is a little weird. You are going after this all-powerful being that is the 
 "First Born" and is the root of all evil. Overall, the game is not terrible, but the control scheme 
 is different. The flow of the game could use a little bit of help as it does not flow like a typical 
 first person shooter.
  
  Okay back before this game came out I was really looking forward to it. You know a game where you're 
 a dead guy possessing your teammates whom all have special abilities. Well, I started playing and 
 thought, okay this should be good. I WAS WRONG. This game is dark you can't even navigate a level 
 because your flashlight isn't bright enough to see 2 feet in front of you. The levels are very 
 boring and look almost entirely the same. Let me take a quote from my favorite game reviewer, Ben 
 "Yhatzee" Croshaw, "the levels go in this order, brown ruins, brown castle, more brown ruins, and 
 revenge of the brown castle." This is entirely correct. Now the firefights you might think would 
 be where the game would make up for the level design. Nope. The firefights are incredibly linear, 
 no challenging enemies or bosses. I found one person I could beat almost every enemy with. Oh, 
 and when the team occasionally splits up I found someone else to use.
  This game's story is horrible. I couldn't barely understand it. If you want to play something that 
 you will barely understand, have to force yourself finish, and has absolutely boring firefights 
 this is your game. This is a sorry excuse for a shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xt3kn1x
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 14, 2008 1:33 pm PT
Review:  I've never much been a fan of Clive Barker, but the game looked very interesting so I wanted to 
 try it out. First let me say that the story was phenominal, and the concept of the game was first 
 rate, but the follow-through left something to be desired.
  
  You start off as Devin Ross, leader of the Jericho squad. A supernatural phenomenon has you and 
 your team investigating the ancient ruins of Al-Khali chasing a former ally of yours. As the story 
 progresses you realize that this is no ordinary mission and is actually a recurring test of fate 
 of biblical proportions. The story takes you back through time as you see Al-Khali in it's former 
 glory through World War II, the Crusades, and even before Christ was even born.
  
  Jericho offers some exciting moments. This isn't to be confused with Resident Evil, however. It 
 is definately not a "Survival Horror" where you have to conserve every last bullet. In fact, ammunition 
 is rarely a problem. If you run out, you have supplies "Downloaded" within a few seconds, and every 
 checkpoint you hit fills you up, so it's not frustrating at all. Alot of the excitement, however, 
 is taken away from the lack of originiality with the enemies. You see maybe 3 or 4 different types 
 of enemies, a hand full of 'sub bosses' and bosses. Boss fights can be particularly annoying since 
 you typically have to Do X to trigger Y and shoot Z to make the boss vulnerable for a few seconds, 
 but rarely are you told what needs to be done. Sometimes you get a hint but it took me a few tries 
 (after dying) to figure out what they were talking about.
  
  The game eventually allows you to switch between your squad mates. Each squad mate has their own 
 unique weapons and abilities which really makes the game fun. You can play as sniper then swap 
 to a chain gunning badass, or even a pseudo-ninja character! It's great, and every situation makes 
 every character's abilities fun and useful. Two characters, however, stand out as being fairly 
 useless, but perhaps a more advanced gamer than myself can figure out how to make them effective. 
 So I stuck with 4 characters mostly.
  
  Audio effects were great. Nothing stood out as particularly annoying, lots of gory blood with the 
 sound that accompanies it. Character voices were done well, some a little lack-lustered, but good 
 none the less. This game has alot of potential, and I hope they make a sequel to it. There's much 
 to be improved on this stellar concept. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: declasse
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 13, 2008 2:59 am PT
Review:  So i have recently bought and started playing Jericho for the Xbox 360 and i figure i'm about half 
 way through so i can have a pretty valid opinion of the game.
  
  Jericho is in interesting game, It's unique in some ways and heavily relies on formula standards 
 in others. You will start off the game controlling one character as part of a team of experts in 
 the paranormal, cheesy one liners and kicking ass. As the game progresses you wil gain the ability 
 to control one of the other 6 or 7 members of the team which is where the game relly shines. This 
 adds a massive inmprovement in veriety as each character has one weapon with first and secondary 
 fire and two supernatural powers ie: telekenisis, astral projection.... Unfortunately you will 
 only ever find the need to play with 2 or three of these characters but it's still alot of fun 
 to do.
  
  The atmosphere of the game is very nice and plays best in the dark, at night and on your own. It's 
 very creepy and there is no shortage of sights and sounds to make you jump. 
  
  The graphics are pretty standard with characters looking not realistic but still good and plain 
 untextured backgrounds But it still does well enough to give of the feeling it's all supposed to.
 
  
  There are no shortage of one liners coming from the various characters but even though they are 
 incredibly cheesy and dumb i wouldn't change them as the make a great source for laughter even 
 though they do dampen the mood of the game.
  
  As for the story that runs through, It's okay and it takes you to some interesting places and points 
 in time, it is a little too unbelievable at times but it does a good enough job at getting you 
 to play level after level with enough intrigue.
  
  So in conclusion, Jericho is a standard game all round, you'll most likely love it or hate it.....
 
  
  Or fall in the inbetween like me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kano-619
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jun 12, 2008 3:49 pm PT
Review:  this game is bad, very bad it is horrible, i rented it and it is a dissapointment if you buy it, 
 that will be the worse wasted money
  this has horrible graphics and no aiming mode , the story is horrible and the enemies of this horrible 
 game are so so so so so so so so so so ugly, they are not even slightly cool, they are horrible, 
 the scenARIO IS BADLY DETAILED AND FULL OF BLOOD THAT IS NOT DONE IN A NICE WAY SO IT CAN LOOK 
 REALISTIC, it is done like ketchup all over the wall, now lets go the annoying sequencies, they 
 are ugly and just interrupts the battles
  the sniper has a bullet which you can guide which i thought it was exagerated but a little bit 
 cool to see in slo-mo the heads of the guys explode. horrible horrible horrible horribel horriblke 
 horrible horrible horrible horrible horrible horrible horrible 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sam6996
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 12, 2008 7:37 am PT
Review:  Well it looks like clive barker should just go and live in a retirement home. Because he has failed 
 to produce any game which will impress gamers all over america. So anyone lookin for a decent fps 
 dont buy this. Get somethin like halo 3 or biioshock beleive me. This game is the definition of boredome. Storyline 
 lacks being unpredictable and a bit corny. Nice graphics which is probably the only thing that changed 
 my mind about giving this a zero. also powers and weapons are very limited and a bit too confusing. Some 
 parts of the game show you it is nothing near horror. Heck I have a baby sister who is 8 years old. 
 She plays it and goes to bed dreaming about ponies. Anyone lookin for a 5 year olds game look here. Enemy 
 AI is really bad. All enemies look and do the same thing. Powers are a bit childish in this game 
 but good enough.
  p. s; Clive Barker just give up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vietnamgamer
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 9, 2008 11:52 pm PT
Review:  Alright, I just beat Jericho, which I would honestly have to say is now one of my favorite games. 
 The Reason why I saw this is because, 1.) The firefights we're pretty fun with enemies running 
 at you left and right and popping out of pools of blood. 2.) The ability to switch through out 
 your characters gives you a different combat style and power. 3.) The powers themselves that each 
 character possesses. 4.) The survival animations, and 5.) the gameplay and story line wasn't crap.
 
  Picture yourself playing Gears of War, okay, your runnin' around with your little chainsaw gun 
 and all of a sudden, an emergence hole pops up (sorry if you haven't played GoW) and three or four 
 locust come out. Okay, so you shoot a couple chainsaw one, curbstomp another, chechpoint... whoopie. 
 Now picture yourself in a dark, gory bathhouse, all by yourself, strange screams and echoes surround 
 you as you jump down to a blood and vomit filled pool. You take two steps and BAM! exploding monsters 
 and cultists with limbs replaced with gruesome weapons and armor nailed onto themselves burst out 
 of the pool, they burst thru the surface of the pool at which seems to be an infinite amount. Yea... i 
 wonder which one you'd rather play, not saying GoW sucks, I love GoW and cant wait till 2 comes 
 out, but lets face it, the first GoW was kind of dissapointing. 
  With the amazing firefights, there is a fair amount of gore... and come on who doesn't like a bit 
 of blood? You've got your fair share of head popping and exploding monsters, and yes... a fat boss 
 that shoots his entrails at you by pulling his stomache open. This is just a small sliver of things 
 to expect, along with crucifixitions, piles of burning bodies, pools of knee-deep blood, monster 
 gladiators with exposed spines, self-mutilated cultists, and a behemoth that spits mass amounts 
 of blood at you.... interesting.... Now I'm still missing quite a few things, so you'd have to play 
 the game in order to get the real deal. 
  Alright, if you've beared with me until now, you obviously know that I enjoyed this game, and stepping 
 away from the gameplay and gore, lets talk about the graphics shall we? Personally, I would say 
 it looked better than CoD4 to me. The physics on the game with characters hair, clothing, cloths, 
 weapons, reactions, I loved it all. Animations were highly detailed (just watch Black or Church 
 or Cole, or anyone reload) . Character designes were done very well, their uniforms looked very 
 realistic with cool designs in it, the unhuman characters looked cool with the kinda muscle/torn 
 flesh look and all that snazzy stuff. Over all, I would say in order to fully understand what its 
 like, you'd need to play it. I personally would say rent it before you buy it because its kind 
 of like the Napoleon Dynamite movie, you either fully like it, or completely hate it. I myself 
 would say this is a great game. SUMMARY: Its an FPS with special powers, a great storyline, top 
 of the line graphics, and of course, a bit of gore! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Corvan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 1, 2008 5:54 pm PT
Review:  For those who are a fan of the writer Clive Barker will enjoy this very much. I personally have 
 never even picked up one of his books, but i did enjoy this game with a few flaws that only bring 
 a minor draw back to a solid Horror Action Adventure game. 
  
  One of the biggest highlights of the game is the story it tells. In a way it eases you into the 
 story which is a good thing for those who don't like to rush through a game. Another high note 
 is just how good the game looks. Each area you go into, you get a feel like your in that Era. If 
 its from WW2 or the time of the Roman Empire you feel like your in it fighting the horrific creatures 
 that spawn.
  
  A few flaws i found in the game, the A. I is a little on the downside for your squad mates when 
 your not controlling them. At times i spent more time switching between characters to bring back 
 up fallen squad mates then fighting the enemy. A few times I also encountered a few points in the 
 game were the enemy is just really really tough, which could turn away some causal gamers.
  
  A few A. I flaws aside the game was quite enjoyable and i do recommend it to any Horror fans 
 reading this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cloud878
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 25, 2008 4:41 pm PT
Review:  Clive Barkers Jericho, what could I say. I wanted the game, but I've heard its not so great. Soon 
 though, I saw a $24.99 price tag on it and I said "Hey, what the heck." I popped it in and I have 
 to say, I was impressed but I found a load a problems that will be discussed later.
  
  The story line is about gods first creation. You see, it was too perfect, so he had to lock it 
 up forever. You though, had to screw up everything and let it loose. Now, you're racing through 
 different time periods trying to destroy it as a ghost? Well thats as close as I can get to what 
 you are. You switch betweens your teammates who have different weapons and powers. The team mates.. 
 are the real problem.
  
  The WORST part about this game is how idiotic your allies are. They shoot, but not always at enemies. 
 They aren't a big problem on Easy but if you're going for that 1000 points you have to beat it 
 on hard. It's a bit hard if you want to play fair. See the problem is that your good old buddys 
 die, a lot. If you're the last man standing and you die, its all over. Now this may sound easier, 
 but it's not. You have to go through the hassle of constantly healing them. If you die you are 
 transfered to a teammate. The issue is that the teammates you transfer to are usually taking a 
 lot of fire, which means you are too, which means you'll die, which means you must repeat the process. 
 You can cheat though and it doesn't feel that dirty. You can still die, no invinvibility. Basically 
 using cheats slams the difficulty of hard to easy. The cheats effect your teammates too (tuh duh!) . 
 Beating in on hard is a pain if you want to be an angel though, which really frustrates me.
  
  Another thing that bugs me are how unnecessary some of the powers are. They really aren't needed. 
 You have a few handy ones (ghost bullets, blood ward, flame spirit) , but some of the powers are 
 just used for puzzles, rare puzzles at that. Most powers seem kind of thrown in and could have 
 been more well thought out. 
  
  The third and final complaint is a small one. The load times. Load times can last from 10-40 seconds, 
 also if you are on the Xbox Live Menu (or whatever it's called) the game doesn't load at all, which 
 kind of urks me. I can't change my gamer pic while it loads? Suckage, Major suckage. This complaint 
 is only minor seeing as there aren't that many load screens.
  
  All these complaints and no positives. I seem mean. I do enjoy this game. I find the enemies very 
 fun and well spread out. Level design is pretty strong as well. They are all bleak and depressing, 
 but they are designed well. Voice-overs are pretty impressive (though some lines get an 11 out 
 of 10 on the corny meter: "When I get out of here, I'm gonna eat your soul!) . I also find that, 
 while it's not get Silent Hill, the game can throw some chills in once in a while. 
  
  Overall, the game can be frustrating, but if you're all done with Call of Duty 4, Halo 3, Rainbow 
 Six Vegas 2 fever, this one should be checked out. Watch out though, replay value is low so you 
 might want to rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mimic-Denmark
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 14, 2008 12:17 pm PT
Review:  If you liked the demo then there is a good chance you are going to like the full game. It's a solid 
 action/horror game, with horror writer Clive Barker's touch.
  
  The game is about a squad of paranormal soldiers, with each having their own different weapons 
 and abilities. Weapons span from a chain gun to a samurai sword and with abilities like a flame 
 spirit which devourers your enemies or the ghost bullet, which is you controlling a bullet trough 
 psychic powers.
  
  You start out as the squad leader captain Ross, and your team is on its way to a city that has 
 just appeared in the desert. Something then happens and then you get the ability from a push of 
 some simply buttons to change between the different characters in the game. That makes for a lot 
 of variety in the gameplay.
  
  The story is then; your squad is on the hunt for the firstborn, who is pretty much god's unwanted 
 child :) You start in the present day, and then on the hunt for the firstborn, you go trough different 
 eras in time, from eras like the World War 2 era, battling evil Nazis, and the roman era destroying 
 gladiators.
  
  Jericho is a very linear game, it sure isn't Far cry or Crysis, but I had a very good time with 
 it. I enjoyed the story a lot, very unique for an fps game. The gameplay was also very fresh and 
 unique because you could switch between the different characters and then approach a situation 
 in what way you want. The only real problem I had with the game was that your team-mates died a 
 lot and you had to run around reviving them. But that's pretty much it, the rest of the time I 
 was very entertained.
  
  Don't expect it to be a BUUUUH game like doom 3, think of it as Call of duty's intense gameplay 
 in a very distrurbing Clive barker world, because I was rather surprised to see how intense the 
 fire fights in the game was.
  
  + Character switching makes for a fresh and diverse gameplay experience
  + Extremely good visuals
 
  + Clive Barkers imagination
  
  - Your team-mates will die A LOT
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Adorable21
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 16, 2008 7:13 pm PT
Review:  Jericho was one of those games that could have been. if there had been better level designs and 
 if the enemy AI DIDN'T SUCK! ^_^ the enemies in this game will after awhile start to piss you off. 
 The enemies repeat over and over again and just come in waves after waves, fire fights are so predictable 
 they let you wander into big areas where you know something is going to happen but it shouldn't 
 but then it does. These levels are very simple you wander in a certain way it's normally easy to 
 find out where to go and then you fight a wave of enemies and then you wander in a certain path 
 again. Now don't get me wrong i love Clive Barkers work but this game just makes it quite boring 
 and uninspired. If you really want to play i you might want to rent it because it's really not 
 worth owning unless you like this game more than others. The story is interesting to say the least 
 and the graphics are pretty nice and switching between team members is a cool concept but in the 
 middle of battles it can be a little annoying and tedious. but over all its not that horrible to 
 play but i would not recommend you don't buy it. ^_^
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ermac25
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 11, 2008 10:17 pm PT
Review:  Well as soon as you see Barker's name you'll defintely say one thing (Pinhead!) as the only way 
 to know who he is or you're a huge fan of horror and played Undying in 2001 or completely ignored 
 it. Now his new game Jericho is a horror game with more than a few twists on the genre. The Jericho 
 squad is not your average blackops you normally expect. They have pyrokinesis, telekinesis, the 
 ability to slow time down, heal and use a ghost bullet against their supernatural foes deep within 
 the city of Al-Khali. The squad is comprised of Ross, Delegado, Black, Cole, Rawlings, Jones and 
 Church all sent to uncover the disturbance in Al-Khali. Sadly this is where to whimps that can't 
 handle gore leave in the puddle of vomit while we watch in satisfaction or disgusted. Jericho is 
 gore to the umpth level for some but it pumps up the firefights and makes them fun at the cost 
 of many things. The levels are confined and linear as hell as your squad can't take cover or help 
 you (which they never will because they are dumber than a 7th grader dropout getting high on paint!) 
 Some parts are fun, others are painful, it's like this game is like a hot girl you met at a bar 
 and gives the night of your life and then ties you up on her bed and makes you scream in pain.
 
  Oh, did I mention this game is short? A mere 4-6 hour journey makes Jericho a late bloomer. The 
 individual squad membes are also unbalanced due to some magical powers you can spam/use. Case and 
 point: Delegado and Jones. Delegado makes a fire spirit come out and kills everything quickly and 
 Jones'reconniasance does nothing but show weak spots.
  Some may enjoy the set pieces on the Crusade and Rome levels but the rest is a bloody mess. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: patrico11
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 3, 2008 10:00 pm PT
Review:  I rented this game not knowing anything about it. Big mistake as this game is probably the worst 
 shooter I have attempted to play. You play as Jericho squad with seven team members. Each member 
 has their own unique abilities like telekinesis and fire and whatnot. One even has the ability 
 to guide bullets in slow motion. However, because of the games abysmal environments you cant really 
 do much. The levels are way too cramped. You are always in a tunnel or a small canyon with no room 
 to maneuver. Your teammates are almost always in your line of fire. You can only crouch so you 
 can't really hide. Enemies spawn on top of you or behind you and pretty much rip your team to shreds 
 in a matter of seconds. The dark environments make it difficult to see since everything is black 
 including your teammates. The cheapest thing is that some enemies blow up when you kill them. Not 
 good in such close quarters. The enemies are tough to bring down. OK fine, I like a challenge, 
 but give me somewhere to go to avoid their fire at least. You spend most of the time reviving squad 
 mates and viewing the reload checkpoint screen in this game. There are some segments where you 
 play by yourself and with exploding enemies in a small room its spells lots of deaths for you. 
 
  
  I'd advise passing this game up unless you are really hardcore and have a lot of patience. This 
 games just not any fun. The few areas where it opens up arent enough to make up for the fact that 
 most of it is in cramped quarters. It had potential but the level structure just doesnt work with 
 how the enemies are designed. The best way to illustrate Jericho is this: imagine 6 people in a 
 canyon with no cover. A large enemy pops up with a gattling gun and turns them into swish cheese 
 in 10 seconds. Or better yet he has a huge flame thrower and burns you all to a crisp. I've never 
 been killed so many times in a game and most of it was cheap not due to my ability. The exploding 
 enemies really kill this game. 
  
  Good 
  Good voice acting 
  Nice looking environments
  Multiple characters to play with unique abilities
  
  Bad
  Too 
 hard to see enemies 
  Levels are too cramped and allow no space for maneuvering
  Allies always in line of fire
  Enemies spawn on top of you. 
  Terrible ending 
  Short less 
 than 10 hours 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lukekey
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 25, 2008 2:27 am PT
Review:  When you first play this game you notice the outstanding graphics each character is very different 
 and looks really good the environments are nice too the gameplay is another strong point in this 
 game as you can use all 6 of the Jericho team to complete your missions the gameplay is good but 
 some annoying things like checkpoints you will complete something but if you die it starts you 
 all the back at the checkpoint very annoying also the gameplay seems to much at times you get monsters 
 running at you some enemies also take too long to beat the sound is okay its not the best but not 
 the worst it could have been better there are cut scenes throughout the game but sometime they 
 are very boring the story isn't to good really it could have been a lot better seen as there is 
 like six playable characters
  Overall I don't think this game is good there are some good points in the game but the annoying 
 things cant make up for the good but it is worth playing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snakes3425
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 21, 2008 12:59 pm PT
Review:  With Jericho you get what basically ammounts to a modern horror movie told from a video game perspective. 
 Over all the game is decent, with the great Clive Baker providing the storyline, however this game 
 screams to be either an RPG or more likely a movie. 
  
  The Games plot line revolves around Jericho, a top=secret branch of the US Army's Chaplian's corps 
 that answers to the US Department of Occult Warfare, and is told from the point of view of the 
 team leader, who after being slain is granted the ability to transfer his essence to any member 
 of the team. The mission the Jericho team is sent on is to infiltrate the ancient Sumerian city 
 of Al-Kahled, a city built over the prison of an Ancient evil known only as the Firstborn.
  
  The characters are extremely well developed, and each possess theri own unique magical attacks, 
 ranging from pyromancy to healing, and weapons from your standard assault and sniper rifles, to 
 gatling guns. The enemies are also very diverse, ranging form your standered undead in the form 
 of soldiers form the Roman Imperial Army, to Crusaders to the ever popular Nazis to Demons born 
 right out of hell itself. 
  
  The game's best feature though, especally on the 360 Verson, is it's graphics, which are increadibly 
 life like. However this doesn't solve the game's major flaw, which is it's controls. The controls 
 themselves are increadibly stiff, especally the reload button, which requires two taps to reload 
 both your primary and secondary weapons. 
  
  Over all Jericho is a very enjoyable game, with avery original idea, but minor flaws keep it from 
 achieveing what it could be. As I said before, this is the kind of game that would have been better 
 suited to being a live action movie then a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beechbone666
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 15, 2008 6:21 am PT
Review:  It's hard for me to decide whether "Jericho" is an awesome game or simply a bad game. It's hard, 
 because it's both at the same time.
  
  The story of this supernatural first person shooter follows the steps of Jericho squad, a group 
 of soldiers fighting monsters and other kinds of paranormal stuff. Their mission is to stop so 
 called Firstborn - a creature created by God before Adam and Eve - from escaping sphere where he 
 resides. Well, he was banished by God and now he's in this sort of prison from which once in a 
 while he tries to escape. Only Jericho squad can end this. So you travel through time to kill hordes 
 of monsters and eventually Firstborn... hmm, or maybe not kill, I don't really know what happens 
 at the end of the game. Is the Firstborn dead? What happened to Jericho members? And last but not 
 least what the hell happened overall? Yeah, ending is kinda lame, it leaves you waiting for a sequel 
 which I would very much like to see in some future but they could have at least show some sort 
 of conclusion to the story.
  
  Lame ending aside, "Jericho" features a fair amount of some great things also. The audiovisual 
 presentation is one of them for sure. Graphics both from technical and artistic points of view 
 is superb. Dark corridors covered in blood and dust and dirt, freaky looking monsters and the overwhelming 
 feel of wickedness is what you get in "Clive Barker's Jericho". Very good lighting effects, not 
 a bad physics and the rest of technological side plays without any framerate stutter or any kind 
 of problems. All the sounds just feel right and the music composed by Cris Velasco is awesome and 
 fits the game perfectly.
  
  Clive Barker's contribution is omnipresent throughout the whole game. From storyline to art design 
 to tons of recurring themes from his works. It's both beautiful and horrific, bloody and mature, 
 with strong language - you will hear lines like "he's f***ing dead!" quite often - and some sexual 
 references like one member of the team joking about Ross going into the body of one of the squad's 
 chicks, though there's not very much of this cause you know sex in mainstream games is not positively 
 received by rating boards. Anyway, for fans of "Hellraiser" or most of his other works in general 
 "Jericho" is a feast they can't miss. There are also some really disgusting moments like the fight 
 with Vicus. He's a big, fat, ugly being, hooked up on the ceiling with chains ripping up his flesh 
 and he attacks you by tearing open his giant belly and pouring on you with blood and excrements 
 from his guts. You can almost smell the vile stench of this horrific scene. You get the idea.
 
  
  Unfortunately "Jericho" also has some irritating design mechanics. First of all it's hard and it 
 wouldn't be that bad if not the fact that your teammates die a lot because of this high difficulty, 
 and even this wouldn't be that bad if not the fact that to revive them you need to get close to 
 particular character, press A button and wait till the reviving animation ends. It all takes time 
 and there are plenty situations when reviving a teammate you will die yourself just seconds later. 
 Levels are very straightforward, there is one and only one way to get through them but still in 
 the all-present darkness you sometimes miss the road and actually go back the same way you came. 
 Moreover, don't know why you can't jump, your sidestep is sloooow and yes you will totally hate 
 those exploding enemies.
  
  Still, there is something that keeps you going because it's quite good and sometimes very intense 
 shooter with nice boss battles, except the last one which is not only the easiest fight in the 
 entire game but also generally disappointing one.
  
  Concluding, "Clive Barker's Jericho" is a beautifully horrific game that will appeal to Barker's 
 fans as well as general horror fans who can turn the blind eye on its shortcomings. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bob1354
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 13, 2008 4:22 pm PT
Review:  So i was disposed for 4 months at fort leonardwood missouri for Army Basic training and Engineer 
 school and while down there i bought this game before heading home to my cherished 360 put it in 
 and the next thing i know. im on the verge of a psychotic breakdown resisting the urge to smash 
 my tv with a baseball bat because of this game. it takes a good idea from a book and puts it through 
 a meatgrinder. with controls that are sluggish to the extreme. odd weapons setup and reloading 
 sequences. an AI more willing to Die then 300 Spartans and level set up that even Delta Force and 
 SAS troops would think twice before assaulting. sure you might be able to get a few things good 
 out of it if your plaing on a casual mode. but on medium or above (if its even possible to beat 
 the game that far.) you might as well put the controller down and bash your head into a concrete 
 wall because you'll get somewhere far faster doing that then playing this game. its starts off 
 with you jumping out of a helicopter into the desert and running around for a good 6 minutes. not 
 bad to let you get used to the control scheme and set up to know how to move reload duck and get 
 used to running away. then you run into the baddies. super evil dudes that take half a magazine 
 of ammo to eliminate. couple with the limited maneuvering room and your Team is down for the count 
 in 30 seconds to a minute if not faster. and that leaves you running around frantically trying 
 to revive them to bring more firepower to bear on the enemy since you just never have quite enough. 
 so i gotta say. run away run far far away. leave this game to turn in credit its worth at gamestop 
 and find something else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coolguy10009
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 10, 2008 9:09 am PT
Review:  graphics were good...... and....... thats it. story sucked. the horror was actually un-horror. and 
 your "powers" were just a special way to change the colour of your screen while in slow-mo. a painfull 
 game.... just get it for the achivement points. The only good thing i could find about it was that 
 the enemys looked like they were really ready to do some damage, eg: jumping on your body and throwing 
 it around, their ability to still run at you after takeing 1,000 lbs of lead in the face (not so 
 much a good thing) , and teh blood and gore was the only enjoyment i was able to squeeze out of 
 the pitiful 4-5 hour excuse for a "horror" game. but if you must, the game had its strongpoints 
 for non-repetitive gameplay, although, you will find that only one character really sticks with 
 you, resulting in beating the entire game with that one character (if that one is avalible) . otherwise, 
 never buy this game for a gift, out of boredom, or if someone tricked you into it. sorry Clive. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pete360gow
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 13, 2008 1:50 pm PT
Review:  Clive Barker's Jericho looks solid but deep inside your going to find a very mediocre game. The 
 reasons are mostly gameplay. The A. I is not impressive but you might see the enemies try to flank 
 you. The battles start to feel very repetitive, the enemies are repetitive, and the levels give 
 you no freedom. The graphics are very good though. The enemies look clear and incredible and the 
 areas look great. The game is not scary but more fun and the story is very deep and you'll find 
 yourself actually paying attention. Each character has unique powers but they don't really do anything. 
 There are also some quick time events that are fun. Overall Jericho is fun just not very well made. 
 But you should rent it.
  
  pros: 
  1. great graphics
  2. great looking enemies
  3. exciting quick time events
  cons:
  1. stiff controls
  2. powers don't do anything
  3. 
 pretty bad A. I.
  4. just not scary
  
  overall: 6.5/10 - fair 
::::::

::::::
UserName: celestial_todd
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 6, 2008 12:56 pm PT
Review:  Clive barkers jericho is an excecptinally good game. the graphics are outstanding and the characters 
 and gameplay is awsome.
  sure at times the story feels like its missing a few chapters to plug it in but hey with the graphics 
 characters humor and gameplay you can forgive it
  I would play the demo before buying because you know im just stating my opinion yours could be 
 different
  
  characters..... my favorite is cole :)
  
  Captain devin ross.
  Postion: Healer/ Captain
  Gun: (Patrioteer) G36C with attached 12 gage.
  Powers: Can heal fallen 
 team mates
  
  Captain Xavier Jones.
  Postion: Seer/ second in command
  Gun (s) : (patrioteer) G36C with attached 12 gage.
  Powers: can posess enemies
  
  Corporal 
 Simone Cole.
  Position: Reality Hacker
  Gun (s) : X-86 assault rifle with grenades.
  Powers: can slow down time/boost teams fire power/ supply ammo
  
  Sgt Frank delgado
  position: 
 heavy weapons/ pyromancer
  Gun (s) : ( Hells keeper) 3 barrel minigun
  secondary weapon: .50 calibre pistol
  Powers: pyromancy
  
  Lt Abigail Black
  Position: 
 sniper/ telekenetic/ pyrokinetic
  Gun (s) : (Flash thought) US XM-110 sniper rifle with short distant/ long distant scope with under 
 barrel grenade launcher.
  Powers: telekinetic/ Pyrokinetic
  
  Sgt Wilhelmina 'Billie' Chruch
  Position: Support/ Blood mage
  Gun (s) : (Kenjuu) Automatic pistol 
 with 30 round clip
  Secondary: (Nodachi) Japanese custom made sword
  powers: freeze enemies with own blood/ set on fire with wn blood
  
  Father paul rawlings
 
  position: Exorcist/ Healer
  Gun (s) : (Faith and destiny) 2 automatic desert eagles.
  Powers: drain enemies blood and re-distripute as health amongst the squad/ heal fallen team mates 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaneandlynch93
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 27, 2008 1:53 pm PT
Review:  In Jericho Your playing as a superpowerd squard known as jericho this game is fun but it can get 
 realy hard. the graphics are realy good and the the game has a pretty weird storyline but the game 
 is still kinda scary and realy violent this game is fun and creepy but it can get pretty frusterating 
 but still jericho is a good FPS game. jericho is not the best FPS game but it is still fun but 
 i like HALO 3 and CALL OF DUTY 4 and TUROK better but jeicho is still a good FPS game. So if you 
 like creepy FPS game then jericho is worth playing .  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Monthigos
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 27, 2008 1:28 pm PT
Review:  I was a bit disappointed with this game, especially coming in with the expectations that this game 
 was going to be on par with Cliver Barker's Undying. The game is not scary at all, and the level 
 design features very little variation. The endless enemies make this game play more like Painkiller.
 
  
  You are provided a squad but they are pretty much useless. With only some basic commands they really 
 only provide one purpose, which is the game's main draw: the ability to jump back and forth between 
 different characters and use their abilities. Despite that you'll spend most of your time healing 
 your unintelligent squad mates just so you will have reserve bodies to jump back into.
  
  Challenge-wise the game can be a headache at certain points, especially at the beginning until 
 you effectively learn to use your squad's abilities.. The bosses are generally interesting and 
 require some creative thinking to take them down.
  
  The story is uninspired and linear, a far cry from Barker's other video game. The dialogue ranges 
 from colorful to cheesy. Ultimately Jericho is a generic FPS with a few gimmicks. It might be worth 
 a play through if you have a penchant for the macabre, but definitely not at release price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LuVZ-tOo-SPoogE
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 26, 2008 11:59 am PT
Review:  Lots of people say this game is a waste of money and isn't good! they're WRONG! It is the most 
 awesome horror game ever! Jericho has a perfect setting based in the real world but with certain 
 ancient religious aspects which make the games plot. Its all about the box, I belive its called 
 the Pixis, however this box every so often takes a piece of the real universe and takes it to a 
 realm in-accesable to anyone but phsycic crack squad, Team Jericho. This monstrous realm is inhabited 
 by the Firstborn, God's first attempt at creating man, but failed with disastrous consiquences, 
 HOW GOOD IS THAT FOR A PLOT!!! The game offers you the ability to switch between members of team 
 jericho at your will after you character dies after the first few chapters. The game is quite challenging 
 ( JUST THE WAY I LIKE IT!!) , has nice weapons and mythic powers and is very graphically pleasing 
 with the superb blood and gore effects. I believe that the game is great and that other people 
 judge it before they play it and I would strongly urge you to if not buy it rent it as it is well 
 worth it!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: picklesrocks
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 22, 2008 9:49 am PT
Review:  Jericho is one of those hyped up games just because clive barker made one good film and game in 
 the past, he thinks hes good at it. But dont get me wrong i like the game and the story but its 
 just lacking so many things for instance its just not scary probably the one thing the game tries 
 the most to be. another annoying issue is one of the enemy types they are a unit which lumbers 
 towards you and blows itself up, this doesnt sound too bad but theyre so hard to kill and about 
 three run at you at a time and when youve killed them (or they've killed your squad) about five 
 more run at you afterwards causing obvious frustration.
  The game has some good point though as the story is very good and your squad have some interesting 
 weapons and styles but are undermined by the squad AI, say you are getting shot at your squad will 
 just stand there and shoot forcing you to revive them constantly and it usually involves you getting 
 killed in the process.
  The lack of a multiplayer is not a big thing but it would have been a nice addition. overall Jericho 
 is not a bad game its just got so many minor annoyances that undermine it from all angles 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trevor_25
Rating: 3
Date: Feb 21, 2008 6:17 pm PT
Review:  This game should never have come out. Do not buy this game. Do not rent this game. Run from this 
 game It is terrible. Reasons? Frustrating level design, very cliche almost racist character types 
 and ridiculous storyline. The graphics are average for the 360 at best and the music score is just 
 repetitive. Controls? Oh yea, they suck to. Switching between your squad mates is supposed to somehow 
 be innovative, but instead is just frustrating and often ends up in death. You squad mates? Oh 
 yea, they are all idiots. Often standing in the way of bullets or from oncoming demon hordes. The 
 final boss battle is just plain horrid. I mean a littly baby alien thing? Really? Perhaps if Clive 
 Barker added Pinhead to the game it might have saved us from this embarassing attempt at a video 
 game. Such a waste of XBOX 360 space. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beno1
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 15, 2008 4:24 pm PT
Review:  Generally, its pretty widely accepted that Clive Barker is fairly twisted. Anyone who has 
 read any of his books or saw any of his movies will tell you this. Now Barker has decided to have 
 another crack a making a video game, because although he can write and his films were horrifying 
 in the good way, videogames is where his talents fail to impress, and so do sales of his games. 
 Will Jericho change this?
  
  Short answer? No. Long answer? No it wont change anything. Although Jericho is certainly 
 passable and at times, excellent, it misses out on so much of its potential.
  
  You play captain Devin Ross, leader of the Jericho squad, a Squad of commandos armed to the teeth 
 who have paranormal powers, like healing, which is Ross. I dont think Ill be giving 
 too much away when I say that early on Captain Ross is killed off. Heres where the game 
 introduces an interesting mechanic that is at least worth a go if youre tired of the cut 
 and paste familiarity of other F. P. S games. Ross spirit has the ability to switch between 
 other squad members at will. There are 6 playable squad members in all. Each with special weapons 
 and powers that can be used effectively in fire-fights like the fire demon of Delgado or the ghost 
 bullet of black, in which Black uses her telekinetic powers to control bullets mid flight, which 
 is seriously cool. Although most powers can be used any time some powers are situation based, and 
 whilst they dont add a whole lot to the fire-fights, they do add a certain something to 
 the overall feel of the game. One instance of this is where the Jericho team need to get past a 
 fortified building. Jones, a seer, has the ability to possess enemies for a short time, not very 
 effective in fire fights I find, but here, Jones can possess the enemy, and caused a small fire 
 next to a gas canister (ahh the conveniently placed gas canister, staple of the F. P. S) and caused 
 an explosion that brought down the wall so that Jericho could proceed. These set piece battles 
 are impressive and exciting, but not as exciting as the fire-fights filled with enemies coming 
 at you from all sides.
  
  Graphics in the game are sharp and polished. Maybe a little too much so, everything seems to have 
 a gloss on it and even squad members are a bit shiny, but it easy to look past this, as most of 
 the time your in the dark. Well it wouldnt be a horror game if the lights were all on now 
 would it? Enemies look truly scary, with flayed skin and bloody wounds all over them. Theyre 
 vaguely human, but twisted and thats what makes them so disturbing to look at. I felt a 
 slight sense of panic at one point when the squad was cornered by several exploding cultists and 
 thats exactly how a game should engage with you., it should stir some sort of emotion. Sound 
 quality is fairly impressive, voice acting is done well and the screams of enemies and slight background 
 noise add to the games atmosphere considerably.
  
  Now heres the downside, and where Jericho looses so much of its potential for greatness. 
 The campaign is fairly short if played on easy or normal, so playing on hard is recommended in 
 order to get the most out of it, but the same can be said for campaign modes in call of duty 4 
 and Halo 3. The difference is, those games have excellent multiplayer modes to add to longevity. 
 I dont know if code masters and MSE decided that multiplayer wasnt needed, or whether 
 they had to rush to meet a deadline, but the inclusion of no multiplayer and no extra missions 
 after the campaign what so ever cripple this game. In a squad based game, the least you can expect 
 is some form of co-op, but not with Jericho it seems. Dont let this discourage you from 
 at least trying this game out though. The campaign on hard is a very enjoyable experience and refreshing 
 in a world of see terrorist run, shoot terrorist, repeat games that have saturated 
 the F. P. S market. Its a refreshing experience and one you will remember for a while after 
 playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 5UPERMARIO
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 15, 2008 8:02 am PT
Review:  Jericho is a FPS, filled with Gore and blood from the mind of Clive Barker. This game feels like 
 an arcade shooter in that you never have to worry about ammo (it replenishes itself when you run 
 out) and you will see hoards and hoards of the same enemy come towards you. Think along the lines 
 of the "Serious Sam" games, not so much like "The Darkness" or "Bioshock". Here are my thoughts 
 on the strong and week points of the game:
  
  + Great Creepy Atmosphere During the Second Half of the Game
  + Great Boss Fights, Some Enemies 
 are Designed Well
  + Tons of Blood / Guts for Horror Fans
  + Great Story Keeps you Interested as you Play
  + Ability to Switch between the Squad Members 
 is a Great Idea
  
  - Voice Acting is horrible
  - Level Layout is Linear and Dumb
  - The characters feel "Weightless" as you move around
  - Shooting hundreds of the same monster 
 gets repetative
  - Ending of the Game is a total letdown
  
  If you are a big fan of horror games and dont mind a shooter with an Arcade Feel to it, then you 
 probably will enjoy JERICHO. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: speed45823
Rating: 3
Date: Feb 7, 2008 7:02 pm PT
Review:  Ok so after I watched the trailer, I was excited about the game because I love horror games but 
 Clive Barker's Jericho is nowhere close to the term "Horror". Sure it's got some really amazing 
 looking textures but there are flaws.
  
  So first of all, this was my first game where I played as a squad. There's 7 squad members. Here's 
 the problem. Doesn't horror games supposed to make you feel isolated? Certainly not in this game. 
 This game feels like and acts like a dumbed down mindless shooting game if not anything else. Enemies 
 charge at you and all you do is shoot them till they die. The squadmembers gets killed... A LOT. 
 They basically work as a bullet sponge. The enemies can take on a lot of beating as well. One other 
 problem is that it is horribly dark., even when you turn on the flashlight. This kinda gives headach. 
 The level design is not narrow and clustrophobic as I thought. If you have played Doom 3, you'll 
 get used to the game. What you won't get used to is the annoying (AND I MEAN IT) movement control. 
 It seems that the player can move forward faster than doing sidesteps and backsteps. In fact, the 
 player sidesteps and backsteps so slow that you want to just run and gun the enemy. This movement 
 issue was intentional and will be frustating. 
  
  So other than some nice visuals and the ability to change between squadmembers, this is just a 
 "wanna-be good" game turned to something horrible. This is not a horror game. This is a terrible 
 game, putting Clive Barker's name to shame. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sleepysmoo2
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 29, 2008 12:36 pm PT
Review:  This game is a bit of a paradox. It's definitely a bit lacking on it's potential, but if you can 
 look past the flaws, it's definitely not as bad as some think.
  
  I rented this game anyway, despite the terrible reviews, and I must say I'm not disappointed. (Though 
 I wouldn't recommend buying it) . 
  
  First, the bad parts. The level design is truly bad. They are short episodes rather than long levels, 
 and they feel both abrupt and poorly scripted. The levels, in fact, are so short sometimes it ends 
 and you're like, "wait, THAT was a level?" 
  
  The reviews also nail the fact that the levels are poorly designed. Often, you're team mates, (who 
 supposedly respond to squad controls) , have no where to position themselves, so you end up with 
 a clump of 6 people in a spot that, say in Halo, would occupy one. As you can imagine, it doesn't 
 lend itself way to fighting. You run into your own people, and any area-effect enemies can wipe 
 out your whole team in one fair swipe. It's frustrating, to say the least. 
  
  It's also very hard to control your people. You can switch in between 6 characters, but in the 
 heat of battle, it's hard to control them all while using their abilities to the best advantage. 
 One character can slow time, but only for herself, so that doesn't help your teammates. As well, 
 when you're getting hit from all sides, you end up dying, switching to another, dying, and so on. 
 
  
  I guess my biggest gripe is the lack of control. Your aiming feels loose, and it's hard to pinpoint 
 the "weak spot" on enemies, harder than it should be. And since the levels are so constricted, 
 it's hard to position Alpha and Omega squads. You end up just having them follow you around. I 
 feel that if you're going to make a squad game, the squad mechanic should work. 
  
  Anyway, on to the good stuff. The story isn't bad, although the characters dialogue is sometimes 
 strange and out of place. (You're not sure who's talking to who) . The characters themselves are 
 interesting, especially if you unlock the extras, but sometimes there's back-story that's being 
 discussed that you haven't been let in on yet. There's some very, VERY extreme language and subject 
 matter too, (incest?) , so I wouldn't recommend to anyone young. 
  
  I do like the subject matter, and the horror aspect comes through pretty well. All in all, I find 
 this game more interesting rather than super-playable. It's fun to control different characters 
 with witchy powers, and the story is something new. I would definitely recommend trying this game. 
 
  
  One last thing. On Hard, this game can get punishingly difficult. Enemies that use flame-throwers 
 (!) or explode can kill everyone in one hit. Just be prepared. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DIMANICUS
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 12, 2008 12:53 pm PT
Review:  From the brilliant mind that spawned Hellraiser comes Jericho. The concept of Jericho was devised 
 by the dark, twisted imagination of Clive Barker, who said gay people can't conjure up a tale of 
 the macabre? Jericho chronicles the events of the Jericho squad who are sent to investigate The 
 Box at Al Khali. The seven members all posess different abilities, although you only have access 
 to Ross in the first chapter, until events conspire and the story advances through 4 different 
 time periods.
  
  Jericho is viscreally exciting and violently insane, right down to the minor details like the unique 
 gameplay mechanics and the original story. Jericho is a first-person shooter with a twist, with 
 each character boasting different weapons and abilities such as slowing down time and the Ghost 
 bullet (probably the greatest thing to happen to FPS's since The Darkness) . While some of the environments 
 may be relatively cramped considering there are 7 (6 after chapter one) squad members all in the 
 same area of space (some levels are split up into Alpha and Omega squads etc.) . 
  
  The graphics in the game are beautiful and capture the macabre of the game's setting. Shiney blood 
 slpatters off surfaces, which is contrasted by the lack of shiney happy people holding hands, instead 
 replaces here with bloody sadomasochistic zombies slashing and burning you at every oppurtunity. 
 Each of the time periods are beautifully decorated by architecture of the era, with sadistic and 
 tormented elements thrown in to darken the atmosphere of the second World War, Roman era and the 
 Crusades (which were pretty dark to begin with) . 
  
  Jericho's soundtrack ranges from operatic to twisted and epic. Sound such as the squelch of an 
 enemy's head popping are just fantastic, other sounds such as the footsteps against the pavements, 
 dirt and piles of excrament, the bullets being expelled from the player's guns and the calls of 
 the enemy are very enthrawling and add to the experience.
  
  Overall, Jericho is an underrated gem. Though it is clear why some may overlook some of it's good 
 sides, but in all, Jericho is worthy of note as being one of the most surprisingly good games of 
 the year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Keymaster92
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 11, 2008 5:37 pm PT
Review:  Clive Barker's Jericho is technically the third game by Clive Barker. Here is the review.
  
  First of all why do people hate this game so much, I mean its Clive Barker just returned to 
 the videogame industry ever since his first game Undying came out which is a pretty good game. 
 Also Undying came out only a couple of years ago. Clive Barker's Jericho is a first person shooter 
 mixed with a horror game. The game isn't getting the attention it deserves right now. I have played 
 the game on both on the 360 and the PS3, the game is actually pretty good. 
  
  Pros: The storyline is something that I have been waiting for since I beat Resident Evil 4.
  
 The gun scenes are so epic , I mean seriously who doesn't like a bunch of demons coming at you 
 when you are a playing a scary game that makes sit at the edge of your seat.
  The bosses were designed very good including Firstborn. Clive Barker really put some thought into 
 creating the Firstborn.
  The different locations you get to go to are amazing: Germany, Rome and some other historic locations 
 that I forgot.
  The gameplay is awesome since you can play as almost 7 different charaters.
  
  Cons: The only 
 bad thing about this game is the ending. I mean Barker could have made a longer ending. But it 
 makes you think "what happened to the Jericho Squad after beating the Firstborn and after escaping 
 the cave that they almost got killed in". 
  
  I'm just hoping that people that hated Jericho will give Clive Barker another chance. I mean come 
 on he is trying his best to please his fans with games that aren't getting the attention they deserve.
 
  
  Clive Barker gets 8 mad Firstborn out of 10.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hitman_Grim
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 6, 2008 5:02 pm PT
Review:  The game was fun, I loved all the different abilities and being able to switch between characters. 
 The way the AI characters would kind of lead you where to go next if you got lost was kind of nice 
 too. But that's about where I stopped liking it. The AI characters were freaking stupid! They were 
 constantly jumping right into my line of fire, standing out in the open when explosives were going 
 off and getting themselves killed: in fact, they seemed to take every oppurtunity possible to get 
 killed. It was really annoying and really ticked me off. Several times I had to resist the urge 
 to throw my controller against the wall or completely tear up my 360. Then there was the overwhelming 
 impossible odds in certain areas of the game. So much that it took me like 10 tries just to get 
 past one part. Great game, but it really ticked me off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: appl4s
Rating: 2
Date: Jan 6, 2008 12:48 am PT
Review:  This is an unexeptable game it should not be sold
  
  The graphics in this game make metal gear solid on the ps1 look next-gen... Too harsh? sorry but 
 they are bad. And the extremly linear corridor levels don't help. Like in an age of gaming were 
 everything is open world levels you can't expect a game like this to go anywhere but down.
  
  The sound design is the only points givin to this game all 2 of them. With scary music kicking 
 in at right moments and the freaky clanging metal when soilders lerk in the darkness is good. But 
 doesn't save it from the first born crap it is. (referance to the story)
  
  The gameplay is dull and boring, repatative and dead at the same time. It's trying to be Call of 
 Duty, FEAR, and for some reason God of War all in one and it's also trying to be a platformer and 
 cinamtic it's to much effort put into those things and not caring about controls that killed this 
 game.
  
  Sorry not even worth a rent Clive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scotty0123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 28, 2007 5:37 am PT
Review:  Jerhico known to most people is a squad based shooter set in the desert... Most of this is wrong. 
 For one Jericho is a shooter where you can switch between different characters to do puzzles and 
 tasks that can only be done with a certain character. 
  
  Jericho is a very strange game because at first you think..."Nah, im going to be coming off after 
 this mission and take it back" but give it about 30 mins or 1 hour and you'll love it. 
  
  Graphics in this game is one thing but the art is amazing. The character details on the enemies 
 and even on your squad is amazing and being Clive Barker in the Enviroments are very very creepy.
 
  
  The gameplay is brillient. There are around 6-7 different squad members which you can enter and 
 use their weapons and abilities. Each squad member has 2 different weapons or a secondary weapon. 
 EG. The big guy Dalgrado has a mini-gun and a 50. cal Pistol, and also has a fire barrier so non 
 of your team can be killed by fire or close range combat and also can use a fire ball to fry some 
 of those bigger nastier enemies. Another thing is that there are interactive cut scenes which work 
 well seeing as though in Resi 4 you have the view from the side or the top where as on Jericho 
 you get a first person view while your smacking enemies in the face and tearing someones head off.
 
  
  Sound... Very creepy... Nuff said... 
  One other thing.. Cheesy lines are sometimes used but they kind of add a realism to what someone 
 would say if they were joking around.
  
  No online... sadly... could of been great...
  
  No extras really.. Bits of a bobs...
  
  If I were you i would seriously get this game and try 
 it out, if you dont like it you can always take it back so its not really a problem. 
  
  One last closing comment... I wouldnt buy this if your giving this to a younger child like the age 
 of 12 or 13. You may have bought gears of war for them, but the game will scare them poop-less 
 if they are afraid of anything like FEAR or Doom 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grunt1096
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 10, 2007 3:02 pm PT
Review:  One of my main gripes with this game is the horrible level design. I mean can we get some imagination 
 people. You run though endless corridors and shot baddies in the same boring brown atmosphere. 
 My other problem is the story, or lack there of. Its so confusing you don't know whats going on 
 half the time. First your here then there and they never really bother to tell you whats going 
 on really. It's got some good things though. The gameplay feels good and the graphics are above 
 par. Overall its hard to recomened this game with all of its fallbacks. Just rent if if you have 
 the time don't waste your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rootATdarkstar
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 9, 2007 11:35 pm PT
Review:  I've started a new personal review scale, as seen in this review. I will be reviewing this game 
 in 7 areas: graphics, sound, controls, story, multiplayer, bonus materials, and artistic direction. 
 The final review score is not an average of these scores, but rather my overall opinion of the 
 title.
  
  When you look at Clive Barker's Jericho, one thing about it immediately jumps out at you. Clive 
 Barker. Jericho is soaked in Barker's personal style, both artistically and literarily. A Clive 
 Barker fan will probably find a lot to love here. For those of us who have little-to-no previous 
 experience with Barker's work, we merely have to take Jericho as is. 
  
  One of the best things about reviewing a game so long after its initial release is that you get 
 to respond to the reviewers who have come before you. Let me then set the record straight by summing 
 it up in one single sentence: Clive Barker's Jericho is the most fun I've had with a video game 
 since I played Resident Evil 4 on the 'Cube back in 2005. In fact, Jericho is the first game since 
 RE4 that I restarted immediately after beating it. That is not to say that Jericho is by any means 
 perfect, just that I happen to thoroughly enjoy it.
  
  Part of the reason I think Jericho has done so badly in reviews is because reviewers seem to approach 
 Jericho as if it were a tactical squad-based shooter. I didn't know it was supposed to be; I approached 
 Jericho with the excitement of being able to control every character and using a host of supernatural 
 powers. Seriously, for a micro-manager like me, this is a dream come true! If this is your outlook, 
 you will probably have more fun than if you expect a gameplay style similar to GRAW. Well, onto 
 the review!
  
  Graphically, I have heard opinions on both ends of the spectrum on Jericho. I personally find the 
 graphics to be excellent. The whole game is very dark, very caliginous. Some surfaces are a bit 
 more reflective than they should be, but all in all, the graphics are very nice. However, there 
 is a lot to be said for personal taste here; if you like dark, cavernous settings, you will probably 
 like Jericho's graphics. If you don't, you will probably claim that this game looks like a 12 hour 
 bowel movement. That aside, the character models are nice; the enemies look terrific, and the bosses' 
 are delicately detailed.
  GRAPHICS: 9.5/10
  
  The soundtrack in Jericho is pretty minimalist; it's made up of mostly percussion and muffled off-key 
 Gregorian chant. I like it, and I think it fits the theme of the game, but I get the feeling that 
 most people will not. The weapon sounds are a bit softer than I'd like, and the character dialogue 
 can be dull and repetitive at times, but for the most part, they too are enjoyable.
  SOUND: 8/10
  
  The controls in Jericho are somewhat awkward. They were never awkward enough 
 for me that I got distressed or irritated, but they did take some getting used to. Like in most 
 shooters these days, Jericho uses a dual-analog control scheme. Unlike in most shooters, however, 
 your character will actually move faster when moving forward than he/she will moving left, right, 
 or backwards. The change can be jarring, especially when running around a corner or away from enemies. 
 Other than that, the controls are not especially tight or loose. There are certainly better control 
 schemes out there, but Jericho's are not really a significant bonus or deterrent.
  CONTROLS: 6/10
  
  The quality of Jericho's story is debatable. It's all a matter of what you 
 want in a story. Jericho is a squad of witches, wizards, and wise-asses that are supposedly kept 
 around to protect the world from certain supernatural doom at the hands of God's first attempt 
 at humanity (referred to as, *SHOCK*, the Firstborn) . It's a pretty far stretch for a plot, but 
 if you're willing to make the effort, there's lots of theological fiction here to love. You are 
 cast as Captain Ross, and not far into the game, you die. You spend the rest of the game in an 
 ethereal ghost-like form, unable to interact with the world unless you "possess" one of your Jericho 
 squad mates. Each of your six remaining squad member have two weapons (or weapon attacks) and two 
 supernatural powers. Ross can also use his power of resurrection regardless of who he is possessing. 
 Many reviewers said that the mechanic by which you change bodies can be disorienting, and at first 
 I agreed, but I adjusted to it fairly quickly. The story progresses as you journey farther and 
 farther into "the Box," the Hellish home crafted for keeping the Firstborn entertained and in captivity. 
 The story itself is slightly weak, but the ideas presented are very solid. If you are a little 
 forgiving at times, you may find yourself thoroughly wrapped up in the dark world of Jericho
  STORY: 8/10
  
  There is no multiplayer, so I cannot review it.
  MULTIPLAYER: n/a
  
  The 
 extras consist of logs about the different playable characters, enemies, and NPC's that you encounter 
 throughout the game. They become available as you unlock achievements, and if the story interests 
 you, then they're worth a look. If you find yourself bored with the story, they are completely 
 worthless.
  EXTRAS: 4/10
  
  To summarize my views on the artistic stylings of Clive Barker's Jericho, I cannot heap enough 
 praise into this review without it potentially falling on me like a futuristic version of our own 
 Leaning Tower of Pisa. The dark environments, the macabre setting, and the gruesome visuals all 
 serve to get my inner artist more excited than a lesbian in a ladies locker room (should any lesbian 
 readers take offense to that comment, I apologize) . The enemies are great, the characters are amazing, 
 and the bosses are all hypnotic in their design. If games were reviewed solely on artistic expression, 
 then, in my mind, Jericho would set the standard.
  ART: 10/10
  
  After all this praise, there is still a lot to say. Jericho is not without its flaws. It's been 
 brought up in countless reviews that you often have to spend a lot of time healing your squad. 
 I disagree with this. If you manage to keep Father Rawlings alive (your other healer) , he'll take 
 care of most of that for you. If you are spending your gunfight time healing rather than shooting, 
 than you're doing something wrong, and you should probably re-examine your strategy. It still can 
 be pretty annoying to heal your allies during some of the more difficult fights and parts of the 
 game where you split up can be unnecessarily unforgiving. Many of the cut scenes incorporate timed 
 button presses, as is pretty standard these days. Jericho's button prompts only appear on the screen 
 for a very, very brief period of time. You do have longer to press them than it would seem, but 
 it takes some getting used to. Most games leave the button prompt up until you press the button, 
 so the difference can be discomforting.
  
  Jericho is gory, and that's putting it mildly. The game is a blood-lover's fantasy, but I would 
 argue that it's not blood/gore simply for the sake of blood and gore. Again, it depends heavily 
 on your own personal artistic tastes.
  
  Basic gameplay is very enjoyable. Most of the levels are short and sweet, and thus don't ever overstay 
 their welcome. Level design has been marked as a big flaw for the game, but honestly, I only found 
 myself backtracking twice during the games thirty or so levels. I think that's a decent average. 
 Level design is not outstanding, but I think I'd have to stretch to say that it's bad.
  
  The game's ending leaves a lot to be desired, but I won't get into it for those who haven't beaten 
 it. I have read rumors on the Codemasters website that a sequel would be developed depending on 
 sales of Jericho. Jericho was definitely enough fun for me that I would relish the chance to spend 
 more time in it's dark, secluded universe.
  
  To summarize, Jericho is an amazing game hidden deep within itself. If you're willing to forgive 
 a few quirks (or god forbid, enjoy said quirks) , you will find a horribly underrated game that 
 is quickly getting lost under the constant barrage of holiday releases. For those of you who haven't 
 played Jericho yet, I urge you to ignore all the reviews (even this one, if you want to!) and simply 
 give it a try. Personally, I found one of my favorite games of this console generation. I'm sure 
 other people found their favorite game to bash. But either way, don't you need another game to 
 love/bash? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reign_six6six
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 2, 2007 8:56 pm PT
Review:  I think this game is allot better than some say. But that may be because I don't really know who 
 Clive Barker is.. I probably have seen his work but just didn't know it was his.. so I didn't really 
 have any certain expectations to be met.. But this game makes me want to look for more of his things. 
 But now more about the game lol. I thought it was a really great game. Nice and creepy at times 
 and it has some pretty neat little tricks in it. Like possessing any member of your team when ever 
 you want. And every character has there own special ability most more than one. The graphics are 
 done nicely and the sound is pretty good to. So yeah you definitely need to check it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bubear666
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 2, 2007 9:01 am PT
Review:  After reading a lot of mixed reviews and playing the OK-ish demo I decided to pick up a copy to 
 see what it was all about and I was in no way dissapointed.
  Let's start with the story. You have a team of supernatural soldiers each with his/her own ability 
 who are sent to a city to see why contact has been lost. Unknown to yu the return of an old enemy 
 is trying to release an evil creation of God which will take over and end the world. Pretty early 
 in the game your main character dies but this then gives you the ability to posess other members 
 of Jericho Squad and use their abilities such a pyromancy. telekinesis, restoration etc. Also as 
 you progress further into the game you go further back in time and meet some helpful and not so 
 helful characters on the way. You meet with a British Squad from WWII and also Templar Knights 
 from the middle ages and so on. These help to keep you interested in the story.
  The graphics are amazingly eery and some locations are nice and gory but also as you go back in 
 time you can see a change in architecture. A good example is one minute your in the blood soaked 
 WWII trenches and then the even bloodier castles of the middle ages but then you go into the roman 
 times and there are massive marble palaces covered in blood and the crucified bodies of innocents 
 and then when you get to the last level 3000BC you are taken to an amazing palace. The change in 
 locations is good although they are all dark does help with the atmosphere. The charactes are also 
 well designed but more facial expressions would have been nicer for the ingame cutscenes.
  The gameplay is manic and you can be quickly overwhelmed if you dont plan the attack and try to 
 run through as the enemy are hard to kill and will overun you. This seems harder at the start of 
 the game as you are in WWII and tyhey seem to have more projectile weapons where as later on you 
 find they are more melee attacks from them. There are also some really cool boss fights and little 
 mini boss fights during levels as well keeping you on your toes.
  To sum Jericho up this is a non stop horror thrill ride and scares you not with jumpy scripted 
 sequences but with eery locations and sheer number of seemingly invincible enemies that stop at 
 nothing to kill you. Also there are some truly evil boss characters who enjoy nothing more than 
 pain and to inflict it on you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talisac
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 1, 2007 9:21 am PT
Review:  Before creating Adam and Eve, God created the "Firstborn", it was not male nor female, it had no 
 defined sex, it was perfect yet it was horrible, it had no balance for it was all and nothing at 
 the same time... God realised His mistake, and banished the Firstborn into the Abyss. Thus He created 
 Adam and Eve, and there were sexes, races, and a beatiful equilibrium... However the Firstborn 
 would have his revenge. He is to return to Earth 7 times, the seventh atempt will be the last, 
 it's either obliterated or set free. The seventh comming is NOW. 
  The city of Al-Khali has lost contact with the outer world, your team has been sent there to finish 
 off the business a traitor, Arnold Leach, has started. Leach is an old and powerful member of the 
 DOW, the department the Jericho team works for, however he became obsessed with hois own power 
 and became an enemy of the DOW, now he's in league with the Firstborn, more powerful than ever. 
 What you don't know, however, is just that: this is a mission to end the Firstborn, that Al-Khali 
 is where he fell, that it is the entrance to The Box, where he resides.
  The game begins right out of Al-Khali, it's been dragged down to ruins, and the scenario is looking 
 strangely ancient, as you enter The Box (where you'll spend the most of the game) , you find things 
 even more wicked. The Bow is like a Russian Doll, built in layers, for everytime the Firstborn 
 came he took a bit of reality with him, so in the first layer (after you go out of the "nowadays" 
 layer) , you'll find World War II, than the Crusades, Ancient Rome and finally the Summerian age 
 (so you don't get to really fight through all of the 7 commings) .
  You'll take control of the squad leader Captain Devin Ross. However he dies soon in the game, and 
 discovers his ability to possess the other members of the squadron, that's how you get to play 
 with any of the squad members whenever you please. Ross (while alive) is a healer and kinda your 
 common fps mariner, so now, let's talk about the really neat characters:
  Abigail Black: my favourite character, and personally I'd say, the most gorgeous character ever 
 created for a game! This bada*s chickis the team's sniper, her sniper has also explosive bullets 
 and she has the power of telekinesis, meaning she can move things out of the way AND shoot "ghost 
 bullets". Ghost bullets are psychic created and are driven by her will, you can shoot up to three 
 enemies with a single bullet.
  Cole: this one is fun to play with. She's a reality hacker. She can use her machinery in other 
 to make time slow for herself, her visor shows the enemies weak spots and she can augment the power 
 of everybody's bullets. Her weapons are a relatively weak sub-machine gun and special grenades.
 
  Church: she's a blood witch. Her powers consist of her cutting herself in order to release two 
 powers: one that burns every enemy nearby and another one that binds them still and defenseless. 
 She has a relatively strong sub-machine gun and a very powerful katana. the katana is instantly 
 lethal depending on how and when you strike, if the enemy doesn't know you're nearby of if it's 
 bound in your blood magic he'll die with one strike.
  Jones: he has a great machine gune and can posses enemies and anything that's "alive", when he 
 does that he may have many option depending on the enemie and situation.
  Rawlings: he's the priest... wioth two extremely powerful pistols! He can exorcise enemies, which 
 means getting their health to you, and also take a way a good amount of your health in order to 
 revive someone else.
  Delgado: now this guy is HUGE. He has a giogantic machine gun linked to a mega armor, his right 
 arm is encased in a kind of sacredly-inscribed machine that he opens to release his powers. His 
 right arm is completly burnt, and a fire snake keeps running around it, so yes, when he opens it 
 it jumps on the enemies, doing instant kills most of the time, it can also crreate a protective 
 line of fire. He also has a powerful pistol.
  Both Rawlings and Ross can revive dead characters, and Ross instantly changes body when the guy 
 you're (he is) using dies, so you always have a fair chance of keeping everyone alive.
  The graphics are superb, they rival with the best I've seen for the XBox 360, from scneario to 
 very well crafted enemies and main chracters, there're no flaws at all.
  The story is good enough, unfortunately spoiled by a disapointing ending, but still pretty good. 
 It'll certainly remind you of Hellraiser, it doesn't cause fear into you like Silent Hill does, 
 but it does exactly what Hellraiser exceeds on doing: it shocks you. The enemies are very well 
 crafted meaning you can see every details of his eternal suffering, this ranges from hair made 
 out of barbwire, to hooks pulling away the skin of their chests, and so on. If you know Barker's 
 heavier stuff you know what you'll find here. It's demented, it's sick, it's deteriorated, it's 
 putrid, it's everything you want when you think Clive Barker. It's everything Undying lacked; Undying 
 was great but it didn't feel "Barkian" enough. Jericho doesn't feel like Clive Barker, it IS Clive 
 Barker. Any fan of him MUST get this game.
  The music is great to create the right mood, so are the sound effects, and most of all, the phrases 
 your characters keep saying, they're not repetitive and they do sound kind of funny.
  Unfortunately nothing is perfect and not only the ending is kinda disapointing, the game is very 
 short. But it's compensated by the how good the game is and it's replay value. You'll want to play 
 it again simply because it's to good a game, and also to unlock all the extras it offers, much 
 of the extras help you comprehend the story even deeper.
  The gameplay is impecable, being very easy to change from character to character, etc. Also whwen 
 you change character you're bound to go wow with the visual effects. The game also has those cut-scenes 
 (and even sometimes when you get attacked) that require you to follow a certain pattern of button 
 pressing in order to succeed the ordeal, or you'll instantly die.
  Clive Barker's Jericho is the best horror game in centuries. It's Hellraiser meeting Rainbow Six 
 with alien technology, and of course, Barker managed to make it work perfectly. Definetively one 
 of the best games for the XBox 360! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PrimalDeathX
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 1, 2007 1:29 am PT
Review:  this game has alot of potential 
  
  the power are pretty cool and the ability to control your squad each with their own powers. the 
 graphics are decent but the AI are really dumb and need improvement i wouldn't cal this game a 
 piece but it worth trying out.
  
  Alot of blood and gore and the character designs are alll right but all are the same. the game 
 has a ok storyline at times a little bit to folow . sometimes your teammates are dumb and other 
 times they can be a big help. this game can be better but its a good start for horror fps but hopefully 
 future games can be alot better 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ares360
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 19, 2009 2:11 pm PT
Review:  Jericho has a great gameplay. Switch through team squad and they all have special abilities. They 
 take over well. Not the sartest but decent. Easy to use and smooth control and definetly the best 
 story I have ever seen. This beats many other games I've played. Try it and I bet you'l love it 
 especiall when you can switch and use your team mates powes such fireballs, snipe with abullet 
 you can control where to move, slow down time, turn into a fire shield against flamethrowers, force 
 push people, freeze people with a blood omen spell, plant proximity mines, circle of fire, long 
 distant revives, take control of enemies, plus two weapons at hand in the same time. Sniper/grenade 
 launcher, Katana/smg, Minigun/magnum, dual weilding magnums with built in shotgun/grenade launcher, 
 assault rifle/grenades/mines, Smg/shotgun, Also your fighting the first creation the FIRST BORN. 
 Go through the time periods: WORLD WAR II  CRUSADERS ROMANS PERSIANS SUMARIANS!!!!!!!! 
  
  ITS LIKE A GIANT TIME PERIOD JUMPING RESIDENT EVIL BUT MORE ADVANCED THEN JUST DUMB ZOMBIES  THE 
 ENEMIES HAVE GUNS, FLAMETHROWERS, CAN FLY, SWORDS, MACHINE GUN TURRETS  CROSSBOWS THATS JUST IN 
 THE FIRST FEW LEVELS OF GAMEPLAY!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stinkfinger724
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 3:50 pm PT
Review:  Before Adam and Eve, there was the Firstborn, abandoned by God and imprisoned in an abyss. Four 
 times throughout history the Firstborn has tried to puncture its way out of its prison, and four 
 times it has been beaten back by a team of seven warriors, taking a chunk of orphaned time with 
 it.
  
  Okay, I totally made that last part up, but that is basically the story behind Clive Barkers Jericho, 
 the new FPS for the Xbox 360, PC and PS3.
  
  On the positive side: the controls are really well done, and your characters that you play as have 
 very unique and interesting occult powers. Also, every single level is filled with tons of unprecendented 
 cruelty and gore (and thats why people buy video games now-a-days huh??)
  
  On the negative side: the respawning in this game is very tedious. as well where the hell is the 
 multiplayer? it sure isn't in this game thats for sure.
  
  Overall, its a good game that you should check out if you love killing zombies, but keep away from 
 yonger ones. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: APOWDEREDDONUT1
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 27, 2007 1:35 pm PT
Review:  Jericho is getting bad reviews in the magazines and websites, and it's a shame because a lot of 
 fps gamers are going to miss out. 
  
  To sum it up shortly,.. I would say Jericho is like a squad based Painkiller,.. or a supernatural 
 Killzone. It's got great graphics,.. a freaky supernatural story,.. a cast of interesting supporting 
 teammates all with special powers and unique weapons,.. and insane Silent Hill-ish enemies. 
  
  The game slowly opens up all the gameplay in the beginning. Each character has two attacks 
 (either one gun with two ammo types, or two guns, or a sword.) and a special ability which can 
 be offensive or defensive. Your team is split up into alpha and omega squads. You can order each 
 team to different points or have them all move together. You can tell your entire team to stay 
 put and they will untill you get out of sight. Once you leave their sight, they come catching up.
 
  
  Which brings me to the most untrue part of people's reviews. The AI is smart, the problem arises 
 when the team has nowhere to go so they get mowed down by the literal 15-20 enemies that you have 
 to fight in a corridor the size of a school hallway. If someone in your party is incapacitated 
 you can just walk up to them and heal them, just as in Gears of War.
  
  About four or five levels in, you get the ability to posess and control any teammate at any time. 
 Just aim at them and hit the posess button (or go into a menu and select one to posess.) Different 
 situations in the game require the different abilities of your teammates. 
  
  The levels are linear,.. but with different paths to get to the same areas. The monsters usually 
 spawn in groups and rush you. At first the enemy variation is low and you will mostly fight only 
 two types of monsters. But a few levels in all kinds of other freaky as hell monsters start showing 
 up. I started having flashbacks to the original Quake. (remember that classic?) All the enemies 
 take a LOT of ammo to put down,.. but since you have a squad of six teammates it balances out. 
 Some monsters also have weak spots. Seriously, these are inhuman nightmare abomination monsters 
 from hell , do you expect them to take cover and use strategy? It's a nice marriage of old-school 
 Quake and Painkiller monster rushing with some new-school squad based teamwork. 
  
  It has some RE4 style interactive cinemas in which you only have a spit second to hit the correct 
 buttons. They'll happen unexpectedly and you'll die repeatedly,.. BUT when you fail them they immediately 
 repeat for you to try untill you pass so you don't have to reload a savegame or restart at an earlier 
 checkpoint. The cinemas are all played in first person, so you get to see everything happen first 
 hand. You even perform some pretty gruesome acts in this game as well and it deserves it's M rating. 
 Parents Beware!!!
  Extremelly mature content is in this game, but what else can you expect, it IS Clive Barker.
 
  
  There's really nothing wrong with Jericho other than some pretty poor level design, but it's fun 
 and freaky and it all depends on your personal taste. If you liked The Darkness or Painkiller then 
 you should give Jericho a chance. At least it's something other than a WWII or Halo fps, right? 
 
  
  As a final note, you may want to rent the game first as it is still fairly new and still costs 
 $60. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stabby
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 12, 2008 7:11 am PT
Review:  With a release date so close to that of Halo 3, can anyone even try to like another game? While 
 I easily could of it seems to me that Jericho has gotten bad press for simply not being Halo 3 
 as opposed to its actual substance. The games does well in what it sets out to do, bring the style 
 of Clive Barker and mix it up for a satisfying FPS. Granted, the game does have its flaws but such 
 issues are far from making it unplayable like certain reviews might want you to think.
  
  STORY
  Of course I won't be spoiling anthing but as a basic lowdown it goeslike this: Before 
 Adam and Eve, God's first attmept was deemed to pwwerful and so this "First Born" is hidden away. 
 When it tries to break free, it is stopped by a band of troops but each time they do it takes that 
 piece of time back with it. Trust me, it will all make sense once you've played it. The Jericho 
 squad is the main focus of course. You'll get an incrediblly diverse bunch of misfits from a gun 
 weilding priest in a trenchcoat, fanatical ninja witch, bad tempered flame summours off death row... 
 even, as quoted from the game: "telekenetic lesbian sniper". Again, the game will do a better job 
 explain this band, of which you'll get a good team of 7, each with different attitudes towards 
 there final goal, even with some odd voice work which I will cover alittle latter. The plot has 
 a nice flow, each travelling from time to time slice under the bloodthristy dominion of the Firstbron, 
 which also hosts other inhabitants from different periods, also distressingly twisted but hey its 
 Clive Barker after all. However I will still say the ending is quick and leaves plenty unanswered, 
 but if, and thats a big IF, they make another game, in the run p atleast I'll know something will 
 happen from it. Disappointing, yes, but once you've completed it, it won't make any other future 
 playthrough meaningless if you care about game stories. But should you play it again?
  
  GRPAHICS
  Being a triple release of the PS3, PC and 360, one would assume for the visuals to 
 be cutting edge. Well that will depend on your previous gaming history and taste. Having played 
 such visually spectacular titles such as Gears of War and BioShock, with massive depth and scope 
 like Oblivion and Half Life 2, you will most likely not be taken off guard by Jericho. However, 
 that being said, the graphics are enough to make it playable and still visually interesting. I 
 won't lie to you though, alot of levels are filled with bland halls and painted on grit landscapes. 
 You'll see the same structure throughout each level despite the promise of going through various 
 "time slices", but you might as well be stuck in a 21st century theme park haunted house. There 
 are however certain levels that do add more to the imagination. First off even though there is 
 a great level of repetition in design, atleast is grows in variety as the game progresses, sadly 
 however the most visually pleasing of these comes at the last of the time slices but when you finally 
 arrive you should be "wowed" by the large ancient fortresses, spires and golden hallways. So how 
 can the graphics not be mediocore if I've just ranted against it? In short, its the character models. 
 Friend and foe come in all shapes and sizes... and skins... While many will complain about thelack 
 of unqiue foes to each time slice, you can't deny that what you get isn't a feast for the eyes, 
 no pun intended. While hordes of lumbering bleeding sacks of flesh, to skin mummified demonic skeletons, 
 you'll quickly recognise the characteristics of Clive Barker, with a good does of Hell Riser in 
 the "bloodworks", although if you've been around the horror based games, you'll already be familiar 
 with the likes of Silent Hill and the Suffering which are full of the same vile corpses. Buthey, 
 atleast you get to have a go at them with a new set of characters. Each Jericho squad member, while 
 talking with mouth movement of a Monty Python cartoon sketch, the slick and shiny clothes and explosive 
 firepower, which there'll be alot of will make shore theres never a visually dull moment.
  
  SOUND
  I'll skip out the metaphors and one liners to try and sound proffesional, and just 
 cut to the chase. The voice acting is not bad, but its not great either. While some characters 
 have alittle emotion and tention within their speech, others are just placed quickly to fill the 
 gaps thats are the rest of the team. You'll grow fond of Rawlings' almost peachy tone and Black's 
 constant "pissed off vibe" while you'll grow tied of Delgado's self imposed "hard man" status and 
 Cole's quick yet feeble voice. Even sometimes you'll notice laugh at the cheesy quotes, both in 
 the sense that they fit the situation, break the tension and/or impose a nice dose of irony and 
 sadly in the sense of being just embarassing and talking over it while someone passes by you playing 
 it. As for the test, they never make an impact and Cpt. Ross is neither here nor there, he just 
 sounds like your typical military game character, although a note to many hypocrit reviews out 
 there, to complain about Ross should mean you should complain about Gears of War, being its the 
 same voice actor. As for the creatures growls, cracking grounds, ripping flesh and exloding bullets, 
 its all enough to enhance the experience. The music can also help, giving you the vibe you got 
 from Painkiller although its still pretty forgettable.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  What strikes me most about the gameplay is that its not broken or unbalanced like many reviews 
 will say, its challenging. After the first 4 hours I came to the conclusion that many reviewers 
 just didn't know how to play the game. I mean fort example, and I'll make this bold and clear: 
 YOU DO NOT SPEND MOST OF THE TIME HEALING FALLEN TEAMMATES IF YOU APPLY ALITTLE STRATEGY TO IT! 
 ITS NOT A RUN AND GUN SHOOTER, YOU HAVE TO THINK! IF YOU DON'T YOU WILL END UP WITH THE PROBLEM 
 MOST REVIEWERS HAD! You see, I got incredibly angry, not because I disagreed with the final scores, 
 they fo have some points to be made but the idea the game forces you to keep healing rather than 
 shooter is flase and I wonder how many other great games people missed out on due to false and 
 even biased information? Granted Jericho is very linear but then again so is BioShock and Gears 
 of Wars, I think its just more noticable being that the game is mostly set in small spaces and 
 so it will become noticable than others. As for the firefights, theres plenty of it. You'll get 
 a good variety of different weapons, all easy to switch between and a decent set of commands for 
 the rest of the party. The powers you'll also weild are both interesting and useful, however some 
 more than others. For example, Rawlings' healing from a distance helps in sticky situations, while 
 Church's blood magic to halt enemies helps when overwhelmed while Black's "ghost bullet" (the ability 
 to control the direction of the bullet) is just plain fun to use. Jones on the other hand is only 
 good for scripted situations while Cole's slow down time has been done before... ALOT of times. 
 While I'll agree with Gamespot and also point out the great levels like the Roman collisium, thats 
 not to say the rest is dull. Even in small bland spaces, the freakishly high amount of gore and 
 action makes Jericho a challenging experience. While it does seem rather familiar, what could be 
 called "more of the same" is a great and enhanced "more of the same". You'll get a reasonable 6-8 
 hour run, although the higher difficultly settings can add to it and if you're an Acievment whore, 
 the Jericho is for you, its loaded with great challenges. It could be longer and the aspect of 
 no multiplayer is just heart breaking to some, but I have faith and can see downloadable options 
 coming...
  
  CONCLUSION
  Jericho isn't a grand fright fest... or even a grand fest, but as a FPS it is still a solid experience. 
 With the interesting aray of characters, weapons and powers, foes, twist and turns... Jericho is 
 enough to reconmend to Clive Barker fans and those looking for a decent enough shooter in a world 
 of constant attempts to be the next big thing. And while it does have its issues, I fail to see 
 that main reason for bitterness by so many reviewers.
  
  Pros:
  - Interesting story
  - Range of characters and weapons
  - Pure Clive Barker style
  - Challenging gameplay
  
 
  Cons:
  - Poor ending
  - Short
  - Some visual and vocal repetition 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BoonDockSaint15
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 26, 2007 9:19 am PT
Review:  I thought that i was not going to like it at first but then i got into it all and thought yo know 
 this game is alot better then most i have played i have to say i am going back to this game whenever 
 i get the time this game has great gameplay sound and everything else i mean if you were a older 
 person i think that you could get into the story line of the game more but that is just me for 
 now i am just going to keep playing this rocking game .
  
  Clive Barker's game rocks!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: keen_jason
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 28, 2007 6:28 pm PT
Review:  Well, the wife was out of town all weekend, so I picked up Clive Bakers's Jericho. I was really 
 looking forward to this game, as I love pretty much every FPS out there, and am a big horror fan, 
 so I thought it was going to be win/win, boy was I wrong. I only played about 90 or so minutes 
 before giving into sheer boredom and having to turn off the game. The game starts out promising 
 with a pretty creative story, but turns into walk around another corner, and shoot non-stop at 
 ugly monsters that take tons and tons of bullets to kill. Ever corner/turn LOOKS THE EXACT SAME, 
 I kept getting turned around. If one of your team mates dies, you can walk over and press the "A" 
 button and bring them back to life. Cool concept expect my team was a bunch of idiots that kept 
 dying, I spent more time reviving them then shooting my boring looking gun. After 90 minutes of 
 the same crap, I had to turn the game off. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: amphibiouskille
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 25, 2007 3:07 am PT
Review:  I really miss the old, scary PC games; the only title from a few years ago was another Barker game 
 "Undying". Anyway, this game delivers on the promises it makes in the tradition of these older 
 games.
  
  The immersive story line is the best thing about this game. While the details were sometimes hard 
 to follow, the overall story of the game really carried through with a strong plot and interesting 
 characters. Instead of moving through various locations or levels, the fact that you were moving 
 backwards in time with each level added a unique twist to the separation of areas of the game.
 
  
  The graphics were sound, although a lot of the time it was too dark to appreciate your surroundings, 
 when you could see it was a solid show. The graphics of the players and monsters was fairly detailed 
 (on par with other 360 games) and is nothing to complain about.
  
  The dynamic of being able to jump from character to character (each with unique paranormal abilities) 
 during the game was a novel mechanic that really made fights more interesting. I did get confused 
 as who had what ability during fights, but the concept is really interesting and I hope to see 
 it used in other games.
  
  I don't know why this game got such poor "professional" reviews, but gamers on this sight seemed 
 to give it pretty high marks.
  
  I knocked it out in a few days (on hard level) so I would have rented it knowing that, but I am 
 not disappointed in my purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spacepope87
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 23, 2007 6:07 pm PT
Review:  This game really reminded me of "Bullet Witch" were it had tons of potential but but never got 
 there.
  
  
  It is really cool how you go to different time eras but the problem with it is that they all feel 
 like your in the same dungeon. The game play is really good but there is nothing new here. The 
 graphics on the environment look pretty bland but some of the character look top notch.
  
  
  This is a horror game that clearly tried to be Doom3 but the problem with this one is that 
 the audio doesn't really do anything to add to the eerie -nes like Doom3 did, the only level here 
 that came close to it was the Sewers level but even then it felt incomplete. Overall the game is 
 pretty good though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sheik_n_Zelda
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 21, 2007 5:17 pm PT
Review:  http://www. projectcoe. com/microsoft/games/jericho_360. html? var1=sc3
  
  A lot of games have the proper recipe for success, but some just aren't cooked well-enough to make 
 the final meal a tasty one. Clive Barker's Jericho is the horror film writer's first endeavor into 
 our beloved industry, and what he's managed to come up with is very intriguing on the surface. 
 Since day one, Jericho was intended to be a horror-driven, squad-based, tactical shooter that introduces 
 fresh dynamics in the action genre. Is the game scary at all? Well, no unfortunately. Is it squad-based 
 and tactical? Well, the former yes, the latter no. Does Jericho succeed with what it tries to do 
 new? Yeah, it actually does. Therefore, allow me to explain the ups and downs of this mixed bag.
 
  
  Jericho is the codename of a group of seven paranormal soldiers that have one major goal: to keep 
 the wholly evil Firstborn in its prison, keeping the planet safe. In Clive Barker's project, the 
 source of its newest disturbance has been traced to Al-Khali, a once thought to be deserted Middle 
 Eastern city. Hardly being the case, Devin Ross' team has been called in to contain the threat. 
 Little do they know that their mission is about to send them across multiple time periods, all 
 plagued with destruction.
  
  Let's start with what was meant to scare the pants off anyone who plays the game, the core presentation. 
 As briefly allured to at the beginning, Jericho fails to drive any horror home because there are 
 no jumpy moments, and nothing there to psychologically mess with you. That doesn't mean the game 
 has bad visuals though, because a solid foundation is definitely there. If nothing else, Jericho 
 is absolutely disgusting, since the adventure is chock full of rotting flesh, thick and dirty blood 
 and plain death all-around. The first half of the game is a bit of a letdown since everything tends 
 to look the same, with desecrated castle and cave environments, but the other half, starting with 
 the Roman era, really looks sweet. The architecture is varied, surprisingly well-detailed and colorful, 
 and brings less monotony to the equation. What I don't quite understand is why Jericho is so dark, 
 which makes a good deal of the game really tough in terms of the finer touches, but we suppose 
 the developers didn't want us oogling, which is somewhat understandable. The Jericho character 
 designs are ok, Jericho team, looking rather flat compared to other current generation games. This 
 is certainly no Gears of War, but everyone is at least unique and distinguishable. The enemies, 
 on the other hand, look awesome in all their disgustingness, which is a downer since they repeat 
 so damn much. There are six or so different models, causing boredom to set in after seeing the 
 same mummy-like dude with a spike arm for the hundredth time. Special effects is easily Jericho's 
 strong suit. Seeing bullets whizzing by when you're the only member ballsy enough to be at the 
 front immerses you in each battle, just like in war-time games, and the arcane abilities for each 
 Jericho soldier look stunning every time, even after the 500th healing of a critically wounded 
 squad mate.
  
  If my opinion about the visual style and delivery of Jericho sounds like a mixed big, then this 
 is bound to make your head spin. It's been a long time since I've felt so many positive and negative 
 things while playing a game. When it comes being a pure shooter, Clive Barker's team did absolutely 
 fine. The controls are fluid, everyone feels tight in their movements and gun action, and really, 
 Jericho is just plain fun in this alone. A straight-up FPS this game is not though, and that's 
 where things really start to become iffy, but thankfully it doesn't completely tank. The squad 
 mechanics are really neat, since Jericho's leader Devin Ross eventually dies and becomes a spirit 
 that can pass amongst the remaining six members. At any given time, you can pull up the lists for 
 the Omega and Alpha trios, since Jericho is split into two halves, and seamlessly choose who you 
 want next. While it's inevitable for Jericho players to pick their top three favorites, everyone 
 does have a significant purpose, even Jones, whom I've often seen criticized in online forums. 
 This helps the experience from becoming stale, because each Jericho soldier has a unique weapon 
 and magic repertoire that is always enjoyable to take advantage of. Also contrary to most Jericho 
 players, I enjoyed the concept of context-sensitive button scenarios that would have you input 
 a sequence to escape a dangerous situation or the clutches of an enemy. I almost wish that system 
 had greater influence on the game as whole, because each button press actually makes sense. On 
 top of that, I also thoroughly enjoyed the ability to combo the Jericho abilities together to wreak 
 havoc.
  
  It's simply the execution of everything else that needed some work and hefty QA. The first item 
 of business here is the AI, because the Jericho team is seriously a bunch of dumbasses. While there 
 are a few instances here and there when your buddies take proper cover and opportunistically fire 
 upon your enemies, their intelligence is usually nonexistent. No one sees a problem with running 
 right in front of you while you're shooting, which makes them yell at you for friendly fire, and 
 even worse, nor do they realize the issue of standing toe-to-toe with the game's more volatile 
 foes. Seriously, why in the hell would anyone willingly go face-to-face with a creature that explodes 
 upon death? Perhaps upon first encountering said Hellion I could understand, but apparently the 
 Jericho team isn't smart enough to adapt, and that's a real shame. Because of this stupidity, anyone 
 that plays simply must accept having to constantly heal their wounded partners. Only Rawlings (priest 
 with dual pistols) and who's possessed by Commander Ross are capable of doing so, which definitely 
 serves as cornering you when facing off with the enemies' mini armies, because the game is over 
 if everyone goes down. If the one you're controlling with Ross or Rawlings are fallen, the pressure 
 is considerably mounted on your shoulders to save the day. Finally, and probably what annoys me 
 the most about Jericho is the fact of there being one too many sections that make you feel stuck 
 in the middle of an infinite spawning area. It's frustrating because that's never the case, so 
 come on, what's really the point in having your whole team just sit in a room to pick off 20+ adversaries 
 that engage you one at a time? It's just boring, and kills the pacing of the game, as I much prefer 
 the run 'n gun action, especially if the squad knows next to nothing about tactics.
  
  Not all is lost with Jericho though, as much as some might have you think. As broken as the core 
 gameplay might seem, the shooter experience is backed by some quality audio. The weapons sound 
 very appropriate, and I especially love Black's sniper rifle shotgun-like boom every time I let 
 a round go. Even the subtle whistling of her Ghost Bullets traveling through the air really makes 
 her whole telekinesis/bullet combo that much more authentic and fun. That also leads into the fact 
 that everyone's special ability pleases the ears, especially the fire spirit that unleashes from 
 Delgado's arm, flying around and engulfing any nearby Hell minion in flame. The music, sadly, is 
 barely noticeable in most cases, since a majority of the themes are drowned out by the fairly constant 
 action [although there are a couple very well-fitting scores] , but the voice acting isn't too shabby. 
 While the humor comes off as out of place and forced, there are a couple one-liners that would 
 likely make you at least chuckle. But the voices done for each character sound quite convincing, 
 especially Devin's, and while Delgado's could've been a bit deeper, everyone has a very unique 
 personality, and it's nicely conveyed through Jericho's dialogue.
  
  COE certainly respects Mr. Barker for attempting to design a videogame that promotes a horror-drive 
 plot and intense action. While it doesn't really do too well with that first concept, Jericho certainly 
 shines fairly bright with the other. The game does quite a few things pretty well, but also doesn't 
 deliver on some things with the quality that most hardcore gamers expect now. It also doesn't help 
 that Jericho is short, easily beaten in around ten hours, give or take. The unlocked difficulty 
 simply isn't enough incentive to just have your ass handed to you in the same general experience. 
 To sum this up, if you're interested in giving another fish in the sea of next-gen shooters a shot, 
 then by all means try Clive Barker's Jericho as a rent. While it's not top-dollar worthy, checking 
 it out won't kill you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: josefedmunds
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 1:07 am PT
Review:  Although the Gamespot review does touch on some less-than-stellar aspects of the game, the rest 
 of the action greatly makes up for it. The visual experience is incredible. The level of detail 
 in the creepy creatures and haunting environments really sucks you into the world of the Jericho 
 team. As the game progresses you get an opportunity to get familiar with the strengths of all your 
 different characters. It also lets you vary your gameplay style on the fly. One moment you're using 
 the sniper to waste monsters from 400 yards away, the next you're hacking away at exploding undead 
 with a samurai sword. I found that my favorite character changed almost every session as I learned 
 to use each effectively. Don't be fooled by the Gamespot critics. This games a blast to play! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moonslashx
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2007 9:48 pm PT
Review:  How do you get better then a game written by a famous horror author. It has a perfect balence of 
 shooting and storyline almost as good as Bioshock which I also hold dear to my heart. The game 
 was literally so addicting I actually bothered to get all the achievements save two which I will 
 get very soon. The only problem I had was that we didn't get to see the end which I assume means 
 that xbox live is going to have an expansion coming in the near future. What honestly sold the 
 game for me personally were all of the jokes from the characters that made them seem more like 
 people then the usual super human way out there characters we see. To end this little review I 
 will quote Paul Rawlings, "praise the lord and pass the ammunition" which is my favorite line in 
 the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theSTEEF
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 20, 2007 5:12 am PT
Review:  What's better (or at least just as good as) than zombies? Demons! And i'm talkin gnarly demons like 
 the ones in Jericho! This game is DARK! But it's a GOOD dark, not a bad darl like in Call of Juarez. 
 I mean some sections are BLACK! Not some medium shaded brown but an oily black. Nice and creepy. 
 Clive Barker has a great imagination and the story really brings this game forward, as long as 
 you pay attention to what's goin on and aren't just runnin and gunnin. The voice acting is kinda 
 cheesy and it does take away from the game a bit. Too bad the voice acting isn't as good as FEAR, 
 but some prefer this type of dialog and delivery. It's not really that big a deal.
  The gameplay is awesome. Once i learned why i had to switch from team member to team member it 
 took on a better angle. Plus mixing in the shooting with the paranormal abilities are a blast!
 
  If you're into Clive Barker or horror games in general, this is a must-play!
  
  I just edited my score to reflect something i forgot. NO RUMBLE WHEN YOU SHOOT! Sorry, but when 
 i fire something off, i wanna feel it! 8.5   8.0. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkShadow-X75
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2007 8:03 pm PT
Review:  Jericho is probably one of the best games i have bought for Xbox 360 so far. Jericho is a wonderful 
 squad-based suspense/horror/action shooter that will hook you right from the beginning movie. One 
 of the cool features is that you are able to switch between different members of your squad each 
 with their own special weapons and supernatural powers. I am going to give you a basic introduction 
 of the characters and their powers. Captain Devin Ross is teh leader of the Jericho squad and the 
 first member you will play as. He carries the Patrioteer weapon which is a machine gun with a shot 
 gun attached to it as a secondary weapon. He has the abliity to resurect his fallen team members. 
 Next is seargent Frank Delgado. He is the man on the team that you want to use if you need high 
 firepower. His weapons are Hell's Keeper, a minigun attached to his arm and pain a pistol he uses 
 as a secondary weapon. Frank is a pyromancer and has a fire spirit attached to his arm that has 
 Hell's Keeper attached to it and therefore it is in a containment chamber. You can use the fire 
 spirit, called the Ababinili to attack nearby enemies. the only downfall is that when it is in 
 use if burns Frank's arm. Its pretty cool to actually see the flesh start to burn off of the arm. 
 Frank can also create a fire barrier to protect him from fire and decrease the amout of damage 
 done to him. Next is Corproal Simone Cole. She carries the X-86 assault rifle and grenades that 
 can be cutomized. Her powers are that she can hack reality and create what is called teh infinity 
 loop. This is where she slows time around her allowing her to kill enemies and dogge firepower. 
 she can also create a firestorm and increase the firepower of the Jericho Squad. Following her 
 is Captain Xavier Jones. He carries the patrioteer as well and he is a seer and can cst his astral 
 form to possess others and cast blood wards, pyrokenesis and or telekenisis to help the team progress. 
 Next is Jericho's sniper Lt. Abigail Black. she uses the Flash Thought which is, you guessed it, 
 a sniper. Now Black is a telekenetic and she is able to use telekenesis to clear paths for the 
 team and stun or kill enemies. as you progress through the game theres a little twist with it but 
 i wont tell you. Ill let you find out. She also has the ghost bullet which is a projectile that 
 you can control. You can use it to hit multiple targets which can be helpful in the several firefights 
 you will encounter. Now onto Sergeant Billie Church. She carries teh Kenjuu and Nodachi. The Kenjuu 
 is an automatic pistol and the Nordachi is a legenday Japaneese Sword. Church is a Blood Mage and 
 she can cast Blood wards which freeze enemies or fire wards which set them on fire. The only problem 
 is that her powers are driectly tied to her own blood so if your health is low you wont be able 
 to use it until you health regenerates. Finally the last member of Jericho is Father Paul Rawlings. 
 Father Rawlings carries Faith and Destiny. They are dual pistols that can be customized with different 
 ammo. Those are the regular ammo, fragmentation bullets, and explosive bullets. He can also resurrect 
 people like Ross but he can cast his spirit at people and resurrect them at long distances. He 
 also has Vlad's Curse which allows him to drain the health of enemies and give it to his teammates 
 when they hit them with their weapons.
  All right now that you know about the characters i will tell you a little bit about the story. 
 Jericho is sent in to the city of Al Khali to shut the rift that the bad guys have opened. the 
 bad guys are trying to release the firstborn. The Firstborn is Gods first creation. God could not 
 destroy it so he locked it away in the Pixus where it was to remain. Ruling empires have fought 
 over this land due to the power it holds and each time they have released the Firstborn and each 
 time there have been seven warriors who have sealed the gate locking it away but each time this 
 happens it takes a larger chunk of earth with it and its space grows. the Firstborn has brolen 
 out six times and it is stated that it will try to gain its freedom seven times. On the seventh 
 try it will either succeed or fail. This is the seventh time.
  Well thats all i have to say. So if you want a game that keeps your adrenaline flowing and your 
 heart pounding and keeping you on the edge of your seat never knowing what happens next i recommend 
 getting this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smerlus
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 14, 2007 8:28 pm PT
Review:  Clive Barker's Jericho is my latest accomplishment and while other sites are beating this game 
 up from various reasons from the absurd, (the graphics) to the complaints that are on the money 
 (the level design) I really enjoyed this game and found it to be one of the better horror/gothic 
 inspired games to come out in a long time.
  
  
  First off let me just start off saying that the graphics are beautiful. That's not to say that 
 there isn't some areas where they lack, but for the most part the game looks wonderful. The environments 
 are meticulously designed, the variety of creatures could only have been spawned out of Clive Barker's 
 head and the entire spell and power effects come off wonderful. The developers did try to get tricky 
 on some spots by having blurry or low resolution textures hidden where they probably hoped you 
 wouldn't look but for the most part everything comes off looking horridly wonderful.
  
  
  The environments range from a ruined Middle Eastern city to World War II, back to the Crusades, 
 back even further to ancient Rome and an even more ancient Samaria. You know all the highlights 
 of humanity's most brutal time periods. With settings like these, you know you're in for some twisted 
 times. Each of these levels are designed in a very cohesive manor to look like they are supposed 
 to, only thing is that most of them are much darker and much bloodier. I say darker not only from 
 the mood but also the lighting, Jericho is a brooding light lacking game, also bloodier is not 
 only referring to all of the red stuff that is left over the scenery but also the effect that everything 
 in Jericho looks soaking wet.
  
  
  Only problem with the environments is that, while the corridor feel worked somewhat for games such 
 as FEAR, when you have a squad of six people all bottlenecked in a small hallway, it may make the 
 firefights frantic and claustrophobic but it doesn't make them fun. The game really shines when 
 Jericho gives you some space to move about and watch as your friendly AI works its magic to help 
 one another.
  
  
  The design of the characters and creatures were another highlight of the game. The squad consists 
 of a rag tag bunch of characters ranging from the dutiful but human Father Rawlings to a fast talking 
 autistic math genius found in Cole. Not since Twisted Metal Black have I seen a bunch of dark and 
 depraved characters turn out this well and this enjoyable to play as. As for the foes the Jericho 
 team faces off against, they consist of your typical Clive Barker fare, beings with flayed flesh, 
 piercings that would kill a person; blood and bondage are all here. Most of these creatures work 
 perfectly in this game but would feel right at home in Barker's other creations such as Hellraiser.
 
  
  
  Back to the squad and some more gameplay elements. I don't want to give anything away but I do 
 want to say that the character swapping makes perfect sense in the story and is an excellent gameplay 
 invention. Switching between characters on the fly to get a better position, use a more helpful 
 spell or power or simply for the puzzle solving throws a whole new dimension into a squad based 
 shooter. Never has it been more fun to play monkey in the middle with a 20 foot tall undead gladiator 
 as when you're switching back and forth between two characters on the opposite side of a room to 
 hit this beast's sweet spot.
  
  
  But this isn't the only useful power, Delgado's flame spirit is a fearsome fire snake that can 
 destroy foes in a matter of seconds, Church's blood runes immobilize enemies so that you can finish 
 them off with a slice of your blade and Cole's slow motion effect tend to give you a bit of a breather 
 when things get sticky. As many of these powers there are, almost two for each character, only 
 a few of them come off as useless or unbalanced. Delgado's fire shield, Jones' only power and Father 
 Rawling's energy drain are a few that come up short.
  
  
  Weapon-wise, the balance thing is pretty much the same thing with these characters; you'll find 
 the few characters you like while others will hardly be used at all. I have to give it to Codemasters 
 though; they tried their best to make each of these characters fun to play as. I found Church's 
 power and sword to be an effective combination, Black's sniper rifle and Ghost Bullet power to 
 be great and Cole's slow motion along with her machine gun to work perfectly. Once again Jones 
 is almost useless while Father Rawling and Delgado are simply ok. 
  
  
  A huge downside to this game is that the quick time events are simply unrealistic and unforgiving. 
 Most of the times they will simply catch you off guard during a cutscene and flash a bunch of buttons 
 so fast that your head will spin as you sit there and watch yourself die. For the most part it 
 leaves a bad taste in your mouth and makes you wonder why they would let something as shoddily 
 implemented as this in the final build. They are easy to get past once you're ready for them but 
 the deaths that come when you're not ready are just cheap.
  
  
  The music adds to the atmosphere and all the voice acting is superbly done. Some of the dialogue 
 might be considered clich, predictable or even a bit elementary with its humor but with characters 
 like these, you would have to expect some of these small clashes and quirks to pop their head in. 
 
  
  
  The story is totally original and I found it to be very interesting how it played out. The side 
 characters that you'll run into are all fantastically done and push the story along nicely. What 
 most people don't get is that this game is meant to be a part of a trilogy, so there is a cliffhanger 
 ending and it leaves a bunch of questions unanswered which will hopefully get answered if this 
 game is profitable to make a sequel to.
  
  
  I had a ball with this game and found that even with its short comings, Jericho had some frantic, 
 nail biting fire fights, a compelling story and some of the best character designs I've seen in 
 a long time. This game is a cross between Gear of War, FEAR and Rainbow Six: Vegas, which is a 
 lot to emulate. While Jericho happens not to do a single thing as well as these games, what it 
 does provide is fun and exciting.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hundeltm
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 8:18 am PT
Review:  Does anyone remember John Romero's Daikatana back in 2000? From the moment this game started, the 
 whole thing from the AI teammates, the general look, introduction of time travel and the over all 
 gameplay immediately reminded me of that game, and that's not a good thing. That said, I did not 
 enjoy this game as much as I thought I would. I agree with other reviewers that the team AI was 
 overly frustrating and that outside of puzzles there was little reason to use most of them or their 
 abilities. At a time when several AI buddy team games are releasing, this one fails to cut it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DS-man
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 11, 2007 11:02 am PT
Review:  GOOD- Switching Characters Mid Battle Is Unique / Intresting Story
  
  BAD- Not many weapons / Levels are too dark and linear / graphics are bland / boring monster designs 
 / not scary at all
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  Its realy just like any other shooter you've all been on befor, but it does has a twist, 1hr into 
 the game or so, your character dies but he can convert his soul into one of his teamates, Each 
 person has a different weapon and magic powers, theres some unique powers that the people has, 
 like healing yourself, casting blood streams and even sending out a little fire head to do your 
 dirty work. Other than that the gameplay is'nt realy magnificant, just run around and shooting 
 bad guys, hoping you dont get hit in the progress.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  The graphics are realy poor, lets start with the visuals. i'll admitt it has some shines but it 
 realy struggles to compare to the 360 standards, plus you cant hardly see the details because its 
 way too dark to see anything in the levels, specking off the levels, the designs are realy rubbish, 
 the walls and grounds are all the same, just runied blooded up walls and floors did i mension its 
 dark too?.
  
  SOUNDS:
  The sound is decent, has realy good voice acting and sound effects, but you dont wanna buy a game 
 that relies on sound alone though.
  
  OVERALL:
  I would'nt buy this game, mebe rent it or borrow it, but dont buy it, Theres alot better FPS games 
 out there, sadly this one is'nt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Siavash_ps3
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 10, 2007 10:41 pm PT
Review:  I think clive barker is one of the most experienced writers in the world. The idea that tella about 
 a creature before Adam and Eve is not a common idea that comes to mind. I think i had waited along 
 time for this fantastic game and it worthed it. I think the people that loves the game with high 
 blood and gore are fewer than spoiled people loves Teen rated games. But try to play this game. you 
 may face poor level design, the story starts good but coulden't continue well. This game has a lot 
 of undiscovered potentials that creatures couldn't work on them well. The base of story is very 
 very very perfect and i hadn't hear it before. a sexless creature before Adam and Eve, my god it 
 is fantastic!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hells_rebelion
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 8, 2007 10:41 am PT
Review:  Ok to begin this I believe Clive barker HAD NOTHING to do with this, he's innocent I tell ya. No, 
 really this game was prob one of the biggest disappointments of this year. A lot of Clive Barker 
 fans were anxiously waiting this new installment in his next HORROR scene and all they got was 
 this broken piece of trash.
  
  The goods:
  
  Effective Team AI-They aren't completely retarded
  ----------------------------------------
 
  Decent Graphics-Besides horrible Level design the graphics were good.
  ----------------------------------------
  Fun boss battles- (Very few you had though)
  ----------------------------------------
 
  Char design and powers-I loved the fire demon thing Delgado had going on
  
  The bads:
  
  bad level design-It's not easy to get lost in this game. which means it's linear.
  -----------------------------------------
 
  Glitches!!!!-I encountered one where me and Rolins were going through a doorway and we got stuck!!!! 
 I know we aren't that fat!.
  ----------------------------------------
  Good story bad execution-Yeah the story plot was good but horrible execution.
  ----------------------------------------
 
  Repetitive-Same old monsters same old look and feel through the whole game.
  ----------------------------------------
  Thank god they fixed the floating arm glitch the demo 
 had or this woulda been horrible.
  ----------------------------------------
  Horribly short-5/6 hours tops lol......
  
  
  Ok so this game wasn't perfect but being a big 
 horror buff I really tried to get scarred when I played it. It didn't work but maybe Clive Barker 
 can actually help make the game next time instead of slapping his name on the box and calling it 
 scary.......... Did I mention it was horribly short? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -SephirothX-
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 7, 2007 12:34 pm PT
Review:  This game took me by surprise. I didn't pay much attention to it as geared up for release, and 
 never considered it as a game that I would invest time in. When the X-box live demo was released, 
 I thought, what the heck, I'll give it a try. When I started playing, I was really surprised by 
 the level of detail in the characters and environments. I wasn't sure I wanted to invest the money 
 in it though, because I was torn between the poor reviews the critics were giving it and the experience 
 I had when I played the demo. Anyways, the game was not without flaws, but I had a really fun time 
 playing through it. The thing that tied me into the game the most was the characters. Having a 
 team with you while you crawled through dark tunnels, blood drenched castles, and gory sewers made 
 the game quite entertaining. Visuals - The graphics in this game are awesome. The environment is 
 full of blood and gore that is realistic enough to be unsettling. The characters are great; the 
 textures/meshes/animations are high-quality.
  
  Game play - The ability to transfer into any character on your team was fun and unique. However, 
 some of the characters became useless to me. For example, I got extremely good at sniping with 
 with Abbey, slowing time with Cole, and stealth-killing with Billy. Also, I kinda liked the context 
 sensitive parts (although you had like 1 second to react before plummeting to your death)
  
  Story - The storyline was a little strange and lacked in couple areas, but overall it made 
 me want to finish the game.
  
  Sound - Great quality sound effects made the environment awesome. It was down right freaky to hear 
 at times (the dead the children, and the voice of the firstborn) . My only complaint is with the 
 sound of Billy's gun.
  
  Replay factor - To me, this is where the game lacks the most. After beating the game the first 
 time, it fails to unlock anything intriguing. Not to mention, you have to purchase the cheat codes 
 (not that I cheat very often) , it would have been cooler to unlock the cheats through achievements. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trippyskullz
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 5, 2007 8:46 pm PT
Review:  I went over my friends house who owns a PS3 and i played a downloaded demo of Jericho and i played 
 it to the end (which may already say something) but i thought it was confusing and too twitchy and 
 had weird button sequences that were so unforgiving i was thrown off. X Y B B B A X Y A B X or 
 something in the middle of a cutscene. but maybe this isnt such a bad thing.
  i recently bought Jericho anyway and from the beginning of the game it already felt like a different 
 experience. I dont sweat Clive Barker or anything of thesort but this games atmosphere sucked me 
 in. Maybe its because i like horror movies and heavy metal music but everything i see in Jericho 
 either makes me think woah or awesome or is just a pleasure to shoot.
  I believe the switching between 7 characters is a little unnecessary. Shouldve been condensed i 
 think. Plus it is quite annoying that you spend lots of time reviving your teammates when you should 
 be shooting the problem. Nevertheless every inch of Jericho is visually impressive and foreboding. 
 I enjoy the gore, th variety of monsters, the irregularity of the typical gameplay machanics and 
 the overall challenge. This is one intense game.
  I know you have to really like Jericho to play it. But most reviews i see dont give the game enough 
 credit. Rent it just for the experience of trying it, hopefully itll convince you to buy it. I'm 
 glad i did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ironhead572
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 4, 2007 11:52 am PT
Review:  I'll have to say, the first hour or two was pretty promising. But when I'm constantly trying to 
 fight enemies and I have no room to move, it gets a little freakin ridiculous.
  You start off fighting in a desert, learning how fine tune your skills. Then you fall deeper into 
 the realm of hell, eventually transported to the time of the templars and crusaders, which for 
 a brief moment, seem to be on your side. After being betrayed it's more body shifting, fighting 
 the undead, and yes, no manueverability, narrow level design, and a storyline which fell flacid 
 after the first two hours.
  The ending did not pay off, so I suggest you rent it first, then burn this game, because it did 
 not live up to what it could have been.
  Graphics were good, but that's about it.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jlh47
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 3, 2007 4:00 pm PT
Review:  i was sceptical of this game at first, but from when i put it into the system i was completely 
 sucked into it. Graphics- were just beautiful. the character design with the blood shimmering of 
 off the enemies just made it all the more gruesome.
  the background and design just put you in the mood.
  
  Gameplay- the gameplay was very solid 
 for an fps. the only real complaints i have is there weren't enough sword animations for the girl 
 and it was too hard to snipe.
  
  Story- the storyline was lacking in a few departments (especially the ending) , but all in all there 
 were never any dry spots. it kept the gameplay to cutscene ration very well.
  
  Music- the eery voice of the woman whenever you see the firstborn is enough to make this game worthwhile 
 (and glad you aren't playing this game alone) .
  
  Replayability- seeing if you can make it on hard for the achievements and unlockables are enough 
 to play through it one more time.
  
  Overall- i give it a 7.5 because it does what an fps is supposed to do but there's just no part 
 where you're just completely wowed. solid title though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Utildai
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 3, 2007 11:53 am PT
Review:  Jericho is definately a unique game. Level design is tight and linear and there is no jump feature, 
 leaving you know where to go other than where the game tells you to go.
  
  I think the nit picking on the monsters is a bit over the top however. The exploding beasties are 
 quite easy to kill if your on top of the game and take care of them as they come at you and not 
 once they are on you. Just hit the little yellow things on them and they go down in a shot or two, 
 as stated in the instruction book.
  
  They also, most of the time, start at a very fair distance away, so it is quite easy to switch 
 to Black to knock them out one at a time.
  
  I find the sound great, the lighting great and the story, to me is quite cool. Granted, it could 
 be expanded and I have a little left to play so I cannot account for the end boss. To say there 
 is no story at all however, does not do it justice. There is a story, you just have to read most 
 of it... It is a shooter at heart and that is what you need to expect to be doing when you play 
 Jerico. So far, I love it. I enjoy this story much more than that of Halo 3's storyline.... Sorry, 
 call me a a sinner.
  
  Alacard 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Villimax
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 12, 2007 7:03 pm PT
Review:  Jericho, despite its faults, is an enjoyable game. I mean, come on, how many first-person shooters 
 are team-based, especially in comparsion to ones that aren't, ESPECIALLY in comparison to ones 
 that are horror-themed!
  The team is awesome. They all have significantly differing powers, and they're all interesting 
 as characters. They all talk a lot, usually to eachother, which is great. The only downside of 
 their dialogue is that they re-use too many generic lines too frequently. Rawlings says "By the 
 grace of God" like eighty times a second.
  
  The graphics are great. Most environments are pretty spooky, the only thing that sucks is they're 
 all extremely small. It's really odd how they would make a team-based game, but make the levels 
 so small that the seven-man team (six later in the game) can hardly even fit in them. Still, I'd 
 rather have the six teammates in the tight-fit corridors than none at all.
  Sounds are pretty good, and the voice acting is nice and fitting. There's hardly a thing to complain 
 about, though it wouldn't have killed them to use some more creepy ambient sounds to go with their 
 creepy ambient lighting.
  
  Though the graphics and sounds are great, the game is just loaded with flaws. No, not that kind, 
 the game is bug-free as far as I can tell. All of the flaws are just the conscious decisions made 
 by the designers themselves.
  Where to start? Well, when moving forward, or forward at an angle, the player goes full speed. 
 When moving backwards, he goes slower. Not just slightly slower. He goes half his full speed.
 
  What's really bad is that the player strafes at the same speed that he moves backwards. What? 
 It's really annoying when I'm fighting an enemy, and moving forward at an angle to the right and 
 I'm going really fast, then I try to walk sideways and I start creeping along as if I wasn't in 
 any danger. The speed is cut in half, so if I try to dodge an incoming rocket or something, I'm 
 totally screwed because my character walks to the side extremely slowly, though if I changed by 
 one degree forward, I would start going super-fast.
  
  Overly slow strafing is hardly the destruction of Jericho's fun.
  Like I said above, the levels 
 are small, CRAMPED, even. There's nowhere to go. The AI (mainly only the player's team) will take 
 cover and run around and do fancy stuff that makes the AI relatively good (certainly not bad) , 
 but there's no place they can move to so they all have to stand really close to eachother and fire 
 away at enemies that they can't run from.
  I'm just so surprised by how they decided that the player would get teammates, so very many at 
 once for a horror game, but then they made the levels really tiny.
  The tiny corridors are at least really long, making the sniper rifle a really useful weapon in 
 virtually ever situation. The game also contains a number of wide-open areas, but for some reason 
 those contain the least amount of enemies and usually have no cover. Not that there's much to take 
 cover from.
  
  The player, once his squad goes down to six, can possess any of the teammates at any time and use 
 their unique powers. When the teammates are AI-controlled, they'll use their powers by themselves, 
 though the player himself will have to utilize some of the powers. I mean, one of the guys can 
 use a fire shield to protect himself from fire, but he never uses it when he's getting attacked 
 by a guy with a flamethrower, which is the ideal enemy to use it against. Some other chick will 
 never use her time-slowing power by her own accord, even though it would be possible for her to 
 do because she'd just look really fast to everyone else.
  Members of the squad will just randomly get powers without any explanation, like when the time-slowing 
 chick gets her ability to give the whole team fire bullets, nobody says a thing about it. A little 
 hint pop-up just says that it exists and what it does and of course the player must use it, the 
 time-slowing girl will never use it by herself.
  
  Teammates can be ordered around, but it's rarely ever useful, since they reliably follow the player 
 and usually walk around in front of him anyway. There's also no room to order teammates anywhere 
 but forward, and it's usually unwise to make them go around by themselves since they rely so much 
 on the player to revive them.
  The level size isn't really that much of a problem. There are some sizeable areas, so getting cornered 
 is not the downfall of allies.
  
  The game makes enemies way too strong with too much health that do too much damage and come in 
 too small a number.
  Lemme go step by step. The game gives the player a big number of teammates, which is surprising 
 and totally awesome, but the game hardly gives the team anything to fight. Enemies will usuaully 
 come in twos, perhaps threes. The player, his five Jericho squadmates and two extra British dudes 
 all team up to fight against the enemy. However, all they ever fight is guys that shoot rockets, 
 guys that have flamethrowers or guys that have machine guns, all of which are pretty big and much 
 too powerful. Especially the machine guns. They only fight two at a time to top it all off. You've 
 got eight goodguys stomping around ready to kick some ass, and all the game can offer is overpowered 
 pairs of enemies. Not a huge wave of enemies asking to die, but instead two enemies at a time, 
 endless in their two-man waves, who can kill the entire team by themselves.
  These big enemies which all eight guys have to fight have tons of health. Every enemy in the game 
 has tons of health. Every enemy also does way too much damage. The entire team can be taken out 
 with great ease by one enemy if the player doesn't kill it quickly enough. The machine gun guys 
 do way too much damage at any distance, even on Easy, and have too much health to boot.
  The worst of the enemies are the suicide bomber guys. They're inserted in huge amounts at every 
 possible opportunity in the game, are extremely difficult to kill, and because teammates have to 
 bunch up in the small levels, one kamikaze guy can easily kill the entire team by his lonesome 
 if he isn't stopped fast enough.
  Obviously, the game would've been more fun with large amounts of enemies that are relatively easy 
 to kill and had more challenging tricks up their sleeves, seeing as how there's so many teammates. 
 They clearly made the wrong decision for the entire game. The enemies are extremely easy to hit 
 and have pitiful attacks, so they give them a huge amount of health and make their attacks do tons 
 of damage.
  
  Teammates, upon their defeat, will kneel with skulls floating above their heads. The player must 
 revive a teammate by running up to them and pressing the use button. It's really quick and easy 
 to do, but it leaves the player exposed for a second. Also, the player must revive his teammates 
 ALL THE TIME 24/7 THROUGHOUT THE ENTIRE GAME because enemies are so insanely strong and teammates 
 refuse to spread out, and they love getting too close to flamethrower guys. There is one member 
 of the Jericho team who can heal allies up close like the player, or shoot a ball of healing magic 
 at allies so he can heal them from a distance while keeping himself safe, but it takes like ten 
 seconds to do when the player does it, even though the AI-controlled buddy can do it instantly, 
 which means it's extremely unwise for the player to play as him.
  
  The enemy design is most disappointing to me, out of all the problems. Enemies are supposed to 
 look threatening and horrific, but every enemy is really stupid-looking. They're all so unbelievably 
 unimaginative. It took me the longest time to figure out that the half-naked guys with knife hands 
 were actually the evil cult members the player is up against. I thought they were just random enemies. 
 Turns out EVERY enemy is an evil cultist or evil human soul, which makes no sense and is never 
 explained. I mean, how did all of the normal human cultists turn into monstrous creatures? They're 
 even undead, which just makes even less sense, and they're in every era in the game. The game has 
 multiple eras by the way.
  The first time enemies appear, it's pretty neat as a dialogue sequence, even though the dialogue 
 sequence seems inappropriately cut-off since nobody says "Open fire!" or anything before the fighting 
 starts. The ending of the sequence is lame because the team never mentions the strange appearance 
 of the enemies, or any enemies in general. Also, the girl with all the techno-gear says that the 
 enemies don't have any life signals (making them zombies) , which makes the fact that they're human 
 cultists even more ridiculous. I mean, the cultist leader, who gets to the lost city shortly before 
 the player (he also has a crazy-deep voice) , looks perfectly normal when they show a picture of 
 him on a laptop screen. However, when he actually appears, he's a freakish demon that can fly. 
 I couldn't even tell it was him until I saw the monster's lips moving with the evil guy's speech. 
 He got there, then suddenly turned into a crazy demon, and nobody ever makes mention of how he 
 turned into a crazy demon. I mean, the Jericho doesn't wonder even a little? How did they even 
 recognize him?
  Oh, yeah, I mentioned how lame enemies look. Almost every enemy is really lame, both in their appearance 
 and what they can do. The player starts off in some ruins fighting zombies with knife hands. It 
 kind of makes sense, but then the player has to fight the overly-difficult-to-kill suicide guys, 
 which don't really match up with the zombies with knife hands. Did I mention every enemy is really 
 stupid-looking?
  The only thing that makes zombies with knife hands cool is that they can shoot their knife out 
 on a rope and reel it back in. Otherwise, the fact that they're entirely melee-based makes them 
 pretty uninteresting after fighting fifty of them, and it's even worse since they're the most common 
 enemy. They're also really easy to kill, despite their huge amounts of health, so they're almost 
 always backed up by suicide-bombing exploder guys. There's nothing cool about the exploding guys.
 
  After the ruins, the player gets to some World War 2-era place, consisting of German bunkers and 
 trenches. You'd think that this era would come with a brand-new set of enemies who all match the 
 era and are really kickass. I mean, come on. Undead World War 2. Surely there should be crazy zombie 
 Nazis with gas masks and rifles and submachine guns. Surely a devil tank will come rolling over 
 the hill, shooting rockets made of souls and spitting napalm out of the machine gun on the front. 
 No, the player still has to fight zombies with knife hands. They finally introduce enemies beyond 
 the zombies and the exploding guys, but these enemies suck even more. They're huge and bumpy and 
 misshapen. They're also very plain-looking and have absolutely nothing to do with World War 2 or 
 any other war. What's really annoying about them is that they're the guys that have tons of health 
 and do too much damage. They finally make enemies with ranged attacks and they totally screw them 
 up. Instead of making badass Nazi zombies who have German uniforms and weaponry, they use these 
 big, misshapen losers. I can't possibly stress enough how they have nothing to do with World War 
 2 and aren't even slightly soldier-like since they lack team tactics and don't look human or use 
 human weapons. They're supposed to be Nazi zombies. But they're just big piles of suck and they 
 totally botch the era's theme. I mean, the only person who has anything to do with the war is some 
 (female WTF?) German leader who looks like all of the other zombies, only she has a fancy officer 
 hat. In the World War 2 era, the player at least runs into some really badass-looking British soldiers 
 who represent what the Germans should've been. They even call the enemies Jerries, which is the 
 only real hint that the big, moldy foes are supposed to be Germans.
  There's a segment in the WW2 era where you have to destroy some machine gun turret things, which 
 are human-sized pillboxes with machine guns sticking out. It's kind of weird how these could exist 
 since none of the Germans could possibly fit in them since they're so oversized. There's also some 
 anti-tank guns set up around the levels, but they do absolutely nothing. That's especially terrible 
 since they're sometimes set up in a place where, if they were useable, they could make the player's 
 life easier.
  Enemies hardly ever get better (flying demons, that's always original) , though they at least begin 
 matching their eras. In the Medieval era, enemies wear chainmail and tunics and carry shields and 
 have replaced by axes (they might have swords, too) , but they're not much more fun to fight than 
 zombies with knife hands. They're at least backed up by some cool-looking-and-sounding zombies 
 with crossbows of doom, who are really dangerous, but satisfylingly easy to kill. It's never quite 
 explained how one of the Crusaders was human and living, even though everyone else in the era is 
 a zombie. The vast line of spears, representing an army marching into the castle the player is 
 about to enter, also never gets anywhere or does anything. Plus, where are the "infidels" the Crusaders 
 are supposed to be fighting? I at least assume they're supposed to be fighting, as there's a whole 
 army marching into the castle, and according to the story it's where a bunch of "infidels" held 
 against an army of Crusaders. Or something. It's so confusing. WW2 got some British guys, would've 
 been nice to run into the enemies of the Crusaders.
  The Medieval era does have one cool foe: An army of zombie children. They have tentacles for arms 
 and they float around with their guts dangling since they have no legs. They're about as cool as 
 common enemies get, which isn't saying much since they look so stupid. They first appear as ghost 
 children in huge groups, floating around without legs, then they materialize, screaming and flying 
 around and stabbing with their tentacles from a distance, which is actually pretty badass. The 
 Medieval era also ends on a good note, a dramatic boss fight in a dreary church against the man 
 who led the army of children to die, which means that the player must fight the army of zombie 
 children AND the crazy jerk who led them, but they hate him so much that they fight him more than 
 they fight the player.
  The Roman era goes back to having crappy enemies. The Roman guards actually fight in a pretty cool 
 way. They hide behind their bullet-proof shields, and they use their super-strong throwing arms 
 to hit the Jericho team at any distance, and since they have a bunch of spears hung up behind their 
 shield, they just grab another so they can fight face to face. They also peek above their shield, 
 which is just something interesting to notice, and is also a good time to get a headshot. Sadly, 
 these guys are only a step above Crusaders, as they look really, really stupid. They're just naked 
 guys, much like the cultists, and they have no face. Their helmet also looks like it's a part of 
 their head.
  It would've also been nice to have a higher amount of long-range foes, since every Jericho member 
 is able to fight at a distance, but generally the only enemies in the game able to fight at long 
 range are the dreadful WW2 guys.
  
  Let's review: Slow strafing. Teammates don't use their own powers enough and they love to die. 
 Levels are too small and make the teammates crowd eachother. The game is loaded with small amounts 
 of endless waves of overpowering enemies who easily kill teammates and make the player revive more 
 than he fights. Every enemy is crappy-looking, as they're supposed to be scary but end up being 
 stupidly lame, especially in the World War 2 era.
  They even had the cojones to make a segment where Delgado, the character who just sucks at close 
 range, has to fight endless waves of melee-based guys and suicide bombers in endless waves, and 
 they don't make it very obvious that the player is supposed to just run past everyone, since virtually 
 every battle in the game forces the player to kill everything before he can move on. I died like 
 five times trying to kill all of the knifehand zombies and exploding guys before I realized I was 
 supposed to just leave. This is the most frustrating segment in the game.
  
  Despite these painful problems which were all choices by the designers that could've been fixed 
 and the game could've been way better, the game is overall COMPLETELY worth playing. It's fast-paced, 
 team-based and pretty fun, despite the frustratingly cheap enemies who are too insanely strong 
 and are no fun to fight or look at. It's still pretty satisfying to use weapons and powers against 
 them.
  The game lacks a co-op mode, for some ridiculous reason, so I would never, ever pay for it. Ever. 
 Well, not because of no co-op mode, but because of all the other problems combined with no co-op 
 mode. It doesn't need some cheap, run-of-the-mill competitive multiplayer like so many games have, 
 but it could've definitely used some co-op, especially since the game is so team-based.
  I'd probably buy the game if it was like ten dollars, which it isn't. Still, the game is %100 rental-worthy, 
 and playing it from start to finish is an extremely appealing idea, even with all of its sucky 
 features.
  
  Delgado is just like Rico from Killzone.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  OMG SPOILER ALERT
  If you're unfortunate enough to play the game all the way to the ending, 
 it's totally going to piss you off. First, you bring back some guy who's supposed to seal the rift 
 between the Firstborn and "your world". He spouts some obvious lies, which Delgado plainly sees, 
 and the team decides that instead of just sealing the rift like everyone before them, which obviously 
 didn't work out so well for any of them, the Jericho squad should just go through the rift and 
 kick the Firstborn's ass, after killing the guy they just assembled to close the rift.
  It's a pretty dramatic scene, and makes it seem like surely the other side of the rift will be 
 epic. Everyone ends up in some water, which somehow has like two dead guys floating in it, and 
 they swim swim swim until they get to a cavern where it's completely closed in, except for a big 
 opening with light pouring out. Also, the big, bad cult leader is for some reason chained to the 
 wall or something and he doesn't do or say anything.
  The Firstborn suddenly comes, instantly kills Cole and Jones in the cheapest way possible (for 
 some reason he doesn't kill the other Jerichos in the same way) , then the fight begins, as some 
 really crappy, barely audible music plays in the background. It's pretty lame and cheap until the 
 player knows what to do, in which it's then really easy and still pretty lame.
  Upon defeating the Firstborn, the big, bad cult leader suddenly breaks free (I would assume he's 
 chained up, anyway) , says "I STARTED THIS SO I'LL FINISH IT", then he grabs the Firstborn and whisks 
 him away into the opening with all the light pouring out so he can pull out the Firstborn's entrails 
 or something. Y'know, 'cause the evil villain who had like two lines the entire game has suddenly 
 turned over a new leaf.
  The light from the entryway starts flashing, then the cavern starts coming down, no surprise there, 
 so the last line in the entire game is "Jericho, head for the water, and swim deep!" The Jericho 
 squad swims back to where they started, then they surface, showing a clear, red sky, then the screen 
 fades to white and the camera just shows a static view of the ocean without any of the Jerichos 
 visibly or audibly present, and the credits roll.
  Or, to put it simply, "Everyone dies."
  The team got through the entire game intact, even Ross in all his ghostly glory. Then suddenly, 
 Cole and Jones die super-fast, and the four remaining team members (five if you count Ross' ghostly 
 spirit) are forever trapped in the endless ocean of the Firstborn's realm or something. Or maybe 
 they got to the lost city, back in "our world", and the lost city was replaced by an ocean since 
 it was no more and they'll soon swim ashore and be safe and happy except for Cole and Jones who 
 died. It's not really explained, and all you can assume is that the ending is really crappy. Once 
 the final battle started, there wasn't even any scripted dialogue. I was really disappointed. CRUSHED, 
 even. The characters were all interesting, even though they never really developed and the plot 
 was really thin, so it's just frustrating when they try to end it in such a confusing way where 
 the fate of two characters is stupidly awful, and the fate of the rest is unexplained. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: English_Death
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 11:41 am PT
Review:  For months now I have waited and waited for games for my ps3. Every game that comes out is already 
 out on 360 and I probably already have bought it. This is one the few ps3 games to come out for 
 both systems at once. So I thought why not get the ps3 version 1st for a change and take my grand 
 total of games for my ps3 to a grand total of 3.....
  
  Wish I had not bothered and saved my money for COD 4, Assassins and Haze also out this month.
 
  
  Graphics are great. The sort of dark atmospheric ones from Gears of War but not quite as good. 
 But great none the less. The levels are pretty confined, with virtually one route to take all the 
 way through.
  
  The bad buys look ok, remind me of the Darkness with world war one german evil horded and the such. 
 I you are into bondage you will recognise the style straight away. They are tough to kill even 
 with all the super powers your team gets.
  
  Talking of team, you can control all your team of six characters. All with different abilities 
 and weapons. But with all this choice things can get a touch confusing. You tend not to one hit 
 kill, you have to hit a number of times to kill unless you shoot a baddies head off.
  
  At times in the game you have to hit the buttons in sequence to get through a cut scene as long 
 as you remember the combination or are fast enough to follow the screen you will move to the next 
 chapter of check point, but I found this extremely frustrating and boring.
  
  Sadly the game just doesn't deliver. I found myself bored in about half hour. This game will drop 
 in price quickly on PC and 360 so if you have one of these wait and buy in a few months, there 
 are far better games out on these systems. If however you have PS3, don't go near this game until 
 it comes to a bargain bucket near you, but as we all know PS3 games hold their price for ages. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acederberg
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 31, 2007 12:28 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game on the premise that it would scare the pants off of me! Combining Clive Barker's 
 story telling, with dark graphics and music is enough to do the trick. Since I have a home theater 
 and a 42 inch LCD, the effects are marvelous. The concept of the game is good as well, but I think 
 the fact that your team mates keep dying is only a small glitch ... this is truly a first person 
 game and when you need the other special powers, make sure that guy is alive at the time. The ending, 
 I have not seen yet, but I hope it really is as disappointing as some say -- I mean really, what 
 do you want, that a Ring type ghost walks out of your screen to give you a medal of honor? C'mon, 
 its just a game. Interesting visuals and time periods make this game fun, and the eeriness adds 
 to the experience of never knowing what's around the next corner ...
  
  Overall, a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonofares
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 31, 2007 10:51 am PT
Review:  This game will leave your mouth hanging open with some of the greatest battle spectacles ever put 
 into a video game. I still can't believe they can get all this action on screen at one time. This 
 is CLEARLY a true next-generation game of full caliber force. This is a game that could NEVER have 
 been created for the PS2 or the original XBOX. It truly takes advantage of the power of the next-gen 
 consoles.
  
  I have never seen the intensity of these firefights before. Spirits emerging, bullets flying, fire-demons 
 blazing, swords slicing, blood-curdling action awaits you around every corner. I'm telling you..... I've 
 never seen anything like it. It's one of the few games I would actually bother to start completely 
 over from the beginning four times after playing into the game at least an hour each time (don't 
 ask.......) Suffice it to say, not many games would compel me to do this when all my game saves 
 are erased and other mishaps happen.
  
  The graphics are great. The gameplay is innovative. I really am dumbfounded at the score given 
 by Gamespot for this game but we don't agree on alot of stuff. All I can say is if you like the 
 horror genre and first person/shooter/action games...... get this!!
  
  Enjoy it...... the perfect Halloween companion!
  
  And if you want a true test....... and the 
 most achievements.... play it on hard...... I started on hard this last time...... got about an hour 
 into it then had to move down to normal to pass a certain part then went back up to hard...... although 
 if you do that you will be missing out on alot of achievements. Try to stay on hard if you can.......... I 
 couldn't. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSJDemos
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 30, 2007 11:30 pm PT
Review:  I wanted this game the first day I heard the title and looked at the previews for it. When I heard 
 that Clive Barker was creating the story- one of the great masters of horror and gore I wanted 
 it even more. I purchased it on its launch date- I thought that this game was a great FPS horror 
 game. Though it may not stand toe to toe with Doom's environment as far as story goes- it draws 
 you in and doesn't let go.
  During my time with the game I noticed that the graphics were great and though the environments 
 were considered Bland and lifeless as many reviewers from big names said- I can only comment, They 
 are within an ancient city, which is hundreds of years old or more- its suppose to look liek that. 
 I thought that the environments that were chosen and the way they integrated them were set for 
 a purpose- to make you understand that you are fighting some kind of holy war in a city that has 
 been damned for millenia. And one thing is for sure, they deliver this message. Even the small 
 confined area's are trying to make a statement. The corridors within the game are tight and enemies 
 just keep coming. These enemies consist of large exploding demons, which can be frustrating at 
 first- however once you learn how to fall back and retreat to a better vantage point then you will 
 be fine.
  This game does work like a strategy game- do you send your Alpha and Bravo team forward as you 
 enter a large clearing? Or do you leave one team behind within the tight confinement just incase 
 things get hairy you can fall back and bottle neck the demons coming towards you so they enter 
 one at a time or two at a time rather than fighting five or six all at once. I found myself doing 
 the later and it made the game challenging and slightly easier (Which isn't a bad thing, keeping 
 yourself from restarting from your last checkpoint can get annoying) . The team commands are their 
 for a purpose so use them wisely. As far as the timed button sequences- they can get a little tricky 
 once you don't know what to look for- However they aren't hard to get ready for. Most of the time 
 its an event that takes place that drags the story forward. Majority of the time its when the CPU 
 takes over your characters view and movement during a cut-scene. I found the timed- sequences easy 
 and I was able to keep up with them and not have to restart if I missed a button.
  I find these timed button sequences realistic and scary to an extent. I mean in real life are you 
 going to know if the ground cracks underneath you and you begin to fall downward and you will know 
 exactly your next move? No life isn't like that and its about time that some games adapt this measure 
 of realism and up the challenge.
  The characters powers are pretty cool and add on an element of authenticity when it comes to FPS 
 genre's.
  The AI characters are a little on the suicidal side at times- howerver they do not pose any threat 
 to the game experience. The enemy AI is quite decent- however they are pretty hard to kill and 
 take 1-2 full clips sometimes! Yikes. But, demons are unnatural and unholy so they can probably 
 take all that punishment before dieing.
  I don't recommend this game to those looking for a game thats exactly like doom or like any other 
 FPS. You have to see this game for yourself and play it as a totally seperate game from any other 
 that you have played. Try to understand the mood they are trying to set by seeing their level design, 
 tight confined corridors that lead to large clearings. I say this if you don't believe me but your 
 curious- rent this game. If you like it- I recommend buying it. Its $60 well worth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uklegendkiller
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 30, 2007 6:43 pm PT
Review:  Spare a thought for Clive Barker. Despite his stories being the perfect backdrop for gruesome gaming, 
 few people bothered to play the first adventure based on his dark work  the underrated Undying 
  and his second foray into digital scaremongering, Demonik, was canned before it even reached 
 stores. But while Jericho doesnt boast the depth or slickness of recent release BioShock, its 
 nonetheless a clever take on squad-based skirmishes and will delight gorehounds and shooting fans 
 alike.
  
  Uniquely, Jericho allows players to instantly switch between the members of a super-powered team 
 of soldiers, each boasting unique powers such as telekinesis, pyrokinesis, mind-control and supernatural 
 sniping. Moreover, while team blasters are de rigueur these days, Jerichos ballsy heroes boast 
 more personality than the khaki-clad cannon fodder found in most wartime shooters, quickly fostering 
 an emotional link between players and their digital buddies that will keep you hooked until the 
 last monsters been packed-off back to hell.
  
  Crucially, fans of Barkers tales will also feel right at home with Jerichos visceral visuals, 
 the games gore-soaked ancient ruins and kinky, bondage-loving, knife-wielding zombies helping 
 to set the game apart in a crowded market. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KMRB
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 30, 2007 4:26 pm PT
Review:  Jericho is a video game where you fight the dead and try to overcome an ancient evil. The problem 
 with this game is that it reminds me of only a thousand other games that have been here before 
 and had done it better. The biggest issue with Jericho is that it fails to provide the player with 
 anything new and of substantial interest. The idea of transferring from one body to the next is 
 not that exciting and, quite honestly, it is annoying during gameplay. To be killed and to resurface 
 again to continue the fight only to now heal the guy you were just in so he/she can rejoin the 
 fight is frustrating and distracting. Another factor about the gameplay is that it is too linear; 
 the levels are corridor fashion (a la Doom) with the only thing that makes them not so narrowly-tailored 
 is the occasional building or structure placed throughout each of the levels. To simply run and 
 gun it is tired - it's almost like watching the SF Forty Niners run another play up the middle. 
 Too simplistic with little insight into a new era in gaming. Games like Mass Effect are the new 
 wave in action/adventure and if a first person shooter is going to even try to tell a story it 
 should be done so in the same like manner. This game misses everything that made Bioshock great 
 and it just seems to be a plug from which Clive Barker can collect royalties.
  
  The only redeeming factor about this game is that it is graphically impressive and the character 
 models are better than those of Halo 3 which had abysmal character models less Master Chief.
  
  Players now want substance, not hordes of enemies to just mow over with a machine gun. The 
 lack of an in-depth story, lackluster improvements, and poor game design send this video game adaptation 
 of Clive Barker's horror novel into the abyss along with the Firstborn. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VitaExodus
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 30, 2007 10:00 am PT
Review:  Clive barker's Jericho is a combination of interesting uses of elements from Geist and Gears of 
 War, but leaves a little to be desired...
  
  The Story: Apparently god was a little too lazy back in the day before adam and eve - Apparently 
 he made a unisex version of humanity called the firstborn (Sort of looks like a strange black alien 
 baby thing) that was banished deep within the earth since it just wasn't a balanced version of 
 what he wanted. Well, civilizations through the ages have had people trying to essentially bring 
 him out through mass genocide, and groups like Jericho have been cleaning up the mess by sealing 
 the breach of time and space (oooOOOOoo) . Although it certainly builds up in the beginning, it just 
 doesn't have much logic, and the ending was, well... I've seen better.
  
  The Look: This is a very odd description, the animations and movements for your Jericho Team look 
 like it came out of a bad PS2 game, yet the environments that you'll see are spectacular, particularly 
 the 1213 AD levels.
  So after Juxtaposing these 2, it's almost like That paula abdul music video where she dances with 
 a cat. It's interesting, but not believable, and that can kill a game. It doesn't quite kill it 
 here, it's just... weird. The great environments just give you the chills, especially those flying 
 undead children... er ignore that part.
  
  The Sound: Errie, creepy, screwed up in the head. Devon, whether he's alive or not (Not a spoiler, 
 he dies in the first 10 minutes) sounds strangely like marcus fenix, the other voice actors are 
 great as well.
  
  The Gameplay: It's a combination of gears of war co-op, and geist. Since you're dead devon now, 
 but con somehow float and control your other teammates, you can literally switch from one to another, 
 which makes for interesting gameplay. All the teammates other than devon have special attacks with 
 a cooldown, sometimes dependent on how long you use them. Other than that, it's a somewhat normal 
 shooter.
  
  The Good: -Creepy, very creepy. -The most disturbing part before the final boss.
  -Ghost Bullet 
 and Infinite Loop never gets old.
  
  The Bad:
  -The end ends far too quickly.
  -Bad Graphics off the team just feels strange in this Doom 3-like environment.
  -The difficulty 
 can be a little too high sometimes, usually involving many kamikaze pus monsters.
  
  The Bottom Line:
  I'd reccomend renting this first just to try it out... if you're a clive barker 
 fan you'll probably get it anyway, but I wouldn't spend $60 on it. The game only takes about 10 
 hours, or less if you like to speed run, and hard mode isn't much harder than normal painfully 
 can be. Try it out and see what happens. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackson84
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 30, 2007 8:54 am PT
Review:  Okay firsts thing first. game play good, graphics good, boss fights okay (except for the last 
 one) Ending.. Completely SUCKEDI mean what the heck happen???? I was lost. first they killed 
 the guy I used the most and that was Jones, second the fight itself was POOP! Third the guy with 
 the wings (I forgot his name) which I was hoping to fight against flies off the wall and carries 
 the first born away off to where ever. Fourth when its all said and done they jump in the water 
 and the game is over.. Now what the hell was that all about? Ohhhh so help me they better come 
 out with another one because that ending was straight up POOP! I was saying to myself while I was 
 playing the game man this game is great I cant wait to play it again I mean I think the game 
 is good. I luv the graphics and the little details. Then when I try looking up the codes for the 
 game I was just pissed off even more when I found out that they freakin charge you for them??? 
 I mean what the heck is that. First you give us a crappy ending then you want to charge us for 
 the codes. Codemaster is freakin stupid! And they better come out with another one. I mean you 
 just know what happen after they jump in the water. What going to happen to Ross. Where are they 
 at when they come out the water Maaan I dunno. If you are reading this and havent buy the game. RENT 
 IT FIRST. Youll have fun playing itthe storyline it a little confusing but youll have fun playing 
 it but be prepared for a WACK ENDING 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bublinec
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 30, 2007 8:53 am PT
Review:  this is just game has a lot of gameplay that stacks up to something like bioshock or half life 
 2 the problem is the ai your team mates dont move around the enviroment instead they just stand 
 there and only shoot and whem al the team mates are near the worst thing that happens at least 
 you can revive them.
  
  the game doesn't start rolling untill you get the ablity to swap between team mates this a fun 
 mechianc to the game that lets you pick that team mates ablitys and powers.
  
  for it's credit clive barkers jericho doe's a good job in giving a game that has good graphics 
 great boss battles and should be consided for a rent 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RMorris101
Rating: 4.5
Date: Oct 30, 2007 7:39 am PT
Review:  When it comes to good ideas and good intentions this game comes up trumps. The graphics look great 
 and the sound is amazing. Its a shame then that it is all wrapped up in a game that is not only 
 boring and repetitive to play. Your squad spends most of the game dying on you and each of the 
 characters doesnt feel as they should. They feel very underpowered as do their weapons.
  
  I wanted to like this game, but in short it all wraps up to all style over substance.
  
  If 
 you took away the Clive Barker name from this game it would easily be lost in a sea of better games. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nick-M40A3
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 30, 2007 7:23 am PT
Review:  There I said it, I'm sick of reading bad reviews for this game. So it's not perfect, the game is 
 still loads of fun if you're into FPS and the horror theme.
  
  Think of this game as Rainbow six meets Silent hill, the team mechanics work well in my opinion 
 and add depth to the game, each character is balanced and you should be able to find something 
 about each one that you like, wether it be a weapon or special ability they all contribute to the 
 team in their own way and I found it fun to try different tactics with them.
  
  The graphics are very well done, creepy atmosphere, and characters that fit well into Clive Barkers 
 warped hellish world. Some may say it's to dark or drab, well I guess hell isn't all rainbows and 
 care bears.
  
  The sound and music are also suited well to the action as is the sometimes humerous voice acting, 
 it's all does a fine job and I can't complain about it.
  
  To sum up, this game is fun, when you see your team mates taking on wave after wave of hellish 
 creatures, guns blazin, blood flying, IT'S FUN. There are games with more content such as Halo 
 3, there are games with more polished story lines such as Bioshock, but guess what I don't care 
 as I'm enjoying this game just as much as those other so called great games. I'm enjoying it more 
 than Bioshock so make of that what you will.
  
  If you think you may like this game after playing the demo then by all means give it a try, for 
 some reason it's been singled out to get a kicking from so called proffesional reviewers. Forget 
 them and enjoy Jericho for what it is, it's not perfect, but it is a over the top, fun, team based 
 horror FPS that many gamers will enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pourya_ahmadian
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 30, 2007 12:33 am PT
Review:  THE GAME IS WHOLE IN BATTLES AND KILLING, FOR EVERYONE AND EVERY DESIRE IT HAS SO MANY ITEMEZ, ROLEZ, AND 
 TOOLZ! WHEN YOU START THE GAME YOU THINK THAT YOU ARE REALY THERE AND IT IS YOU THAT PLAY THE GAME; SOMETIMES 
 YOU ARE SHOOTING A CREATURE THEN YOU MUST MAKE MAGICEZ AT REAR; THAT IS FUNNY; TEXTURE ARE GOOD, NOT 
 GREAT BUT IF YOU DO NOT ATTENTION VERY CAREFULLY YOU WOULD NOT NOTICE ANY BAD THINGEZ; ANIMATIONZ 
 ARE SO GREATZ, GUNZ, MAGIC EFFECTZ, FIRE AND WATER EFFECTZ ARE GOOD BUT I PREFER SOMETHING MORE; IE 
 IS GOOD FOR YOUR FRIENDZ AND GREAT FOR YOUR FOES SPECIALLY FOR SMALL CREATUREZ; PLAYER MUST PAY 
 ATTENTION TO EVERY MOVE OF THEM AND CHEK THEIR BEHAVIOR TO DEFEAT THEM BUT THE GAMESPOTES ARE RIGHT 
 THE BOSS IS SO FISHY, SO; BUT GAME HAS SO MANY ATTRACTIVE THINGE THAN MAKE PLAYER TO PLAY. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 7-ate-9
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 29, 2007 12:18 pm PT
Review:  Jerico is an icredibly linear game with only two dynamics, killing bad guys and watching cutscenes. 
 You can't interact with the environment, save for a few levers and walls, the environments are 
 also crafted so that they funnel you along a predestined pathway. The fights are tedious- your 
 team mates get in the way rather than help you and they have very little intelligence. For example 
 the AI controlled team mates will fight grenade throwing or exploding enemies whilst STANDING STILL 
 and in tightly bunched groups so that when the bomb drops they all die, they run in front of firing 
 weapons and often don't listen to orders you try to give them. Given that you are working with 
 a 6-7 person squad the commands available to you are terribly limited and this spolis any imaginative 
 ideas you might have to take down enemies more effectively using team work. This supposedly benign 
 AI is the most frustrating part of the game and I often wished my team would just die and never 
 return so I could fight the enemies properly without their pathetic efforts cramping my style.
 
  
  That each team member has a set of abilities, only useful in specific situations and that the player 
 has no decision making to do over plot or overall squad decisions therefore having no influence 
 on how the game pans out, serves to exacerbate the games linear feel to tedious hights.
  
  The textures in Jerico appear very grainy and the bad lighting only serves to make the game less 
 enjoyable. Many areas are littered with indistinct gore, it's very difficult to tell what it is, 
 I wish they just stuck their necks out and showed real guts. The enemies are quite well designed, 
 they look pretty twisted but they fight like they enjoy being shot and since you face the same 
 types of bad guys over and over again their AI behavior also gets very tiresome. Play this if you 
 like the idea of the story and the horror theme but if you expect a bit more interest and influence 
 from a gameplay perspective, give it miss in favour of Half life or Bioshock. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aduana69
Rating: 3.5
Date: Oct 29, 2007 11:09 am PT
Review:  As for a game, Clive Barker does a so-so job on what could have been a great horror video game. 
 Yeah, u do get some cool tools, magic and guns, but is way to limited for the team that you control. 
 I found my self switching between only 3 of the 6 (or seven counting Devin Ross) characters, which 
 was only Cole, black and Delgado. Many of the missions are to linear, there is some backtracking 
 and the occasional around the corner scare, but Jericho became Dissapointing because of the story 
 and over abundance of repetative gameplay. To many times do you fend off a lot of enemies at once, 
 but many of those enemies are the same variations of which you first encounter in the beginning. 
 Some of the story itself never gets solve, much like the ending that apparently is just nothing 
 but the ocean and credits. Also Leech is never quite understood of who he is, what he acts like, 
 or why he is such a threat. At first you see a picture of him as a human on Devin ross' comp in 
 the beginning cinematic, but when you actually find out what he exactly looks like, he changes 
 his character concept completely and a random flying dead bird-man is now leach by the time you 
 find him (which stills is hardly the circumstance of which you should find him in) . Last and not 
 least, the first born is a kid, who can only be killed by a magicians who is being taken over by 
 the firstborn and using the magic that the person has, against the first born. Many games of old 
 used this trick and now its to common place, plus the explanation for it still being alive is god 
 was unable to kill it because it had to much power and freedom, but a team of regular humans with 
 some psycho abilities can? this don't seem to add up. The music is okay but never a real big changes 
 except between different eras. Many of the enemy AI gets predictable, although some challenges 
 are a little interesting to figure out. Diologue is fantastic for the speech actors, but is not 
 to consistent with the in game diologue which can get a little annoying. Maybe Clive should stick 
 to the million dollar Hollywood business, cause royalties don't seem to be coming to him anytime 
 soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: glenscorpio
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 29, 2007 5:24 am PT
Review:  I admit i werent expecting much from playing the demo but my god, unbeleivable game. PLEASE IGNORE 
 THE RATINGS!!! its a story fps game which is what im a big fan of. do not want to give the story 
 away but the way u switch from playing as the 1st character to controlling the other characters 
 is amazing. sometimes the graphics on items around the game can be a bit shoddy looking but ignore 
 it, not something to worry over. new ideas and fantastic looking whirlwind at the beginning looks 
 amazing. Always has something to make your jaw drop. firing the gun and watching everyone else 
 fire the gun while your in a blaze up is the best ive seen. Really not wasting your money on this 
 game. go and buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vornesoul
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 28, 2007 10:59 pm PT
Review:  The highlight of the game would have to be the colourful characters. Yet, their personalities and 
 history are rarely explored more than one scene and cheap lines in action. The story was also average. 
 It felt like Clive played through The Darkness and Fear then stuck them together. Gameplay wise, 
 there were a few interesting new interesting ideas. The squad commands were rendered near useless 
 do to the spawning monsters (rather than they already being there) and many tight and narrow corridors.
 
  
  The ending was the worst though... The end fight, thought interesting, was easy compaired to the 
 difficulty of the game and it left the story unresolved and open.
  
  All in all, it was a good rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lethal_NFS
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 28, 2007 5:12 pm PT
Review:  There have been many mixed reviews on this game so I wanted to put in a lot of gameplay before 
 making my review. I have put in about 5 hrs in to this game so far and I think I am ready to write 
 a review for it.
  
  Story
  Please read this story to really get the feel of what this game is about.
  
  According to certain 
 gnostic and aprocryphal texts, before Adam and Eve there was a firstborn - God's first abortive 
 attempt at creating a being in his own image...
  This entity was neither male nor female, dark nor light; a singular being that was both beautiful 
 and terrible to behold. Disturbed by the power of his creation, God left it unfinished, banashing 
 The Firstborn to the Abyss, forsaken and unloved.
  
  In its place God started afresh. He divided his next creation into two sexes, gave it intellect, 
 reason, emotion. He gave it the gift of love. He gave it a soul.
  
  But something remained behind. On the spot where it first tourched the mortal world, The Firstborn 
 left a taint so powerful that even God's expulssion couldn't keep it from breaking through into 
 the mortal world to reclaim its birthright.
  
  In a remote dester in the Middle East, near the cradle of all civilization, the Earth was wounded. 
 The presence of The Firstborn continued to fester, eon after eon, breaking down the fabric of reality 
 as human civilization flourished around it.
  
  The prophecy states that The Firstborn will break through into our world seven times. With each 
 appearance, it will ride desease, corruption and perversity like an all-consumeing wave until seven 
 mystics sacrifice themselves to drive it back into the Abyss. The prophecy states that the seventh 
 attempt will be its last. The Firstborn will either find freedom, or destruction.
  
  A lost city mysteriousy re-appears in a remote desert of the middle east. The Jericho team is ordered 
 to go and stop this evil at the heart of the city.
  
  Gameplay 9.5
  
  You start off with six members of the Jericho squad and you can switch between any member you like, 
 each have their own skills that you will need to progress through the game. The controls are fluid 
 and easy to control.
  
  Graphics 9.25
  
  The game is dark and creepy but still manages to display some very impressive graphics of realisim. 
 Character models are very well done and the structures and scenery are extremely detailed. At one 
 point you walk througha blood bath which looks very real and the light from your flashlight reflects 
 off the fresh blood.
  
  Sound 9.5
  
  Outstanding voice acting and some very humorous one liners. The demonic voices in this game are 
 very eerie and disturbing when playing alone in the dark. This game sounds especially nice in surround 
 sound.
  
  Value 7.5
  
  With the lack of multiplayer mode and a relatively short single player campaign this game leaves 
 little reason to play through more than once. I do however feel that this game should not be dismissed 
 because of these faults. This game has one of the best stories and boss battles than most FPS games 
 out today. I highly suggest you rent this game and play it through. You should be able to beat 
 the game in one sitting (6-8hrs) but it will be well worth it.
  
  Overall
  
  I give this game a final score of 8.5/10
  
  The story alone is what makes this game so great. 
 Playing alone in the dark with the surround cranked will have you spooked and yet unable to stop 
 playing. Give this game a rent at the least. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lil_zelda_dude
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 28, 2007 2:47 pm PT
Review:  I havn't written a review in a while, but thats probably since there have been so many great releases 
 in this time, its almost too much after having a huge gap in releases. I refuse to review something 
 like Halo 3, but thats only because everyone already knows to and that it will kick major ass (I 
 mean *is* kicking major ass) and I thought the same thing would be for Jericho, but I guess some 
 people are having problems with it. I really have no clue why everyones hating on it, the gameplay 
 is pretty well done the graphics are obviosouly gorgeous and yet this game is getting shunned away 
 and because of these reviews the almost impossible graphics are being overshadowed. Now theyre 
 saying the AI isn't very good, but these guys are friggin dead, why do people set such high expectations 
 for these guys I mean, there pretty much zombies with weapons. I think that Main Stream critics 
 are just trieng to get some attention because there really is nothing very wrong with the enemy 
 AI. Your allies AI is decent, they use there powers alot but they make some stupid mistakes like 
 letting the enemy take a whack at them while they shoot the guy 50ft away from them, but it isn't 
 too frustrating, especially when you can revive them. The Powers are pretty cool, although some 
 you wont have to use much this still gives you some reason to play the game over and use the others 
 powers. Another very complained about thing in the game is being linear. Was this game supposed 
 to be Oblivion? Your in a freakin underground dungeon thingy! Being linear isn't that bad either, 
 as long as its the right game, and this is an FPS, sorry critics but theres no massive world in 
 this FPS for you to explore. But guys Jericho is a great game, you'll have alot of fun with the 
 powers and stuff, and if your an FPS fan theres no reason not to buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: waveddiamond
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 1, 2007 4:53 am PT
Review:  this game has a really good story, that you just can't help yourself and want to finish the whole 
 game in one sit. Even though, this game contains the most amazing graphics on the xbox 360 the 
 gameplay its ackward and flawed... in theory the game sounds great good graphics, great atmosphere, 
 its horror combined with fps what could go wrong, well alot. The controls are odd and most of the 
 time you feel that you're in a cat fit rather than in a first person shooter, your super natural 
 abilities are cool, but it gets repetitive fast, each team member has a special ability that is 
 need at a certain time to continue on with the game. They used a sort of button smashing like in 
 Resident Evil 4, but the problem is that it doesn't really fit in there it just seems like an add 
 on. The story is amazing and with those visuals all I can say is wow!!. They detail on the character 
 and the stages is really beautiful, but it seems like the spent more time trying to make it look 
 good than trying to make it enjoyable. Overall, if you can look pass a some what flawed gameplay, 
 this game is for you, but if you just hate flawed gameplay well I highly recommend you rent the 
 game and beat it just for its amazing story line. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xgh0lx
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 27, 2007 10:46 pm PT
Review:  Jericho is one of those games that I was waiting for, hoping that it would be awesome, and it was 
 only okay. It's not bad by any means, the controls are fine and some of the different abilities 
 that the characters have make for some interesting gameplay. The main problem with the game is 
 simply that it isn't very scary. Clive Barker writes some truly disturbing novels, and while the 
 story driving the game is pretty good, it isn't good enough to catapult the game to stardom.
  
  The game plays like any other shooter with a few exceptions, you can switch to different members 
 at any point and use their special abilities to complete different tasks. A good concept but odds 
 are you'll find one or two characters that you like to play and stick with the for most of the 
 game. There are points when your team gets split up and you'll find yourself stuck with characters 
 you don't really like to use. Another problem is that the game is extremely easy, I went in playing 
 it on hard and have only died two times so far. Since you and Rawlings can heal you party the only 
 way it's game over is if both of you die. And since you can swap characters on the fly odds are 
 you'll always be able to heal your squad before both of you die. Some of the fights are intense 
 still, and your team AI does a decent job without you having to babysit so that's a plus.
  
  As I said earlier though, the game never reaches that horror element that it needs from Clive 
 Barker. The monsters look creepy enough but the game never scared me, never made me tense, never 
 made me jump. Bioshock was creepier at the start than Jericho. As it stands the game works and 
 is decent, hopefully his next outing will be slightly more successful. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xenoomega
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 27, 2007 4:45 pm PT
Review:  Completely original game with few strings attached. As the games progresses you gain new abilities, 
 and encounter new enemies to keep you on your toes. It also has enough interesting weapons and 
 bosses that you also have some significant replay value. The only complaints are minor. The movement 
 stick is not very responsive when it comes to diagonal movement, which is annoying, and some of 
 the achievements are EXTREMELY difficult to obtain. But they are minor at best. Over all, a must 
 buy.
  
  It will draw in players of traditional squad based shooters (al la Rainbow Six) , FPS addicts (now 
 that Halo is wearing out on them) , and fans of horror games. Think of it as a squad based, first 
 person shooter version of silent hill. It may not spawn a franchise like silent hill, but Is just 
 as creepy and gross. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragonwarlock77
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 27, 2007 2:28 pm PT
Review:  Jericho may start out a little slow for some, but by the end, you will grow attached to the characters 
 more than any before in a game. Besides having solid gameplay and a strong atmosphere, Clive has 
 created a very deep story on many levels. The characters are so easy to get attached to. I mean, 
 Ross's care for his men, Rawlings and Delgado butting heads, Church and Delgado's love for each 
 other, Jone's need to fit in, there are just so many layers and sides to each character, it's astounding, 
 really. By the end, I'm sure you'll scream, NOOO!! at some point. The game leaves you with a cliffhanger 
 ending, but since Jericho is a trilogy, with rumors of a prequel as well, we can rest assured that 
 the Jericho squad's story is far from over, and the Firstborn is just the beginning...
  
  Our only questions now are, will Ross be able to stay with Jericho? and, who will replace those 
 lost? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Triangels
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 27, 2007 9:21 am PT
Review:  Its Enough Give A MAchine Gun And Shooy In Dark And See Blood In Your TV Screen. Undying Is More 
 Beautiful Than Jericho. Jericho Doesnt Have Enough Horror Beacuse Shoot With Gun Is Very Very More. 
 Arts Of Monsters Is Beautiful And Horror And Bloody Just Enough See Picture Of Fat Monster (Like 
 A Human) . Chracters Is Good And Have Enough Jobs In Game. I Dont No Jericho Is Good Game Or Bad 
 Game In Graphic But Graphic Is Not Complite And Shadowing With Flashlight And HDR Is Not Enough. 
 AI Is Just A ... . Realy IS Not Good Like Quake4 Ai. If You Like  
 Sam- And Dark - Violence Games Buy It And Have Fun Time In Dark Nights When Your Alone In Home 
 (Off Lights And Play And Up Vol) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Name_Taken
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 26, 2007 11:34 pm PT
Review:  Honestly this is my first Clive Barker experience... i dont really do much horror games or anything... 
 but anything that involves a military factiona blasting away aliens / monsters im always definetly 
 getting... pretty much to sum it all up... the game is amazing the graphics are awesome very glossy 
 everything has a really wet feel to it... constant rain... blood rivers... gory bodies... everything 
 the voice acting is PERFECT everyone has their own uniqueness they each have different personalities 
 from lesbian attitude abigail black to **** attitude frank delgado...
  
  the controls are awesome a new feature that i know lots of new games will probably copy is how 
 there are 2 different types of guns to reload your first gun tap X to reload the second gun tap 
 X twice... now thats just convienent... not even halo 3 could think of that for their 2nd sidearm... 
 YOU CAN EVEN SWITCH FIRE MODES now thats just cool it has a rainbow 6 fighting style incorporated 
 with a gears of war universe... you can choose which grenades you want cole to have and choose 
 what types of pistol ammo you want Rawkins to you use... thats variety
  
  THE STORY IS AMAZING OMG its really interesting and really leaves you wanting to know more... To 
 sum everything up... Wow... you know people just expect so much... ITS FREAKIN CODEMASTERS that 
 made the damn game... and we all know they dont make very good games its not like BUNGIE that have 
 a title to hold up to but this game definetly raises codemasters props this game to me is gears 
 of war in first person mode but with 7 characters and who cares about multiplayer??? leave the 
 multiplayer to games like halo or half life and gears this game was meant to be like bioshock... 
 nothing but a story to engulf you in with a memorable experience 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vivendidoom
Rating: 4
Date: Oct 26, 2007 7:16 pm PT
Review:  As for a game, Clive Barker does a so-so job on what could have been a great horror video game. 
 Yeah, u do get some cool tools, magic and guns, but is way to limited for the team that you control. 
 I found my self switching between only 3 of the 6 (or seven counting Devin Ross) characters, which 
 was only Cole, black and Delgado. Many of the missions are to linear, there is some backtracking 
 and the occasional around the corner scare, but Jericho became Dissapointing because of the story 
 and over abundance of repetative gameplay. To many times do you fend off a lot of enemies at once, 
 but many of those enemies are the same variations of which you first encounter in the beginning. 
 Some of the story itself never gets solve, much like the ending that apparently is just nothing 
 but the ocean and credits. Also Leech is never quite understood of who he is, what he acts like, 
 or why he is such a threat. At first you see a picture of him as a human on Devin ross' comp in 
 the beginning cinematic, but when you actually find out what he exactly looks like, he changes 
 his character concept completely and a random flying dead bird-man is now leach by the time you 
 find him (which stills is hardly the circumstance of which you should find him in) . Last and not 
 least, the first born is a kid, who can only be killed by a magicians who is being taken over by 
 the firstborn and using the magic that the person has, against the first born. Many games of old 
 used this trick and now its to common place, plus the explanation for it still being alive is god 
 was unable to kill it because it had to much power and freedom, but a team of regular humans with 
 some psycho abilities can? this don't seem to add up. The music is okay but never a real big changes 
 except between different eras. Many of the enemy AI gets predictable, although some challenges 
 are a little interesting to figure out. Diologue is fantastic for the speech actors, but is not 
 to consistent with the in game diologue which can get a little annoying. Maybe Clive should stick 
 to the million dollar Hollywood business, cause royalties don't seem to be coming to him anytime 
 soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: super_slonik
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 26, 2007 11:39 am PT
Review:  This game is better then most of players expect. Since it is Clive Barker's creation, player can 
 expect all kinds of gore and sick twisted violence with all other kinds of mature content. I'll 
 start with good stuff.
  First and the best (in my opinion, of course) is voice acting. This was done with absolute perfection 
 and accuracy. All emotions that can be expressed with voice feel very real. Screams, crying and 
 even swearing keep player in suspense and awareness, so the bottom line is that voice acting is 
 on of the strongest features in Jericho.
  
  Gameplay and graphics are better then average. Characters look very well detailed and the environment 
 creates just right horrifying mood. The variety of weapons and special abilities is great, player 
 also has control of the team being able to find the right position in order to neutralize enemy 
 as effective as possible. However, the story might seem a little weak for some hardcore players. 
 And that would be the only weak spot in the whole game.
  
  In conclusion I have to say that in spite of all bad reviews out there, the game grows on you. 
 It keeps you in suspense which is the main point of horror genre. It is definitely worth trying 
 and in my opinion will turn out to be a successful franchise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TomMooreBox
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 25, 2007 6:14 pm PT
Review:  Now he creates a game where you feel the terror/horror of those worlds. But you get to face it 
 with seven very different characters with different magical abilities and high tech weaponry to 
 boot. This game is not for everyone. It's depth and story line unfold nearly at the same pace. 
 I have to admit I bought it because it's a FPS. I played the demo I hoped the finished product 
 was a bit better. It certainly is. It could use a bit more polish. It does feel sometimes like 
 it's a b-movie. But you know what... most horror films have that quality as well. So I'm having 
 a blast. The different weapons and magic spells that accompany the seven different personalities 
 make this IP stand apart. It's no halo 3 or gears of war, but it deserves a look if you dig horror 
 films and/or first person shooters. Don't base the quality of this game on the demo. have fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Criggie
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 25, 2007 5:46 pm PT
Review:  Very disappointed in this game ,although it made me jump out of my seat a few times the gameplay 
 itself is not up to par. Your team seldom follows your commands, gameplay is choppy and i understand 
 its a horror game but give me enough backlight to see what im doing besides your mini flashlight. 
 I was expecting alot more from this title. This is a game i may finish if i get completely bored 
 with the rest of my games. This game also possess the worst voice over dialouge i have ever heard 
 everyone repeats the same lines over and over half the time you hear them half the time you dont.. Just 
 an opinion you may enjoy it. ( I did not) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: papamidnight03
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 25, 2007 12:38 pm PT
Review:  the start of horrors in one game Clive barker you done it again. and this is the beginning of horror 
 games and a inspiration for those horror fans and Clive barker. lets see it have all the criteria 
 of horror, lots of Gory and gruesome scenes, the characters are very detailed in this game especially 
 the blood that their covered with I give three thumbs up 2 with my hands and one with a decapitated 
 hand from somebody else and I forgot to mention that it has a very good understanding of what is 
 going on in the game and the bosses are hard and challenging and its not really short like other 
 horror games its like 7 to 9 hours long on hard and then on 4 to 5 hours on normal and easy so 
 it will take awhile to pass it but an awesome game it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AdrianWrz
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 25, 2007 10:51 am PT
Review:  Clive Barker's Jericho is sort of like Bioshock and Gears Of War in one. Except no Multiplayer. 
 It is interesting story and gameplay ;P with little bit of Gears Of War feel to it.... you charge 
 = you die = get hit = hide behand a object = Someone gets hurt res them up.
  
  If you like horror games ;P u enjoy the game as it has creepy sounds. but i advice people renting 
 it because some dont feel like it worth spending 65$ ;P me on other hand i enjoyed the game from 
 thew :P little guys TO HUGE MONSTERS BEYOND ur imagition of trying to figure out how the hell that 
 thing still alive. Skinless dead bodies all around of course, Blood and gore on walls defently. 
 Fun head shots to see monsters head/brains blow out ;D lots of fun. Slow motion sniper bullet (EVERY 
 SNIPER's Dream come True... Hit 3 target with 1 bullet &gt;.&gt; and all of them are head shots)
 
  
  Some of special abilites that members have you might have seen in Bioshock like telekniess and 
 Fire.
  
  It has alot of fast pace shooting. Like sometimes all sudden ugliest Guys will pop out of no where 
 to attack you sometimes even from both sides and before you know it if u dont place your team right 
 1/2 of them are dead and need a res.
  
  Slow time to put bombs at enemies feet and then run away and see them go boom ;D fun :P there alot 
 of to do.
  
  But i do advice to play this game alone, with lights off and headphones. to get ur blood pumping.
 
  
  Sometimes there are scenes to press random buttons to survive a close encounter with enemy, or 
 some envoirment scene coming down on you or falling into a hall.
  
  I enjoyed the game =) but it would make it better to have multiplayer even thought it be little 
 bit outbalanced it would had been interesting to play.
  
  Must people would probaily be snipers ;P shooting bullets around cornors.
  
  But i give this 
 game 9.0 because it Unique it in own way. I love Horror Stories and i enjoyed this one. :P Alot 
 people might say 7.5 to 8.5 or lower but There are games that are just not for everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The-Croix-Man
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 25, 2007 5:32 am PT
Review:  So you know those game where after you beat it you are awestruck and want to tell everyone that 
 you just beat the game? Well if you play this game for only one hour you know this wont be that 
 type of game. You will buy it, beat it, and then sell it. You will not care if you do not get all 
 of the achievment points, you will sell it.
  
  The graphics in this game are pretty good. I personaly think they are better than Halo 3's. The 
 only time any visuals get annoying is in the pitch dark. Yes you have a flashlight but sometimes 
 it just isn't good enough.
  
  The gameplay is fun. You will not want to turn it off... unless if one of your tv shows are on 
 or you are hungry. But like I said in the beginning there is no replay value.
  
  The story seems pretty good. I havn't beat the game yet but I love the fact when fps use cinimatics.
 
  
  If you want a game that you can probably beat over the weekend then sell at a local store or online, 
 get this game. Piece out.
  
  -The Croix Man 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robbydeags
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 25, 2007 3:19 am PT
Review:  So far playing the game has been a pleasurable experience. I have had a strange problem, however. 
 In the first level (as far as I've played) , there is a fair amount of weird environment/graphic 
 issues. In the beginning when you are outside, before you are allowed to use your weapon, there 
 are tiles all over the ground flashing black every 10 frames or so. I thought maybe it was some 
 weird shadow interference from the giant cyclone, but it happens on the next level too. I hope 
 it's not my brand new elite xbox...
  Aside from graphical malfunctions, the game plays well and the characters look fantastic. If you 
 get a chance to play in hdmi, the game's mood increases significantly. The sound effects and general 
 atmosphere is tremendously eerie. If you love survival horror, you will love this game. It's like 
 Silent Hill meets Rainbow Six. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asmodeus_z
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 24, 2007 9:15 pm PT
Review:  The game plays like Brute Force which was released on XBox.
  
  Basically, You take control of each member of the Jericho team, one at a time, to accomplish given 
 mission objectives in each game level. U must always possess one character while the A. I. controls 
 the remaining team members. Whenever U decide to jump to another team member, the A. I. will automatically 
 take control as U make the switch.
  
  The demo featured 3 characters which U can possess : A heavy gunner, a sniper and a scout.
  
 
  - The heavy gunner takes most damage but he is slow. Besides a mini-gun, he is also able to shoot 
 flames of fire from his hand.
  
  - The sniper is able to clear environmental obstacles with power of telekinesis and steer bullets 
 to hit multiple targets (in slow motion) .
  
  - The scout is able to scale walls (press action button on screen prompt) and sneak up on enemies 
 for a stealth kill.
  
  My gripes about the game after playing the demo:
  
  The team control options are very limited. U can order the other team members to advance to a spot 
 (by targeting it with your cursor) or instruct them to hold position. However, what they choose 
 to do at that spot is completely out of your control. U can't give them specific instructions such 
 as ordering the A. I. controlled sniper to take out a specific target. If U wish to do so, U must 
 possess the sniper and take the shot yourself.
  
  The game encourages U to adopt a strategic approach, U have to utilise the strengths of each character 
 rather than to go in with guns blazing. However, the A. I. generally screws up your planning whenever 
 U switch team members. They tend to bunch up, open fire prematurely and die quickly. U have the 
 power to resurrect fallen team members during a mission as the character that U possess has healing 
 powers. In this regard, all team members are medics. Unfortunately, if U happen to be the scout 
 (weak armor) , the rest of the team are down and there are 2 or 3 enemies swarming around U... well, 
 the word frustration takes on a whole new meaning.
  
  The weapon sounds are terribly weak and there is a complete lack of force feedback when I fire 
 the mini-gun. I am supposed to be the heavy, lumbering machine gunner and yet I feel exactly like 
 the light footed scout that I possessed earlier. What gives?
  
  At first, the game looked promising but now I have my doubts about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poio1982
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 24, 2007 12:59 pm PT
Review:  Ok im going to start making some enemies with this review but....
  i prefer this game a 1000 times more than halo.
  
  i Been waiting for this game a long time 
 and im not disappointed, the graphics are just outstanding and the sound is the best part of this 
 video game.
  
  i guess this game is underrated... big time! Clive Barkers Jericho is a good shooter with some 
 truly frightening situations and enemies, as youd expect from the mind of Clive Barker.
  is being designed as an action horror title that will up the stakes in visuals and phantasmagorical 
 special effects. Mingling the darkest elements of Barkers horror fiction and films with an ambitious, 
 age-spanning story, the title will be aimed at mature gamers, fans of Clive Barker and horror fiction 
 enthusiasts.
  
  Graphics: 8.5
  The game looks pretty good, benefiting from the Mercury's own engine and Clive Barkers frightening 
 art style. There are some great character models and chilling environments throughout, even though 
 they can be way too dark at times.
  
  Sound: 9
  creepy will freeze you bones out
  
  Difficulty: Medium
  
  Concept: 9
  FPS - magic freaking power and a lot of undying guys
 
  
  OVERALL:
  
  GREAT! 9.0 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
