-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: College Hoops 2K6
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/sports/collegehoops2k6/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Maintains same great gameplay and AI from Xbox and PS2 versions.
 Teams run realistic sets and have believable tendencies.
 Player and team stats very up to date.
 Some real-life coaches included.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Visual impact of player models in close ups is not that great.
 Commentary is subpar.
 Twice the cost of current-gen, but not twice the game.
 College basketball season is almost over.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar  9, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.2
Critic Score: 7.2, 18 Review (s)
User Score: 7.6, 527 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: 2K Sports
Genre: Basketball Sim
Date: Mar 7, 2006
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
College Hoops 2K6 for the Xbox 360 maintains the great gameplay from previous versions, but doesn't 
 have enough new content to justify the price of admission. 

  It's time for March Madness, but that usually means filling out brackets and sneaking out of the 
 office to run to the nearest sports bar and catch a few tournament games during lunchtime. You 
 usually don't associate this time of year with the release of college basketball video games, but 
 2K Sports went ahead and did it anyway, with the Xbox 360 version of College Hoops 2K6. With the 
 game's late arrival, you would hope that a lot more than just some subtle tweaks would have been 
 made to justify paying double the price of current-generation versions. While the same great artificial 
 intelligence and gameplay from those versions remain in this one, there just isn't much new here 
 to get excited about.  

          College Hoops 2K6 on the 360 plays a lot like the previous versions of the game on the 
 Xbox and the PS2...     

  The same control systems used in NBA 2K6 and previous versions of College Hoops 2K6 are used in 
 this version too. First of all, there's the new isomotion juke system. Instead of using the right 
 analog stick to execute fancy dribble maneuvers, you toggle the right and/or left trigger buttons 
 to put your ball handler into an aggressive stance. Once you do that, jiggling the left analog 
 stick will not only move your player, but it will also execute juke moves. If the ball's in your 
 player's right hand, toggling the stick from right to left will execute a crossover. Do a half 
 circle and he'll wrap the ball around his back instead. As you experiment with the isomotion, you'll 
 find that you can easily chain together moves ranging from jab steps to crossovers to backspins 
 and more. It's not an easy system to learn for sure, but once you get it down, you'll find that 
 you have a lot of control over how your ball handler moves.  

  The new shot stick is also included in College Hoops 2K6. The right analog stick is now used as 
 another way to shoot the basketball, since it no longer controls the juke moves. The interesting 
 thing about the shot stick is that it lets you emote different types of shots. Tap away from the 
 basket from midrange and you can execute a fallaway jumper. Drive the hoop and tap to either side, 
 and your shooter will try a one-handed scoop with either hand. Different types of dunks can also 
 be executed depending on how you move the stick as you drive an open lane -- the more-agile dunkers 
 can do some spectacular throw-downs. The post game is also made more interesting by the shot stick, 
 as you can execute different types of post moves, like spins, drop steps, fallaways, and up-and-unders 
 with a combination of the shot stick and the aggressive modifier. For the faint of heart, the standard 
 shot button still remains, which will allow the computer to select a shot for you as with any other 
 basketball game. But for those of us who want the added control, the shot stick works pretty well 
 once you get the hang of it.  

  Other new tweaks to the gameplay have also been made, such as the intuitive pull-and-release free-throw 
 mechanism. In this version of College Hoops 2K6, the camera does not zoom in close to the player. 
 Instead, you get the same camera you picked for gameplay, which gives you a better view to rebound 
 any misses. Perhaps more important is the inclusion of a flexible quick-menu system called the 
 "coach's clipboard" that pops up at every play stoppage. This great feature lets you quickly make 
 player substitutions, as well as other adjustments to your defense. There are quite a few options 
 made easily available to you, so you can fine-tune when you want to execute presses and traps (your 
 options include always executing your press, never, occasionally, or only after made baskets) . 
 There is also quite an array of different presses you can do, ranging from simple half-court traps 
 to a two-two-one zone press. You can also adjust double-team frequencies on certain players, change 
 matchups for man-to-man defenses, and even call out points of emphasis for your players to focus 
 on, like rebounding and ball control.  

  On the court, you have access to up to eight different quickplay calls from the D pad. You can 
 press any direction to execute a play that you've designated from the game's extensive playbook, 
 and you can toggle another button to call up a second set of four plays from the D pad. There are 
 dozens of plays available, and there are a few different playbooks available depending on the type 
 of offense your school runs, including flex and motion offenses. Only four different quick defenses 
 are available from the D pad, but you can assign these from the usual array of different zone defense 
 types like three-two, two-three matchup, and box-and-one. Traps in this game can be particularly 
 effective, as you can often tie up a ball handler by bringing a quick double-team on him. You'll 
 need to be careful about pressing teams with good ball handlers though, as you can easily get burned 
 if they break out. You'll also find that in the Xbox 360 version of the game, it's more challenging 
 to pass effectively out of the double-team. You can't just jam on the pass button to bail yourself 
 out, or you're likely to turn it over.  

          which is good and bad news.     

  The gameplay in College Hoops 2K6 is as sharp as it was on the regular Xbox version of the game. 
 Schools seem to run the type of game that they do in real life. You'll see squads like Wisconsin 
 play hard-nosed defense and grind out the shot clock on offense. Other teams like Washington will 
 attempt to run and gun up and down the court and shoot earlier in the shot clock to generate tempo. 
 Opponents will also mix up defenses on you and press at different times to show you different looks. 
 Perhaps most impressive is that teams actually appear to run offenses in the half-court, so you'll 
 see players moving off the ball and usually in an intelligent manner. It's important to be able 
 to read the type of defense being run on you so that you can attack the open spots. The computer 
 also reacts intelligently depending on how you're playing. If you're using Cal and lighting it 
 up with Leon Powe, for example, they'll eventually run double-teams at him to try to force him 
 to give up the ball. Conversely, the computer-controlled teams are smart enough to rely on their 
 star players, so if you play against Duke, expect to see JJ Redick and Shelden Williams shouldering 
 most of the scoring load.     

  College Hoops 2K6's legacy mode is another clear highlight of the game. In this mode, you can take 
 control of a school of your choice and try to lead it to the top of the college hoops over a period 
 of years. You'll have total control of a college basketball program, and many of the coaches are 
 even named for you, such as Ben Braun at Cal. For some reason, though, many other high-profile 
 coaches like Mike Krzyzewski at Duke are named generically. The legacy mode includes access to 
 rosters, stats, standings, and playbooks, so you can adjust the style of basketball your school 
 plays. The calendar contains full schedules of games, which seem very accurate for the 2005-06 
 college basketball seasons, including regional preseason tournaments. Practice regimens can be 
 adjusted for your players to focus on areas like shooting and the post game. You'll even get e-mails 
 from time to time regarding players who are disgruntled about playing time and other issues for 
 you to deal with. You'll even see special shows like a season preview special and a Selection Saturday 
 special hosted by veteran college basketball commentators Greg Gumbel and Clark Kellogg. Unfortunately, 
 this highlight show, as well as the postgame shows, appears to be lifted right out of the previous-generation 
 versions of the game, so they don't look all that good for an Xbox 360 game.  

          We were hoping for more out of the presentation than the same old stuff lifted out of the 
 Xbox version.     

  The heart of the legacy mode is, of course, recruiting, which is year-round in College Hoops 2K6. 
 You're presented with a large list of recruits who are ranked for you based on the primary and 
 secondary attributes that your program looks for in college players. These general attributes include 
 skill, potential, athleticism, and intelligence. So depending on what your program values are, 
 the types of recruits you'll look for may vary. The recruiting trail requires you to assign coaches 
 to contact or scout recruits, and doing so costs you time points on a weekly basis. Time spent 
 on the recruiting trail means less time available for your coaching staff to scout opponents and 
 practice with the team -- so you'll need to balance everything carefully depending on the schedule, 
 your coaching staff's strengths (some coaches are better at recruiting, while some are better at 
 scouting players and teams) , and your team's needs.  

  This is all fun and compelling content for those who love the micromanagement aspect of legacy 
 modes in college sports games. Unfortunately, for those who might feel out of their depth, the 
 computer doesn't seem to put any effort into recruiting players for you if you're uninterested 
 or if you're unable to handle that aspect. If you simulate through the whole season (playing or 
 coaching games without diving into the recruiting side) , it's very possible you'll end up without 
 any incoming players for the next season. If you prefer playing against human opponents instead 
 of building up a Duke-like dynasty, online play is included over Xbox Live of course, with the 
 usual leaderboards, leagues, and tournaments, as well as VIP profile-tracking, which you can use 
 to scout prospective opponents. Online play is pretty smooth, so there's some extra value to be 
 gained out of head-to-head play.  

  College Hoops 2K6's primary faults are in its visuals, which aren't very polished at all for an 
 Xbox 360 game. Sure there are a good amount of animations, and a lot of attention has been placed 
 on architecture of the major arenas, but too many aspects of the presentation have simply been 
 lifted from previous versions of the game with little or no modification. The selection show and 
 postgame shows are good examples. The crowds, even with emphasis on showing off student sections, 
 could use a lot of work. The lighting and floors look nice, and the cloth and sweat mechanics of 
 the other 2K Sports basketball games on the Xbox 360 have been brought in as well. But because 
 the likenesses of real players can't legally be used, there isn't the same visual impact with this 
 game as there was with NBA 2K6. There's no sense of looking at a player and being wowed by the 
 resemblance. In NBA 2K6 you'd look at a replay of LeBron James dunking and say "Wow, that really 
 does look like LeBron!" In College Hoops 2K6, you see a replay of Adam Morrison stroking a three, 
 and you say "OK, that looks like a generic white guy wearing a Gonzaga #3 jersey." The least that 
 could have been done was the addition of a bad peach-fuzz mustache on Gonzaga #3 in the game. What's 
 more, the game suffers from some of the same standard definition versus high-definition issues 
 as NBA 2K6 on the Xbox 360. If you play in standard definition, some of the button prompts and 
 fonts are difficult to read, and the game simply doesn't look nearly as sharp as it does in high 
 definition. There's very little that separates the look of this game from a regular Xbox game when 
 you play on a non-HDTV.  

          There just isn't much new in this version of the game to justify its late arrival and high 
 price point.     

  The general sound effects from the court and crowd are pretty decent, but the new announcing crew 
 of Verne Lundquist and Bill Raftery is a clear downgrade from College Hoops 2K5's duo, Mike Patrick 
 and Jay Bilas. Lundquist does a passable job, but Raftery's empty-headed and oddly nuanced remarks 
 pale in comparison to almost any other color commentator, let alone someone as knowledgeable as 
 Bilas. What might be even more disappointing is the lack of fight songs available in the game. 
 Only a handful was included, and they don't even cover many of the traditional basketball powerhouses. 
 You'll hear Maryland and Arizona's fight songs, but many high-profile teams' fight songs are conspicuously 
 absent. Instead, you'll have to choose from the likes of New Hampshire, Sacramento State, or Southern 
 Methodist's fight songs.  

  The Xbox 360 version of College Hoops 2K6 is like a bubble team trying to make a late case for 
 itself to the selection committee. Yes, there's a solid gameplay engine there with great AI, but 
 there are just too many things going against this game to make it wholly recommendable. It arrived 
 after the regular season in college basketball had ended, and it didn't do much to improve the 
 presentation or include new features and functionality. Really, it's just a tweaked-up version 
 of the same game on the Xbox, but it shipped several months later at double the price. If, for 
 some reason, you don't already own the game and are a college hoops fan, it's definitely worth 
 playing. But chances are, if you like college basketball, you already have this game, you've been 
 playing it for months, and you paid half the price. If that's the case for you, then there's not 
 much in this version that makes it worth a second purchase.  

      
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (37 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: toolzz360
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 23, 2007 3:32 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay-
  
  The game on the court plays okay. The a. i is pretty good and their are many difficulty levels to 
 experience. One thing I did not like was the layup system. I couldn't drive to the hoop to often 
 as when contact was made with a opposing player you just stop and loose all momentum. The players 
 cannot also do a simple layup they try to make flashy shots which often doesn't work. The legacy 
 mode is fantastic and has many options. It is one of the best modes in any sports game. You can 
 either start with a low level team or jump right into a big time school. The game also has the 
 other common sports game modes.
  7/10
  
  Graphics-
  
  The graphics are fairly good, and are very good for an early 360 title. The player models, crowds, 
 and coaches are all done well. 8/10
  
  Sound-
  
  The sound is just like any sports game. The commentary is good but it is not the best. 7/10
  
 
  Value-
  
  I rented this game nut it does offer a ton of replayability with the immense legacy mode. I would 
 say it is worth a buy for under 10 dollars since it is an older game. This game made me decide 
 to purchase 2k7 so I guess it is still worth a buy if you dont want to spend the extra few bucks 
 for 2K7.
  9/10 Tilt-
  This game has both good moments and bad moments.
  7/10
  
  Score 7.6 rounded down to 7.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KG78
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jul 2, 2007 9:06 pm PT
Review:  College hoops 2K6 isnt a horrible game... But it has to much of a current generation feel. It reminds 
 me of NBA2K6 on the PS2. I didnt spend $400$ jst to not experince anything new. You can tell the 
 producers were bein lazy, The presentation is everything the same as NBA2K6. To think aboout it 
 its a exact same clone, same gameplay, presentations, and many more things are the same! The only 
 diffrence is the graphics. Overall its a decent game but isnt something youl play forever. Its 
 more of a game to spend playing more on xboxlive. Say if you come home from work and you jst wanna 
 play a easy relaxed game thn this game is perfect for tht 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elite29
Rating: 6.7
Date: May 15, 2007 9:33 pm PT
Review:  I'll keep this short. If you have either the Xbox or PS2 version of this game, don't waste your 
 money picking this up. The game looks like a Xbox game in HD (obviously when viewed on an HD TV) 
 and the little effort put into upgrading this game for the Xbox 360 is insulting.
  
  The core game here is still pretty good. If you liked it before, you will like it again. Visual 
 Concepts knows how to make a baseketball game. Of course, you can't shake the feeling that this 
 is NBA 2K6's little brother. The reason for that is that it plays exactly the same way except you 
 have college rosters. The dynasty mode is great and the gameplay on the court is also solid. There 
 is nothing here, however, to justify the higher price tag.
  
  The player models look slightly better. Other than that, the game looks like crap. The crowd is 
 embarrassing. I played with Duke in my first game and at halftime the cheerleaders came out to..... well, 
 cheer. The scary thing was that all of them were the same exact character model!! What the?!!
 
  
  The commentary is also average, at best. I love Verne Lundquist in real life, but like in most 
 videogame announcers, he is turned into a repetitive annoyance. Everything about this game screams 
 that they just slapped a Xbox 360 label on the Xbox version and shipped it out the door to make 
 $$$. The game even came out very late when it was originally released.
  
  Unless you are looking for some extremely easy achievement points, there is no reason to own this 
 game. This game is a perfect example of what plagues first-generation releases. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: French023
Rating: 1.9
Date: Apr 7, 2007 7:12 pm PT
Review:  First off all you will need to do to get all of the achievment points is rent it. Like I said before 
 you will only need to work on this game for 35 minutes and you will have 100 achievment points. 
 But believe me it will be the most boring 35 mintues of your life. This is becuase the game, to 
 put it simply, sucks. The first thing you do is adjust the settings. Make it so there is no out 
 of bounds, fouls on 0, no 10 second violation, no shot clock, and put it on rookie. Make the half 
 time 15 minutes.
  
  Then you pick your team. I suggest duke because they have good rebounding and they have jj redick 
 who can make alot of 3's. Pick a bad opponent to play againest. (around the 63 overall level is 
 ideal) Play this game with the name you want getting the gamerpoints on duke and put controller2 
 on your bad side. You can do this even if there is only one of you .
  
  The first achievment I suggest doing is the 15 3 pointers. All you really have to do is get jj 
 (#4) kind of open and he will make it. This will also cover the 40 points in one game with one 
 player achievment.
  
  While you are doing the 3's achievment you can also be doing the rebounds achievment. (40 team 
 rebounds) This is where the 2nd controller comes into play. Pass the ball in and immediatly press 
 X. This will shoot a half court shot. Because there is no out of bounds it will will the back wall 
 and your team will get a rebound 95 percent of the time. Steals in rather easy. Look for somebody 
 on your team with a hand by there name (good defence) . With controller 2 pass the ball in start 
 to dribble but stay in one spot. Come up with that player and steal the ball. The last one is the 
 get 6 blocks with one play achievment. This takes a little getting used to but it pretty easy. 
 Take a small PG up to the 3 point line. Get your center up to him. At the same time press X on 
 2 and Y on 1. If timed right you should get a block.
  
  Sounds easy huh? Well it is and before you know it you will be bragging about you gamerscore to 
 your friends. Almost the same achiements go with nba 2k6
  
  O ya and you might want to put on a cd or somthing else in the backround because the announcing 
 in repetitive. And i mean repetitive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gallagher06
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 8, 2006 4:02 pm PT
Review:  Fun game a little old but still good
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  Good gameplay might not be perfect, but doesnt ruin the game. The flow is good, feels like a real 
 basketball game if played correctly. After playing NBA 2k7 im not all impressed with some of the 
 movements and smoothness of the game but i do know it isnt a new game.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  The graphics are good for when it came out, might be a little outdated for some. There could have 
 been more faces models, it gets kinda old seein the same face on different players over and over. 
 The crowd and jerseys are very good, you might not notice them after playing some of the newer 
 games but they're there and done very nicely
  
  SOUND:
  The sound is good in my opinion, the crowd sounds life like, and the commentary doesnt ruin the 
 game like alot of other sports games. Not perfect but not bad.
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  THE GOOD:
  Its college basketball and UNC is on the front cover, (what were they thinkin puttin a dukey on 
 next years front ) that automatically makes it a good game. Still tons of fun and gives me something 
 to do til next years great college basketball game.
  
  THE BAD: A year old and it shows in some parts of the game, UNC isnt the best team in the game, 
 it saddens me : (
  
  Final Thoughts: Good game, will still provide many hours of gameplay, but its a year old and the 
 newer game comes out in about a month (cant wait) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheNIM
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 22, 2006 4:39 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game the day it came out and while I played it a lot, it was out of default. It is 
 the only College Bball option for the 360. I was completely disappointed. No difference in the 
 game from the xbox. Even the graphics are are a mere cheap upgrade over the xbox/ps2 version. This 
 game isnt terrible though. It is fun. The crowd animation is a definite improvement. The players 
 look a lot like previous generatons animation with a TINY bit of sweat added. The players jerseys 
 move but it's not as distinct as you may think it should be.
  
  As far as basketball, 2k won the early battle with EA on the next gen systems, but it has a long 
 long way to go before their games can be called classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 3eyedrazorback
Rating: 7.7
Date: Dec 20, 2006 12:46 pm PT
Review:  well when i got this game i thought it'd be alright since it has no competition from EA (that i 
 know of) this year. i was wrong. this game is... well... how can i put it nicely?... pathetic! don't 
 get me wrong, i've played it many-a-nights until the wee hours of the morning and had fun, but 
 the gameplay just doesn't cut it for me. graphics make me think back to the 99 version. i hated 
 that one because of the graphics as well. granted, in 99 they weren't as great but still. the gameplay 
 is pretty good though. the net moves very nicely whenever you make a shot. dunking is pretty good 
 too. it's pretty hard to make a 3 though and i'm a 3 point specialist... oh well, halfway decent 
 game, and i'll still play it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxinshoes
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 23, 2006 6:50 am PT
Review:  Pros:
  -------
  Good graphical impact, amateur basketballers playing in school make you feel like a pro.
  
 
  Cons:
  --------
  Character models look bad upclose, not enough new content for the new price.
  
  Despite being 
 a younger, cheaper, more energetic version of NBA 2K6, College Hoops is quite alot different in 
 retrospect. But the lack of new content leaves it a mere understatement of it's previous self. 
 Graphics-wise, this game is on par with 360 standards ... just not upclose. But in the end, it's 
 not worth an extra 20 quid over other College Hoops versions or another 50 quid if you already 
 have NBA 2K6. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: colegallop
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 20, 2006 6:44 pm PT
Review:  Gamespot was not joking when they said 2k didn't learn there lesson with nba2k6. This applies with 
 ncaa college hoops. You can literally do it all not even in the full 20 minute game. The only one 
 that is hard is the 6 blocks with one player since a bad team won't shoot.
  
  Gameplay - I didn't get the college experience that a college game should have. Lets hope 2k changes 
 this next year
  
  Graphics - really looks no different that just clear players. Depending on what camera angle you 
 have this will have no factor is having fun with the game.
  
  Replay value - not for me. I will leave it at that.
  
  Overall this game is a ONLY a RENT!!
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jets1240
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 25, 2006 7:07 pm PT
Review:  College Hoops 2k6 is a game that will grow on you as you play. If you play legacy mode, you will 
 be really into getting your team to win as you are the yound coach. I also liked how that they 
 really made the game seem like it was on tv. It has great commentary and great graphics. Yes, the 
 jerseys do flutter in the wind like in NBA 2k6 and also the players sweat. I was most fascinated 
 on how in depth the fans are. You can see every fan there, but yes, it does get quite repetitive 
 in some commentary and in fan and player reacions. But i also liked the shows that they had with 
 Greg Gumbel. They have a beginning of the year show and they have a selection sunday show. i especially 
 liked the selection sunday show. It had great dialogue and was shocked on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThaGrateOne
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jun 17, 2006 9:14 pm PT
Review:  The game is worth a $20 price point if you do not own NBA 2k6. I waited the price drop out and 
 I have to say.... hmmm... should I have waited a little longer? I do like having the local teams 
 I can play with online now. The game has a few achievements which I was hoping for alot. The game 
 looks sub-par in my opinion due to being on an XBOX 360... I was hoping for the NBA 2k6 experience... well, 
 it is a cheaper one at that. The game is not the worst you can buy though, it just needs alot of 
 help to justify a $60 price tag. I am a fan of 2K Sports... and I went a head and gave it a chance. 
 I wanted alot of achievements.... and alot of things that I was hoping for in a quote-unquote NEXGEN 
 GAME. If you do not have a basketball game on XBOX 360 and you can get this game between $20 and 
 $30 dollars... it is good enough to get into it. Do not pay $60... Please!!! Some players look like 
 aliens! Other than that, this game is fun... just wish they would build these NEX-GEN games from 
 the ground up for the XBOX 360 engine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ocdog45
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 8, 2006 7:21 pm PT
Review:  Gamespot was not joking when they said 2k didn't learn there lesson with nba2k6. This applies with 
 ncaa college hoops. You can literally do it all not even in the full 20 minute game. The only one 
 that is hard is the 6 blocks with one player since a bad team won't shoot.
  
  Gameplay - I didn't get the college experience that a college game should have. Lets hope 2k changes 
 this next year
  
  Graphics - really looks no different that just clear players. Depending on what camera angle you 
 have this will have no factor is having fun with the game.
  
  Replay value - not for me. I will leave it at that.
  
  Overall this game is a ONLY a RENT!!
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ghost_Warrior
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 29, 2006 8:04 pm PT
Review:  I've been a big fan of the College Hoops series since its 2k3 edition. Having not played a college 
 game since its 2k4 edition I decided to check this game out. What I like most about this game is 
 the career mode. You can either pick any team you want or start with a bad team and work your way 
 up the college hoops coaching ranks. Recruiting is very detailed, you can go after the top college 
 players when they are freshman. You can earn points to make your coaching better by completing 
 goals, such as winning the conference tournament or making it to the NCAA. Depending on how good 
 you are as a coach will determine how good your players can get, the better your offense and defense 
 is, and what kind of recruits you can get. Although it gets a little repetitive as you go farther 
 into the legacy, its still a lot of fun. The graphics are pretty good, they aren't amazing but 
 they are defiantly a couple steps up from the Xbox. Gameplay is pretty easy once you get used to 
 it, and the different difficulties make it more challenging. The online play is pretty simple, 
 you can play ranked or unranked matches and you can enter tournaments. If your a college hoops 
 fan or just a sports fan in general, you should defiantly check the game out. I would defiantly 
 rent it though before buying since the $60 dollars is a big investment. To sum things up, College 
 Hoops 2k6 is the best game of college bball I've played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: clcougars33
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jun 5, 2006 7:10 pm PT
Review:  The same control systems used in NBA 2K6 and previous versions of College Hoops 2K6 are used in 
 this version too. First of all, there's the new isomotion juke system. Instead of using the right 
 analog stick to execute fancy dribble maneuvers, you toggle the right and/or left trigger buttons 
 to put your ball handler into an aggressive stance. Once you do that, jiggling the left analog 
 stick will not only move your player, but it will also execute juke moves. If the ball's in your 
 player's right hand, toggling the stick from right to left will execute a crossover. Do a half 
 circle and he'll wrap the ball around his back instead. As you experiment with the isomotion, you'll 
 find that you can easily chain together moves ranging from jab steps to crossovers to backspins 
 and more. It's not an easy system to learn for sure, but once you get it down, you'll find that 
 you have a lot of control over how your ball handler moves. 
  
  The new shot stick is also included in College Hoops 2K6. The right analog stick is now used as 
 another way to shoot the basketball, since it no longer controls the juke moves. The interesting 
 thing about the shot stick is that it lets you emote different types of shots. Tap away from the 
 basket from midrange and you can execute a fallaway jumper. Drive the hoop and tap to either side, 
 and your shooter will try a one-handed scoop with either hand. Different types of dunks can also 
 be executed depending on how you move the stick as you drive an open lane -- the more-agile dunkers 
 can do some spectacular throw-downs. The post game is also made more interesting by the shot stick, 
 as you can execute different types of post moves, like spins, drop steps, fallaways, and up-and-unders 
 with a combination of the shot stick and the aggressive modifier. For the faint of heart, the standard 
 shot button still remains, which will allow the computer to select a shot for you as with any other 
 basketball game. But for those of us who want the added control, the shot stick works pretty well 
 once you get the hang of it. 
  
  Other new tweaks to the gameplay have also been made, such as the intuitive pull-and-release free-throw 
 mechanism. In this version of College Hoops 2K6, the camera does not zoom in close to the player. 
 Instead, you get the same camera you picked for gameplay, which gives you a better view to rebound 
 any misses. Perhaps more important is the inclusion of a flexible quick-menu system called the 
 "coach's clipboard" that pops up at every play stoppage. This great feature lets you quickly make 
 player substitutions, as well as other adjustments to your defense. There are quite a few options 
 made easily available to you, so you can fine-tune when you want to execute presses and traps (your 
 options include always executing your press, never, occasionally, or only after made baskets) . 
 There is also quite an array of different presses you can do, ranging from simple half-court traps 
 to a two-two-one zone press. You can also adjust double-team frequencies on certain players, change 
 matchups for man-to-man defenses, and even call out points of emphasis for your players to focus 
 on, like rebounding and ball control. 
  
  On the court, you have access to up to eight different quickplay calls from the D pad. You can 
 press any direction to execute a play that you've designated from the game's extensive playbook, 
 and you can toggle another button to call up a second set of four plays from the D pad. There are 
 dozens of plays available, and there are a few different playbooks available depending on the type 
 of offense your school runs, including flex and motion offenses. Only four different quick defenses 
 are available from the D pad, but you can assign these from the usual array of different zone defense 
 types like three-two, two-three matchup, and box-and-one. Traps in this game can be particularly 
 effective, as you can often tie up a ball handler by bringing a quick double-team on him. You'll 
 need to be careful about pressing teams with good ball handlers though, as you can easily get burned 
 if they break out. You'll also find that in the Xbox 360 version of the game, it's more challenging 
 to pass effectively out of the double-team. You can't just jam on the pass button to bail yourself 
 out, or you're likely to turn it over. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slappnuttz
Rating: 7.7
Date: May 15, 2006 3:35 pm PT
Review:  I wish I would have played this game before I played the NBA version. It played well and looked 
 good but just doesn't compare to the NBA version. I'm happy I rented this one and didn't purchase 
 it. I played a lot of games but didn't get into the NCAA tourney so I sure I missed something there.
 
  The graphics and the gameplay are good but just not up to par compared to (yet again) the NBA 
 version. Worth playing but not worth buying at full price. Maybe worth $20-$25. Rent it or buy 
 a pre-played game. 
  I did hear that the 2k7 version is suppose to be much improved so I will have to try it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kierlack15
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 28, 2006 9:30 pm PT
Review:  This game is the worst I have played for the Xbox 360. The graphics are horrible and nothing about 
 this game is stylish. Not even the menu looks like a 360 game should. My N64 basketball games to 
 me are much better games than this one. Bottom line, do not buy this game. I would not even rent 
 this unless you want the achievement points. In my opinion, EA just threw this out there because 
 they thought people would buy it for achievement points. Anyway, online sucks too, although no 
 online basketball game is amazing. The unlockables are nothing but different jerseys and honestly 
 I don't know how some people are enjoying this game.
  
  Please, please. 
  
  Just get NBA Live 06 instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alock
Rating: 7.3
Date: Apr 19, 2006 11:40 pm PT
Review:  This game is fun but it needs more. I wish they would spend as much time on this game as they do 
 the NBA games. I love college basketball and this game does it for me, but it just feels like something 
 is missing. Maybe next year. Franchise is fun and I love doing it. Graphics need updated and gameplay 
 needs tweaked a little bit. Also need to get player ratings a bit more accurate. I wish they could 
 use real names. That would be awesome. Cause it really sucks putting in the names manually. Ok 
 game, nothing special. Rent first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jayburna360
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 12, 2006 10:21 pm PT
Review:  This game has exactly what many college fans have been waiting for. More realism in atmosphere. 
 More play by play. We have been just waiting for... more. Now we almost get what we wanted. Yea, 
 the game is basically a tweaked 2k5 but this is a pretty big tweak. Imagine, next seasons college 
 hoops game. This was only an appetizer. This was only to prepare us for whats to come. The 2k's 
 have never ceased to amaze even if a lil' bit. This game will hold us. Just like those Red Lobster 
 biscuits hold us for that oh so good shrimp scampi. Because of late release time this game still 
 comes out on top. No and i mean no college game is scratching the surface, knocking on the door 
 or even holding a match to 2k6. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peterles
Rating: 5.2
Date: Apr 9, 2006 11:39 pm PT
Review:  i played the game for the sole reason to get gamerpoints. i dont know why i care so much about 
 these gamerpoints. but i do, i truely do care. and i played this game for about 2 hours, and i 
 got all the gamerpoints. it was an improement over the last game because it did no freeze on me 
 sevral times. on nba2k6 i couldnt finish a game without if freezing. it was trash. pure trash. 
 but i was able to play though an entire game with this one!!!!!! omg man. omg. i hope noone actually 
 reads these reviews. well i had zero fun while playing the game, and only played it because i went 
 like 6 hours straight of kingdom hearts 2 and i needed a break. but..... i dont know, after playing 
 all those crappy sports titles and other launch released crap games. i stated to hate video games. 
 so i think that im done playing launch titles for the rest of my life. they're just plain crap. 
 i bought elder scrolls 4 oblicvion. im having a great time. ghost recon advanced war fighter. im 
 having fun.. well i guess college hoops 2k6 didnt come out at launch. i dont know maybe its just 
 sports games. i play alot of basketball. real basketball. and i really dont like to play virtual 
 basketball 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 666_NOTB
Rating: 6.7
Date: Apr 3, 2006 5:15 pm PT
Review:  College Hoops 2K6 is a fair game at best. NCAA March Madness is by far better in most ways, only 
 bad thing is that there is no NCAA March Madness for Xbox 360. If you have to have a College BBall 
 game, then this is your only option. It would be highly suggested that you go play NCCA MM on another 
 system, as you'll have more fun with it than this.
  
  Gameplay: Like most basketball games out there. Nothing new or terribly exciting.
  
  Graphics: 
 On par with NBA 2K6, which is kind of sad.
  
  Sound: Nothing too special.
  
  Value: Not worth the 60 bucks. Rent at all costs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jshorter815
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 31, 2006 5:43 pm PT
Review:  I dont know what some people are talking about this game is so coool. Who cares if it came out 
 a lil late. If you are a true college basketball fan you shouldnt care. You should definitly buy 
 it. The dynsaty mode is the best. You can play with your favorite team for lyk forever. The best 
 part about this game is the graphics they are so swickaty SWEET. So if you are a NCCA Basketball 
 fan you def get this hott ass game!!! PEACE OUT HOMIES AND HOMIETS!!! Look this is just for my 
 hundred words ok damn this getting on my nerves. I hope this enough now!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterx1059
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 30, 2006 8:11 am PT
Review:  Here's a game that hurts itself out of the gate because of how late it has come out in the college 
 basketball season. That said, here's the positives and negatives: On the positive side, the gameplay 
 is much different than NBA 2k6, and that's a good thing. It does feel more like college b-ball. 
 The gameplay is also fast, another good thing. All college teams are here, another positive. Unlockables 
 are also a positive. Graphically is both positive and negative. The players themselves, while not 
 as impressive as NBA 2k6, they still look much better than current-gen games. The courts are outstanding. 
 However, the crowds are pretty ugly, as well as the pre game show and pre tournament show. That 
 's a shamed, since these two shows are awesome, giving you tons of info. The computer AI is quite 
 good, so it is very challenging.
  Overall, you can't go wrong if you are a collego b-ball fan, but certainly it could be better, 
 on both the graphics and presentation front.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigPoon316
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 29, 2006 8:09 pm PT
Review:  Are you a college basketball fan? Well NCAA College Hoops 2k6 is the game for you. On this review, 
 I will give you how good the gameplay, graphics, sound, dynasty mode, and rosters are.
  
  GAMEPLAY: Probably the best gameplay in a basketball game. The pace and how the game plays in its 
 entirely, it feels real good. Though there are a couple flaws (passing is a little bad) but for 
 the most part, its great. I give gameplay a 9/10 due to the couple of bad flaws.
  
  Graphics: Since this is XBOX 360, of course it is going to have great graphics. Its nothing that 
 will blow you away, but its something that will make your say "dang these are great graphics." 
 The player models look better then previous basketball games (beats all cept for NBA 2K6) . The 
 stadiums look great and the crowd actually looks like a crowd and not a bunch of blurs. I give 
 graphics a 9/10.
  
  Sound: If you played College Hoops 2k6 for ps2/xbox, then you know that the soundtrack to this 
 game is awful. All the songs are stupid and dont fit a basketball game at all. In the xbox 360 
 version, they have the fight songs instead of the stupid songs. So it is alot better. The crowd 
 chants are good cept they need to have the chants for specific stadiums. Like the Duke chant the 
 crowd does at Camron Indoor, or the special chants UK, OSU, and them schools do at their home. I 
 give sound a 8/10
  
  Dynasty Mode: The best dynasty mode of any basketball game ever. The polls are actually accruate 
 for the most part. In NCAA March Madness 2006, you could be #1, win all your games, and move down. 
 In College Hoops, if your #1 and win all your games, you stay #1. The recruiting in the game is 
 very very good. You can recruit all the way to the freshman class in high school. When you are 
 recruiting a player, you have numerous options. You can either "email recruit", "phone recruit", 
 "scout recruit game", "Invite recruit to campus", "Visit recruit at home", "Request Game Tape", 
 or "Offer Scholarship". The shows they have before and after the season are very good. You have 
 the "Pre-Season Poll Show". It tells you the top 25 polls and the pre-season all-american rosters. 
 It also gives you an update of how the teams did in last years tournament and how many returning 
 starters the team has. After the conference tournaments, they have the "Selection Sunday" show 
 and its exactly like the selection show they have on CBS in real life. Its very good. You have 
 have a fun time with dynasty mode. I give dynasty mode a 10/10
  
  Rosters: The rosters for the most part are accurate. They updated the rosters from the ps2/xbox 
 version and the ratings of each player is accurate. Only bad thing just like in ever other college 
 b-ball/f-ball game are their are no names. You would think The companies would get the license 
 from the NCAPA to add names to the game. I give rosters a 9/10.
  
  So overall with the ratings I just gave, I give this game a 9/10. I recommend you check this game 
 out, You wont be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rebjunior
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 30, 2006 6:31 pm PT
Review:  Wow this is a great game. But I wish that the NCAA could allow or 2K Sports would atleast put the 
 Senior Roster on the game. But the game is still great and is one of my favorite College B Ball 
 games in a while. I think this game is just a College version of NBA 2K6..... and that's what makes 
 it gooood. 'Cause NBA 2K6 is amazing. UPS and DOWNs
  +Great graphics... not blown away though
  +Good gameplay, very fun
  +BEST CONTROLS AND HANDLES 
 IN A SPORTS GAME EVER! (same as NBA 2K6)
  
  -No real roster
  -Copy of NBA 2k6
  -Good SIM game.... suprisingly not as arcadey as NBA 2k6 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bradoniusX
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 27, 2006 7:00 pm PT
Review:  College Hoops 2K6 is the definitive basketball experience. Not just on the 360, but any system 
 period. From the extremely underated graphics to the awesome real b-ball physics. You couldn't 
 spend your $60 in a better way. The college season may almost be over, but it's just heating up 
 on the 360 in this game.
  
  Pros:
  
  + Slick, lifelike graphics.
  + All the picks, screens, and other basketball plays you're used to.
  + Smart AI
  + Ball bounces 
 on the rim in a realistic fashion.
  + Lengthy Legacy mode.
  + 3D, realistic crowd.
  + All the teams you need.
  
  Cons:
  
  - Close up character models look less than stellar.
 
  - Sometimes the refs call cheap fouls. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Abrussa
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 20, 2006 4:22 pm PT
Review:  This game is very sim and realistic. The game is very good there was a online issue, but it was 
 solved. The only problem i had with this game is that the camara is not as good as nba 2k6 or ps2 
 college hoops. But besides that the game is amazin. You can chose almost all the NCAA teams, with 
 their original court field , team and themes. This game is super, the only reason why people dont 
 like it, is because the like to dunk like crazy, this is a very good realistic game. If you are 
 looking to play amazing league no cheeser, of course you might find one or another. The get college 
 hoops. I havent been this happy for a basketball game since. NBA JAM. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shawnm00
Rating: 6.8
Date: Mar 16, 2006 1:44 pm PT
Review:  I really hate to say this, but I haven't been too excited about any of the sports titles for the 
 Xbox360. You can see my reviews on some of the others, but so far the sports options on the 360 
 have been a let down.
  
  That said, College Hoops 2K6 is a pretty good game. I've played NBA Live 06 which look really good 
 but didn't play that well and I tried NBA 2K6 which played well but didn't look as good. College 
 Hoops 2K6 is much like it's NBA counterpart. From a graphics standpoint, it's just ok. I mean, 
 there are some really nice features like the field of focus from the cameras that allow things 
 in the background to blur out. The sweat is nice and the overall look of the game, arenas and players 
 is pretty nice. The first thing I don't like about the look is the animations are a bit choppy. 
 A player will run full force down the court and when he gets near the basket you'll hit the shoot 
 button and he'll suddenly go to a typical jump shot animation. Forget all the forward momentum, 
 he'll just stop on a dime. That's a little frustrating and ruins the realism. The overal character 
 models aren't bad, but aren't as real as many other games. The players look a little plastic. The 
 worst thing is Greg Gumbel at the post game. Wow, it's like 1996 graphics all over again. Not to 
 mention the fact that he looks like a super-wide, 2D version of himself. I mean, Gumbel is no small 
 man, but he looks bigger than John Madden in this!
  
  As far as sound goes, that, too is mediocre. The ambient noices in the arenas are nice and the 
 overall game sounds are fine. The commentary is pretty good, including the color commentary and 
 the overall discussions that happen during the game. This is the first sports game where I can 
 create my own player and they'll say my last name. Corny, yeah, but I like it. I know other games 
 have done it before, its just that none of them had my name in their database. The worst things 
 about the sound are the college band music being so repetative and loud and again the Gumbel post 
 game. I've only played a half-dozen games and I've already heard him repeat himself. If it doesn't 
 add to the game, it shouldn't be there.
  
  In terms of gameplay, College Hoops is pretty simple to learn. Nothing too tough about it. The 
 characters react pretty well to your movements and it's generally responsive in the ways you'd 
 expect. There is a bit of a jumpiness to it when you're playing defensively. you seem to be moving 
 around a lot even when you're just trying to spin around or something. I wish there were some other 
 button uses, like directing a pass or thowing up an alley-oop. But, overall, it's not bad. More 
 playable than the EA basketball games in my opinion.
  
  All in all, this isn't a great game, but it is one of the more enjoyable sports titles I've played 
 on the 360. Sad thing is, that doesn't say much for the other sports titles we've had to date. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beamerpup2003
Rating: 7.9
Date: Mar 15, 2006 7:42 am PT
Review:  NCAA 2k6 is a solid college basketball simulation but nothing spectacular. The graphics while decent 
 are not what one would expect from a next generation title (I have taken into consideration that 
 player likeness would be difficult considering college basketball players are still considered 
 amatuer athletes and as such using their likenesses i. e. appearance, real names, etc. would violate 
 all sorts of NCAA regulations) . The game play is excellent, I usually use West Virginia and find 
 that the players in the game mirror their real life counter-parts. Pittsnogle, can hit the 3 with 
 regularity but lacks a dominating post game. Mike Gansey has a good overall game and plays tenacious 
 defense, and Patrick Beilien is a deadly outside shooter. The only complaint I have ist that sometimes 
 when you are up big, the AI gets a little cheap and starts making some insane shots (for intance 
 a 3 pointer with a center with a 58 overall rating) . All in all if you are a college basketball 
 fan, you should enjoy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snoopy279
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 14, 2006 2:49 pm PT
Review:  this game fixed all the problems with nba2k6. this is how a game should be played. they fixed the 
 players dunking on every in the game and they fix the moving camera when u shoot a free throw. 
 they also add the subs on in ball and freethrow with out having to waste your timer in the start 
 menu. the best part is when you call a timeout u can tell your player to foucs on d, ball control, 
 taking good shots, and rebounding so if you know wat your doing wrong the timeout will help your 
 team and get them rested 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jets06ya
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 14, 2006 1:27 pm PT
Review:  What a dissapointment, exactly the same gameplay as nba2k6 but with worse graphics and no names, 
 the online mode is faulty, but there are some good points, free throw shooting feeals smooth game 
 is pretty fun, but there is a laundry list of bad things, you cant make a shot with someone guarding 
 you, you make twice as many 3's as you do layups, only shots you can makee are 3's and dunks, shooting 
 in the post is allmost impossible, there are way to many fouls called, and if you simulate any 
 games the computer never beats any good teams and loses to bad teams to much, in short the bad 
 outways the good in this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: quelafook
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 13, 2006 9:25 pm PT
Review:  the game is nice and all but the players dont look like they do in real life.. in nba 2k6 im sure 
 lebron looks like lebron (i dont have 2k6) but in live they all look exactly as they do in real 
 life... im not sure but i dont think there is a season mode where u can start as a normal team 
 and go up to the tourney.. legacy mode is alright i guess and the coaching is pretty kool... online 
 is the best part.. the crowd is also pretty good as they cheer just like they do in real life.. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SlimFrom303
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 12, 2006 12:29 pm PT
Review:  Why not focus on 2k7!?!? This is a waste of a game delevoper's time. Yeah it offers a "DECENT" 
 game but isn't it the same thing as "1st Gen" The graphics are decent and deserve more than what 
 gamespot gave them but other than that gamespot is on point with their review. This game delivers 
 solid gameplay if you take away that annoying "U CAN MAKE GO 9 FOR 10 FROM 3 POINT RANGE BUT GO 
 1 FOR 15 FROM 2-5 FOOT RANGE ON THE BASKETS". That just makes the game annoying especially if its 
 a close game and you suddenly go cold from in the paint and end up losing the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigboi25
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 11, 2006 1:27 pm PT
Review:  I went out and bought this game yesterday and i have played it for about a total of 5 hours so 
 far. It's a pretty good game. The legacy mode is amazing. There is a scrimmage with your own team 
 before the season starts which is good to see who has what it takes to be on the team and to start. 
 The recruiting is solid too. It goes 4 years deep so you can follow somebody from when they are 
 a freshman in highschool. There is also junior college if you want a instant impact without delvopment. 
 I say this because i find that the junior college people dont have as high of a potential. I could 
 be wrong though.
  
  There are 2 flaws that found in this game. One is that there is a certain animation that when you 
 drive to the hoop and hit the shot stick, he will do the same move almost everytime if he makes 
 any kind of contact. It gets frustrating because you go up to do a dunk and this guy barely touches 
 you and you fall and miss the shot. 
  
  The other thing that I dont like is the second announcer. He says stuff kinda weird. He will say, 
 "They come out in a 2-3 zone with, man to man principles" and when he says man to man principles 
 he says in much faster and sounds like hes on weed. They should have gotten jay bilas or somthing.
 
  
  This is a good game and you should buy it if you like college basketball. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: juicymongoose
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 10, 2006 8:47 pm PT
Review:  Uhhh, yea there really isnt much to say about this game. Well, I guess i will try. First off two 
 things I liked. I really liked the AI in this game. Second, I was enjoying the tournament and other 
 modes. Besides that, the graphics and pretty much everthing else were a miss. When players collide, 
 its extremely ugly. Fortunatley the gamelplay and the realistic AI keep this game from being bad.... its 
 just not great. Overall, I will say it is just a decent game overall, with no real shine, but if 
 you liek college basketball you will find some shine in it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickdastick
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 10, 2006 7:29 am PT
Review:  I would like to start off by saying that this game should have at least received the same rating 
 from Gamespot as the ones for Xbox and PS2. I know this is the same game but, just because it came 
 out later doesn't mean it is worse. I have no problem with it being a little late because it came 
 out before March Madness which is when most people start getting really into college basketball. 
 The graphics are good and the gameplay is good. It could have been great it they would have made 
 the shooting more consistent and tightened the passing up a bit. I find my players passing it to 
 people way down the court when I just wanted them to give it to the guy next to them. Also, even 
 when I changed the sliders a bit so the shooting would be a bit better, my best 3 shooter (92 overall) 
 missed 3 or 4 in a row at the most critical time. I do shoot a ton of 3's with this team because 
 they have little to no inside presence but they always seem to miss 3's at the worst times. I ran 
 into a similar problem with NBA 2K6 with inconsistent/unrealistic shooting.
  I really think this is pretty much the same game as NBA 2K6 but the reason I am giving this a lower 
 score is because of the lack of effort to change anything. They delayed shipment and still didn't 
 really do anything. For example, the crowds are pathetic! They stand up and sit down for no reason, 
 and when the chants are going they don't do anything different. Why not have them clap with the 
 chant or something? That would have been so cool if they would have made the crowd interact with 
 the game more and the stuff going on. That is one thing that NBA Live did that totally took the 
 game experience to a new level. I still think that College Hoops deserves the 8.6 that I am rating 
 it but it could have easily been in the 9's had it done a couple more things. Oh well, I still 
 enjoy the game a lot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DirtyAl
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 10, 2006 6:38 am PT
Review:  Creditials: I stayed outside of Electronic Boutique (not EB games) for 15 hours and was the first 
 person to buy dreamcast along with NFL2k.. :) 
  
  College basketball season is almost over... With that being said, lets just fast forward to what 
 actually matters: The game. 
  
  First things first --
  You are thinking about buying this game but the mixed reviews are killing you right?? Coming from 
 a real kat like myself, I will tell straight up- anyone who feels that its the same game from the 
 current gen xbox has obviously not taking the time to play the game. They are not true sports fans 
 like us and they must have thought that VC was going to scrap everything and rebuild. That wouldn't 
 be possible thanks to the fact that it would have been counter productive to us video game heads 
 who really want to submerge ourselves in Next Gen titles. Whats gone is the fact that I clearly 
 edited my player and gave him a nice afro or blond cornrolls but while the game is in motion, you 
 see a regular ceaser style cut. Yes, outside of the cutscenes, they actually have the hairstyle 
 they were meant to. Whats gone is the fact that your armbands look out of portioned from your players 
 body parts. I realized that they don't have t-shirts in this edition but the difference in look 
 and movement from a 6'8, 275 power forward is noticeably different then that of a 6'8 205 pound 
 PF. How about the fact that you actually see the different shooting styles in players based on 
 height and stature. The crowd- from the courtside seat holders to the nose bleeds, all have personality. 
 You see interaction with the crowd in the distance if you actually care to notice. The controls 
 have been tightened up beyond belief from the current gen version. Something I noticed for you 
 hardcore hoop fans like myself.. If your 6'5 guard blocks a 6'9 player, you see the defender block 
 the ball upwards because he is shorter and in turn, his angle of trajectory is an upward motion. 
 If a 7 footer blocks a 6'1 guard, he blocks the ball downward. When you grab a rebound, if you 
 guy is taller and better, you will see him grab the rebound with force and skill and pound the 
 ball into his hands. A shorter guy will reach for the rebound and further from his body- less skilled.. 
 My favorite thing for you headz like myself.. If you have a guy with poor handle, he dribbles like 
 a guy with poor handle and get this, if you try to do a hard crossover, you will see him fumble 
 the ball and even have it bounce off of his foot and the ball movement after such an event is dead 
 on accurate.. 
  Bottom line- I am talking to you fam. You love basketball games and you want something special, 
 This game right here is where its at. Is it worth 59.99, I don't know, I traded in a bunch of games 
 (college 2k6 for xbox as well) and I ended up getting 3 games for free. I traded in A LOT of games. 
 Can't sell my xbox, its modded and stores don't mess with those.. I will tell you, You have some 
 new camera angles that are ingenious and I see why we had to wait to see these.. 
  One Love
  
  P. S. The only reason I can't give it straight 10's no t-shirts and limited shoe 
 selection and the fact that you still can't edit created team uniforms. That will baffle me til 
 they add it. Thanks for hearing me out.. Now stop frontin' and go get the dang game!!!!!! :) 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crimson_Raven
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 10, 2006 12:27 am PT
Review:  Some say its just it time for March Madness, I say they should have taking the time to work out 
 their game plan and just go with 2k7 for November this year. 
  
  If You are a fan of College Basketball or just love the game, this years version of College Hoops 
 on the 360 may not be the game for you.
  Don't even think about this Title and NBA 2k6 even being close to the quality NBA 2k6 has to offer 
 on the 360.
  
  I love 2k Sports but I just don't see how releasing this game so late in the season @ $59.99 with 
 2 versions already out since November and already available at half the price ($29.99) .
  I guess some things a just supposed to be puzzling, Like the whole Hotdog Buns and Hotdog wiener 
 thing.
  
  Basically what I'm saying to You is, Please do not waste your hard earn $Dollars$ on this game 
 for the 360. If you really need to fulfil that fix, definitely RENT this one @ Your Local Video 
 store or @ Gamefly. com.
  
  Don't get me totally wrong the game isn't TRASH, its just not Next Gen. and shouldn't be priced 
 that way either.
  
  Just wait a little longer and I'm sure 2k Sports will hit us with a ground breaking version just 
 for Next Gen. in November I'm sure.
  
  Theres not much else to say really, it plays like a basketball game and theres nothing really eye 
 popping about it. 
  
  Thanks for reading my review, Please check out My others.
  -Crim
  Rated as one of the TOP 500 Game Reviewers 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
