-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: College Hoops 2K8
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/sports/collegehoops2k8/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Plenty of game modes.
 Nice customization options.
 Gameplay is as solid as ever.
 Robust online component.
 Fantastic audio.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Once again, too many missed layups.
 Controls have gotten too complicated.
 Recruiting gets tedious and isn't helped by the poor menus.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan  8, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 8.1, 20 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 367 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: 2K Sports
Developer: Visual Concepts
Genre: Basketball Sim
Date: Nov 19, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Many of the improvements are subtle, but the changes and additions to College Hoops 2K8 make it 
 the best game in the series. 

  Though its NBA franchise gets plenty of attention, 2K Sports' College Hoops series has flown under 
 the radar of many sports fans, despite being quite good in its own right. Like 2K7 before it, College 
 Hoops 2K8 isn't tremendously different from its predecessor, but it's the small changes, like new 
 gameplay mechanics and an improved legacy mode, that make this year's installment great and one 
 sure to please college basketball fanatics.  

           The sixth man will help you pull out those close victories.      

  There are plenty 
 of ways to stay busy in College Hoops 2K8. You can create your own chants, players, schools, sound 
 clips, and highlight reels, and new this year, you can create your own plays. The interface isn't 
 particularly easy to use and requires a lot of sometimes frustrating trial and error. But you get 
 out of it what you put in, and all the work pays off when you've created the perfect play. If you're 
 the sharing type you can share all this content online, or you can hoard all your knowledge and 
 use it to crush your foes.  

  There are more ways to play the game than ever. You can set up your own conference tournaments 
 and even the NCAA Championship in the Pontiac Tournament mode, or take part in the College Hoops 
 Classic. Coach mode lets you call the plays while your players execute them, and new this year 
 are the All-American training challenge and tutorial modes. Here you'll go through a number of 
 drills against well-known former college ballers designed to teach you the ins and outs of 2K8's 
 somewhat convoluted control scheme. Going through this training mode still doesn't make the new 
 passing control any less complex, since you still have to decide what type of pass you want to 
 throw by pressing a shoulder button and then a face button. But it does a good job of introducing 
 the controls -- an area in which previous 2K Sports games have been deficient."  

  Online play lives up to the high standards of other 2K sports efforts. A real-time ticker shows 
 the latest sports news, and the online front page shows college hoops news as well as upcoming 
 games and current scores. Once online, you can take part in a quick match, custom match, or unranked 
 play against a buddy, or join or start tournaments and even leagues. Our online games suffered 
 from a bit of lag here and there as well as the occasional jerk that does nothing but shoot three-pointers 
 with the same guy over and over, but for the most part the games ran fine and were enjoyable.  
 

  All of these modes are solid, but college basketball fans tend to head straight to legacy mode 
 to lead their favorite team or alma mater to glory. Once again, you can play an open legacy, where 
 you're able to take over the school of your choosing, or career legacy, where you start at a small 
 school and either lead the school to prominence or do well enough to use the school as a stepping 
 stone to a better coaching gig. The mode is quite similar to last year's, right down to the cumbersome 
 menus. Frustrating menus aside, there's a lot to legacy mode -- even more than last year. Amateur 
 Basketball Leagues (high school teams) have been added, giving you unprecedented access to scouting 
 high school players before the season starts -- you can even play their games. The recruiting process 
 has seen some changes, but they're mostly cosmetic and have little impact on how you actually recruit. 
 You'll find some players that have at least a passing interest in your school and then request 
 game tape, watch them in person, e-mail or call them, set up campus visits, go to their homes, 
 and hopefully get them to sign a letter of intent. This process is fun for a few weeks, but it 
 quickly gets repetitive and there's no way to automate the process. An odd glitch causes some talented 
 junior college players to not get recruited by anyone, thereby letting them fall right into your 
 lap. This makes it easier to get good players if you're at a lousy school, but it sort of defeats 
 the whole purpose of such a detailed recruiting process.  

  On the court 2K8 plays almost exactly the same as 2K7, with a few exceptions. Lock-on D makes its 
 way over from NBA 2K8 and allows you to really shut down an opposing player. But as in NBA 2K8, 
 this feature can be abused, as it's possible for slow centers to pretty much blanket smaller, faster 
 point guards. Also new this year is the sixth man advantage, which lets your team play better when 
 the home crowd is going nuts. It doesn't seem to affect gameplay much, but it's a lot of fun to 
 get the meter full and throw down a big dunk just to see and hear the crowd go wild. The rest of 
 the gameplay feels just like last year's: The controls are responsive and allow for great freedom 
 once you learn them, and there are a wide variety of animations. The game just feels good. But 
 there are some negatives, too: Players don't move much on offense unless you call a play, there 
 are too many missed layups, point guards go over and back too often, and there's a bit too much 
 goaltending. Small nagging issues aside, though, the gameplay is very strong.  

  And so is the presentation. Cheerleaders and mascots patrol the sidelines, fans go berserk in the 
 stands, and coaches stalk the bench yelling at their players. As was the case last year, the arenas 
 look fantastic, and even the ones that aren't exact replicas of real courts look quite good. Players 
 move realistically, and the transition from one move to the next is typically smooth. The one area 
 in which player models are lacking is their heads, which just aren't up to the same level of quality 
 as in NBA 2K8.  

           As great as the gameplay is, players still miss too many layups.      

  Amazingly, 
 College Hoops 2K8 sounds better than it looks and plays. Vern Lundquist and Bill Rafferty do a 
 nice job calling the action and are able to get excited about the play on the court without going 
 overboard. Bonnie Bernstein is out as sideline reporter, replaced by Tracy Wolfson, who actually 
 delivers some worthwhile information about what the coaches are doing. Most impressive, however, 
 are the sounds of the games. The fans are lively and deliver some great chants even if you don't 
 take the time to create your own. The number of real fight songs is staggering; even smaller schools 
 are well represented with accurate songs from their respective marching bands. Toss in Dolby Digital 
 support and you've got one fantastic-sounding game.  

  While there isn't a whole lot of fresh content in College Hoops 2K8, what is new almost universally 
 makes this version of the game better than last year's. It plays better, there's more to do, and 
 even the presentation, which was already great, has been improved. If you're not a diehard hoops 
 fan and you're still happy with last year's game you could probably take a pass on 2K8, but if 
 you love college basketball and you want the latest and greatest, College Hoops 2K8 won't let you 
 down.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (20 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: LegionOfDeer
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 28, 2008 8:29 pm PT
Review:  There is something about sports games which have a certain appeal. Whether it is molding a team 
 of your liking and taking it to the top, or the easy to learn yet hard to master gameplay that 
 most sports games feature. From beginning to end, this game feature those same concepts.
  The game is solid in the graphics department, with just good enough character models so you aren't 
 disgusted, but you are not going to recognize your star player from across the room. There are 
 a few minor glitches in player movement, but they are things you will wind up forgiving due to 
 the fact that all sports games feature some glitches in that department.
  The gameplay itself is good, although can be a bit annoying at times when you have an open lay-up 
 with your 6'10'' center and it rolls off the rim as if he is a helpless child learning how to play 
 the game for the first time. Of course, the computer players (not on your team) are going to move 
 more and do things that typical players would try to do, leaving you with the inevitable choice 
 of relying on you and only you to make things happen. Of course, when it comes to just you, the 
 gameplay is set up well enough to give you plenty of moves and options.
  The one thing about this game that I think it nails (for the most part) is career mode. If you 
 play the career legacy mode, you start out as a coach on a lower end team in a weak, hardly cared 
 about conference in which you really wish you weren't stuck in but know that it is realistic nonetheless, 
 and work your way up to the top. Or, if you catch the eye of a power conference team, perhaps you 
 will be offered a job to coach a major contender. How you go about doing things is pretty simple, 
 yet very fun.
  The audio is really a mixed bag. It features great band (think college band section) style of music, 
 as well as the typical rap that is customary in any sports game. All of the actual music is great. 
 Commentating is a different story. As usual, commentating gets old, annoying, and of course sometimes 
 doesn't make sense. Why they say my center isn't supposed to take an open lay-up is beyond me...
 
  All in all, this game is fun. Sure you will have headaches cause by sure confusion at the amazing 
 inability for your players to perform sometimes, but come on... what sports game isn't complete 
 without yelling at your players and warning them they will get cut (like it matters to them anyway... but 
 it does make you feel better) . The career legacy mode alone is a great feature. And the fact that 
 there are about 360 teams to use, all with their own courts, mascots, and for some schools - cheers 
 music, makes this game worth trying out. 
  
  My advice - rent it, try it, and then decide whether to buy it or chuck it into the nearest den 
 of ravenous man eating pit bulls and watch it get ripped to shreds. Either or works 
::::::

::::::
UserName: taj7575
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 21, 2008 1:53 pm PT
Review:  Ok, first of all that starting sentence was about the layup problem in this game.
  It was not as bad as everyone said it was... but its not great either.
  
  
  OK, now i saw 
 this game for 30 bucks and got it because it was a steal. it was 60 like 3 weeks ago! i was so 
 excited to play this game! i got home, but first had to make a fast break to my restroom. after 
 that was over, i popped in this game and i thought i was going to be able to play it easily, because 
 i had nba 2k7. WRONG! this game is SOOOO hard to learn, im STILL trying to get used to it! it is 
 very confusing. 
  
  What you will realize when u first play this game is that your opponent is like a brick wall. they 
 got sooo much better, and i can tell because i played CH2K7 at my friends house, and u can easily 
 rip through the defense and get a layup. well in CH2K8 the defense is amazing. it is so hard to 
 make a layup or dunk thru the defense, it is like every defender plays as hard as jason kidd on 
 def. also, the opponents offense got a LOT better. they will keep you working, no blowouts.
  
  
  
  things that annoyed me:
  
  opponent is just amazing, you will always feel like 
 they're the better team...
  
  layups
  
  u will never throw to the open man
  
  passing problem, too many passes get INTed
  
  shooting prob, A LOT of shots get blocked, A 
 LOT
  
  the 6th man thing is kinda annoying
  
  FREE THROWS AARGHHHHHHHH
  
  recruiting thing gets very borin
  
  very confusing to learn
  
  i feel the animations on 
 nba 2k7 were a lot better than this game, and in nba 2k7 u see more zoom-ups on players sweaty, 
 fatigued, faces. this game is missing that
  
  
  
  besides that, it is a great game, and cheap for $ 30. get it if u love college basketball 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxbababooeyxx
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 18, 2008 6:41 pm PT
Review:  Unlike almost everyone else who writes reviews, 90% of the time I rip games apart. I demand more 
 from the industry and the industry rarely delivers. College hoops 2k8 is another example of a game 
 falling short. First of all , whatever Font 2k uses in its sports games it is absolutely horrible. 
 I can barely read what they put on the screen. the letters are not clear and its just weird lettering. 
 come on idiots at 2k this is an easy fix. there menus are a major pain to navigate. create a play, 
 put it into a playbook and then find it in your leagcy mode is a confusing and seemingly impossible 
 task. why? why? whY? just simplify the process 2k. I get a headache just thinking about it. On 
 the positive side the gameplay is far and away better than that of nba 2k8. why that is i have 
 no idea. in NBA it is impossible to beat your defender off the dribble even if its Allen iverson 
 against shaq. but in college 2k you can beat your defender off the dribble and that makes the game 
 realistic. the game plays well and is fun. its geting into the game navigating the menus settting 
 up the leagcy, recruitng, thats where the problem lies. so if the gameplay is an 8/10 and the rest 
 is a 3/10 then guess what.... the final verdict is 5.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oldschoolplayer
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 13, 2008 6:26 pm PT
Review:  I have read the reviews on this game and decided to hold off for awhile and look for it on sale. 
 Big Mistake!!! This game is incredible and I have been missing out on this game for a few months. 
 Free throws are not broke in this game. The sound in this game is beautiful especially when hooked 
 up to 5.1. Replays and Pregame warmups nice addition. Fluid gameplay on the court. Too many missed 
 layups. WHAT! I dont know what these reviewers expect when it comes to sports game. You dont make 
 everylayup and definitely dont miss as many as NBA 2k7. I love how when you press your defender 
 will turn and run with the ballhandler when beat.. very realistic. This game is now $40 and its 
 almost March Madness time. If you are sitting on the fence still playing 2k7 or wondering if this 
 game is worth it definitely is. If you have xbox live you can download the rosters for free. Next 
 to COD 4 this is my best buy of the year. There is no college hoops 2k9 so unless you want to rely 
 on EA sports to give you a college game next year. cough.... you better get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gmoney5646
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 22, 2008 5:07 pm PT
Review:  NCAA 2k8 can be an adicting game. I enjoy the legacy modes althought they can seem a bit repedative. 
 The recruiting can, at times, be tedious. It makes you wish they had borrowed from NCAA Football 
 08. However, there is a great deal of fun to be had in the legacy modes. In the regular legacy 
 mode you take the helm of a lesser team in the NCAA like Cornell and you work up the team get some 
 wins for a few seasons and you'll eventually get an offer from a better team. Your performance 
 during the season, depending on how good, rewards you with attibute points for you coach. Open 
 legacy is exactly what it sounds like. You begin with a maxed out coach and start on any team you 
 wish. 
  
  The gameplay itself is solid. You will miss A LOT of layups, but if you can overlook this, you'll 
 have a real good fundamental experience. The presentaion is varied, with half time reports and 
 weekly sports shows but these get old quickly. The 6th man can be a powerful weapon and is often 
 underestimated. A team can utilize the 6th man by performing high energy plays and the crowd will 
 get buzzing. It gives you a small boost in agility and attributes that have to do with the physicality 
 of the game. 
  
  I enjoyed NCAA College Hoops, and had a great time managing my teams, but the gameplay will leave 
 you wanting a more realistic, smoother running experience.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: buckshotmike
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 12, 2008 10:45 am PT
Review:  I cannot believe how hard it has been for 2K and EA to make a good college basketball game. College 
 Hoops 2K8 has potential but again is sooooo frustrating. I cannot believe how hard it is to make 
 a lay-up. I went 0-9 from the field with an All-Big Ten Center in one game. The computer hits shots 
 from everywhere... the AI on the players you dont use is aweful on defense and worse on offense. 
 On D, they let the guy their guarding get open all too often. On O, if you dont call a play they 
 just stand around never moving into open areas on the court. There are guards blocking shots of 
 centers.
  
  The Legacy and recruiting are still fun but havent changed much. The skills mini games are fun 
 and there are some former college stars such as Mike Conely Jr. and J. J. Redick in the game also. 
 Its a deep game for sure.
  
  Overall, the gameplay stinks. I also dont see why they switch the anouncers out for once. Verne 
 Lunquist is not known for basketball. Putting new announcers in the game would bring instant change. 
 On this note, the amount of jargon in the game is low and they keep repeating the same stuff over 
 and over again. Also, they say the score wrong all the time.
  
  This game is getting old and needs to be redone. Its over for this franchise unless some serious 
 changes take place. You also might want to buy an extra controller or two because you will be throwing 
 them around the room from all the blown lay-ups. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mps32
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 11, 2008 3:31 pm PT
Review:  I have usually been a big fan of the 2K basketball series but i seemed to encounter some of the 
 same glitches and bugs from last years game. 
  
  first off the gameplay is solid, the motion is fluid and player models (with a little manual tweaking) 
 are good. well... i say that yet my created guy looks like a roundball version of the Joker but 
 that's neither here nor there. it is fun and challenging but there are MANY areas where this game 
 could do much better. 
  
  the shot stick says it's supposed to do a certain shot when you push it a certain direction... yeah... sure... it 
 doesn't work like it's supposed to... problem #1
  
  i know centers and power forwards aren't always the best ball handlers, but do they all really 
 fall on their face if they even try to dribble the ball? problem #2
  
  i have yet to have a game where the computer (even when they were sacramento state) shot over 60% 
 from the 3-point line even with someone (or 2) in their face. if they are remotely open, the computer 
 will NOT miss... yet if you dribble into the lane to take a lay-up, it's a craps shoot if you'll 
 make it. problem #3
  
  no matter how many times i spin/juke/crossover i have yet to shake a defender or even get close 
 to breaking his ankles... problem #4
  
  foul shooting... what the f**k... is there such thing as a perfect release or is this the basketball 
 mans holy grail? problem #5
  
  shorts rip?! problem #6
  
  basically this is a relatively fun game but that fun can easily be taken away due to the problems 
 it has. and this is nothing new, these were all problems last year. 2K should do more to update 
 a game than just give new uniforms and new players. give it more substance and make it more realistic 
 and for God's sake can we get some made lay-ups once in a while?! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maaly81
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 7, 2008 3:22 pm PT
Review:  For the most part I like CH2k8. The thing that tears me up are all the missed layups, and the weak 
 layup animations the players do. I play with UC Riverside (UCR) and they have pretty much everybody 
 rated everybody 60 and below except one player, but most of them have 70 and above rating for close 
 shot. I get sick to my stomach sometimes when I am down by 2 with second left on the clock, with 
 a breakaway layup, and the computer either runs faster than the flash and catches up to me, or 
 I drive past the computer and miss a wide open layup with a 6-9 guy who should be dunking it anyway.
 
  
  Another downfall of this game is the doubleteam and the passing. Online and in 
  non online play. I icon pass, and sometimes the compter makes the pass to the wrong player!!, causing 
 a turnover or a messed up fastbreak!! And the doubleteam comes soooo fast sometime, you can get 
 beasted so bad that you cannot even bring the ball up past the freethrow line on a full court press. 
 The doubleteam is way too good, and you can rarely get out of it even if you try to time your pass 
 early.
  
  Other than those things, I like the game. The Legacy mode is my favorite mode. I love the recruiting 
 and how you can recruit or at least know about kids all the way from freshman year in high school. 
 International recruit is interesting too. And the one big thing is your player during the regular 
 season really get better the more time they play and play well. But right now I have some disgruntled 
 guys on my team mad cuz they aint playing.
  
  Overall, this is exactly the game you want if you are into college BBAll. 2k dumbed it down just 
 enough to make it like the college game. Go get it if you like college basketball, or basketball 
 period. And you can dowload the full roster of everybodies real names online. If you play D1 ball 
 in America, your probably on this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shroll12
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 29, 2007 7:27 am PT
Review:  I really do like the graphics on this game and think there an improvement from last year but everything 
 else is exactly the same. Legacy has no depth at all and like i said it is the exact same, boring. 
 This game was pretty good at first cause it seemed like the game-play was much improved but i was 
 wrong. The shooting stick is still very confusing to use (when it comes to layups and dunks) and 
 i've had this years and last years game. There is a pretty good soundtrack compared to ea's soundtracks 
 they have on there sportsgames. So i would rent this but not buy and if u do rent it u will like 
 at first but once u buy it will get very boring fasf. Good news: good graphics. good soundtrack. 
 slightly improved game-play
  Bad news: slighly improved game-play, no game mode depth, gets boring fast, and also terrible passing 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ruff_edgz
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 23, 2007 10:02 pm PT
Review:  ----------
  Good: New features add something new to the franchise | legacy mode just got better | 2kShare gives 
 users another way to share files with each other | Better controls on the court to give user 'full 
 control' 
  
  Bad: Graphics aren't eye popping | Sounds are a bit disappointing | Coaches and crowds have little 
 to no detail
  ----------
  Last years College Hoops game was almost non-existent on gaming selves where I lived and had no 
 idea why. The review from Gamespot wasn't terrible and it was a lot better then March Madness 07 
 by a long shot but still hard to come by. Another year has passes and the next generation consoles 
 have had time to develop into mature consoles and so have the games surrounding them as well. College 
 Hoops 2k8, in my mind, is one of those franchises that have improved, grown and learned from their 
 mistakes of the past and have polished the gameplay and development to give the fans of college 
 hoops a real game that they can call their own.
  
  In all games, there are four levels that I will be examining in this review in this order: Gameplay, 
 Graphics, Sound, and Extra Information.
  
  Gameplay: Since the first College Hoops game came out from ESPN, I have always thought that this 
 gaming franchise will really stir up the EA sports world that we all have known and grown to love. 
 This game makes me believe that this franchise wants to get better every year and wants to stick 
 around for a long time. The game play would seem simple enough, right because it follows the college 
 rules of basketball to the 'T'. They tried to add some new features to the game to help the user 
 have more control while playing with the help of Maximum Passing. They also added a feature on 
 defensive side called Lock-on-D which will help out the user a bit more on the Man-on-Man defense 
 that is used a lot in the game. The developers have also tried to give an easier way to do more 
 with the ball to shake the defender off. The 'Y' button will help with spins and the 'B' button 
 will help with crossovers. Pressing them with a single click will perform a move but moving the 
 joy stick while pressing the 'B' or 'Y' buttons will also enhance the move. With practice, you 
 can take a really good Point Guard and teach him to shake off any defender. 
  
  Along with the in-game features that we are all known to love, we have some more features that 
 help users become better players. The All-American Training Challenge is a new feature that is 
 added to help train your players when in Legacy Mode but also to practice more before hitting the 
 hardwood. The challenges have a range of skills to practice from dribbling to low-post defending. 
 The challenge might be against a computer (or might be just by yourself) to get a certain amount 
 of points to get a bronze, silver or gold medal (or it might help a player get better during legacy 
 mode) . You can also challenge older college players (like Greg Oden, J. J. Redick, and others) to 
 beat them at their best challenges. If you beat them, you get bragging rights or something like 
 that. 
  
  One thing that really frustrated me about college games were the generated names. Granted, I did 
 enjoy them a lot better then the 'just numbers' era when I was a little kid. Now, 2k Sports can't 
 place the rosters up on the game but who says users can't do it themselves. College Hoops 2k8 has 
 done just that with their now 2k Share which lets you share rosters, settings, legacies and more. 
 This is probably one of my favorite features in the game since I love having the real player's 
 names on their respected teams.
  
  The theme I'm feeling from this years release is player control and the developers also added a 
 new feature to give users full control of crowd chants and plays run on the floor. Chants can be 
 created by you, the user, in a simple process of picking words that they have created already and 
 you arranging them in order of where you want them to go. Once you made your chant, you can select 
 the team and when you want your chant to be played. There are a lot of options to choose from and 
 you will find new chants to create for almost every situation. The play editor is a nice feature 
 if you don't like to run any of the traditional plays that are stored already in the game. To start 
 this process, you are shown the court with five circles showing all the positions. You can select 
 from a list of commands to give that position and you can move on to another position and make 
 them do another action as well. Once you are done with your play, you can practice it with a real 
 team to see how it will look with the players on the court. You can go back and edit it some more 
 and save it when you're done. The idea of adding these two new editing features truly gives the 
 user a coaching feel to the game instead of using pre-made plays.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are impressive on the court but when looking at other features around the 
 game, it isn't 'top notch'. On the game box, they keep talking about the new '6th Man advantage' 
 which stresses the advantage you can have at home (if you have enough attending the game) . Even 
 though the idea is a great one, they didn't really try their best to make those '6th men/women' 
 that detailed or realist. You will notice in the stands which one are the students and which ones 
 aren't (more jumping and movement will be seen from the students) but outside from that, nothing 
 really great when looking beyond the bench. Another disappointing feature of the game is the lack 
 of detail in the coaches and coaching staff. The players that play are pretty well defined but 
 the coaches almost always look the same, just with a different head attached (and color skin) . 
 The player's graphics are really well done this year and have a great editing area for customizing 
 those players. There is sweat on the player's skin when they are playing and animations for a lot 
 of different emotions on the court or bench. I haven't encountered any glitches yet while playing 
 like there have been in the past (player's shorts disappearing, some bad collision detection, etc) . 
 The 2k8 Hoops Tonight shows with Greg Gumbel and Clark Kellogg are informative and a good feature 
 but is not nice to look at. When Greg and Clark are talking about the stats of a game, the graphics 
 are fine and also show small clips from that game to give a better feel of a college hoops show 
 that you would see on TV. All in all, the graphics aren't eye opening but still fit well on the 
 360 and the animations aren't as blocky as previous college hoops games. 
  
  Sound: The sounds for a basketball game aren't too hard to simulate and this game delivers on that 
 aspect. These sounds heard could be a player cutting to the hoop, dribbling the ball or just the 
 crowd getting into the game with chants and taunts. The music in the game will not surprise you 
 with any big names except for Jurassic 5 but the mixes are catchy and could grow on you while doing 
 drills or just doing some legacy mode options. The announcers haven't really gotten any better 
 from game to game and this is the weakest link. Vern Lundquist and Bill Radford do say a lot of 
 the same things over and over in the game and they say a lot of mistakes about players or gameplay 
 actions. At times, Bill can sound like he is constipated while talking about a play being run (mostly 
 man-to-man defense) . You can tell that this area of the game didn't get much attention as still 
 hear the same voices, sound effects and similar music styles that have been used in past College 
 Hoops games. The sound is disappointing to say the least.
  
  Extra Information: The legacy mode has some wonderful features that I would love to talk to you 
 about but would add more pages then needed. Let me say that the recruiting process is a bit harder 
 if you are a small school, there is a home page which shows a lot of what's needed when playing 
 legacy and more scouting features of other teams then ever before.
  
  2k has also made the 2k Shrine which shows any legacy's trophies but also shows the users un-lockables 
 that they can unlock (as they play the game, you might get points for getting a double-double and 
 those points can help unlock these items) . It's a wonderful idea and the graphical area of this 
 shrine is easy to look at and well developed.
  
  To date, this game is by far the best of the college hoops game developed by 2k Sports. Are there 
 things 2k Sports can improve? Of course there is. Do we expect them to improve from this year to 
 next? I hope they do. If I'm a college hoops fan and I have a 360 but don't own this game, should 
 I get it? I would tell you to buy it in a heart beat or download the free trial on XBOX Live and 
 test it out for yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hlimardo17
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 23, 2007 11:39 am PT
Review:  This game has great game play. and if you play and thinks its easy try putting it on the harder 
 level so you see how great of a game it really is. if you like college basketball games get this 
 march madness doesn't compete with 2k sports. you can practice to make your team better and challenge 
 great star and it really helps. play making is great. this game has every thing graphics, movement, 
 and game play. The BEST SO FAR. GET it now stop wasting your time and play this game and u just 
 love it. great great great great great great great great great great great great great. play designer 
 is great feature you can make game winning plays in pressure decisions. you can test the play as 
 you make it. you can add the play to any play book you want to it is just great. the ideas continue. 
 the makers put a lot of time in to this game and it came out great so it should be bought. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mofright
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 18, 2007 10:06 pm PT
Review:  I'll give 2k sports one thing. Ever since the dreamcast, I have been a dedicated 2k sports gamer. 
 College Hoops 2k8, well, was no exception. The game's gotten better since it's initial release 
 on the original xbox. The graphics are in my opinion better than EA's NCAA basketball version, 
 gameplay is good, better than the previous years. But well there's a few nuisances that really 
 have me about this game.
  
  For starters, at random times throughout games, you'll have players on either your bench or your 
 opponents bench just standing about 5 feet from their bench on the playing floor. I don't know 
 if they're lost, or just sight impaired, but this really is a pain when your trying to push the 
 ball up floor and see an open guy that will really isn't in the game.
  
  During substitutions, especially at the free throw line, subs will occasionally get stuck, half 
 the time off camera so you don't know exactly what it is that's holding them up. Possibly the referee, 
 or maybe the coach, or possibly players on the bench, but either way your left sitting there staring 
 at the player waiting to shoot the free throw, only to a minute later see the substitute player 
 slowly making his way to where he needs to be.
  
  The game still doesn't quit seem fluid. I remember nba 2k5 for xbox, a game which I played religiously 
 and I still swear to be the greatest basketball game ever released.... this game just flowed and 
 made it feel like real basketball should be. Lately the 2k basketball games are sluggish and at 
 times completely unresponsive.... I'm sure it'll get there eventually.
  
  Lastly, the game has freezing issues. I've had mine maybe 5 weeks and up until earlier today, the 
 game had maybe locked up twice. Then earlier, I couldn't even make it past 4 minutes into the game. 
 
  
  My suggestion to you, rent it, if you enjoy it, I'd still wait till it's in the bargain bin, and 
 once it reaches the bargain bin, just go hide it somewhere in the store so no one else is dealing 
 with the frustration of a broken game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DirtyAl
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 3, 2007 11:52 am PT
Review:  Finally... my 360 has returned to me after a little stint from 3 Red Ring Heaven and I was able 
 to go out finally get my copy of 2k8... now, most probably have it or maybe someone is waiting 
 for an actual review that makes sense before they get it... well here we go... Check it...! 
  
  Some of us who use the settings to change things instead of bitching about something that the 
 creators know can be an issue to some therefore they made sliders to adjust.... The sliders are 
 pretty damn accurate and once you spend a few moments to tweak it out... you will find that the 
 game is as accurate as it comes... The animations are silk or that other material that makes silk 
 feel like sandpaper... I don't know if that is even possible but if it is... there you have the 
 gameplay of 2k8... Mid air collisions... bumping the coach... bumping the ref... T-shirts that 
 add visual flairs... forearm pads... ankle socks... nice hair I might add... The hair doesn't look 
 plastid on like in the past... T-shirts doggone it!!! They bought back t-shirts... More jumpshot 
 animations then you can shake a stick at... dunk animations vary depending on weight of your player.. 
 body structure... vertical and dunk... drive the lane determines his willingness to dunk... watch 
 your players foot position because if you time it right... he will showtime it out for you on the 
 dunks... Layups look real nice... ball reaction is on point... The cpu always recovers loose balls??? 
 not in my copy... sound should be a little less ambient... when playing in a small gym, the sound 
 shouldn't carry as much as it does... They need to tweak that... If I am playing at packed gym 
 that holds 1,500 it should sound like playing at the dome.... They are getting there... The sixth 
 man is a nice meter but they did a better job of showing the crowd effect in the actions on the 
 floor and the noise factor... The meter is unnecessary... good to have if you like those things 
 to be indicated though... the all american training is fun distraction... trying to beat your record 
 over and over does take some time away... it also teaches you how to play the game a little better... 
 The 2 button isomotion bothered me at first but after playing for a while, it does make the game 
 a little more control happy for the user... The maximum passing was very unnecessary though... 
 It takes away from the flow of the game because you can and will end up forgetting to press the 
 RB button and end up shooting and what not... Overall it makes no real sense and thankfully, you 
 can change the controls pretty well... The presentation is pretty good... I would have liked to 
 have seen more color to it though... its pretty informative and does provide joy when you want 
 to light something up while playing the game and you know your team did work and will be talked 
 about on the weekly show... I would have liked to have had a play of the week in which they donate 
 some scholarship money to your school which come in the form of recruiting points... The pre-season 
 games with the high school guys is ok if you have some extra time on your hands... doesn't really 
 pay to sim unless you are using a powerhouse team that pulls in recruits... if you are like me 
 and you enjoy adding a little storyline to your players and take a low team to the big dance... 
 it doesn't really pay to do it... maybe after 3 or 4 seasons of winning and you get a big name, 
 then it will help out... all in all, you can always recruit whoever and juice up their stats to 
 managable and train em up so its all good... but to you stiff people who look down on us who play 
 games for ALL their worth, you might find it useful... i would rather date and have friends then 
 go through all of that but it may work for you... its a good system... I wish they would switch 
 up the tatoo's in this game... I am tired of seeing the same ole tats... come on now...! This game 
 is better than 07 in the sense of adding some things that once you play it for a while, you will 
 notice it missing in 07... Is it worth 60 bucks... Unfair question to me... No game is... even 
 when technology was huge chips and funny bleeps, they managed to keep games at 49.99... How much 
 saliva did a nintendo game endure and how many dusty found under the dresser sega games keep us 
 happy and they were all 49.99... turn your xbox from its side to flat with the game playing and 
 you will a "sorry sir" victim at any gamestore and we are talking 60 bucks... So NO    but being 
 that you love games like I do and thats the price, I paid it with a tear in my eye and a week later, 
 its money I don't even think about so **cheers** to another good... no... great year of college 
 hoops... after the MM08 demo... the rivalry has become like an old Tyson fight... sure you will 
 pay to see champ fight, but you know that you are paying to see someone get KNOCKED THE @ ($* OUT!!! 
 not a good boxing match... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lewski19
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 1, 2007 11:51 am PT
Review:  Not a bad game, not a great game. My main frustration is the lack of consistency. The CPU gets 
 every loose ball, and shoots at over 55% in every game, irregardless of your defenders. They will 
 come down the floor at times and shoot 3's with 2 defenders in their face and make them. This game 
 seems like it has runs where they just are not going to miss no matter what you do. On the other 
 side, your team never seems to get hot. My all-american 3 point shooter is at about 11.7 percent 
 from 3 and I only take them when he is wide open. Now, you can work the ball inside and get baskets 
 quite frequently, but when you trade 6 or 7 trips 3 for 2 in a game it becomes hard to win. There 
 are far too many missed layups (as usual in 2k bball games) . Lastly, could somebody please explain 
 to the 2k folks how back court violations work. If the other team steals the ball and then you 
 knock it away from them and get it as they are running down the floor that is not a back court 
 violation. Actually, if the other team touches the ball at all and it crosses back over the line 
 it isnt a back court violation. 
  
  In all, not a bad game, and when it is fair a pretty good game. Just do not expect fairness too 
 often. I like that the game is challenging, I wish the football games were as challenging as this 
 title. I also like fair, not just a consistent dose of missed shots while they drain everything. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeroRathe
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 30, 2007 10:56 am PT
Review:  I've played basketball games for years, but I think the biggest struggle is finding a game that 
 seems to bring everything I want together. This is the first time in years that I've purchased 
 both College Hoops 2k8 and NBA 2k8, so I'm able to compare and contrast both games a little bit.
 
  
  I feel that the gameplay in College Hoops, as well as the stadium models are definitely a few notches 
 below that of NBA 2k8. Things dont feel quite as smooth, although I've found less missed lay-up's 
 than I did in the NBA version of the game. On the fly play calling works as well here as it does 
 in the NBA version. Players do have the tendency to just stand there and not work to get open which 
 can be frustrating if you are not yet comfortable with the play calling.
  
  For me, I give the game high points for it's Legacy Mode, and the 2kShare concept which I'll explain. 
 Legacy is, as usual, extremely deep, and incredibly enjoyable. I've spent endless winters enjoying 
 these, and 2k8 will be just as enjoyable as any of them, as I feel it's presentation is deeper, 
 and more enjoyable. Playing the occasion H. S. game is fun, and useful when at small schools to 
 add those precious recruting points. The better the recruit, the better the talent, the longer 
 you'll be recruting them, pick 'em out as a H. S. freshman, and go to town.
  
  2kShare is simply an FTP server where you can share files. Upload roster sets, tournaments or just 
 about anything else. It's a step down from having a fully functional legacy mode being played online, 
 but it does make it possible to start a legacy, and upload it, and play with someone else. It'll 
 involve a lot of uploading and downloading, but if you enjoy the game, and want to play a legacy 
 with a friend, it is not impossible. Something I wish other publishers would consider.
  
  The menus can be confusing, and the manual doesnt give all the details you'd like to have on some 
 of the icon's, how and where to get some information, but the community is helpful, and most things 
 you are able to figure out in reasonably short order.
  
  Doesnt redefine the genre, isnt an instant classic, but can be incredible fun, for those who enjoy 
 the legacy mode as well as the game play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mysterious
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 11:00 am PT
Review:  This is the best college hoops to date. That isn't saying much, considering all the previous ones 
 were all great games.
  
  Gameplay wise, its the smoothest College Basketball game of all time.
  
  Graphic wise, it just 
 plain sucks, the player models are so freak'n out of date, and it still looks like regular Xbox 
 with more polygons. All the damn player models look alike, no matter what skin color.
  
  Now the stadiums look decent and have great detail, but my God did you see NCAA march madness 07, 
 and the Screens of 08.
  
  When the hell did EA become the leaders in graphics, 2ksports needs to step their graphics up. 
 EA is spanking them like a 2 dollar whore on 50cents night.
  
  Point blank I love the game, and the modes, I really hate the boring ass commentary. And the poor 
 graphics. Other than that, its a purchase only because I own the rest of the series.
  
  But once March Madness comes out, I'll stop playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SilverWeeZy
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 23, 2007 8:59 am PT
Review:  I am really disappointed in College Hoops 2k8 this year. Didn't change anything!!!!!! Graphics, 
 gameplay, almost nonthing. Not only that it seems like it got REALLY REALLY HARD!!!!! Its almost 
 impossible to make a 2 foot shot last year it was impossible to make a layup, why is it so hard 
 to make these is shots?!?!?!!!!!! I am also A big fan of 2k so when I think its bad its time for 
 a change, but I played the demo for march madness 08. SUCKED!!!!! Even worst. The game was like 
 a PS2 game I almost cryed!!!!! Now one thing they changed in College hoops 2k8 is the legacy. They 
 made it harder also. Everything got harder to do. Not only that the deeper you go into the legacy 
 the better each team gets like listen to this a crappy team called High Point ended up being like 
 a 88 and I couldn't believe that either. If that isn't bad enough their is only like 30 achievements 
 and some are easy some are hard, get really hard. Last year thier was tons, this year only 30. 
 BIG LET DOWN!!!!!! This year its ben a big disapointment for basketball games for 2k or EA. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: radikarz
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 4, 2008 5:03 am PT
Review:  It's not raining trey's baby. 2K has given the fans of college basketball, a real honest to God, 
 sim. I'm in legacy, at Texas State. The Bobcats, are 68 overall in ratings, so I've got my arse 
 handed to me, by the likes of Texas A&M, and the Long Horns. The atmosphere is new and can be intimidating, 
 especially when you face Texas on their home court. The dribbling takes practice to master, so 
 2k gave us a good practice mode, and drills, that if are done successfully, will improve your players 
 attributes. (Nice touch) Recruiting, is for the most part, another realistic challenge. It's time 
 consuming, and like getting a root canal. After a couple of good seasons, my coach is rewarded 
 with extra attribute points to improve his ability to land good recruits through his charisma factor, 
 and his ability to be a good coach. This has lead to a steady flow of three star guys that want 
 to play at my school. Every week, you can perform 2 drills to improve your players, but, the drills 
 are pretty hard. Right now my Bobcats are 7-2, losing only to two top power house schools. Tweaking 
 the sliders is handy, and choosing All Conference made my game a real nail biter. Adjusting the 
 sliders, and choosing game difficulty is very important. Tailor the game to make it fun, and exciting 
 for you! I play 20 minute halves, and the scores are realistic. My guys are averaging 78 points 
 per game, snagging 36 boards, and turning it over 12 times a game. This game will be a classic. 
 My only gripe is the sluggish menu system, and maybe, the on the fly play calling. The options 
 boards take up too much room, while the game is in progress. I tip my hat to 2K. I gave this baby, 
 8.5 Great game.
  On the down side, the CPU is really fast, compared to your guys. Even if you have an open shot, 
 there's a good chance it'll be slapped back in your face. The CPU's full court press is tough to 
 break. Keep pounding the boards, and keep fresh guys on the court, work the post, use the pick 
 and go, and you'll see Tourney time, at the big dance, or at least, the NIT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: josmith16
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 9:37 pm PT
Review:  If you're really into playing college hoops online then I'd say go ahead and get the 2K8. I didn't 
 find this game nearly as good as NBA 2K8. And I'm mainly talking about the overall detail that 
 they incorporated in to the NBA version. You would think that 2K would be running almost everything 
 off the same engine, but apparently they don't. The graphics are a far cry from NBA 2K8. I wish 
 that all companies putting out sports games would up hold the same standards in all their games.
 
  
  But let me state for the record, this is a solid game extremely fun and is better than College 
 Hoops 2K7, but not enough to get it unless you like playing online. College Hoops 2K7 and 2K8 are 
 basicly the same game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jesusthemessiah
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 21, 2007 10:15 am PT
Review:  The career and dynasty mode has unbelivable depth and the realistic gameplay makes it even better. 
 Im saying if you start your career at UT 
  Pan America you cant recruit 5 stars and win the tournament the next year. You actually have to 
 deal with having bad seasons and recruiting problems. The coverage of teams is immense as always. 
 I also love how even the top rated guys in the game are 97, 96, etc. This makes it so that when 
 upload them to nba 2k8 their not the best in the game. I cant seem to find any problems with the 
 gameplay either. In other words i have yet to find something cheap or something to exploit the 
 computer. The graphics could still use a little work but other than that this gameis amazing. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
