-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: College Hoops 2K7
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/sports/collegehoops2k7/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 200 fight songs.
 Legacy mode is very deep.
 Captures the feel of the college game.
 &quot;College Hoops Tonight&quot; show is an excellent addition.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Lots of little glitches detract from the experience.
 Isn't vastly different from 2K6.
 Players miss too many layups.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec  1, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.9
Critic Score: 8.2, 22 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 623 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: 2K Sports
Genre: Basketball Sim
Date: Nov 20, 2006
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
College Hoops 2K7 is a very good college basketball game, but its value is somewhat lessened by 
 the fact that it follows College Hoops 2K6 by just eight months. 

  Just in time for the tip-off of the of the college basketball season, 2K Sports has released College 
 Hoops 2K7. People who don't follow college hoops may dismiss the game as little more than NBA 2K7 
 with a different coat of paint, but it's really much more. Sure, there are similarities, and both 
 titles share the same game engine, but it's the little things that separate the two: The best season-ending 
 tournament in all of sports, raucous crowds with crazy student sections, pep bands blaring fight 
 songs, average players who can sometimes dig deep for a special performance, and coaches who actually 
 teach are just a few of the many differences between the two games. Unfortunately, there's one 
 game which College Hoops 2K7 is just a little too similar to, and that's College Hoops 2K6, which 
 was released just eight months ago. 2K7 is a very good game, and it's better than 2K6 to be sure, 
 but not by a large-enough margin to justify the 40-dollar price difference.  

          Even the smaller schools' courts have lots of detail.     

  Whether you want to play 
 a single game or lead a university to the promised land, there's no shortage of ways to stay busy 
 in College Hoops 2K7. You can play a quick game, a single game rivalry, enter a tournament, or 
 head to the practice court if you need to polish your skills. Here you can practice, shoot free 
 throws, and take part in a number of drills including fastbreak, monkey in the middle, dribble 
 and shoot, knockout, and many more. Not only will you be coaching your team in coach mode, setting 
 defenses, tendencies, and substitutions, but you can actually watch the game from a coach's vantage 
 point, too.  

  To get the most out of the game you'll need to play legacy mode, where you control nearly every 
 aspect of a college basketball program. There's quite a bit of depth here and it can be a little 
 overwhelming at first, but the mode's more user-friendly than before, and as a result, more enjoyable. 
 There are two ways to play legacy mode. In career legacy you can select from a group of small programs 
 where you'll need to establish a solid track record before getting offers from bigger, more prestigious 
 schools. An "open" legacy lets you take the reins of any team in the game. This gives you a better 
 chance of success right out of the gate -- but with the higher-profile jobs come higher expectations, 
 so you'll need to win -- and win quickly -- to retain your job. Both modes place you in control of 
 day-to-day operations such as recruiting players, hiring coaches, and scheduling your games. For 
 those who prefer the sim aspect of legacy mode, a new feature called hoopcast has been added this 
 year. You can still simulate your games with the press of a button, but hoopcast lets you set tendencies, 
 sub players, and, in general, just keep a closer eye on the game. It's perhaps not quite as user-friendly 
 as it could be, but it's a nice idea, and it should be interesting to see how it evolves in future 
 iterations of the game.  

  As they did last year, Greg Gumbel and Clark Kellogg host a preseason show that covers the top 
 25 as well as the best players in the country. Near the end of the season they host a Selection 
 Sunday show that breaks down the NCAA tournament. New this year is a weekly show called College 
 Hoops Tonight, in which Gumbel and Kellogg break down all the big games of the previous week and 
 discuss upcoming matchups. The presentation here is a bit dated and the lip-synching is atrocious, 
 but the content is fantastic, and watching the show is a great way to keep tabs on what's going 
 on outside your conference.  

  Should you grow tired of playing the CPU, you can play with or against up to three friends on one 
 console, or you can head online to play a quick match, join or create a league, and even participate 
 in tournaments. There have been some reports of people being unable to play and finish online games, 
 but other than one laggy game (and some opponents who shot  way  too many three-pointers) , the 
 online experience was as smooth as can be.  

          If you played 2K6, much of the game will feel very familiar.     

  2K7 does a great 
 job differentiating the college game from the pro game. Teams play a variety of styles, mostly 
 sticking to their real-life tendencies. Knowing when to apply pressure on defense and how to break 
 a full-court press on offense is very important, as this can often be the difference in a close 
 contest. You'll also need to be adept at patiently picking holes in zone defenses while also being 
 able to run the floor to keep up with teams that like to push the pace. As in real college basketball, 
 there's often a great disparity between the talent levels of teams, but that doesn't mean the less 
 talented squad is always destined to lose. Players have a confidence meter that builds as they 
 have more success on the court, and when it's full they'll be able to perform at a higher than 
 normal level. The new team unity feature works in a similar way, but it's the entire team that 
 gets a boost. By playing well and keeping players that are working well together in the game, your 
 team's unity will increase and perform even better. Sometimes the effect is noticeable, but even 
 when your team unity is low, you can still mount a comeback -- it's just easier when your team's 
 meshing.  

  For the most part, College Hoops 2K7's gameplay is very solid, thanks in no small part to how much 
 it has in common with NBA 2K7. They have similar control schemes, so you're able to shoot with 
 the right stick, and pull off crossovers and other dribbles by holding down the right trigger and 
 moving the left analog stick. You can also shoot with the X button, do crossovers with the B button, 
 and spin moves with the Y button. This works out fine, especially for people who don't like the 
 "isomotion"-style controls. This added dribbling control comes at the expense of the passing, as 
 there's no lead pass with the default control scheme (there is a lead pass option in an alternative 
 scheme) . Not having the ability to lead players on a break leads to a lot of fast breaks coming 
 to screeching halts as players often stop to catch a pass. It also makes turnovers much more prevalent 
 than they probably should be because passes often end up behind players. Calling plays and changing 
 defensive sets on the fly is as simple as pressing a direction on the D pad.     

  There are a fair amount of quirks and glitches that make 2K7 less fun than it ought to be. Casual 
 players may be able to look past most of these, but anyone who's really into sports might not be 
 as forgiving. It was absurdly easy to tie up the ball in 2K6, and while that particular issue has 
 been fixed, it's frequently all too easy to intercept passes. For some reason, blocking fouls are 
 called quite often, which is annoying in and of itself, but it's made even more problematic because 
 rather than getting free-throw attempts, you're generally forced to take the ball out of bounds 
 after getting blocked while in the act of shooting, and you rarely get the continuation call. Players 
 will often step out of bounds to receive passes, and there are a number of questionable goaltending 
 calls. Since many players in the college game can't dunk, you can expect to be attempting plenty 
 of layups. You should also expect to miss far too many of them. Players will attempt ill-advised 
 reverse layups and toss up crazy-leaning jumpers that have little chance of going in. Sure, you 
 can't make them all, but the missed layups here are excessive.  

          Games are often won and lost at the charity stripe.     

  Anyone who played College 
 Hoops 2K6 because it was easy to pick up all 1,000 achievement points in one game won't be doing 
 it again this year. There are 49 achievements in all, and they range from winning specific rivalries 
 to breaking records and performing well in legacy mode. Quite a few of them can only be earned 
 online, and several of these are near impossible to get. Not only do some of them require you to 
 take down some of the highest-ranked online players, but several are dependent on getting a lot 
 of positive feedback -- something that's easily ruined by vindictive vanquished foes.  

  College Hoops 2K7 looks decidedly better than College Hoops 2K6. However, it doesn't look quite 
 as good as NBA 2K7, even though they share the same game engine. The arenas look excellent, and 
 there are even cheerleaders and school mascots patrolling the baselines. While there might be minor 
 differences between how the courts look in real life versus how they look in the game, the amount 
 of team-specific detail is impressive. A number of real coaches have been included this year, which 
 is a nice touch, though they don't add much to the proceedings and there are some big-name omissions 
 as well. The real stars of the show are the rabid fans who pack each stadium. They may not look 
 all that nice individually, but seeing an entire crazed student section dressed in school colors 
 hopping up and down and screaming like mad really adds to the college basketball atmosphere. There's 
 a lot of variety to players' animations, and some of them, like when a player stumbles or falls 
 to the ground, and any of the dunks, look fantastic. A few moves look peculiar due to poor transitions 
 from one move to the next, but these are the exception -- most of them are just fine. Player models 
 are detailed and look great from the neck down, but because the developer can't use real player 
 likenesses as in the NBA 2K series, the created players' heads don't look quite as realistic. Some 
 of them look nice, but many of them are oversized or just plain freaky looking. It's also odd that 
 players in the Xbox version can wear T-shirts under their jerseys but don't on the 360.  

  There are a few other visual problems that detract from the otherwise attractive graphics. The 
 game was clearly designed with HDTVs in mind, and much of the text is illegible on standard-definition 
 televisions. SDTVs also get the short end of the stick when it comes to the camera, which for many 
 of the available camera angles is often zoomed in too close. You can zoom out with some cameras, 
 but many of the most preferable ones can't be changed. Player's limbs will often pass through other 
 player's bodies, and they can occasionally dunk right through the backboard. One glitch that carried 
 over from NBA 2K7 causes players' shorts to sometimes partially disappear during breaks in the 
 action.  

          It's far too easy to miss layups.     

  A vital part of re-creating the college basketball experience is accurately capturing the sounds 
 of the game, and College Hoops 2K7 does just that. 2K6 was lacking in the fight song department, 
 but 2K7 boasts a huge number of them (around 200) , and they all sound great. Not just the big schools 
 have their fight songs; small schools are well represented, too. The crowds are energetic and will 
 cheer and chant until the final buzzer. There are tons of team-specific chants from the get-go, 
 but should you want more from the crowd the all-new chant creator is sure to get the job done. 
 You can have the crowd spell out words, scream entire words and phrases, and even set the chant 
 to a drumbeat. The whole system is easy to use, and there's enough depth to the utility to keep 
 you occupied for hours. Bill Raftery and Verne Lundquist do a solid job calling the action, but 
 they repeat themselves quite often, and Raftery can get rather obnoxious. Bonnie Bernstein provides 
 up-to-the-minute updates from the floor, and she actually has some interesting insight into the 
 proceedings.  

  College Hoops 2K7 is a good game that does a nice job of capturing the look, feel, and sound of 
 college basketball. There's no shortage of things to do, be it controlling every aspect of a program 
 in legacy mode or creating custom crowd chants -- you can lose yourself in the game for hours on 
 end. However, casual fans may want to consider College Hoops 2K6, which came out just eight months 
 ago and can be found for 40 dollars less.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (41 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Feedbackdrmmr15
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 25, 2008 11:26 pm PT
Review:  Game Review-Xbox 360-College Hoops 2K7
  
  Review 167
  
  Released: November 20, 2006 
  Publisher: 2K Sports
  Game Genre: Basketball Sim
  ESRB Rating: E for Everyone
  
  Opening 
 Thoughts:
  NCAA March Madness 07 was a nightmare, full of bugs and bad gameplay. With the opening of the '09 
 college season on its way, I was desperate for some decent college basketball video gaming. Fortunately, 
 I stumbled upon a cheap, used five-dollar game developed by 2K Sports. 
  
  Gameplay: 50%
  Graphics: 30%
  Durability: 20%
  
  Gameplay (8/10)
  I was very impressed with the overall 
 gameplay that 2K7 delivers. Not only is the Legacy mode more in-depth than EA's multi-season mode, 
 the in-game play really delivers. I immediately had trouble on the default difficulty, which is 
 amazing. On EA basketball games, I would fly through the season undefeated with a cruddy team on 
 the highest difficulty.
  
  The shot stick really caught my attention. Shots are taken with the right analog stick, which offers 
 a little bit more reality to the game. It just seems cooler than mashing the B button. Free throws 
 are actually very difficult (EA's are incredibly easy) . It seems to me that I've found a college 
 basketball game to love.
  
  The best feature in the game for realistic maniacs is the Career mode. Unlike Open Mode, in which 
 you can select any team and create your coach as powerful as you would like, Career Mode makes 
 you begin with a terrible team and a terribly rated coach. As you reach goals in your career, you 
 can upgrade your coach's ratings and hopefully find a better job.
  
  Graphics (7/10)
  This is the one aspect of the game really bugged me. The graphics seemed way too arcade-like. Players 
 looked like cartoons and their heads were way too short and round. The crowd graphics were certainly 
 better than EA's March Madness 07, though.
  
  Durability (8/10)
  
  Overall Score (7.7/10)
  Rounded Score (7.5/10) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coolmanray
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 22, 2007 8:19 pm PT
Review:  IT seems as if the basketball genre has lacked behind others when it comes to improvement. Sure, 
 they can pack all kinds of bells and whistles into the game and let us see the sweat, but that 
 is just a result of having more storage space and processing power/memory. This game lacks where 
 many of its ancestors did: player movement. The developers just cant get it right year after year. 
 Jerky, spastic movement and inhuman speed mixed with slower than hell running. Please! We want 
 some smooth realistic motion from beginning to end, not just in certain parts of the game. When 
 you make a dribble move, you cant do anything until that move is over, which kills buzzer beaters 
 and some passing lane opportunities. Also, if the computer wants to win, it will do many things 
 to make that happen, including shooting over 70%. If were good, just let us be good and move up 
 to the next level of play if we want. Pick this up if your a basketball fan, the legacy mode is 
 fun, but for the basketball lovers and those expecting them to fix the player movement, well, they 
 just havent yet. Not sure why. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stinkfinger724
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 29, 2007 1:56 pm PT
Review:  I never thought I would say this, but a sport sim is a definite buy for anyone. This is a very 
 great Basketball sim (which is funny because NHL game are my favourite sport sim.) Here is why 
 College Hoops 2K7 is the best sport sim of 2007.
  
  On the positive side: The game plays just about as good as it looks, (which is brilliantly.) As 
 well, the game overflows you with extra features different game modes.
  
  On the negative side: What has happened to the lead pass button? That was so much easier.
  
 
  Verdict: The best basketball sim i've ever played. You should pick it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: comebackkid1701
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jun 29, 2007 12:37 pm PT
Review:  Great game but I still have the feeling like its nba 2k7. I like how when you do your legacy its 
 like a coaching career but its kind of dissapointing how there arent really any mid-major+ schools 
 to coach. The gameplay is fun but the controls should of gone along with nba 2k7. Its a fun game 
 but it needs to be more realistic in players leaving or something because i tried to import into 
 2k7 but durant didnt leave so i had to do a 2nd season which was time consuming. All together it 
 was a good game but it could use some more additions in 2k8. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterx1059
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 22, 2007 4:39 pm PT
Review:  To be fair, you can blame a short production cycle for it, but this game is very much like College 
 Hoops 2k6. Graphically, this game does look a little better, especially the people in the stands. 
 But the commentary is virtually the same, as well as the gameplay. Which is my big, big, big problem 
 with this title. I know college players aren't as good as pro players. And while I agree this difference 
 shoud show up in the game, players have trouble making layups in this game. Not just average players, 
 either. Even star players. Overall, this franchise still has a ways to go to reach the heights 
 NBA 2k 7 has. NBA 2k7 just plays smoother, while this title plays rough.
  That said, this is still a solid game, but it could be better. Difficulty levels are uneven, as 
 well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wallyk
Rating: 5.3
Date: Jun 6, 2007 9:43 pm PT
Review:  What idiot programmer decided to show me the opposing teams highlights!!! Nothing pisses me off 
 more than screwing up and then having it flaunted in my face by have an instant replay!!!! Dumb 
 Dumb Dumb. The menu system is absolutely terrible. It is very nonintuitve. The game itself is fun 
 if for no other reason than it is college basketball. It would be really nice if they could use 
 the actual players and their names, but I understand why they can't. I rented this one and am definitely 
 going to check out March Madness before purchasing. Hopefully March Madness will not insist on 
 shoving those idiotic replays of my screwups down my throat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: t-mac720
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 2, 2007 2:50 pm PT
Review:  dis game is fun u cant no like dis game it may compeer a little nba 2k7 but it depends on wat type 
 of games u like if ur a college fan ull love this game but if ur a nba fan ull........... love this 
 game u have this game i rented this game and second i played i bought it da only thing i dont like 
 bout da gam is dat it doesnt show da name of da person so u dont know who is kevin durahn and greg 
 odon u have to check da number and crap so it suxs but thats about it the achievments are a little 
 hard but if ur like me it will be easy and dats about it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ghost_Warrior
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 1, 2007 8:51 am PT
Review:  2k Sports has been making the College Hoops series since 2003, creating games full of great gameplay 
 and rich college atmosphere. With their latest edition 2k7, 2k games delivers the best college 
 basketball game to date and the first true next-gen college basketball sim.
  
  Gameplay: Over the years College Hoops has been known for great gameplay. That continues here. 
 2k improved on a few things from last year's game, most notably the crossover ability. Last year 
 it was somewhat difficult to perform a crossover or any type of juke move, this year it can be 
 done with ease using the right thumbstick as well as the B and Y buttons. The players will also 
 make apporiate moves at the right times, underneath the basket they will make a powerful post move 
 or dunk and while driving to the basket they will adjust their layup according to the defense. 
 You can help in all of this as well using the right thumbstick or Shot Stick as it is called. Another 
 new edition is are the 60 or so different shot forms that have been added. Now every player has 
 their own unique shot form, from the perfect looking jump shot to the crazy looking one. Going 
 through the different shot forms I have been able to find a few very similar to my own shot form 
 (which looks very good I might add.) As for the gameplay modes, all the modes from last year are 
 back including the Legacy Mode, which is even more in depth than it was last year. One new gamemode 
 this year is Coach Mode where you play as the coach from the sideline and coach your team. Though 
 not the best mode, its a good idea that can be worked with. There is online as well, and though 
 its not very detailed or complex, its very competitive. The only complaint I had in the gameplay 
 is how many layups can be missed. Players will miss wide open layups when they should easily go 
 in. Other than that the gameplay is great.
  
  Graphics: The graphics for 2k7 have been improved from last year, it defiantly has that next-gen 
 look to them, especially on a HDTV. The players have a little bit more individuality to them than 
 before, however you will find player's that look the same. Of course you can always customize your 
 players so they look different. The school gyms look great, the court and stadium-design are all 
 great, though they did screw up a little when making Cameron Indoor (Duke's gym.) Duke's gym could 
 have used some more work because it is not an acurate design of the gym. Other than that, the only 
 other problem with the graphics is the players will appear with out a jersey so instead of the 
 jersey-top you see skin. It usually fixes itself pretty quickly though.
  
  Sound: A key to any college basketball game is atmosphere. If you don't feel like you're in a college 
 basketball gym then the game is going to suffer. Fortuantly, 2k Sports made sure we felt we were 
 in a college atmosphere. The obvious thing is how load the crowd can get. Like in a real basketball 
 game, when you got the crowd screaming at the top of their lungs it can really be an advantage 
 to the home team. The same is true here. There is a defianite difference between home and away 
 games and it can just about affect the momentum of the game. Add a pep band to the already screaming 
 crowd and you got yourself a true college basketball enivornment. The commentors from 2k6 are back 
 again and they do a good job once again, especially the color commentator. There is a third commentator, 
 a girl who talks to the coaches and gets insight but she gets repetitive and can be totally wrong 
 sometimes. Im just glad they didn't get Billy Packer to commentate or it would be full of bashes 
 against every team expect Duke. Packer seems has Dookie coming out of his ass on a daily basis.
 
  
  College Hoops 2k7 is a must have for any college baskeball fan. If you are as big a fan as I am, 
 you will find yourself playing this game a lot and there are plenty of things to do to keep yourself 
 occupied with it for a long time. Not only do I recommend this to college basketball fans but also 
 to basketball and sports game fans alike. In my mind it is the best sports game of 2007. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neversummer75
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 26, 2007 4:04 pm PT
Review:  Its a fun game but has some pretty bad glitches in it. Its a shame the developers didn't spend 
 more time polishing this game. Although the animations are nice, some make you lose control of 
 your player for a split second which can be very bad when playing people online. Cant be very clunky 
 at times, especially online.. A lot of Damn that was cheap moments in the game. I'm just really 
 hoping that 2k sports spends more time on the gameplay and graphics for next years version. Its 
 a solid game but nothing amazing by any means. It could have been so much more. I can tell that 
 they rushed this game and that it could have been a better product. Having said all of that, its 
 still a fun game but be prepared to be frustrated from time to time. Especially when playing people 
 online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nflstreet2kid27
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 24, 2007 6:51 am PT
Review:  This game is great. There is a lot of modes to choose from:
  
  Coach mode- You can play your dreams and coach a team
  
  Legacy- Play as one team and try to 
 win the NCAA tournament and become the number 1 seed.
  
  Create a school- Create a school with cheerleaders, a nice b-ball court, and figure out a cool 
 theme song for your school
  
  Create a player- Create as much players as you want you can make their attributes very good or 
 normal. Change any part of the body you want.
  
  tournaments- There are lots of tournaments, You can put the teams you want in their and see if 
 you can beet UCLA or UNC in the championship
  
  Campus store- You can get different basketballs or they might be from a different sport. You can 
 buy old jerseys, look at stats, look at records, and get old teams. You can also play Darts and 
 Air hockey as a mini game at the Campus store thing.
  
  Graphics- They have few bad graphics, the faces could be better though
  
  Commentary- Great 
 sports writers talking they really know the game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shawn7324
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 3, 2007 7:22 am PT
Review:  Since EA removed the ability the play on the same team against the computer on its Madden games 
 for the Next Gen, after getting my Xbox 360 I decided the only Sports game I would own would be 
 a College Basketball game. I went with College Hoops 2K7 because if EA screwed up Madden then I 
 don't even want to try out March Madness. College Hoops 2K7 is a solid Basketball game with several 
 great aspects and a couple bad things as well. First off the graphics and sound are truly Next-Gen 
 and it looks and sounds awesome on my HDTV and surround sound system. The best part of this game 
 is the Legacy mode, which is near perfect. Its more deep and detailed than any such game play option 
 I've seen. Being able to play the games, control every aspect of recruiting, and assign more focus 
 to say Shooting than Defense during team practices really gets you into the game. When I talk about 
 bad aspects of a game I only mention parts that really annoy me and let the small things slide. 
 For College Hoops 2K7 there are 2 such things. First, the new way to access the menu screens is 
 very hard to get used to. Not a game that I know of has been set up like this, and even though 
 while I'm playing I know now that how you do it I still find myself trying to do it other ways. 
 Some things just aren't meant to be changed. The last thing is what really annoys me the most. 
 Missing shots right beside the basket. Unless the guy is completely wide open I think there's a 
 50/50 chance of it going in. I'll have a player 90 overall and without a guy in his face miss 10 
 to 12 shots right beneath the basket. Overall however, College Hoops 2K7 is a solid basketball 
 game and from what I've read in other reviews totally out does EA's junk in a case with March Madness. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Finsnasty84
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 28, 2007 2:56 pm PT
Review:  When one watches a college basketball game they notice the extreme differences between it and the 
 pro game. This game is very good graphically and has alot of intangibles that put it better than 
 all basketball games on the market.
  
  From the second I popped in College Hoops 2k7 I noticed how nice the game looks. This is something 
 that you expect from a $60 game on an expensive system. The animations are what sets 2k from EA. 
 When the EA players are standing still they look just as good if not better, than 2ks game. But 
 when in motion, you can see the seamless transistions and player animations in 2k. The gameplay 
 in 2k7 isnt incredible but for some reason, it is just alot of fun to play. There isnt much to 
 complain about in the control scheme and how the AI plays. The only problem that I have seen has 
 been difficulty on simple layups. But because of 2ks extensive AI control it can be fixed easily.
 
  
  The sound of the court and crowd is amazing. The crowd chants are what makes the College game so 
 much more exciting in both real life and in video games. You can hear almost all of your favorite 
 teams fight songs. The only ting I dont like about the sound is the commentary. It is informative 
 and correct but gets very repetitive. The game modes arent vast but the legacy mode is incredible. 
 In career legacy mode you must take the helm of a mid major, ivy league or small conference school 
 and lead them to glory. You then get offers from different schools, that have more prestige. It 
 really allows you to play how you want. Do you want to be a coach that uses Jacksonville as your 
 hub in order to get to a mid major and then to Kansas or are you a coach who likes being at a small 
 school and seeing what you can do with less talent.
  
  All in all, College Hoops 2k7 and NBA 2k7 are head and shoulders above EAs games. They are essentially 
 the same game but depending on what sport u enjoy more (college or pro) should help u make ur final 
 decision. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Demark
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 22, 2007 12:06 pm PT
Review:  This game def takes the cake this year, with lots of schools and incredibly realistic detail for 
 stadiums and teams. After finally playing March Madness, I can say this game is a much better college 
 sim of Basketball, which my home town Chapel Hill takes quite seriously. The player ratings and 
 skill attributes are assigned rather well, and the team unity and composure, although it can be 
 irritating (in a good way haha) , are awesome, because that is a large part of the college sport. 
 The 2k Nav system, although I didnt care for it at first, def grew on me and now I think it works 
 great. Def a must play for Basketball fans and a must buy for the College Basketball fan at heart. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: THE_ferris
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 21, 2007 7:23 pm PT
Review:  First of all i would like to tell everyone to stop complaining about how some shots are too hard 
 to make (free throws, layups and 3 pointers) . if you actually take time to take the shots correctly, 
 its no problem. Anyway, to the review. As soon as i heard the stomps and claps of the opening sequence 
 i knew i had found something special. The gameplay is great, very accurate to real games. i like 
 the practice mode also, fun to play 21 and Knockout. but the real mode to play of course is career. 
 its awesome to bring a small team to glory and then move onto bigger and better job oppurtunities. 
 recruiting is great, very easy to find the guys you want to find. the only negatives are the soundtrack 
 (repetitive and annoying) , and the Create-a-team, which is a complete joke (jerseys are bland and 
 dont correspond to your team colors, and the commentators cant say your team name) . graphics are 
 good but could be better especially on the next generation system. If you want solid, reliable 
 gameplay remember: College Hoops 2k7 
::::::

::::::
UserName: novo_24
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 21, 2007 5:17 pm PT
Review:  Dribble shoot shoot take that ball to the hoop hoop. Thats just one of the many chants that the 
 crowd sings in the game. This game is all about the energy-filled experience of being a college 
 basketball player and the crowd all around you going crazy. Its truly amazing how much the crowd 
 gets into the game. Everything is very enjoyable to play and experience. Legacy mode is the best 
 part of the game. Start your own career as a small college team and work your way up to the elite 
 college like the Duke Blue Devils which im at. Recruiting is the best part of the game. Its very 
 fun to experience that. The new Team Unity does change the way you play with the experience of 
 your players. Great game for all college hoops fans. This game has always been better than march 
 madness and always will be. Keep it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redlightningxvx
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 17, 2007 11:30 am PT
Review:  The game could have been better but its still entertaining and has the best mechanics compaired 
 to any other basketball game out there. The graphics are great and everything is nice and realistic. 
 The sounds are good but if you play it alot like me you will want to kill the crowd after a while 
 for saying the same things over and over. You can customize what the crowd can say but im too lazy 
 i dont know about you. The gameplay is great and the best out there. The shot stick is great and 
 works very effectively. The buttons for the game feel right and doing something never feels unconfrortable 
 or you have to get use to like other sport games. The are some wierd things that happen though.. sometimes 
 during games peoles shorts get messed up and turn grey and the players will be doing an animation 
 after the shot but the buzzrd will go off and cause them to glide somewehere or they look like 
 they just woke up out of sleep walking. The game is great and i recoomend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JBucc
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jun 29, 2007 1:23 pm PT
Review:  I played 2k6 for the PS2 and enjoyed it bunches so I was really excited to get 2k7 for my brand 
 spankin new 360. It's still a good game but wasn't exactly as I'd hoped. First and foremost the 
 menu system used here is the worst in the history of sports games. Using the right stick to bring 
 up the menu is the dumbest idea ever. Anyway on the graphics. The player models look terrific with 
 just the right amount of sweat and the way the jersey's and shorts move and sway is amazing. The 
 only bad spots are the post game and highlight shows which obviously weren't payed much attention 
 to. The sound is the best part of the game. Stadiums are rocking and the announcers do a good job. 
 The gameplay is solid but needs a ton of tweaking and slide adjusting. Way too many layups are 
 missed and the CPU gets way to many offensive boards on the default settings and even when the 
 sliders are adjusted appropriately it still seems off. The shot stick is an idea I like but sometimes 
 it causes your player to take bad shots. On defense it can be almost impossible to stick with the 
 quicker guys. You teammates do a decent job of jumping into passing lanes and helping you out on 
 D. On offense their are some AI gaffs and stupid canned animations. For example when you pass to 
 a player in the post or on a fast break they will go into a catching animation that will cause 
 them to jump out and lose their post position or stop on the fast break right in front of the basket. 
 Very frustrating. The legacy mode is somewhat frightening for a guy like me who mostly just wants 
 to play games. I recommend this game to any college bball fan but there's still room to grow. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilshortydan12
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jan 6, 2007 8:34 pm PT
Review:  With EAs game still not out, we cant tell finally who is the winner. 2K sports this year did offer 
 the best nba game but didnt quite make its college basketball game not even close to as good as 
 NBA 2k7. The game is barely if not at all different from last years game. That though isnt a good 
 thing because last years game wasnt all that good either. The gameplay hasnt been touched and is 
 mainly the same. Players often miss layups too much which that can be sometimes just annoying. 
 While the gameplay isnt all that bad, it would have been nice if 2K enhanced it abit. The graphics 
 are no where near next-gen . While the stadiums look pretty nice, the player models dont look all 
 that nice and there are many glitches in the game. The sound is very good. The stadiums sound alive. 
 The soundtrack is pretty decent. It sounds like an actual college game. The game doesnt feature 
 enough things though to keep you busy. The game lacks in game modes and the online could use some 
 work. The game definitely isnt worth the 60. It just isnt as deep as it could have been. There 
 really arent any new gamemodes. While there is more than 2k6, there still isnt enough. The game 
 plays realistically but not completely. The shots are not that hard to make. Also the free shots 
 arent as hard as in nba 2k7 which is a good thing. Overall College Hoops 2K7 is a pretty solid 
 game but it has to many flaws from keeping it to being as good as it could have been. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wizothorns
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 5, 2007 4:19 pm PT
Review:  I have to say that this installment of College Hoops is much better than the previous one. With 
 more realistic ball movement, and body movement the game takes a much more realistic feel, and 
 a less arcadey feel. The one downfall that I see to this game is the fact that no matter what happens 
 7 out of 9 times when a team is called for a blocking foul there are no free throws. You could 
 be in mid air shooting the ball, but if the computer or you are trying to take the charge and a 
 blocking foul is called get ready to inbound the ball on one of the sides. Actually the other downfall 
 is that the steal mechanics have been tweaked. I like the extra stuff you can do with the right 
 analog stick, but trying to steal the ball is hell unless I really want to mash the X button. The 
 problem is that the game tries to interpret what you are trying to accomplish with the right analog 
 and lots of the time it does the opposite of what you're trying to do.
  
  The soundtrack that comes with the game initially doesn't really do it for me, but with the ability 
 to turn off all the music and just go with fight songs I can keep the volume on during the menus.
 
  
  Speaking of menus it takes a bit of time to get use to using strictly the right analog to go between 
 menus, but after a while it makes transitions a bit simpler with somethings, and other things well 
 it just gets annoying (checking the e-mails and then going back to your schedule) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CraZySeahorSe
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 12, 2007 12:28 pm PT
Review:  The aspect of this game that really makes it great is the gameplay. Although different from many 
 other basketball games, once you get used to the bit awkward controls, you start to fall in love 
 with how the entire game can be controlled in your hands. The camera view is different and adds 
 a new feel to the college hoops franchise. It really feels great. Graphics in this game certainly 
 aren't fantastic, but the definition in the muscles and body tones are great. You can also see 
 the sweat on the player's during close-ups and timeouts. However, a good amount of glitches can 
 add some frustration and even some humor to playing (one time the referee just took the ball from 
 my player, lol) . If i were a college basketball fan, the glitches aren't enough to keep you away, 
 that's for sure. Sound... wow, the sounds of the crowd are amazing. The atmosphere of the games 
 allow you, as the player, to get more into the game and into the gymnasium. The new mode that allows 
 you to create your own cheer is brilliant. You can use so many different features, there is nothing 
 stopping you from creating a great cheer. Let your imagination run wild folks. The game has a few 
 good game modes, including a great and very long legacy mode. Legacy mode is very similar to a 
 dynasty mode. You pick a team, and as that coach you coach, recruit, sign other coaches, and try 
 and take your school all the way to the big show, the big tournament, the round of 64 my friend. 
 It's the most innovative part of the game, so pick your favorite team and go for it! Also, if you 
 have a great deal of knowledge about a smaller school, a school that is not really on the map, 
 it's very fun to try and take your mid-major and bring them into the tournament through big upsets 
 or winning your conference. Overall, this is a great game that's lots of fun. If you're a college 
 hoops fan, please, do yourself a favor and go get this game before the season is over. Have fun... 
 and good luck! I give College Hoops 2K7 (XBOX 360) a 8.5/10.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neostp55
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 31, 2006 8:42 pm PT
Review:  this is a great game. sure it has its little glitches and weird bugs every now and then, but in 
 general, if you like college b-ball then you'll like this game. it is very easy to get addicted 
 to the game's career: legacy mode where you begin at a small and basically crappy team and work 
 your way up to the powerhouse teams by accomplishing set goals as the coach of said teams. it is 
 quite satisfiying when you sign your 1st 5-star recruit and know that you'll not only have a new 
 star for your team but you're also getting another attribute point to improve your created coach's 
 stats. the graphics are also quite good on the 360 and the controls should feel familiar to anyone 
 who has ever played a 2k b-ball game before. in closing, as a player of b-ball simulations for 
 over 10 years, i highly recommend this game to any basketball fan or any fan of exstensive and 
 fun sports simulations. room for improvement but overall, two sore thumbs up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ConMan09
Rating: 6.7
Date: Dec 29, 2006 5:50 pm PT
Review:  College Hoops 2K7 look amazing when I got it for X-Mas. But now this is the 1 game I'm going to 
 return. This game could have been amazing... lets not forget the could have except that this games 
 controlls are horrible. Everything else is amazing but the controlls. The reason I got this game 
 is because I love basketball and my friends brother is in it (Coastal Carolina #15 center) . But 
 when I got this game I was terribly dissapointed.
  
  Controlls: 5
  
  Wow!! This games controlls makes me want to punch my Xbox. I will get straight to it... defence 
 is alright which is why this even got a 5, now I cant say that about offence. First, there is no 
 lead pass so if you are on a fast break and your player is under the goal you might pass the ball 
 to the player behind you. Second, free throws are not only easy to make in real life but are supposed 
 to be in a video game. You have to use your right stick to hold it down then push up to make him 
 shoot it. Theres no timing system at all you have to guess by using the players knee movement. 
 You now they dont call them FREE throws for nothing because there supposed to be free points!!! 
 Third and lastly, a lay up is the easiest shot to make... right? Wait I forgot theres no LAY UPS 
 in this game. Thats right you either dunk or stop and shoot up close and you always miss. So this 
 game sucks when it comes to controlls.
  
  Graphics: 10 This games graphics is so good I forgot I was playing untill I realized how bad the 
 controlls are. The players look good, the courts look amazing, the movements look real. Everything 
 about the graphics is great especially the uniforms. So theres not much to say other than there 
 amazing.
  
  Sound: 10
  
  Sound is also amazing! You hear the foot steps the scretches from shoes and the chants and whistles. 
 So this games sound is better than most and well thats all from sound.
  
  Well there you have it. Also were it says 10 hours or less I really mean 2 hours or less. This 
 is all I'm going to say.... DO NOT GET THIS GAME DO NOT EVEN RENT IT!! . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Terps
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 24, 2007 8:38 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game, especially if you are a die hard college hoops fan. The gameplay is good 
 and the graphics are amazing, especially in High-Def. All in all the recruiting could be a little 
 better, but its ok. The coaches look real. The arenas are outstanding. The career mode is addictive. 
 I'd say if you were unsure to get this game you should. I got it for christmas, but i wouls definitely 
 spend $60 on it. Trust me, if youre thinking of waiting for march madness or getting nba 2k7 instead, 
 you should forget about it, this is the best college hoops or just plain hoops game out there. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maniacc1
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 26, 2006 3:09 pm PT
Review:  Ever since I read the first details about College Hoops 2k7, I was genuinely interested in it. 
 Now that I actually picked up the title and popped it into my Xbox 360, I realized just how right 
 they were.
  
  This year's title includes some of the best presentations ever created by a basketball sim. The 
 stadiums have accurate student sections, bands, and colors. The noise inside once you slam home 
 a 3 pointer is exactally like it's real life counterpart. And with the new chant creator, there's 
 no denying you have to put your TV volume up for this one.
  
  The gameplay is similar if not exactally the same as 2k6, but it is still welcome and easy to pick 
 up on. The players, to me anyway, seem more alive this year, with more detailed sweat and facial 
 expressions. Overall, this game is a must buy for College Basketball fans, and even for everyone 
 inbetween. Fantastic presentation, great gameplay, and real college feel, this one will be one 
 for the records. ~The Maniacc 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaguar36023
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 13, 2006 7:56 am PT
Review:  Now, when i started playing this game, my first thought was BAD. It has not so good graphics, sound 
 is a little awkward, and the overall appearance was sketchy. But the more i played it the more 
 i liked the gameplay. It is one of the more realistic basketball games i have ever played. There 
 is good transition, good playcalling, and great animations. Not to mention the unbelievebly deep 
 legacy mode. There are so many things you can do it really is a great addition. There are some 
 quirks though such as it is a little too easy to steal, and sometimes the missed layups, but getting 
 back to the sound.... 1 weird thing i found was that you cant hear the commentary at all over the 
 crowd... you can mess with the settings, but i still found that peculiar. Overall college hoops 
 2k7 is a good games with a downside but the great gameplay makes up for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gallagher06
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 15, 2007 11:20 am PT
Review:  Good College basketball game, however i think they could do better for 2K7, still a must buy for 
 Basketball fans...
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  Overall good gameplay, it still has a few glitches, such as the shorts and shirt glitch, but doesnt 
 ruin the game. The flow of the game is good, more realistic than last years game in the aspect 
 of winning against a good team is much, much harder. Missing easy shots can get on your nerves 
 and I really dont like the new pressing B for crossover and Y for spin, i like the leading pass 
 and calling for a pick much better. One of the best things 2K added in this game was the signature 
 shots (although not in depth as NBA 2K7s sig shot feature, it still gets the job done) . Sliders 
 are still included which is a good thing, btw coach mode is actually pretty fun.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  The graphics are good, huge improvement over last years, but its a newer game so this 
 was expected. Many more face models which make the players much easier to look at, although i still 
 dont get why Tyler Hansbroughs hair is a dark brown (kinda annoys me) . The jerseys and nets still 
 sway, the hardwood looks amazing once again, and the coaches look more life-like than ever.
  
  SOUND:
  The sound is one of the best parts in my opinion, the crowd sounds amazing and more 
 into the game than ever. The announcers are the same and still amusing. One expierence you dont 
 want to miss out on is creating your own chant, its awsome, when the crowd starts yellin your chant 
 you appreciate that 2K added this.
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  THE GOOD:
  Its a college basketball game, whats not to love? Everything 2K added to this game that wasn't 
 in last years was a very good idea (coach mode, sig shots, chant creator, etc) . Gamplay is good, 
 graphics are good, and the sound is great.
  
  THE BAD: You can tell they were kinda rushed, but they still did a good job. Few minor glitches 
 here and there take away from the expierence. Easy shots are missed pretty frequently imo (but 
 i guess thats why they have sliders) . Haha and a Dukeys on the front cover unacceptable (J/K) .
 
  
  Final Thoughts: Good game, Few minor things can be fixed for next years game. Must buy for all 
 college basketball fans imo.
  o and I almost forgot, GO TARHEELS!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theEVILjeeniuz
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 7, 2006 11:48 am PT
Review:  Only nine months later, College Hoops is back for the XBOX 360 and while it might be the best game 
 in the franchise, it only deserves that title through slight improvements over its predecessor.
 
  
  Once again, the main focus of College Hoops is the Legacy mode, or dynasty mode, where you guide 
 can either focus on raising a single team to nationally recognized status or as a coach trying 
 to acquire a position among one of the elite programs. Either way, there is a myriad of things 
 to do from recruiting to scouting to actual coaching in games. You could spend hours just researching 
 potential candidates for next years recruiting class or creating a game plan for your next opponent. 
 This is truly where College Hoops has always excelled in the past and it no exception this time 
 around. Of course, you always have the option of just how much control you want over these facets 
 of the college game.
  
  The actual gameplay mechanics in College Hoops have remained relatively untouched. This is still 
 the same solid basketball youve come to expect from 2K Sports. However, there have been a couple 
 of added features included into the gameplay equation, most notably the Team Unity feature. Team 
 Unity is basically a measure of how well your teammates work together which, consequently, determines 
 how well you play on the court. For example, your starting five will most assuredly have the most 
 unity since they will spend the most time together on the court. Start making substitutions, however, 
 and this element dynamically changes based on how good a player is and how much time hes spent 
 playing with the rest of his teammates. Team Unity is a welcome concept, especially in a sport 
 such as college basketball, where chemistry is sometime just as big a factor as talent. It coerces 
 you to make substitutions more carefully to keep your unity as high as possible.
  
  Another new feature in 2K7 is Advanced Ball Control. This lets you perform crossovers and the like 
 using the B and Y buttons. Although this is claimed to be a brand new feature this year, it cant 
 help but be compared to maneuvering controls of years past. It actually feels pretty stale and 
 does not take advantage of the right analog stick like it should. This is something that 2K might 
 want to consider overhauling for next years installment. Other than this annoyance, the controls 
 work well.
  
  There were a couple of other nuances that quickly come to your attention as you play through this 
 game. First off, the passing mechanics need to be reworked. All too often, youll have players 
 chucking passes way downcourt. Or in a halfcourt set, a player will try to throw a pass from one 
 side to another. These are invitations for the other team to steal the ball away. Also, layups 
 can be difficult to make. I mean too difficult. It is very frustrating when you have an advantage 
 down in the paint, make the perfect move to the hoop, and then have your shot roll around the rim 
 or just miss. Dont get me wrong. The gameplay in 2K7 is still some of the best out there. But 
 these issues are clear-cut signs of the gameplays age and a warning that an overall might need 
 to happen.
  
  Graphically, the game is solid. The player models are generally well modeled to their real counterparts. 
 The coaches are very well done, as 2K Sports was able to license almost 300 of them this year. 
 Most of the arenas have been recreated exceptionally well. The menu presentation, however, did 
 not get a makeover. This deters from the overall visual experience of College Hoops. It would have 
 been nice to see cleaner, more up-to-date menus and player cards, as youll spend a huge chunk 
 of time staring at them in recruiting and scouting. Generally, the game has been untouched in comparison 
 to last years visuals.
  
  The sound in College Hoops is outstanding. This is where the game shines the most as the college 
 atmosphere is captured well, with some interesting, yet welcomed, additions. The college game is 
 dominated with crowds chanting and hollering and 2K Sports has taken this to another level with 
 its Chant Creator. This feature is exactly what its title conveys: a simple tool to create your 
 own personal chants from a pretty wide selection of sound bites. Its easy to use and really add 
 an added dimension to the overall ambiance during gameplay.
  
  The multiplayer features in College Hoops 2K7 are as deep as any other 2K Sports game. There are 
 a whole array of options to choose from including online skirmishes, seasons, tournaments, and 
 more. It should keep the replay value relatively high as the college season progresses. So far 
 there have been very slight latency issues, but never to a point where it became frustrating to 
 play.
  
  Overall, College Hoops 2K7 gets the NCAA game right with the same gameplay that you have come to 
 expect from a 2K game. But with this game emerging less than nine months later, and is there enough 
 to warrant a $60 purchase as opposed to College Hoops 2K6 which you can find for about a third 
 of the price. Those who have last years version should probably stay put and wait till next year. 
 But for those who wont mind spending the price for admission, this is the best College Hoops game 
 yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jerrycee
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 4, 2006 9:08 pm PT
Review:  To Start off, I think the graphics are ok ,But better than Nba 2k7 .And the gameplay is way better 
 then 2k7NBA. just wish they can make the player models alot better. Presentation is good and its 
 sizzlen hot on HD. I like how the fans loook. They come alive and there hype in NBA2k7 The crowd 
 looks clueless, It seems like the home team doesnt know if they should clap for there team our 
 just look plan stupid. I think this game is worth 60 dollars. I think u should have both games so 
 u can draft your players its cool. I think who gave this game a 7.9 doesnt know what he or shes 
 talkin about its worth a higher review 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ncaa4life
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 4, 2006 12:15 pm PT
Review:  This game is good last year it was good but this year they feeled all the cracks it feels like 
 your really in the game the stadiums come alive and the players never looked so real it is over 
 all a brilliant game get it get it get it get it get it get it get it get it get it get it get 
 it get it get it get it get it get it get it get it get it get it get it get it get it get it get 
 it get it get it get it get it get it get it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: millsymills
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 2, 2006 8:28 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game in how it presents the feeling of College basketball. Unlike last year when 
 the crowd was mostly cardboard cut outs, the crowd has a personality and is much much more life 
 like than before. All the custom options like create a cheer and coach is nice, but I perfer playing 
 with real teams. The BIGGEST problem with this game is your own team's AI. Sometimes on swing passes 
 or a kick out from the low-post if you're in a man to man defense the player guarding the permimeter 
 gets lost and doesnt cover leading to a wide open 3-pointer. Also, you miss way too many lay ups 
 that sometimes i want to chuck the controller... but think better of it since they cost 50$ a pop.... overall 
 its a great game, its just frustrating when the game is hell bent to make you loose or put the 
 computer on a run. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheNIM
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 1, 2006 9:44 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 9
  
  Once again, 2K brings it with the gameplay. Player controls are more realistic this time around. 
 Some players actually shoot like they shoot in real life (even though they arent the real players 
 *wink* *wink*) . Foul calling has actually found a happy median. Not glitchy at all. The only thing 
 that keeps it from being a 10 is the same issue NBA2k7 has- fast breaks. When you are on a fast 
 break, passes are hardly ever in stride and players stop or slow down too often. Players don't 
 take 1 foot jumpers either... LAY IT UP OR DUNK IT!!!
  
  Overall, the gameplay is a major step up from last season.
  
  Graphics: 8
  
  Improvement 
 is only slight in this department. The crowd is much more active in this than last year and in 
 NBA2k7. The designers have appeared to spend a little more time on player detail this time. I also 
 like the shot animation. I also dig how the ball looks when going throuhg the hoop..... no game 
 matches that portion of the realism. If you played 2k6, you will notice very little upgrade.
  
  Sound: 7
  
  This is disappointing. The game sound is inconcsistent. You hear the crowd 
 shout THREEEEEEE!!!!! and if the home team makes it, it hardly renders anything louder than the 
 three chant itself. The ball going through the net looks good, but sounds unrealistic. I still 
 wonder to this day why not one sports game has hit the sound any more realistic. To say the least, 
 the sound does not capture the college atmosphere. Not terrible sound altogether, but just plain 
 average.
  
  Value: 9
  
  Legacy mode is cool, and recruiting keeps the interest in the legacy itself for several seasons. 
 The online mode is again excellent. I hardly ever have a bad connection through 2k sports servers. 
 The acheivements keep you busy with trying to obtain many goals that would take days to complete. 
 This game offers several entities that keep you wanting to play it over and over again.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: 8
  
  This is a good game that could be better in several ways. However, a 
 game with this type of gameplay is a must-have for college basketball fans. The replay value and 
 gameplay make this great game overall. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ubimark
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 28, 2006 3:44 pm PT
Review:  This game rocks. Period. End of story. I would go so far as to say it exceeds even NBA 2K7. I love 
 how this game emphasizes the team aspect of basketball. There is no dominating a game with one 
 player -- like you can so easily do in NBA. If you love basketball, you'll love this game.
  
  Team Unity is great -- especially in Legacy mode. It's kind of like what EA is trying to do with 
 March Madness, but this works. With March Madness you can abuse the momentum meter (or whatever 
 it is called) too easily in a game. Plus moving the Isomotion controls off the analog stick onto 
 the buttons was genius -- makes the game so much more fun to play, and intuitive, too.
  
  Bottom line -- this is one of the best sports games out there on the 360. A must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sindjilic
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 28, 2006 12:45 pm PT
Review:  The game play is awesome and it does not get any more real than this. Every player on the court 
 reacts differently and it adds to the reality of the game as well. The Legacy mode is awesome and 
 it is very interesting to see players evolve and become better and better. The new feature is team 
 unity and so far I had a hard time increasing it, since winning the games is not the only factor. 
 Everything has its own influence on the team and you must be careful with your subs and shot selections. 
 I think this is a great plus to the game because this can lead you to some upsets over some big 
 teams but it can also lead you to a disaster if you are not careful enough. The 2k sports surprises 
 us each year and this time it is the 2k show every week. Of course you can choose not to view it 
 but it is always fun to see highlights from the league even though it gets repetitive. Create a 
 school needs a little bit more depth as well as a chant creator. Overall this is a great game and 
 the best so far on a 360 console. I know I will have a great time playing it and I know you will 
 as well. Great job 2K... keep it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bucfan47
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 7, 2006 7:01 am PT
Review:  Update: After reading Gamespots review I have to wonder, do any of these guys know when they have 
 found a great basketball game. I read the entire review and could not disagree with it more. It's 
 atrocious! It's aweful! The guy who reviewed this should honestly be forced to attend a basketball 
 game for the rest of his life, because he obviously don't understand it. Period!
  
  
  Not going to write alot today regarding this particular game. For those of you that follow my reviews, 
 I'm straight to the point about everygame I review. NCAA College Hoops 2k7 is a great game that 
 plays in some ways like it's counterpart NBA 2k7, but it's different in many unique ways.
  
  The gameplay is fun and challenging, making it tough to score baskets on the harder levels 
 and puts together good visuals, not as good as NBA 2k7, but it's easy to see why players look better 
 at the pro level, they are all big name players and the faces do not change much from year to year.
 
  
  Bottom line: Must own game if your a fan of college basketball. It plays like a real sim and computer 
 players react pretty decent on defense and when you try and run plays it seems pretty smooth as 
 well. Great game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dkxzachman
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 27, 2006 2:14 pm PT
Review:  I am not a fan of basketball games on the 360 but this game has turned my head. I love that ea 
 has incorparated there ever growing no load screen, in this awesome basketball game. Not only to 
 the graphics seem more real than the NBA games but it just plays down right fun. Who doesnt love 
 to create a school or make a fight song. Any ways this game had perfected the basketball genre 
 and i say go get it please. I had such a great time and will continue to have a great time playing 
 this game. I hope they do make it so you can put your charater in the nba game for this year that 
 would be really cool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trudat217
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 27, 2006 7:30 am PT
Review:  College Hoops 2K7 has stepped up to the challenge of creating a solid next generation college hoops 
 basketball video game. The graphics are improved, the player models can look funny at times but 
 they are life-like. The crowds in the arenas give the games a feeling of true importance right 
 in your living room. The detail is rich in everything from the referees getting involved (passing 
 the ball to your player before you pass it in) , people wiping up the floor under the basket, cheerleaders 
 flipping off the court after a time out, or the realistic halftime, post-game, and weekly (legacy 
 mode) shows that feature a stunning studio. The clips come complete with Greg Gumbel and Clark 
 Kellogg and the weekly shows have amazing depth including highlights from intense season match-ups 
 and upsets of the past week, as well as a preview of the weeks upcoming games. The pre-season and 
 Selection Sunday shows are intact and depth has been added to them as well. The Create-A-Player 
 mode on this game has always been fun just for the sheer fact that so many first and last names 
 are recognized in the game. I have a decently obscure last name and it is in the game, its so fun 
 to hear Greg Gumbel mention my name after another double double. The depth of the legacy mode itself 
 will leave you playing season after season of this game making the replay value seemingly infinite 
 if you add XBOX Live into the equation. The gameplay is very close to the games of the previous 
 years and doesn't take long to get the hang of. Some differences I've noticed are that its tougher 
 to pass the ball around, you need to be more deliberate, and that dunking under the hoop seems 
 impossible unless you use the shot stick and the new aggressive button that serves similar to turbo/sprint 
 . The downfalls include some of the aforementioned differences in control and feel at first, but 
 you get used to those, and a problem I noticed in the game of 2 years past that has been in every 
 game since, the default Create-A-School jerseys. Every year you can change the colors of a ridiculous 
 amount of things from the cheerleader uniforms to the backboard outer color, but for the 3rd year 
 I've noticed, the jerseys are uneditable. Just a small nagging downfall in an otherwise amazing 
 game.
  
  College Hoops 2K7 is a great game for any returning fan of the game thanks to its fun new depth 
 and more challenging gameplay. It's also a great pick up for anyone looking for the best college 
 basketball game the market has to offer. I've gotta stop writing this review so I can get back 
 to playing my legacy with Providence. I rated it a 9.0 just to leave room for the rest of this 
 next generation of the College Hoops 2K7 Legacy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: quagmire555
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 26, 2006 2:20 pm PT
Review:  Positives: Great job on making evry division 1 team look good and featuring every 1. Great gameplay 
 and realistic college basketball atmosphere with the cheers, mascots etc. Excellent recruting mode
 
  
  Negatives: Gameplay and controls not improved too much from last years addition.
  
  I recommend this game over NBA 2K7 because of overall quality and value of this game. You get way 
 more for your money form this game then NBA 2K7. If you truly love college basketball, and want 
 a game where you can play with your favorite college team, then this game would be your best bet. 
 Ss overall, this game get's an overall rating of 8.9 and I can't wait for the next year edition 
 of this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steelerman1
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 25, 2006 11:04 am PT
Review:  this is a great game, it has improved from last year in a lot of areas, the d plays much tighter, you 
 can't just drive the lane anytime you want like last year, it's kind of a sloopy game, there seems 
 to be more turnovers, you have to be more careful when you pass but thats a good thing, the crowd 
 is much better, the only thing that is not as good is the way it looks, i thought last years game 
 looked much better, thats whats holding this game back, i am not saying it looks bad or anything 
 but its not as good looking as last years game, i haven't even seen any sweat on the players, maybe 
 just a little, i am just wondering what march maddness will be like? i can't download the demo. maybe 
 i should have waited? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vaughnvdg
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 23, 2006 5:33 am PT
Review:  I LOVE THIS GAME!!! AFTER PLAYING IT FOR A COUPLE HOURS I CAME TO THE CONCLUSION THAT 2K HAS DONE 
 IT AGAIN WHEN IT COMES TO MAKING A HIGH QUALITY REALISTIC GAME!!!!!! THIS GAME COMES AT A VERY 
 GOOD TIME BECAUSE I DON'T HAVE A WHOLE LOT OF CONFIDENCE IN EA AFTER THE EXPERIENCE THAT I HAD 
 WITH NBA LIVE 07 WHICH I THINK WAS THE WORST BASKETBALL GAME EVER. COLLEGE HOOPS FROM THE OUTSET 
 MAKES YOU FEEL LIKE YOU ARE IMMERSED IN THE COLLEGE BASKETBALL WORLD AND IT'S VERY HARD TO PUT 
 DOWN IF YOU ARE A HOOPS FAN. WE'LL HAVE TO SEE IF EA CAN RECOVER WITH MARCH MADNESS 07 BUT AS FAR 
 AS I'M CONCERNED 2k ALL THE WAY!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mavraam
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 22, 2006 10:14 pm PT
Review:  I've only had the game for a day but i would have to say that the game is realy solid. the bad 
 thing is that for everybody without HD they will get medicore graphics because the farther the 
 camera is zoomed away the worse the anti-aliasing (jaggedys around the players) is but other than 
 that the game is fun as hell.
  
  The chant creator i haven't been able to try out but lets just say that you won't be putting in 
 hours to make a cool chant its pretty weak.
  
  The legacy mode is basicly the same as last year im sure they changed something but it isn't obvious. 
 Its very good Basicly if you liked last years you will like this years and if you didn't like last 
 years well then you probably won't like this years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThaGrateOne
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 22, 2006 10:24 am PT
Review:  This game has a few things that keeps it from being perfect. There are a few graphic glitches but 
 overall this game is a good simulation. The ups and downs of players in gaming as you progress 
 through a season is pretty nice. The coaching is also a good aspect that improves over last years 
 game. There are a few additions that makes this game a good buy, like practice modes in 5 on 5 
 or free throw shooting that was needed in previous versions. Graphicly the games looks better than 
 2k6 and the stands look OK... not great. The sounds and the courts themselfs are outstanding. This 
 game is a good buy for anyone being a fan of the college ranks. 2K has made a nice improvement 
 overall. If you are an NBA 2K player it will feel similar. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
