-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Command & Conquer: Red Alert 3
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/strategy/redalert3/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Story and cutscenes are wonderfully corny.
 Fully cooperative campaign gives standard missions new life.
 Each faction is fun to play thanks to cool, balanced units.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Drab, disappointing visuals.
 Fewer multiplayer modes than prior C&C games.
 No cooperative play matchmaking.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 13, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 7.8, 30 Review (s)
User Score: 7.8, 271 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Developer: EA LA
Genre: Sci-Fi Real-Time Strategy
Date: Nov 11, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The Xbox 360 version of this humorous strategy game can be fun, but it falls short in a few key 
 areas. 

  Where else but in the Red Alert universe could you pit transforming mechs against bears, or decide 
 the fate of your mission by attacking floating fortresses with intelligent dolphins outfitted with 
 sonic disruptors? Command &amp; Conquer: Red Alert 3 doesn't take itself seriously, but that's 
 what makes it fun to play. This is the most rambunctiously over-the-top strategy game to reach 
 store shelves in years, filled to the brim with laugh-out-loud cheesiness and a cheerful disregard 
 for political correctness. Unfortunately, the Xbox 360 version is still enjoyable, but it doesn't 
 exhibit the same level of care taken with previous games in the C&amp; C series, and comes across 
 as a bit halfhearted.  

           George Takei takes the Red Alert franchise into the final frontier.      

  Here's 
 the setup, told in a hysterically overacted cutscene that could have been ripped directly from 
 a bad sci-fi flick: Russian leaders, including the premier (played by a heavily accented, wonderfully 
 hammy Tim Curry) travel back in time to kill Albert Einstein. The theory is that doing so will 
 change the course of history, causing the Soviet Union to dominate as a world power. Instead, this 
 bit of time tampering gives rise to a new threat, the Empire of the Rising Sun -- and, of course, 
 more broadly played histrionics. The whole thing is a live-action riot: JK Simmons as US President 
 Ackerman is all anticommie swagger, and George Takei scrunches his face into superserious knots 
 as the Emperor. Then there is Jenny McCarthy as Tanya, stroking an enormous toy gun in one scene, 
 holding a sexy pose but still prepared to slit a man's throat in another. Skimpy, ill-fitting costumes, 
 blatant computer-generated graphics, and bad accents -- it's all quite wonderful, with tongue firmly 
 planted in cheek.  

  All three factions -- Soviets, Allies, and Empire -- are fun to play, and though not dramatically different 
 from each other, they're distinct enough to make each of them feel fresh. For instance, Allied 
 structures can be placed only after fully completed within the build queue (a standard C&amp; C 
 mechanic) , whereas Soviet refineries can be placed immediately and assembled afterward. The new 
 faction for the franchise, Empire of the Rising Sun, is even more flexible in this regard, but 
 it also requires a bit of micromanagement. In this case, you queue up movable vehicular pods called 
 cores that then unfurl into the appropriate structure. Additionally, most Empire structures (with 
 the exception of defensive turrets) can be placed anywhere without the fetters of a nearby base, 
 which makes them the easy choice for players who like to establish an early presence across the 
 entire map. Of course, these differences extend to ore refineries, but in all cases, resource collection 
 is more measured than in prior C&amp; C games. Gem fields are gone, which makes ore mines your only 
 source of income. The method of implementation is a departure for the Red Alert franchise, given 
 that it generally means a one-to-one ratio of ore collectors to refineries and a resulting slower 
 pace.  

  Nevertheless, a slower economy doesn't make for less explosive gameplay, and each faction boasts 
 a number of awesome units to throw into the fray. Some of them, such as attack dogs and flak troopers, 
 are carryovers from previous games. But no matter whether you're using familiar units or new ones, 
 clashes are fiery and tense, especially when you've grasped the nuances of each unit's secondary 
 mode. This is particularly true when playing as the Empire, considering that most of its units 
 are more than meets the eye; they transform between two distinct states with differing strengths. 
 For example, the mecha tengu can attack infantry from the ground or do antiair duty in the skies. 
 This flexibility translates to most Empire units and makes them fun to use.  

           These stingrays can traverse both land and water.      

  This isn't to say that Soviet 
 and Allied units aren't equally entertaining to use. All factions use ground, air, and sea units, 
 with many of them doing double duty in water and on land. For example, the ever-helpful Soviet 
 bullfrog can transport troops across land and water (and can amusingly spew infantry a good distance 
 with its man-cannon) . Late-game skirmishes bring the best and most fun-to-use units, such as the 
 Allied aircraft carrier, which sends a squadron of drones into the fray and is one of Red Alert 
 3's most autonomous naval units. The campaign introduces these units with style, and the size to 
 which some of its maps expand will often keep you busy across the entire map, particularly during 
 the frantic final missions.  

  No matter which side you choose, the comfortable control scheme does an admirable job of letting 
 you keep your units under control. The command wheel implemented in C&amp; C 3: Kane's Wrath is 
 a pleasant fit here and lets you access your build queues by simply pulling the right trigger. 
 There are also some welcome new enhancements to the series, such as an enlargeable minimap (a feature 
 first seen in developer Petroglyph's Universe at War) that lets you move quickly around the level. 
 You can now hold the A button to select multiple units at a time as well, which makes it easier 
 to establish mixed control groups.     

   

  A more important addition is that of a co-commander during the campaign. If you play on your own, 
 this position will be granted to an AI player of a fair level of competence, and you'll be able 
 to issue basic commands, such as holding a particular spot or attacking a specific structure. There 
 are also some contextual commands when mission objectives get more intricate and require very specific 
 actions, such as destroying a reactor or capturing a building. This addition makes the largest 
 campaign missions feel dramatic, with engagements scattered across the map involving not just your 
 own units but friendly ones as well. It also adds a bit more oomph to the light puzzle-solving 
 missions so common to the genre (taking certain units and destroying certain structures, for example) 
 because it requires the assistance of your compatriot. On the other hand, it makes the campaign 
 much easier than you would expect, seeing as how your AI comrade will usually buy you enough time 
 to rebuild if you make a costly mistake.  

           Puzzle missions like this one are more fun with a friend.      

  But as with most 
 games, it's better to add a real friend than deal with the occasional questionable decisions of 
 an artificial teammate, and Red Alert 3's most interesting asset is its fully cooperative campaign, 
 a first for the genre. Should you go this route, your online partner will take the role that the 
 AI otherwise would, making the specific objectives mentioned above even more satisfying. It's a 
 treat to play this way, and as you can imagine, completing a mission with a real-life counterpart 
 is more compelling. However, the implementation of this mechanic is hardly ideal. In the PC version, 
 you can at least look for other players in the online lobby to join a co-op scenario; here, you 
 can only invite a player on your Xbox Live friends list. The lack of a matchmaking system is a 
 shocking design misstep, and it all but ensures that this particular feature will go overlooked 
 by the large majority of players.  

  Competitive multiplayer may give Red Alert 3 a bit more longevity, but this is also an area in 
 which the Xbox 360 version falters. Other Command &amp; Conquer games that have appeared on the 
 platform included modes specific to that version, which added a special flavor to the usual skirmish 
 games. They also helped make up for the smaller selection of maps and slimmer online features when 
 compared to the PC releases. These modes are absent, leaving only standard skirmishes behind, which 
 is a big disappointment. Nevertheless, it's in online play where the strengths and weaknesses of 
 each unit become clear, and where distinct faction differences are even more palpable. For example, 
 should you play as Empire, you'll find that the lack of early-game antiair infantry makes you extremely 
 vulnerable to Allied air attacks. As a result, immediate base harassment is all but necessary, 
 unless you want your ore collectors and refineries to face early retirement while you spend funds 
 on tech that will unlock the necessary units. Compared to previous Command &amp; Conquer games, 
 Red Alert 3 matches are more measured, thanks to the slower economy. This means fewer early rushes 
 and greater emphasis on scouting, as well as a better chance to get the most interesting units 
 into the mix. The big game-changers here are special powers, which are terribly devastating and 
 can dramatically turn the tide of the match.  

  The overall Red Alert 3 experience is a raucous one, but it lacks the technical tightness featured 
 in the last few Command &amp; Conquer games. Pathfinding is probably the most noticeable and annoying 
 issue, particularly when amphibious units are involved, and units often require heavy micromanagement 
 whenever there is a terrain shift. Just as noticeable are the disappointing graphics; on the PC, 
 the units and environments were bright and colorful, but here they are more muted. This washed-out 
 look plagued the previous C&C games on the platform, but it has a much more dramatic effect in 
 Red Alert 3. The strong, shimmering hues of sunlit beaches are toned down, and the brilliant blues 
 and reds of the PC version aren't nearly as crisp here. It looks pleasant -- Tesla coils still zap 
 brightly, and explosions are, well, explosive -- but the visuals don't match the garish humor with 
 equally spirited graphics. The upside is that the game runs quite smoothly without often succumbing 
 to the frame-rate idiosyncrasies so common in other console strategy games.  

           The command wheel returns, along with a few interface improvements.      

  At least 
 the soundtrack found its way intact, and it features a fun mix of ambient music and rocking battle 
 cues, not to mention an array of boisterous explosions. Although much of it is unremarkable, there 
 are some real standouts used during the campaign, such as a flowing new-age track used in Soviet 
 missions, and some jolly Asian-inspired themes that set the mood during the Empire campaign. And 
 what would a Command &amp; Conquer game be without fun unit responses? When special unit Natasha 
 asks if you like her scope in that thick, fake Russian accent, it's hard not to let out a guffaw. 

  Given Electronic Arts' track record of quality console strategy games, it's disappointing that 
 the Xbox 360 version is such an inconsistent package. Yet even if it's not the game it could have 
 been, Red Alert 3 offers enough good, crazy fun that it might just charm you into forgiving its 
 flaws.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (9 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: DouglasBuffone
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 26, 2009 10:53 am PT
Review:  Real Time Strategy is a genre of video games that's rarely seen on consoles. RTS enthusiasts argue 
 that a game controller simply doesn't have enough buttons to allow quick movement to build units 
 and structures during fast paced battles that epitomize the genre. After little success in previous 
 attempts, EA's goal is to make the lucrative and popular RTS genre work on consoles. Although the 
 initial efforts showed promise, the same doubts that fettered earlier creations are still among 
 the largest criticisms. Determined to address these problems, developer EA Los Angeles resurrected 
 the popular series to create Command and Conquer: Red Alert 3, the first installment developed 
 for consoles in addition to the PC.
  
  Before we discuss anything else, the verdict on the controls must be delivered as it is the biggest 
 deterrent for gamers. Simply put, Red Alert 3 has the best controls of any console RTS. While not 
 completely perfect, it's easy to use and works extraordinarily well. The new controls coupled with 
 the series' signature, superbly acted live action cut scenes and imaginative units and storylines, 
 create a core experience that is very good. Despite these strengths, some of the game's shortcomings 
 such as uninspired missions, poor graphics and a lack of options for online play overshadow momentous 
 gains in the control scheme.
  
  Red Alert's universe is based off an alternate history of sorts-one in which the collapsing Soviet 
 Union discovered time travel. This allowed them to assassinate Albert Einstein, the source of their 
 ideological enemy's invincibility, before he was able to make his breakthrough discoveries. The 
 deed caused drastic effects on the space time continuum. In this alternate universe, the Allies 
 (Western Europe and the United States) , the Soviet Union, and the previously non-existent Empire 
 of the Rising Sun (Japan) are all vying for a world power monopoly. As any historian will tell 
 you, it is quite obvious that this one act would not have altered history to the extent to which 
 it does in Red Alert's universe. However, Red Alert's story is not meant to be a hardcore, authentic 
 simulation, but rather a source of pure entertainment.
  
  As this game is not meant to be realistic, some of the most satisfying elements are the outlandish 
 unit types available. The Soviets scour the battlefield with war bears, the Allies control the 
 sea with laser-dolphins, and the Rising Sun utilize anime-inspired robots including the behemoth 
 that is the Samurai Executioner. However, the main source of entertainment in the game is the superbly 
 funny dialogue found in the live action cut scenes courtesy of great work by experienced actors 
 including Tim Curry (Premier Cherdenko) , George Takei (Emperor Yoshiro) , and J. K. Simmons (President 
 Ackerman) . The accents and stereotypes are exaggerated, which further embellish the ironic storylines. 
 More importantly, they make the game funny, something very rare in video games.
  
  
  
  
  The single player experience includes the distinct campaigns of the three factions. Each campaign 
 is made up of nine missions of varying length, composed of drastically different experiences to 
 be had with each of the factions. The Soviet campaign proves to be the most enjoyable as the locations 
 and structures of the missions blend well with the faction's specific units. The Allied and Empire 
 of the Rising Sun's campaigns are less inventive, particularly due to increased restrictions on 
 building units. The Allied campaign should be specifically noted as having the weakest of the three. 
 These missions take the player away from building units and resource management and put them in 
 charge of only a small group of units or their specific hero, Tanya.
  
  The core gameplay is based around 'rock-paper-scissors' like strategy using the game's ground, 
 naval, and air units. This basic formula is improved with the addition of secondary attacks and 
 forms. Oftentimes specific units will be able to counter their biggest weaknesses with this new 
 gameplay element. An example of this is the Empire's helicopter robot unit which can convert between 
 a powerful air unit and a fierce anti-air ground unit. Whereas these helicopters would traditionally 
 be helpless against fighter jets, in Red Alert 3 they can morph into their secondary form and completely 
 change the balance of the battle.
  
  The biggest differences between the factions are their modes of production. The Soviets build their 
 structures through traditional means by choosing the spot and watching it being built. The Allies 
 build their structures in a queue and then begin forming in the selected spot. This is an obvious 
 advantage to the Allies as they do not have their structures in the weak "building" status for 
 as long. However, the Empire also has an advantage in that it isn't necessary to build in close 
 proximity to the base. This element does have its disadvantages however. Playing as the Empire 
 requires a closer eye on the building process due to the fact that they must engineer a drone-type-unit 
 which has to move to position and is prone to being attacked.
  
  Another important aspect of many of the missions is the addition of the co-commander. This is another 
 commander from your faction that builds their own base while trying to aid you in your objectives. 
 The player has some limited controls over the co-commander's actions. Using the left bumper and 
 a direction on the directional pad, the player can direct the co-commander to hold position or 
 attack a specific target. This co-commander can be helpful, but its inclusion has large consequences 
 as the difficulty setting has an astronomical effect on their performance. On the medium or high 
 difficulty the co-commander is usually eviscerated quickly leaving the player in a very weak position. 
 Furthermore, the co-commander often finishes mission objectives before the player has the chance 
 to complete secondary objectives. This can be very frustrating as a restart is the only way to 
 finish the other objectives.
  
  
  The real reason for the co-commander mechanic is because of the revolutionary cooperative campaign 
 play. Red Alert 3 is the first RTS to include a cooperative online campaign and playing with a 
 friend definitely ensures a more compelling experience. The large scale battles are obviously more 
 fun with the help of a friend as a human partner eradicates balancing problems with the difficulty. 
 However, in an inexcusable design flaw, the game has no matchmaking process. This will prohibit 
 a large amount of gamers to join the new online campaign as it is impossible to play if no one 
 on their friends list has the game.
  
  
  
  
  As mentioned before, the revamped control scheme is the largest differentiator between Red Alert 
 3 and any other console RTS game. Using a selection wheel (that is accessed by pulling the right 
 trigger) the player has a way to control all aspects of the battlefield with relative ease. This 
 fast reaction time is due to the easier selection of units with a highlighting selection process 
 and the ability to view the entire map in greater detail thanks to the ability to enlarge the mini-map. 
 That being said, the ease of controls does not make them fully accessible to non-gamers. Even experienced 
 players will find that the tutorial is a necessity to obtain knowledge of all the commands.
  
  Whereas the game is technically advanced in the control scheme, the graphics are lackluster. 
 Red Alert 3 has a larger array of colors compared to other games of similar themes, yet individual 
 units lack almost any graphical detail and there are some severe clipping issues associated with 
 their movement. The low detail does mean that the frame rate is steady throughout the game, even 
 during the most hectic battles, but this is no substitute for mundane graphics. Interestingly enough, 
 where the graphics are bland, the sound in the game is invigorating. The effects of weapons and 
 the voice acting create an immersive experience. Furthermore, the soundtrack is memorable as it 
 includes many guitar riffs while implementing sounds from each faction's specific music styles.
 
  
  Command and Conquer: Red Alert 3 includes many elements that can make real time strategy games 
 successful on consoles. The creation of an adequate control scheme and an online campaign are breakthroughs 
 that when combined with the humorous and entertaining story should equal a superb package. However, 
 it is because of the shortcomings specifically in mission design, graphics and online options that 
 do not allow Red Alert 3 to be recommended outright unless you are a fan of the genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NOD_Grindking
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 11, 2009 6:32 am PT
Review:  I was nervous about buying this game. A lot of people said it was too corny, and too simple. This 
 game is fantastic! I had a lot of problems with the C&C3 360 version, I felt that the controls 
 were weak and the slowdowns were brutal. In Red Alert 3, the controls are incredible, and the 50 
 unit cap really makes the game a lot more strategic. For anyone out there that was a fan of Red 
 Alert or Red Alert 2, you will not regret picking this Gem up. It's a game that is all about having 
 FUN! It knows what it is, and it delivers on that. For 20$, your getting a 30 mission campaign 
 that took me over 15 hours to complete, and an amazing coop experience as well. For those who are 
 fans of RTS games in general, this is a fantastic game. While it may perhaps be light on content 
 for the die hard Universe at War fans, its perfect for someone new to the genre, or anybody who 
 just loves to enjoy these types of games.
  
  Rocket Equipped Bears Anyone???? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thedrsad
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 11, 2009 12:22 am PT
Review:  Another addition to command and conquer "Red Alert" series and definitely the weakest so far. While 
 the storyline is fun to play along with, when you actually get down on the ground it was a disappointment. 
 I am a fan of command and conquer games, but red alert never caught my attention all that much. 
 I was looking forward to enjoying this game, so it was a definite let down when I popped it in 
 the Xbox 360 and sat through the ridiculously, tedious tutorial. Just from that I knew this game 
 was not all it was cracked up to be (at least from what my friends had told me) . If you are interested 
 in this game then please rent it first, buying this game would just take up space on your shelf 
 (or in my case, shoebox) . Nevertheless I did enjoy the actors that brought the story alive, especially 
 with Tim Curry in the cast. But all-in-all this was a very lackluster game and it earns it mediocre 
 rating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Garuda414
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 24, 2009 9:38 pm PT
Review:  Red Alert 3 is a good game through and through. In the campaign you can play as the Soviets, Allies 
 and the new Rising Sun. Each faction has there own campaign with a bunch of hi-def videos. Theirs 
 a total of over 60 min of videos that includes a few famous actors like Tim Curry. Red Alert 3 
 has some of the coolest units each with their own special ability. Theirs also a good amount of 
 devastating super weapons at your disposal. The campaign will keep you going for at least 15 hours, 
 and the multiplayer is your basic skirmish match. I only have a few minor complaints. The allies 
 are a little weak when it comes to their units. The Soviets have a lot of good powerful units like 
 the twinblades and the dreadnaughts. But the Allies only have that aircraft carrier which trully 
 shines. So if you plan to go online with Allies I would get in a lot of practice. The graphics 
 and voice overs are decent, and the achievements are mostly campaign based so their easy. So if 
 you like strategy games (especially starcraft) go pick it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steeley92
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 1, 2009 5:11 am PT
Review:  i love RTS games, and the command and conquer games are the best on xbox!! i liked the tiberium 
 wars and kanes wrath games, but i felt that they were too serious and alot less fun. so when i 
 read about the red alert 3 game, i was really happy with the fact that they have made it more fun 
 and less serious. and this is true, it is the best c&c game on xbox 360.
  
  the graphics dispite what people have seen are not that bad at all, they give some awesome environment 
 and some of the navy battles are fantastic!! some of the units are alittle extreme like the giant 
 king oni robots of the empire, or the powerful, yet quite unrealistic apocalypse tanks, but these 
 look amazing with a large army in your control.
  
  the campaign is very well layed out and does intertwine alittle, and also has some twists in the 
 story. however, a few of the missions are extremely difficult to complete, espessially in the empire 
 campaign!!! also, the live video intermissions maybe quite cringing and poorly acted, but do make 
 you laugh quite abit, and Gemma Atkinson does keep you focused :) :)
  
  finally, i think that this is the best c&c game that has come out, and despite its annoying difficulty, 
 it gives you hours of enjoyment and fun with all the ways to win a large scale war!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neil4688
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 31, 2008 5:10 pm PT
Review:  This game is simply awesome. If you have played any of the previous Command and Conquer games then 
 you are sure to like this one. I can't see how the Gamespot reviewers only gave this game a 7.0, 
 they must not like these types of games because being able to play the story with a second person 
 is just plain awesome. The only thing that might not be all that great is the graphics but they 
 are good enough for me for the game. Its by far better than Command and Conquer 3: Tiberium Wars 
 on the xbox 360 because of the 2-player option with the story mode. This is a great thing to have 
 especially if you know someone that hasn't gotten into the real time strategy games of the past 
 because they are able to play with you and you can carry the load until they learn how to play. 
 You will definately like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zacho26
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 27, 2008 5:47 pm PT
Review:  I knew right away this was a rental. The red alert series is my favorite C&C and i have great memories 
 of playing it on my first playstation. The destructive force of tulsa towers protecting my base 
 was a feeling that could never be replace by any other base defense.
  Good
  -Pretty good story
  -Graphics are good
  -Cool units, in all three fractions
  -Easy control 
 system, they use the wheel 
  -Coop gameplay, I just let the AI be my partner and they hold themselves pretty good.
  -The framerate 
 only droped once on me which was very suprising.
  Bad
  -Live action cutseens are cheasy but funny
  -Units dont attack when they are being shot at, even 
 when they were on aggresive stance. Very frustrating when being attacked at multiple angles
  -Sometimes when you are trying to deselect units, they wont and then u accidentley move them where 
 u dont want them to go. But that might be my controller not responding? I dont know.
  Thats really all the stuff that made me annoyed with the game. I did not play multiplayer, so i 
 dont know if that is glitchy or anything. You can beat the game in a week rental but if you are 
 a true C&C fan you will get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pelimies91
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 4, 2008 7:37 am PT
Review:  Jep it is. I think that Red Alert 3 is the best of the red alert "trilogy" chos it have so different 
 kind of factions. Every faction have their own strength and weaknesses I give you couple of examples 
 of every faction. Allies have great air forces which run any other units but allies weaknesses 
 is that it's very slow to get strong base. Soviet faction have powerful super weapon and it's easy 
 to build a base which has powerful defense and also soviet armory is quiet cheap but still it's 
 not perfect I give minuses on that you have to place your structure before it starts to build and 
 mean wile your enemy can destroy it. I think that empire of the rising sun (japanese) is mix of 
 these two other units. example they don't have any so called air base. you only air forces can 
 be build on war factory or naval yard. Best thing on empire units are that you can build your structures 
 any where you like chos they are on so called truck mode. In my opinion the game was come a bit 
 further from the C&C red alert 2 with great graphics, great music and this time there was many 
 great actores how played in briefing movies. I highly recommend this game if you like RTS games. 
 Thought of that the RTS is not made for consoles is is quiet true but on C&C Red Alert 3 it's different 
 it's made so easy to use on consoles all you need is on your controller. Still one button I miss 
 on xbox and that is destroy any thing button ( PC version it's ctrl.) In ensemble it's great game 
 which gives you about 20-40 hours (+ multiplayer) gaming experience. If you are going to buy new 
 game I highly recommend this game. You can now download the demo on C&C red alert homepage and 
 xbox marketplace 
::::::

::::::
UserName: det0xinator
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 17, 2008 7:51 pm PT
Review:  there's now 3 races, each appropriately balanced and unique. The game graphically is a huge snooze, 
 but if you're an RTS fan like me, that shouldn't stop you; I don't feel this game gets justice 
 from it's reviews most of them are 7-8; when this game is clearly an 8.5-10.
  
  The multiplayer is what this game is really ALL about; they took all the great things they did 
 right in generals, all 3 cnc's and the previous two red alerts. 
  
  There are battlefield special abilities unique to your race (clearly taken from generals, and a 
 great idea to keep) , and it's old school style engineers, the ones that enter a structure, regardless 
 of its hit points and takes it in a snap. Every unit in the game has it's own special ability, 
 which makes for a lot of microing fun!
  
  Seriously, if you're into solo play, this game is gonna be eh to you. But, if you loved the multiplayer 
 in Red alert 1 and 2, generals and original cnc, then you will love the multiplayer in this game, 
 since it takes all the great things from those other cnc games and puts them into one.
  
  Did I mention it's a lot faster than generals? The movements and building times are not nearly 
 as slow as generals' was.
  
  To elucidate, buy this game if you are a fan of the cnc style RTS and can't get enough of the multiplayer 
 YOU REALLY WON'T REGRET IT! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
