-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Command & Conquer 3: Kane's Wrath
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/strategy/commandconquer3kaneswrath/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Some fun new units to play around with.
 New subfactions add variety.
 Smooth new control scheme.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Disappointing, disjointed campaign.
 Some of the new units and subfactions are underwhelming.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul  1, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.5, 30 Review (s)
User Score: 8.0, 376 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Games
Developer: EA LA
Genre: Sci-Fi Real-Time Strategy
Date: Jun 23, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
A tepid campaign mars this otherwise solid real-time strategy follow-up. 

  Last year's Command &amp; Conquer 3: Tiberium Wars featured a horde of freaky alien units, hammy 
 acting, and lots of explosions. With Kane's Wrath, Electronic Arts provides freakier aliens, hammier 
 acting, and bigger explosions, and then mixes them into a stand-alone expansion pack that gives 
 us more ways to experience the terrific gameplay. The additions don't improve the core game in 
 any meaningful way, and the campaign misses its mark, but if you're a fan of last year's entry, 
 you'll enjoy this follow-up.  

           Kane's wrath is packed with explosive action.      

  The story, such as it is, fills 
 a number of gaps in Command &amp; Conquer history, jumping around like a jackrabbit on speed. For 
 example, the first act takes place between the second and third Tiberium Wars, whereas the second 
 act jumps to events that took place during C&amp; C3. Joe Kucan as Kane almost saves this scattershot 
 structure with his usual superb mix of spittled monologues and ominous glares. As Alexa, though, 
 actress Natasha Henstridge misses the whole point by misunderstanding the difference between histrionics 
 and plain bad acting. She is less energetic than her bouncy hairdo. Cheese is expected in a Command 
 &amp; Conquer campaign, but its taste is altogether overpowering here. With the third act, Kane's 
 Wrath starts hitting the right notes and then comes to a halt, leaving the promise of yet another 
 expansion... the same promise Tiberium Wars left us with. Let's hope that the inevitable second 
 expansion pack makes good on it.  

  Once you take command of the battlefield, things pick up, but not in the ways you might expect 
 from an expansion pack. You play as the Nod faction through the whole of the 13-mission campaign, 
 which is fine, but it fails to capitalize on the pitifully brief Scrin campaign of Tiberium Wars. 
 Nevertheless, this is at heart the same gameplay that made last year's game such a success. It's 
 fast-paced, fun, and eminently playable. When the game emphasizes these strengths, such as in a 
 mission where you have to capture a GDI researcher, the gameplay soars. Other missions serve to 
 remind us of overlooked possibilities. For instance, in one scenario, you're teased with the possibility 
 of experiencing one of Tiberium Wars' best missions from the perspective of a different commander. 
 But rather than delivering on the promise of a heart-pounding battle, the game whips the rug out 
 from under you -- you get stuck using a commando and saboteur, then a dinky attack bike. Talk about 
 an anticlimax.  

  Thankfully, all of the issues that the campaign presents are mostly offset by the variety of new 
 toys available. Many of them come courtesy of the subfactions in Kane's Wrath. You can still play 
 skirmishes against other players and the AI as the standard GDI, Nod, and Scrin factions, which 
 have seen some minor changes. However, you should check out the subfactions if you want access 
 to the best goodies. For the most part, the subfactions aren't radically different from their vanilla 
 counterparts, but they bring some subtle and interesting additions. For example, the Nod subfaction 
 called the Black Hand replaces the avatar warmech with a flame-spewing monstrosity called the purifier. 
 The Black Hand has no flying units, though, so this isn't the faction for you if you like to spam 
 venom aircraft. Other tweaks have very little obvious impact, such as the addition of shields to 
 harvesters of the Reaper-17 Scrin subfaction, though such small changes have subtle effects on 
 the overall balance.  

  Some of the new units are available to the main faction and subfactions alike. For example, all 
 GDI players get the hammerhead helicopter, which is invaluable for troop transport and can stay 
 aloft for a while without having to refuel. The Scrin mechapede is a particular favorite, given 
 that you can extend its length by adding pods to it, and there are four different types of pods 
 you can use. This flexibility makes the mechapede one of the most versatile units in the game, 
 but in the spirit of the Scrin, it requires a healthy amount of micromanagement. The most sensational 
 units are the new epic units. Each faction and its subfactions get access to a new powerful unit: 
 the MARV tank for GDI, the redeemer for the Nod, and the eradicator hexapod for the Scrin. How 
 important they are to your strategy depends on how long your matches draw out, which is always 
 a crapshoot in the rush-heavy Command &amp; Conquer. However, if you get to the point where you 
 can create one, you'll enjoy the additional help it provides on the battlefield. They have powerful 
 attacks (even more powerful if infantry is garrisoned inside) , but their other abilities can be 
 helpful as well. For example, if you need extra credits, just drive your MARV over some Tiberium, 
 and it will be added to your coffers instantly.  

  The controls have been far improved over last year's entry. The sidebar has been replaced with 
 a command wheel, which is easily pulled up with the right trigger. Here, you can easily access 
 build queues, special abilities, and control groups. And because the whole thing is a breeze, you 
 will rarely fumble with the controller. there are some sticking points other console RTSs have 
 dealt with more successfully, however. Without an approximated click-and-drag ability, selecting 
 units can be a chore, for example. Overall, however, interfacing with the game is simple and stress-free. 
 You should also note that aside from some minor frame rate drops during quick map scrolling, Kane's 
 Wrath runs extremely well, without any hints of the technical gaffes that have plagued other recent 
 console real-time strategy games.  

           The new command wheel works well.      

  Electronic Arts' wisest move in the Xbox 360 version of Kane's Wrath was to remove the underwhelming 
 Global Conquest mode seen in the PC version and replace it with a mode called Kane's Challenge. 
 This mode may sound rather uninteresting on paper, but it relies on the fast and furious action 
 that the series is best at providing. It is simply a series of stand-alone skirmishes: 10 for each 
 faction, for a total of 90 scenarios in all. In turn, these challenges will prepare you for online 
 play, where you can take on up to three others in a variety of different ways. Versus provides 
 your standard skirmishes, and is the most commonly played mode. However, all of the other modes 
 from Tiberium Wars -- Capture the Flag, King of the Hill, Capture and Hold, and Siege -- are still 
 present. While some players have reported connection problems, all of our online sessions performed 
 smoothly without any noticeable lag.  

  All of these additions -- new units, a new campaign, and so on -- add more ways to play, and plenty 
 of subtle variety. Not every addition is significant, and in some cases, they're underwhelming 
 (Steel Talon subfaction, this means you) . Yet the core gameplay is so good and performs so well 
 on the platform that Command &amp; Conquer fans would do well to pick up a copy.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (21 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: mastriania
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 21, 2009 11:31 pm PT
Review:  Since playing this game, I have purchased: Command & Conquer 3: The Tiberium Wars (XBOX 360) and 
 the actual accompanying novel. That's how much it has rocked my world. Just to be clear, I normally 
 I don't get into any of the "gamer merch"... This game's intensity begins immediately after popping 
 it into your console. The training mission itself is fun to play and even has some acheivements 
 to unlock. I was so excited to be taking out the Nod that I completely took out all of their units 
 before even being given the instruction. I do have to say that I am biased as far as which type 
 of real time strategy games I like the most; I am neutral with historical RTS, completely sick 
 of swords & sorcery RTS (played a bunch of Warcraft 3 and a couple of other pointy ears RTS, LOTR 
 Conquest looks horrid) , and way more of a science fiction fan in general. If you're into science 
 fiction and RTS, the Command & Conquer series is the way to go. Also, it is quite nice to play 
 a game in this genre without sitting three inches away from the screen. I found the controls to 
 be very easy and intuitive (very short learning curve) and the missions to be fun and varied. I 
 picked this game up today for $19.99. It's a great deal. Will definitely be part of my permanent 
 collection.
  
  [EDIT] In my original review, I forgot to mention that C&C 3: Tiberium Wars is NOT required to 
 play this game, even though technically it is an expansion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheapshot72493
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 1, 2009 10:22 pm PT
Review:  I started playing the game not even knowing how to build defenses but when I stopped playing I 
 can easily beat a brutal. I think this game trumps command and conquer tiberium wars and red alert 
 3. The thing I like about kanes wrath is that the new controls increase how fast you can control 
 your battlefield. I also like how the achievments aren't impossible like tiberium wars. The only 
 reason I'm not giving this game a 9.5 (when I used to play it a couple months back they had issues 
 with connecting to the server) The other reason is that it is not very populaur on the xbox 360 
 only about 400 people are online at once. What makes command and conquer fun is just sitting around 
 with 3 of your friends and testing your strategies on one another. So at 30 bucks you and your 
 friend (s) go out and buy command and conquer kanes wrath you'll have fun with it.
  
  PS I almost forgot another cool thing instead of their being only 3 teams/factions to choose from 
 there are 9 it changes the game up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matchpenalty11
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 10, 2008 2:26 pm PT
Review:  Setting:
  Kane's wrath takes place in three different time periods divided into three acts. The first act 
 takes place at the end of Tiberian Sun Firestorm. Act 2 takes place during the events of Tiberium 
 Wars. Act 3 takes place sometime after the events of Tiberium Wars.
  
  Gameplay: 
  Features a reworked interface which works better for the X360 version. Adds 2 subfactions to each 
 faction to bring the total playable number of factions to 9. Other than that the experience is 
 very similar to Tiberium Wars.
  
  Story:
  The first act reveals how Kane survived the second Tiberium War and came back into power as the 
 leader of Nod. Act 2 reveals how Kane manipulated the events of the 3rd Tiberium War. Act 3 more 
 or less sets up a sequel.
  
  Overall: 
  EA did a good job of adding some new content to an already good game and also finally giving Kane 
 the spotlight. 8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LDiablo123
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 3, 2008 5:13 pm PT
Review:  Ive played command and conquer for quite awhile. I remember playing back on the playstation. This 
 game is definitely fun to play, especially with a friend over xbox live. (coop, and vs) However 
 the 9 "different" races kinda feel the same. I kno that each race has their differences but when 
 u get right down to it they all seem the same. My friend and I play online every once in awhile 
 and i notice that no matter wat race u choose it always felt kinda the same. I do like the maps. 
 Everything seems so real. like the downloadable map "ground zero" made me jst stop and look at 
 how cool the maps are. You feel like the map is an actual place somwhere and thats a nice addition. 
 
  
  I still enjoy playing this game, im not trying to make it sound boring. I really like playing this 
 game.. every once in awhile, and i still like building the Super weapons and hitting my enemy with 
 it and watching them squirm. :P Id say this game is worth buying, but u may only end up playing 
 it every once in awhile like me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: padejace
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 18, 2008 5:08 am PT
Review:  Sure the campaign is a bit confusing and the super unit is not helping ... but this remains very 
 good value for money (half-priced game) ! I say, go for this one instead of the original C&C 3. 
 I bought because I'm a fan of C&C but I am happy with the content of the game. I feel the mission 
 design better than the its prequel. New units are quite cool and it brings new gameplay without 
 jeopardize the balance of the game. After a (confusing story) campaign, you still have a lot of 
 mission to go fullfill with the Kane's challenges. It brings interesting mission outside of the 
 storyline of C&C. Multiplayer is also very challenging and thanks to the different factions, brings 
 interesting matchs via XBOX LIVE. I say go for it, you can't go wrong with a C&C game, especially 
 at this price ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phil1472
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 9, 2008 8:34 pm PT
Review:  Command And Conquer 3 Kane's Wrath
  
  Gameplay
  
  Command and Conquer 3 Kane's wrath has several different game modes you can play. The controls 
 are a bit overwhelming at first but if you give the boot camp a go it will explain most of what 
 you need to know. After an hour you can play the game and after three you should be assimilated 
 to the controls. There were a few things i couldnt figure out and the guide that was provided with 
 the game is nearly useless. The controls are very affective and easy to use, every thing being 
 done with the a button or the joysticks. The camera is zoomed in too much wich makes commanding 
 a large army frustrating.
  
  Features
  
  C&C 3 Kanes Wrath has an interresting campaign with 13 challenging missions available. There is 
 a Kane's challenge mode where you choose one of the 9 factions and must destroy the other factions. 
 C&C 3 Kanes Wrath also has a skirmish mode available wich is pretty much a quick match against 
 the computer, but you can tweek a. i. settings to your preference i. e difficulty, set your oppent 
 to rush. There is an online feature with xbox live that keeps track of stats and your rank in a 
 leaderboard, its ultimatly the same as a skirmish match but against live competion
  
  Graphics/Sound
  
  The graphics in C&C 3 Kanes Wrath are a little dull. The game really looks 
 the same as it did for the p. c. The sound effects are done well but every time you select your 
 troop, send them on attack , create them the will say a annoying catch phrase. EA only decided 
 to make one or two different phrases for each troop so they get annoying pretty quickly.
  
  Multiplayer
  
  The multiplayer feature of C&C 3 Kanes Wrath has done nothing more than fuel 
 my dislike for EA to a new level. I only managed to play one xbox live game in the whole week i 
 had the game rented because i was unable to connect to the EA servers. ( my original issue with 
 them is making games prone to freezing)
  
  Achievements
  
  C&C 3 Kanes Wrath has a set of achievements to ensure you get to most out of the game. i found 
 the achievements to be difficult and repetitive although i have not played command and conquer 
 since back in the earlier days of its p. c legacy. If your an ace in command and conquer this game 
 should be an easy 1000. 
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dwanewil
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 9, 2008 12:25 am PT
Review:  I know the game has been out for several months now, but I am glad I spent the money on the new 
 episode. I am happy to say, the tutorial is VERY helpful. If you are new to playing the game, or 
 come from playing previous chapters on PC, you will find the time spent going through the tutorial 
 well spent.
  
  This game gobbles up hours of gameplay, and it is a good thing. I really enjoyed the challenge 
 from each level and how I had to perform tasks leading up to the main endeavor.
  I can't imagine playing the game on, "Hard". I found some levels at the start very tough. I learned 
 to save my progress on levels after brutal attacks from the opposition. I have to admit I also 
 enjoy the, "B" movie scenes before every chapter. The blonde is HOT! I would like to add that I 
 really liked the radial interface. I was amazed at how quickly I adapted to it. My only complaint 
 is how the game ended with Kane holding the, "tacitus" in his hand.... Huh????? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crisandwitch
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 1, 2008 8:24 am PT
Review:  I have always been wary of RTS games on consoles ever since Red Alert on the PS1. They have normally 
 had horrible controls that make you want to put your console through the television screen. This 
 changed for me though when I left the safety of my aging computer to play C&C3 on the Xbox360. 
 For once controls were nearly as fluent as a handicapped keyboard, which for the most part made 
 the experience almost as good as what could be found on the computer.
  
  When Kane's Wrath came out I was happy that maybe EA would wrap up some of the story that Westwood 
 came up with before they were bought... Unfortunately like in C&C3 most of it wasn't. Yet story 
 aside Kane's Wrath manages to make the controls and micromanagement on a console much more fluent 
 and easy than any game before it, but its still not quite there.
  The controls help to quicken the game, despite KW 360 having all the PC 'balance' patches that 
 the 360 missed on the original game. For example Harvesting is quicker but yields lower, or now 
 Con. Yards are the only building that can produce defensive structures. On its own KW brings in 
 balance issues too; with 6 'new' armies (2 sub factions per the original) to match your play style 
 (ahem, tank rushing n00b) . While each faction may have their strength they seem to lack any true 
 weakness. An example would be that the Black Hand is the early game infantry army, it would seem 
 that flame or sniper teams would be a good way to deal with them, however they themselves are also 
 the flame sub faction at the loss of their stealth tank (see not to much a loss) .
  
  Overall Kane's Wrath for the 360 is not bad, nor is it great. It has a fun multiplayer (if your 
 playing with friends, if not you'll be rushed in minutes) , and the campaign story is about the 
 same as past RTS games; even if slightly disjointed. If your an RTS fan who's PC is less powerful 
 than a brick, sure go for the 360 version. If not, it may be in your interest to rent it first 
 to see if it's your cup of tea. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smash3230
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 29, 2008 10:28 am PT
Review:  kane's wrath is a very good game, with a short but story-thriving campaign to start it off, then 
 with a fast-paced, action packed online experience, this game is worth its price.
  the new sub factions give the game and you more choices to play as in skirmish and online, although 
 the campaign is only nod factions, which mean mostly Nod, Some black hand and only one marked of 
 kane section of the game.
  for the xbox 360, the new radial interface works extremely well with the game and it will now be 
 used in red alert 3 also.
  kane's challenge, which is the xbox exclusive, is a long, repetitive series of skirmish games as 
 of which the enemy starts with a base and you start with only an MCV.
  Long story short, this game is worth it, although the campaign is disappointing for most players 
 but is still good for the achievement grabbers who want a challenge. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: detrek77
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 24, 2008 7:47 pm PT
Review:  This game is really good if you like strategy based games. You have a numerous amount of units 
 to choose from along with a with super units. Even the this whole series is a rip off of star craft 
 its not like star craft is even making a number 2 any time soon. The upgrades are a nice touch 
 along with the massive amounts of units you can command and its easier to control them with the 
 new system and the graphics are pretty solid. The fighting looks good. Also having to power your 
 place with power plants is cool two for strategies. Like if you destroy the power plants all defenses 
 go out. Theres many strategies in the game, all races have different powers over each other and 
 weaknesses. Most people dont like these kind of game but its only because they have no attention 
 span. Honestly you will have a fun time with this as long as you play it a few times and get used 
 to it. The story is also great as long as you ve kept up with the last few games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Don0van
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 11, 2008 10:42 pm PT
Review:  Command and conquer 3 was a good game but this just makes it that much better. This game is hard 
 also so its not a game you can just easy your way threw you have to pratice and try your hardest 
 everygame or you will be beat very fast. There are a good number of teams to pick from but it would 
 be better with more differences in the teams because a few teams are all alike just with some little 
 different stuff in each one. There is so many maps i dont think ill play on all of them. Story mode 
 is long which is good so you dont just beat it in one day. The acievements are not to bad some are 
 hard some are easy like most games. playing the computer on brutal is to crazy if you can beat them 
 by your self you are extremely good at that game. I have troble beating one team on brutal with 
 a friend. This game has many different kinds of weapons that you can use each one more fun then 
 the last. This game is worth the money if you are not sure yet rent it. Most likly it will be really 
 hard the first time when you put it in or you may be just very good at these kinda games just give 
 it time im sure you will not wanna stop playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcthpro
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 9, 2008 5:46 pm PT
Review:  They, Game-play is a bit more extreme with new unit such as Super unit
  Or more called titan they are ur Supreme fighter cost 5000$
  and must be defend till they upgrade 
 rank 3 : rank 3 = max and are now unable to be stop by a massive army. try ur self
  in a kane Challenge it really hard people get , Frustration but i done it with the The Faction 
 NOD Also note you have : Achievement's secret that 
  obtain by play at medium or harder and complete side (green objective)
  like the C&C 3 But instead 
 you are not forced to complete all Silver or gold ribbon 
  
  The Story is a little mixed up for some people since you can't know the story
  without have play 
 C&C 3 with all Campaigns as it mix from when Kane was know dead re-appear
  The Gameplay is sometime laggy
  but it the same bug with 360 when too much unit in rts 360 tend 
 to not have enough ram or processing video to Be like a Pc would 
  supreme commander pc as twice more unit possible then the one 360
  but it good that we have a 
 decent number of unit : and combat at last for 360
  for both game personally i belief people don't play much kane wrath online
  does of gun game 
 incoming Bad company : & unreal 3
  also the fact that the multiplayer 2 v 2 is not ranked
  there is quick match and you can select ur race or random
  in the option of Xbox Live there is 
 lot of new map that is great
  but still the gameplay can be somewhat crazy a mass air can kill ur balanced : air killer & ground 
 unit like 14 hammerhead equiped with rocket
  
  lot of people complain the game isn't for professional well it do if you macro
  and build fast 
 all rts are some what professional at some level
  it justthat game such as warcraft : starcraft 2 : supreme commander
  Require allot more skill 
 from base 
  the game as good story : worth the waiting i hope C&C RED alert 3 awsome i hope a C&C 4 or movie 
 that say what happen after it 
  if Kane is alive and stuff it must have more won't spoil more tough 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pourya_ahmadian
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 9, 2008 6:43 am PT
Review:  the begining is so shining and the end is so so powerful; very unit has it own abilty and the name 
 show you that ability; the avatars are so handy here and make you to make more and more of them; i 
 like the "rush"; i will make 200 of them and then "bang, smoke eveything to the air; but sometimes 
 the commondo will smoke me to the air; the vetigo are so stronger than ever and will help you every 
 where; but most powerful unit is the redeemier (double e for more power) you can mix the every soldier 
 to it and then walk like the gods; no one can touch you never; the maps are so biger and missions 
 are not in one line; the GDI are so clever here and sudden strikes have been use usualy; the defencive 
 buildings are important and will make you behind strong in RUSHes; the super weapons are more and 
 in world conquer will help you much;
  the best game in this gener for the greatest console forever;
  (only GREAT XBOX360)
  (WE ARE 
 THE BEST AND WILL BE) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadowfire14
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 8, 2008 11:10 am PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying that I have little in the way of experience with the CnC series, and 
 that Tiberium Wars was my first true encounter with the games. I loved that game. The single player 
 was challenging, but not ridiculous to the point of frustration. It made you adapt to different 
 situations for make a new strategy for each. You had to be able to hold the base while also trying 
 to complete your objectives and overall, it was really well designed. Kane's Wrath keeps the formula 
 with difficult missions and very good AI.
  
  There are some minor glitches that kind of get annoying, such as most bomber air-craft will fly 
 off to a corner of the map after refueling from a bombing run. The good news about this is that 
 they tend to avoid flying to a corner where the enemy has set up bases so it's more of a minor 
 inconvenience rather than a game breaking flaw. Also, your cursor may get stuck on structures from 
 time to time which, again, though it is annoying, its more of a simple fix than an actual bug. 
 
  
  Unless a few bugs and some very minor lag in game caused by AI overproduction is a a major reason 
 that you wouldn't want to buy this game, the only obstacle left is whether you enjoy RTS's. If 
 you aren; t sure whether you should buy this, it's at least worth renting or borrowing from a friend. 
 The campaign is short, but overall it's very fulfilling. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: perfectsniper10
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 5, 2008 5:11 pm PT
Review:  this is my review about kanes wraith and what i think that it should get and why for its great 
 expansion and what i think is one of the greatest expansions of the year i think that this was 
 a great type of an expansion for the game and that i recommened it for anyone is looking for a 
 great type of stratgey game and that i like this game very much so i would give this expansion 
 a 10 out of 10 i think that this makes tiberium wars a uplift so that is also what i like about 
 the expansion because i was getting kind of boring of the tiberium wars so now i have an upgrade 
 to a game that i like to play so there is also a better campaign which is also fun to do as well 
 so i like that as well so that is my review of command and conquer kanes wraith and that i woul 
 d love to play anybody in this game if they are interested my xbox gamertag is zandermaster800 
 so by this game it is freakin awesome 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Extreme124
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 1, 2008 8:50 pm PT
Review:  The stand-alone expansion pack isn't all that great but it holds our interest & gives in return.
 
  
  The Campaign is not as expected & it fails to deliver, more so the cut scenes & the missions. The 
 cut scenes feel very costaphobic as there done in very small areas & they are a complete let down 
 with no back story. Joe Kucan (Kane) is in almost every cut scene which makes this game seem very 
 dull & just about bearable more so they aren't as expected. The missions could have been portrayed 
 better but weren't & they feel very dull & short but are nothing compared to Tiberium Wars. This 
 game seems to be rushed as the story is not all that great & feels like a letdown considering the 
 predecessor was so more involved with the player.
  
  The exclusive mode Kane's Challenge gives you an introduction by Kane to each faction, which has 
 to be the only enjoyable part. It feels very un-lightened as you need to complete missions as specific 
 factions before more missions become available. This has you going through missions individually 
 as each faction before more missions become unlocked. It does help you understand more about the 
 game & increase your knowledge of what each has to offer. If you're after achievements then this 
 would be the only way you could possible want to play this game mode.
  
  Skirmish is very effective this time as you will need to understand more about each faction as 
 to their strengths & weakness. The only way to really grasp is to fight the AI on hard or brutal. 
 Learning what factions to choose depends on what scenario you're in & what map you will be playing. 
 In all you will probably use this game mode a lot unlike Tiberium Wars.
  
  The new units & factions add more clarity to the game which makes it feel different. It's done 
 so to make you think before you choose. The best asset has to be the new super vehicles which can 
 change the direction of a match. Also the newly added powers make the game feel very more alive 
 which adds variety.
  
  The new exclusive Xbox 360 interface is a fast improvement over the previous controls. The only 
 problem is that it sometimes lags after your finished using it which usually freezes the game, 
 for a view seconds.
  
  The online is very good but not excellent as there are problems when creating games, as no one 
 joins until you recreate a game (this could be a server issue) . Getting four people in a game is 
 very difficult but when you do it can be fun. The major problem is when so many units are on the 
 screen it tends to make everything slow, this is likely an in game issue or lag. The annoying thing 
 is cretin people don't use headsets or just trash talk which is not amusing. Having a team member 
 with a headset makes everything more interesting, but still the games online is really good also 
 worth time & effort.
  
  Over all this game is really descent as there's lots to choose from & a variety of maps to pick 
 & delivers with its epic new units. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wrighty1990
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 30, 2008 4:47 pm PT
Review:  Right then second review ever... where to start?
  
  I purchased this game today from the shop (obviously) and after playing the first one i was realy 
 looking forward too it! and to tell the truth it has'nt let the series down!
  
  This game is a bit different to the precious command and conquer, but this is'nt necasserily (don't 
 know if i spelt that right) a bad thing. You can only play in the single player as NOD (the bad/good 
 side deending from where you look at it) but there are three act in the campaign which are relatively 
 long and they vary so it keeps t fresh which is good!
  Secondly... there is no GDI campaign unfortunately but they have put in something new, called Kane's 
 challenges this is a kind of skirmish campign thing lol... You play with all three faction to complete 
 a mini-campign which consists of around 10 mission each which is basically defeat the AI opponent! 
 But the missions do not change for each of the faction so it can get slightly repetitve!
  Online... I have currently played around 10 online games but they have all been versus so i cannot 
 let you know what they other game types are like, but the versus mode is amazing and never gets 
 boring... but it can get annoying when those American hard men are shouting down the mic your %&*!... 
 no offence to anyone unless that person reads this =}
  The skirmish is still in the game and still the same so its all good as there are lots of option 
 that you can fiddle around with to make the game suit you!
  
  Definately worth a try to all those C&C fanatics!
  God Bless the 360!!!!!
  
  (please recommend 
 this review it will be highly appreciated/) (dont know if i spelt that right but o well) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vrygar777
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 30, 2008 12:15 am PT
Review:  Kanes wrath is a good solid C&C game. If you've played C&C3 for the 360 then the biggest change 
 you'll see is the way you handle things on the battlefield.
  The controls were refit to something like Universe at wars. Holding down the right trigger will 
 bring up a radial menu with twelve slots in it. The radial menu makes handling things somewhat 
 easier mainly because you can chose all you build options there. It also makes grouping a lot easier, 
 and a lot easier to maintain your groups. Another solid feature that may not seem all that great 
 is whenever your choosing to build something, you can hold the left trigger and a large box filled 
 with information will pop up for whatever you had chosen. This helps a lot if theres something 
 you don't know about or if the print on the screen is to small.
  While the campaign is somewhat short (maybe 10-15 hours) , it is fun. And a good amount of acheivement 
 points are derived from the campaign, so replayabiliy is encouraged. The 360 exclusive mode "Kanes 
 challenge" is also a big time sucker. In it you play as one of the nine factions and complete ten 
 challenges for each faction. Though all the challenges for each faction is the same, you earn achievements 
 for completing the ten challenges with a different faction. That and you unlock movies. Aside from 
 Kanes challenge and the campaign, there is also the standard death match based skirmish mode and 
 Xbox live. You also earn a good amount of achievement points for the Xbox live mode. So all in 
 all, the achievement points are what you'll be putting hours of fun gameplay into.
  Lag isn't all that bad of an issue in this game. The main problem I have is when ordering a large 
 amount of units to a place, the framerate jitters for a sec. In fact this, along with C&C 3 Tiberium 
 wars, are probably the best PC ported games.
  I won't excite you with explaining each faction. I'll give a brief explanation of each...
  -GDI- 
 Your basic GI Joe army. They mostly focus on Bombing and heavy tanks to deliver the finishing blow.
 
  -Steel Talons- GDI's first splinter faction. They focus on the old tech from the old C&C games 
 such as the wolverine and Titan. There harvesters can be garrisoned to fit the situation.
  -ZOCOM- GDI's second splinter faction. They focus on ground dominance and aerial supremacy through 
 the use of specialized units.
  -Nod- The "Cobra" forces of C&C. They focus on stealth and hit-and-run tactics. They are also your 
 main forces in the campaing.
  -The Black Hand- Nod's first splinter faction. They focus on "purifying" the enemy through the 
 use of flame. They also disbelive in soulless machines and as such, have no airforce.
  -The Marked of Kane- Nod's second splinter faction. They focus on infantry tactics by the use of 
 their cyborg units.
  -Scrin- The alien faction of C&C 3. They focus on the use of air units and forcefields. Their ground 
 armys aren't pushovers either though.
  -Reaper 17- Scrins first splinter faction. They Focus more heavily on tiberium conversion weapons 
 and ground based operations more than Aerial operations. As such they focus on Tiberium more heavily 
 than the other scrin factions.
  -Traveler 59- Scrins second splinter faction. They focus on Hit-and-run operations and the use 
 of mind control more so than the other scrin factions.
  Kanes Wrath also introduces epic units. These are special units that recquire a special production 
 facility to build. They can be garrisoned with infantry permanetly to add extra firepower.
  I hope you found my review useful and please forgive any gramatical/sentencing errors. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarthSnipa
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 29, 2008 12:09 am PT
Review:  I can tell you now this game is definitely worthy of the term, "innovative". Now utilizing the 
 command-stick interface, after spending an hour two playing, you'll get the hang of it. Everything 
 you could expect from C&C but more! I think, as of June 29th, '08, there's something wrong with 
 the EA servers because it says on 28 players are online, but hopefully that problem is soon rectified.
 
  
  The good:
  better, cleaner user interface
  
  better graphics
  
  amazing new units
  
  includes everything from Tib Wars (unit and map-wise)
  
  costs only 
 $39.99 CAD (?)
  
  good amount of achievements (44) 
  
  lots of fun
  
  great MP
  
  The bad:
  
  confusing interface at first
  
  confusing storyline
  
  confusing factions
 
  
  confusing map re-designs
  
  CONFUSING STUFF!
  
  
  
  So, here it is:
  
  If you like RTS games, buy this.
  
  If you don't like RTS games, buy this.
  
  If you like 
 HD, live-action cutscenes, buy this.
  
  If you like/love C&C, buy this.
  
  If you don't like this game, buy it anyways.
  
  I. Love. This. Game.
  
  You will too! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xilerymth
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 28, 2008 10:56 am PT
Review:  Following up Tiberium Wars is Kane's Wrath, which brings a whole new arsenal to the table. The 
 core factions in the game (GDI, NOD & Scrin) now have two distinct sub-factions in their ranks. GDI 
 has the Steel Talons & ZOCOM. NOD has the Black Hand & the Marked of Kane. Scrin has Reaper-17 
 & traveler-59. Sub-factions specialize in attack, speed, stealth & resistance, which can give them 
 a definite advantage over the core factions. Epic units are also introduced in Kane's Wrath, which 
 can dish out a lot of destruction before being destroyed. The campaign is short though & only focuses 
 on the rise of NOD after the 2nd Tiberium War. Conquest mode, which was critically acclaimed on 
 the PC version, was left out of the X360 version. Kane's challenge, which replaced conquest mode, 
 is basically consecutive rounds of skirmish against all the factions. The command interface can 
 be sloppy at times & there are few new maps. If you want an RTS, rent the game first, then decide. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mars25
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 27, 2008 9:08 pm PT
Review:  Kane's Wrath starts where you last left off in Tiberium Wars. In the campaign you play as Kane's 
 head commander as he rises from the ashes and shows the world that he isn't actually dead. 
  Each Faction has two sub-factions, Scrin: Reapers & Travelers, GDI: Steel Talons & ZOCOM, NOD: 
 Black Hand & the Marked of Kane. This means you have 9 armies to choose from before you go to battle. 
 
  With newer units, powers, structures, and the new Command Stick Wheel layout, Kane's Wrath is definitley 
 a great RTS.
  The online multi-player will have you feeling like a true leader as you battle it out with other 
 players in games like CTF and Siege where you test your skills and find the faction that best suits 
 you. Kane's Wrath also features Xbox Live Vision Cam Support so you can show your game face to 
 your opponents.
  Basically, if your looking for a great RTS game to play, Kane's Wrath is the perfect choice. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
