-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Command & Conquer 3: Tiberium Wars
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/strategy/commandconquer3/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Exciting campaign features a ton of quality, full-motion video.
 Fast-paced gameplay is fun and exhilarating.
 Controls work well and are easy to learn.
 Five multiplayer modes will keep you coming back for more.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Game is picky with structure placement.
 Washed-out visuals and recurrent frame-rate stutters mute some of the pizzazz.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May  8, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.7
Critic Score: 8.2, 51 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 3,076 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Games
Developer: EA LA
Genre: Sci-Fi Real-Time Strategy
Date: May 8, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Command & Conquer 3 on the Xbox 360 is an excellent game and a great example of how a console RTS 
 should work. 

  Xbox 360 owners are in for a treat with Tiberium Wars. First and foremost, it's an excellent real-time 
 strategy game that features an intense story and a well-rounded set of multiplayer options. It's 
 spirited and fun, and a great way for console enthusiasts to experience the fast and frantic action 
 of a Command &amp; Conquer game. Yet it's no mean feat that it plays so well without a mouse and 
 keyboard. By using an intuitive control scheme similar to Electronic Arts' own Battle for Middle-earth 
 2, Command &amp; Conquer 3 Tiberium Wars proves that strategy has a big role to play on consoles. 
 If you have an Xbox 360 and even the remotest interest in earth-shattering explosions or campy 
 science fiction, you owe it to yourself to pick up a copy.  

          Scrin annihilator tripods look imposing.     

  When playing the campaign, you're rewarded 
 with a whole lot of live-action video in between missions, featuring familiar actors getting hammy 
 in near-future command centers. There's never been anything subtle about Command &amp; Conquer's 
 full-motion video in its previous PC incarnations, and true to form, the campaigns are loaded with 
 wonderfully overblown sequences filled with intrigue and suspense. Actor Joe Kucan has returned 
 as Nod figurehead Kane, and he's as irresistibly creepy as ever. He and other familiar actors serve 
 up a heaping of extravagant solemnity against a backdrop of flashing lights and important-looking 
 video screens.  

  If you think it sounds over the top, you'd be right -- but it's cheesy in a good way, and it won't 
 take you long to get involved in the story and the characters that drive it. The narrative is structured 
 well, with the Global Defense Initiative and Brotherhood of Nod campaigns telling the same story 
 from opposing viewpoints. There's also a new player in the mix: the alien Scrin race. At this stage 
 in the series, the mineral tiberium has propagated over most of the Earth, but it's more than just 
 an environmental plight -- it's a key to future technology. It'll take you a couple dozen hours to 
 get through the campaigns, and just when you think you've finished, there are a few surprise missions 
 in store, and they are well worth the time it takes to unlock them. There are also plenty of reasons 
 to return to the campaign once you're done, since the game rewards you with medals based on your 
 performance.  

  The missions themselves are incredibly varied and involve a lot more than destroying an enemy base 
 or defending a particular structure. You'll have to do these things, of course, but you have both 
 primary and secondary objectives to complete, and they include using engineers to capture certain 
 buildings, amassing beam cannons to take out defenses, or teaming up with your sworn enemy to defend 
 against alien attacks. You'll be doing it all in a variety of real-world theaters, such as Washington, 
 DC; downtown Sydney; and the eerily dry Amazon basin. The near-future take on familiar locales 
 makes the intense battles feel even more thrilling because the settings are recognizable and meaningful. 

          This bittersweet victory brings GDI far more than it bargained for.     

  That's not to say the combat isn't gripping on its own. If you're inclined to turtle up in real-time 
 strategy games, you'll be in for a surprise: Battles are intense and focused, and they give you 
 little time to prepare. Like most strategy games, Tiberium Wars still requires you to build up 
 resources, but it's a quick process of plopping down a bunch of tiberium refineries and power generators 
 and then finding the action, because if you don't, the action will quickly find you. Once you get 
 past the first two acts of each campaign, you'll discover that Tiberium Wars' artificial intelligence 
 is aggressive and resourceful, and it will take advantage of your strategic flaws. Don't expect 
 to put your trust in one or two favored units, because even the most powerful units have noticeable 
 weaknesses.  

  It's a rusher's paradise, but you shouldn't take it to mean that technological advancement and 
 thoughtful strategy don't have their places. You won't need to deal with long and complex tech 
 trees, but you do have multiple powers and upgrades to earn by building various structures. The 
 powers run the gamut from GDI's powerful ion strike to Nod's vapor bomb, and they fit each faction 
 perfectly. As you use units, they level up, making them more effective in battle, and there are 
 some cases where you improve units by more unconventional means. For example, you can use a Nod 
 warmech to destroy your own flame tank, and the mech will then spew fire in addition to its own 
 native attack.     

  How differently each faction plays is impressive. GDI units tend to be straightforward and powerful, 
 and a huge force of mammoth tanks and juggernauts is a challenge to counter. Nod relies on sneakiness 
 and smart use of unique abilities, and a small force of stealth tanks and viper bombers can cripple 
 an enemy's economy. But playing as the Scrin is Tiberium Wars' greatest delight and challenge, 
 since the alien faction is so different from the others. Your first encounters with the Scrin in 
 the campaign are breathtaking, since even low-level units like buzzers look interesting and intimidating. 
 In fact, the most threatening sight within the game is a fleet of Scrin assault carriers and their 
 accompanying fighters. Yet while the Scrin have some potent units and other advantages, such as 
 the ability to collect endless tiberium without building silos, they require a lot of micromanagement 
 and intimate knowledge of each unit and structure.  

          Capture and hold mode adds an intriguing component to the world of real-time strategy. 
     

  With all of these aspects of the gameplay remaining intact from the PC version, it's hard to imagine 
 handling all of the units and commands without the benefit of a keyboard and mouse. Yet there's 
 very little awkward about the controls in the 360 version. The side bar of the PC edition has been 
 moved to the bottom left of the screen, and you can access your build queues and special powers 
 by pulling the right trigger and scrolling through the options with the D pad. Movement and attack 
 orders are as simple as pressing the A button, and even tasks like creating control groups or performing 
 special moves are easy and instinctive to pull off. It is definitely a compromise, and selecting 
 smaller groups of units on the fly isn't particularly easy, but overall the controls work just 
 fine. Placing structures is often a pain, too, since the game is picky about where you can put 
 them. Positioning something as simple as a turret or a power plant can take multiple tries, and 
 it's never clear exactly why you can't put certain buildings in certain places, particularly when 
 the terrain is smooth and the area is totally free of nearby obstructions.  

  C&C3 is also home to an impressive set of multiplayer options. You've got the standard versus option, 
 which lets you skirmish against other players or the CPU. There are also king-of-the-hill and capture-and-hold 
 modes, which require you to hold certain spots on the map to attain victory. These options are 
 the best of the bunch, not only because of the added strategic dimension, but also because the 
 action is focused and intense as players struggle to maintain control. There is also a siege mode, 
 which keeps you and your opponent from attacking until the timer is up. It's interesting to play, 
 given the game's rush-friendly design, but it also allows players to pit high-level units against 
 each other without worry of early bombardments. The final mode is capture the flag, which functions 
 much like it does in first-person shooters. There are a good number of maps for up to four players, 
 and with so many ways of playing, you're bound to get a good deal of mileage from the multiplayer. 
 You can even connect your Xbox Live Vision Cam should you wish to make rude gestures at your opponent. 

  In many ways, Tiberium Wars looks really good, particularly the unit designs. Scrin annihilator 
 tripods lumber about with a commanding attitude, GDI orca bombers circle in believable formations, 
 and Nod avatar warmechs advance with heft. Their stature and fantastical nature fit perfectly with 
 the over-the-top nature of the action, as do the titanic nuclear explosions and lightning strikes. 
 In the most extreme battles, your screen will fill with mighty blasts and streams of lasers, as 
 if you were the main player in a sci-fi action film. The visuals look washed out, though, so many 
 of the effects aren't as vibrant as they could be. More noticeably, the frame rate suffers from 
 regular and frustrating slowdown, particularly when there are a lot of units onscreen.  

          The visuals are good, though it sometimes looks like things were left out in the sun too 
 long.     

  Bad unit voice-overs are a common annoyance in strategy games, but they're all done well in Tiberium 
 Wars. EA pinpointed just the right amount of extravagance to lavish on the sound design, from mission 
 voice-overs to the eclectic soundtrack, which is alternately tinged with orchestral fanfare and 
 heavy metal grinding. While many of the sound effects are what you would expect from standard artillery 
 and tanks, others, particularly those of the Scrin units, are ominous and appropriately alien. 

  There's a good set of achievements to unlock, including a few zero-point ones that pop up should 
 you lose a few too many multiplayer games in a row or bypass the tutorial mission. But it's all 
 just icing on the proverbial cake, since playing Tiberium Wars is a reward unto itself. Not only 
 is it a great game, but it's a great example of a console RTS done right. If you've never played 
 a Command &amp; Conquer game before, there's no better time than the present.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (175 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: revanent
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 20, 2009 6:35 pm PT
Review:  as a command and conquer game with everything looks ok for graphics, ect... but the AI, the controls 
 are unfair and as a fan i find the game fun till it gets to later missions, for people who are 
 new to the franchise i would highly recommend to stay away from this game due to the easy mode 
 just being as hard as any other mode so i have to admit that this game should stay on the pc till 
 they work out the problems, think as a game that they should follow the ideas of games like halo 
 wars to build a better control systerm
  ok ye i know i sound like a halo lover but the command and conquer was always my fav stragety game, 
 the franchise so far has been a big success since the original, even the original was k but im 
 worried that the franchise may suffer due to the console coontrols btu the game should need a revamp 
 of the controls for the nxt batch of games, thou this review is made before knowledge of without 
 knowin wat the other games ar like
  futhermore if u want to find a decent version of ths game then stick to the pc versions but if 
 u want a new good version then u might want to try out the later ones but i recommend to skip this 
 one 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GodDemon
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 1, 2009 7:40 am PT
Review:  This game is the worst RTS ever! Every mission is easy to compleate if you just build tons of defence 
 and then you can just build loads of tanks and then your enemy is dead. I just did this with every 
 mission and I got past the all fast.
  
  If you want a good RTS go buy LOTR BFME2 as that is the best RTS on xbox 360 with good controls. 
 However the controls in this game are bad and selecting your army has never been harder!
  
  The graphics are good. But that doesn't make up for the bad gameplay, the music is... well bad and 
 there are many ways you can build more than one base too ensure your unbeatable.
  
  I can't believe EA wastes time remaking these games when they could do a remake of BFME1 for Xbox 
 360.
  
  
  So take advice from me... don't buy this, if you want a good RTS again I say buy LOTR BFME2 or even 
 Warhammer Battle march.
  
  
  Overall
  
  
  Grapics 10/10
  
  Voice acting 8/10
  
  Gameplay 3/10
  
  Life 3/10
  
  RTS 2/10
  
  
  
  1/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _AbBaNdOn
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 21, 2009 11:22 am PT
Review:  I used to love these games back in the day but its been like 10 years or so since I have got to 
 play them. I had a really awesome time with this game and will probably rent it again and the others. 
 I wont go into every little detail about this game or series as im sure a ton of other reviewers 
 have done so already.
  
  No I just wanna go over what I think is holding the game back. First of all is balance. It doesnt 
 look like the developers of these types of games have yet to even come close to the right balance. 
 What I mean is you are either getting your butt handed to you or atleast defending against having 
 your butt handed to you or you totally cripple the enemy and instantly rip out his heart. You are 
 either losing or winning. Where the hell is the middle ground??
  
  I want to slowly and methodically pick apart the other guys army but you cant. If you take out 
 a tech structure to make their troops turn into crap troops then they just rebuild it. On the other 
 hand if you take out their base that creates structures then you usually have to plow through a 
 bunch of other structures to get to it basically gutting them in the process so after its gone 
 you can no longer have any fun.
  
  I want to declaw, detooth the enemy and then spend however long I want slapping them around and 
 abusing them before I finish them off.
  
  Second of all and this is very minor but I just dont like every battle being about some special 
 tactic or method in order to gain victory. I just want force vs force battles.
  
  Lastly and most importantly even if they cant do anything about the first two issues, WAKE UP and 
 get with the times. Why do you make your damn games FINITE and based on a story?? Games like this 
 should focus on fights over territory like Dynasty Warriors: Empires or Star Wars Battlefront. 
 You can still have cutscenes to bring character to the armies or tell a story. Atleast when you 
 fight over territory you can lose territory or conquer territory in a different order or face different 
 forces at different spots and make each time you play the game a different experience. REPLAY. 
 Im freaking sick of offline being solely about teaching you how to use your forces and online/multiplayer 
 being about force vs force action. What the hell about single player offline ?? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FelisLeo1980
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 20, 2008 2:28 pm PT
Review:  Command & Conquer 3: Tiberium Wars honours its heritage as one of the great real-time strategy 
 games, but you don't need to know anything about that to enjoy this third installment of this sci-fi 
 soap opera.
  
  In the year 2047 the struggle between the allied nations of the Global Defence Initiative (GDI) 
 and the shadowy superpower known as The Brotherhood of Nod has escalated into a worldwide conflict. 
 Both factions fight over Tiberium, an enigmatic green crystal of alien origin that is both ultimate 
 resource and the worst environmental disaster in history. Earth has been divided into three different 
 zones: Blue Zones are under control of the GDI and are still free from Tiberium. Yellow Zones are 
 covering a much larger area and is partly inhabitable, but mostly controlled by NOD. Red Zones 
 do not support human life and are too contaminated with Tiberium. In time you'll notice that an 
 alien race called SCRIN is also after Tiberium and soon humanity finds itself struggling for survival 
 of their species. At times the story gets a little thick to say the least, but it's funny and keeps 
 you entertained all the way through.
  
  Story is told through live action video cutscenes with real actors and this aspect alone makes 
 C&C3 different from most games today. Cutscenes are made well and all actors do their job like 
 a professional would. It's this ambition and seriousness that makes these short episodes so funny. 
 At times you'll find yourself completing missions just to be able to see that next hilarious cutscene. 
 My only complaint is the lack of subtitles, but luckily this is not a huge problem, since the spoken 
 language is clear and easy to understand.
  
  In C&C series you can always play both sides of the conflict (or 3 sides in this case) , but in 
 the beginning you can only play as a commander for GDI, while NOD and SCRIN campaigns are unlocked 
 later. Maybe it's for the better, because this forces you to first learn the ropes and get into 
 the story before exploring multiple sides of this global war.
  
  Graphics are colorful and detailed and it's almost always clear on what unit you're commanding 
 or fighting against. Only infantry units tend to be so small that it might be hard to tell them 
 apart from their appearance alone. Luckily every unit always tells you what they are as soon as 
 you select it. Animations are nicely done and all in all C&C3 looks just as good as you would a 
 modern real time strategy game (RTS) to look. Frame rate issues are also kept to a minimum when 
 comparing to EA's previous game Battle for Middle-Earth II. Loading times are also shorter than 
 before, but still they take way too long and it can really test your patience at times. I hope 
 that this problem comes to an end after November 19th, when you are able to download a game into 
 Xbox360's hard drive.
  
  Sound design is that one aspect you'll appreciate the most, if you have ever played a C&C game 
 before. Music is appropriately sci-fi and stays in the background letting you to focus on the action. 
 Sound effects are also nicely done: every unit sounds different and it's also a nice way to tell 
 them apart from other units. Only the sounds of gunfire, cannons and explosions seem to be the 
 same in all types of units.
  
  But what about the controls? An RTS game on consoles can easily fall on its face, if the controls 
 are too clunky and hard to handle. At first I must say that controlling your army is much better 
 than it was in Battle for Middle-Earth II, but still it requires a lot of practicing to handle 
 effectively and especially in the first few missions it's easy to give wrong orders under stress. 
 Still I think that this is the way future RTS games on consoles will be played and it works. I 
 also wait eagerly on how the concept of voice command works in Tom Clancy's EndWar.
  
  Game progresses mostly in a linear fashion from mission to mission, but occasionally you can make 
 a choice about which mission to take. There is plenty of gaming here: 17 missions in GDI's campaign, 
 17 in NOD's campaign and 4 missions to play as SCRIN. Structure of your assignments is very repetitive 
 falling into 1 of 3 categories: 1) attack somewhere with a large force, 2) defend something with 
 a small force or 3) build a base and annihilate the enemy. Despite of this it's unlikely that you 
 would get bored.
  
  GDI's units are large in size and numbers, but also slow to build and slow to move. NOD relies 
 on fast moving light units and sneak attacks while SCRIN brings that futuristic sci-fi feel to 
 this package. It can take a while for you to learn the strengths and weaknesses of different units, 
 but its well worth it. Only the GDI's Mammoth Tank feels unbalanced: it takes 4 of them to completely 
 destroy a NOD base on Normal.
  
  Save system is just like it should be: there's an autosave after every successful mission, but 
 you can also save manually anytime anywhere. Only downside is that saving and loading takes too 
 long. Difficulty level is also mostly done well. On Easy it's pretty much just a fun joyride, on 
 Normal you need to think in advance, but a hardcore gamer takes the challenge and plays on Hard.
 
  
  C&C3 of course features online multiplayer with modes like Versus, King of The Hill, Capture and 
 Hold, Capture the Flag and Siege. Up to 4 people can battle against each other and usually matches 
 are fast-paced skirmishes where players try to a) build an acceptable defence and at the same time 
 b) train enough units to attack others. There's also a voice chat and a support for Xbox Live Vision 
 Camera, but I don't think they will be a huge hit in a game like this, except if people are playing 
 2 vs. 2 matches with friends.
  
  EA succeeds in its task to bring RTS games on consoles with Command & Conquer 3: Tiberium Wars. 
 If you enjoy strategy games and are willing to learn a new kind of control scheme I can assure 
 you that C&C3 with over 30 missions will keep you busy for quite some time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matchpenalty11
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 7, 2008 5:52 pm PT
Review:  Setting: 
  Command and Conquer 3 takes place in the year 2047. The world is now divided into blue, yellow, 
 and red zones. Red zones have completely succumbed to tiberium infestation. Yellow zones are dangerously 
 infested with Tiberium and house most of the worlds population. These yellow zones are war torn 
 and controlled mostly by the Brotherhood of Nod. Blue Zones are the only places in the world free 
 of Tiberium and are completely controlled by GDI.
  
  Story:
  The story starts with Nod launching a nuclear attack on GDI starting the 3rd Tiberium War. Unlike 
 previous games in the series both campaigns feature the same story from two different points of 
 view as opposed to GDI having the canon story and Nod having an "alternate story".
  
  Gameplay: 
  Features your typical Command and Conquer gameplay. The original Command and Conquer 
 interface returns to the series. Also introduces a 3rd faction to the Tiberium universe called 
 the Scrin. The Scrin are an alien race responsible for planting Tiberium on Earth.
  
  Overall: 9/10
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: smalls5
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 2, 2008 6:53 pm PT
Review:  Alright i have to ssay this game is pretty difficult so if you are not very experienced i wouldnt 
 reccomend this. But this games is just a treat to anyone who is good at RTS's. The command systen 
 is so innovative and the powers make it feel like you are part of the fight. Honestly, this is 
 a GREAT example of how an RTS should work on a console. When i bought this i was skeptical about 
 how this would work because all the other RTS's i had played were on the PC and i didnt know how 
 this would work on a controller. but the gameplay is amazing and the command systen is so simple. 
 the units are great (i prefer GDI's mammoth tanks and juggernauts) the command system is simple, 
 the powers work out greatly, the storyline is a little "bleh", and the acting in the cutscenes 
 is a little iffy but this game is just amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tandemconfusion
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 3, 2008 5:39 pm PT
Review:  It made me have faith in the ability of programmers to make the insurmountable look easy. I was 
 very skepticle of anyone making this work much less make it work with style. It's not then precision 
 that will make it accessible for everyone, but it gives people a fighting chance to kick ass! Finally 
 a plce where orcas and mammoths can fight harpies and oblesiks in perfect harmony the way God had 
 intended. Tiberium is a plot device that shows the greed and inhumane aura that almost every one 
 exudes and in a military perspective it's a means to channel your true inner self in the name of 
 human preservation. War can reveal all things that no one can deny inside the human soul and it 
 is through war that humanity manifests itself. The opportunity to take this on off the computer 
 gives me hope that C&C to more people who can really enjoy a world full of destruction! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: il_dottore
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 3, 2008 5:19 am PT
Review:  I was a fan of C&C series from the first chapter of the saga.
  I think Westwood did a great work, EA it's still trying to catch the spirit of the series.
  
 
  After Generals that disappointed some players because of the innovative play style, EA go back 
 to the origin implementing a old but effective game style.
  No more workers and free building, but again all the constructions are built by the construction 
 yard.
  We have some news here. Players can build a crane to gain an additional construction queue and 
 every unit building structure have his own separate queue.
  So now there's a real advantage in building two war factories or multiple barracks.
  
  Buildings 
 can be built only in the control area, to expand his base a player have two options. Building another 
 MCV vehicle or building a mobile outpost. Outposts can be deployed to permit a further base expansion 
 to get control of other tiberium fields. 
  
  Most of the deployable units now can be also packed back to move around the map.
  
  Speaking 
 of the game itself we can say the old C&C feeling is back. The management of the units it's pretty 
 similar, but now infantry come in small units (four of five single soldier most of the time) and 
 have some abilities. Speaking of abilities, now some units are able to unleash special attacks, 
 call for transports or upgrade themselves (like nod avatar) and some units will work in conjunction 
 with other units (like GDI sniper team and walkers) . This add some edge to the game, permitting 
 to vary the strategy, even using the same units.
  Another new feature are the upgrades. Tech center have now some options to increase unit effectiveness, 
 installing for example railguns on GDI tanks or laser capacitators on NOD units.
  
  The campaign is satisfactory but not awesome. At medium difficult is pretty easy to predict the 
 AI moves and react consequently. Campaign AI it's, to be truthful, very shallow and will attack 
 most of the times with the same pattern. The difficulty of the campaign is most of the time the 
 initial situation. Player start the mission in a crappy situation and have hard time in the first 
 stage. In late game it's pretty easy to crush the opponents just spamming powerful units.
  Another great defect is the uselessness of infantry units. Most of them (except some specials units 
 like NOD shadow team or GDI Zone Troopers) can be replaced in late game with vehicles that do the 
 same things better. 
  
  The xbox version it's a bit hard to master. Playing with xbox controller it's not the best way 
 of managing units but it's, after all, functional. Sometimes it's not easy to make the units move 
 where the player wants and sometimes it's hard to understand what's happening on the screen because 
 of the massive exchange of volley of bullets, missiles and laser beams.
  
  Beyond this small defects and balancing problems, C&C 3 it's a enjoyable game, full of intriguing 
 missions and provide a good game experience. It's far to be the ultimate strategy game but provide 
 a good entertainment after all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JSHEATZ
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 28, 2008 2:24 pm PT
Review:  Command and Conquer 3: Tiberium Wars is the best Real-Time Strategy for a console to date without 
 argument. This game is simply incredible, not perfect, but incredible. If you are a big RTS fan 
 like myself then you will definitely enjoy this game.
  
  There are three factions to choose from the SCRIN which is an alien race, the GDI which is the 
 good guys like the US, Britain, Israel; and Brotherhood of NOD which is the anti-good guys/terrorist 
 group nations like Russia, Iran, N. Korea, etc.
  
  The controls work very good for this game. You can rotate the camera in a 360 degree axis and zoom 
 in and out very easily. Slight lag at times when the screen is totally full of troops but not that 
 often.
  
  Multiplayer is very fun, but watch out for rushers. :) Single Player Campaign is also fun. And 
 of course you can play custom games which are always a hit.
  
  Overall this game is very fun and great for a console RTS, I highly recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Supaza
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 25, 2008 4:59 am PT
Review:  The new instalment to the Command and Conquer franchise that feels almost nothing like a command 
 and conquer game. It might be because I played the game on a console rather than a PC but in all 
 honesty, I was hugely disappointed. 
  Set many years after the original C&C games, Tiberium Wars plays out the return of Kane and the 
 battles begin all over again. It's a strategy game and they are not renowned for having the best 
 of stories or plotlines. C&C is no exception, however what little they do have is actually pathetic 
 and annoying. You can play as three factions; Nod, GDI and a new alien race all of which have differing 
 units, pros and cons. Lets break down the story. Basically, where previous games threw in cut scenes 
 to layout the forthcoming mission, for some bizarre reason EA thought they would include live action, 
 film like sequences. This means that in between levels you're briefed by bad acting in poor sets 
 and in appalling costumes. Its frustratingly bad and could easily have been avoided by simply sticking 
 with CG versions. What makes this even more annoying is that the game doesn't actually look that 
 realistic. While the terrain you find yourself in looks impressive, the units and buildings look 
 like toys; Micro-machines even. Its way to big a contrast between the live action cut scenes and 
 the toy like game play. Combine that with levels that all look pretty similar, un-inspiring (or 
 cool looking) units and very limited base construction and the game is very shallow. While I remember 
 C&C games where you could build expansive bases with concrete wall defences and hundreds of troops, 
 C&C 3 Tiberium wars looks like a little, immature child in comparison to its much older prequel 
 brothers. Added to that, EA games felt like they needed to incorporate an alien race into the mix. 
 That, I think was a dumb move. The alien race is badly designed, not much fun to play with and 
 ruin the whole mood of the game. I know this is a matter of opinion and that others may disagree 
 however I cannot help but feel betrayed at the poor attempt to recreate a classic RTS by adding 
 pointless features and removing some of the best elements of the original. 
  Overall the game is a waste of time. The campaign is short (all three) and uninspiring. Though 
 the game looks good, the units are poorly designed (particularly Nod and Aliens) . They are all 
 just don't look nearly as good as the original "mini-gunners" or "flame troopers". All EA needed 
 to do was revamp the old game with a new engine and a few new units and people would have been 
 happy. Keeping the old format but adding new story missions, units, buildings and environments 
 all on a next gen engine would have been awesome. Instead, EA tried to fix what wasn't broken and 
 made a hash of it. In my opinion. They took away the best elements of the originals and added trash. 
 Let's hope better will come of Red Alert 3. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: APOWDEREDDONUT1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 4, 2008 4:09 pm PT
Review:  Xbox 360 owners are in for a treat with Tiberium Wars. First and foremost, it's an excellent real-time 
 strategy game that features an intense story and a well-rounded set of multiplayer options. It's 
 spirited and fun, and a great way for console enthusiasts to experience the fast and frantic action 
 of a Command & Conquer game. Yet it's no mean feat that it plays so well without a mouse and keyboard. 
 
  
  By using an intuitive control scheme similar to Electronic Arts' own Battle for Middle-earth 2, 
 Command & Conquer 3 Tiberium Wars proves that strategy has a big role to play on consoles. If you 
 have an Xbox 360 and even the remotest interest in earth-shattering explosions or campy science 
 fiction, you owe it to yourself to pick up a copy. 
  
  When playing the campaign, you're rewarded with a whole lot of live-action video in between missions, 
 featuring familiar actors getting hammy in near-future command centers. There's never been anything 
 subtle about Command & Conquer's full-motion video in its previous PC incarnations, and true to 
 form, the campaigns are loaded with wonderfully overblown sequences filled with intrigue and suspense. 
 
  
  Actor Joe Kucan has returned as Nod figurehead Kane, and he's as irresistibly creepy as ever. He 
 and other familiar actors serve up a heaping of extravagant solemnity against a backdrop of flashing 
 lights and important-looking video screens. 
  
  If you think it sounds over the top, you'd be right -- but it's cheesy in a good way, and it won't 
 take you long to get involved in the story and the characters that drive it. The narrative is structured 
 well, with the Global Defense Initiative and Brotherhood of Nod campaigns telling the same story 
 from opposing viewpoints. There's also a new player in the mix: the alien Scrin race. At this stage 
 in the series, the mineral tiberium has propagated over most of the Earth, but it's more than just 
 an environmental plight -- it's a key to future technology. It'll take you a couple dozen hours to 
 get through the campaigns, and just when you think you've finished, there are a few surprise missions 
 in store, and they are well worth the time it takes to unlock them. There are also plenty of reasons 
 to return to the campaign once you're done, since the game rewards you with medals based on your 
 performance. 
  
  The missions themselves are incredibly varied and involve a lot more than destroying an enemy base 
 or defending a particular structure. You'll have to do these things, of course, but you have both 
 primary and secondary objectives to complete, and they include using engineers to capture certain 
 buildings, amassing beam cannons to take out defenses, or teaming up with your sworn enemy to defend 
 against alien attacks. You'll be doing it all in a variety of real-world theaters, such as Washington, 
 DC; downtown Sydney; and the eerily dry Amazon basin. The near-future take on familiar locales 
 makes the intense battles feel even more thrilling because the settings are recognizable and meaningful. 
 
  
  This bittersweet victory brings GDI far more than it bargained for. 
  That's not to say the combat isn't gripping on its own. If you're inclined to turtle up in real-time 
 strategy games, you'll be in for a surprise: Battles are intense and focused, and they give you 
 little time to prepare. Like most strategy games, Tiberium Wars still requires you to build up 
 resources, but it's a quick process of plopping down a bunch of tiberium refineries and power generators 
 and then finding the action, because if you don't, the action will quickly find you. Once you get 
 past the first two acts of each campaign, you'll discover that Tiberium Wars' artificial intelligence 
 is aggressive and resourceful, and it will take advantage of your strategic flaws. Don't expect 
 to put your trust in one or two favored units, because even the most powerful units have noticeable 
 weaknesses. 
  
  It's a rusher's paradise, but you shouldn't take it to mean that technological advancement and 
 thoughtful strategy don't have their places. You won't need to deal with long and complex tech 
 trees, but you do have multiple powers and upgrades to earn by building various structures. The 
 powers run the gamut from GDI's powerful ion strike to Nod's vapor bomb, and they fit each faction 
 perfectly. As you use units, they level up, making them more effective in battle, and there are 
 some cases where you improve units by more unconventional means. For example, you can use a Nod 
 warmech to destroy your own flame tank, and the mech will then spew fire in addition to its own 
 native attack. 
  
  How differently each faction plays is impressive. GDI units tend to be straightforward and powerful, 
 and a huge force of mammoth tanks and juggernauts is a challenge to counter. Nod relies on sneakiness 
 and smart use of unique abilities, and a small force of stealth tanks and viper bombers can cripple 
 an enemy's economy. But playing as the Scrin is Tiberium Wars' greatest delight and challenge, 
 since the alien faction is so different from the others. Your first encounters with the Scrin in 
 the campaign are breathtaking, since even low-level units like buzzers look interesting and intimidating. 
 In fact, the most threatening sight within the game is a fleet of Scrin assault carriers and their 
 accompanying fighters. Yet while the Scrin have some potent units and other advantages, such as 
 the ability to collect endless tiberium without building silos, they require a lot of micromanagement 
 and intimate knowledge of each unit and structure. 
  
  With all of these aspects of the gameplay remaining intact from the PC version, it's hard to imagine 
 handling all of the units and commands without the benefit of a keyboard and mouse. Yet there's 
 very little awkward about the controls in the 360 version. The side bar of the PC edition has been 
 moved to the bottom left of the screen, and you can access your build queues and special powers 
 by pulling the right trigger and scrolling through the options with the D pad. 
  
  Movement and attack orders are as simple as pressing the A button, and even tasks like creating 
 control groups or performing special moves are easy and instinctive to pull off. It is definitely 
 a compromise, and selecting smaller groups of units on the fly isn't particularly easy, but overall 
 the controls work just fine. Placing structures is often a pain, too, since the game is picky about 
 where you can put them. Positioning something as simple as a turret or a power plant can take multiple 
 tries, and it's never clear exactly why you can't put certain buildings in certain places, particularly 
 when the terrain is smooth and the area is totally free of nearby obstructions. 
  
  C&C3 is also home to an impressive set of multiplayer options. You've got the standard versus option, 
 which lets you skirmish against other players or the CPU. There are also king-of-the-hill and capture-and-hold 
 modes, which require you to hold certain spots on the map to attain victory. These options are 
 the best of the bunch, not only because of the added strategic dimension, but also because the 
 action is focused and intense as players struggle to maintain control. There is also a siege mode, 
 which keeps you and your opponent from attacking until the timer is up. It's interesting to play, 
 given the game's rush-friendly design, but it also allows players to pit high-level units against 
 each other without worry of early bombardments. The final mode is capture the flag, which functions 
 much like it does in first-person shooters. 
  
  There are a good number of maps for up to four players, and with so many ways of playing, you're 
 bound to get a good deal of mileage from the multiplayer. You can even connect your Xbox Live Vision 
 Cam should you wish to make rude gestures at your opponent. 
  
  In many ways, Tiberium Wars looks really good, particularly the unit designs. Scrin annihilator 
 tripods lumber about with a commanding attitude, GDI orca bombers circle in believable formations, 
 and Nod avatar warmechs advance with heft. Their stature and fantastical nature fit perfectly with 
 the over-the-top nature of the action, as do the titanic nuclear explosions and lightning strikes. 
 
  
  In the most extreme battles, your screen will fill with mighty blasts and streams of lasers, as 
 if you were the main player in a sci-fi action film. The visuals look washed out, though, so many 
 of the effects aren't as vibrant as they could be. More noticeably, the frame rate suffers from 
 regular and frustrating slowdown, particularly when there are a lot of units onscreen.
  
  The visuals are good, though it sometimes looks like things were left out in the sun too long. 
 
  
  Bad unit voice-overs are a common annoyance in strategy games, but they're all done well in Tiberium 
 Wars. EA pinpointed just the right amount of extravagance to lavish on the sound design, from mission 
 voice-overs to the eclectic soundtrack, which is alternately tinged with orchestral fanfare and 
 heavy metal grinding. While many of the sound effects are what you would expect from standard artillery 
 and tanks, others, particularly those of the Scrin units, are ominous and appropriately alien. 
 
  
  There's a good set of achievements to unlock, including a few zero-point ones that pop up should 
 you lose a few too many multiplayer games in a row or bypass the tutorial mission. But it's all 
 just icing on the proverbial cake, since playing Tiberium Wars is a reward unto itself. Not only 
 is it a great game, but it's a great example of a console RTS done right. If you've never played 
 a Command & Conquer game before, there's no better time than the present. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KDoddsy
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 4, 2008 8:27 am PT
Review:  i like the C&C's you are going to love tiberuim wars this C & C is one of the best games of he 
 C & C games so far. this game has mant modes of difficulty so you can play at any level which you 
 would want to play. online this game also has great multiplayer!!!! if you like games like this 
 i hope you get it!!!!!
  grows on to  playing.
  
  idont read this
  omg g g g g g gg g g g g g g g g g gg g g g g g g g gg gg ggggg g g g g gg g 
 g gg g g gg ggggg gggggn ggggg ggggg ggg ggg ggg ggg ggg ggg ggg ggg ggg ggg ggg ggg ggg gggg gggg 
 gggg ggggg gggg ggg ggggg gggg gg ggg gg 
  Your review contains a single word over 25 characters in length. This can cause problems for certain 
 browsers, and is not allowed.
  
  When writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. 
 We encourage you to try to get your review right the first time - you may choose to edit it later 
 on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage 
 you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy 
 and paste it into the posting box below. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cthunder26
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 29, 2008 7:55 am PT
Review:  Command and conquer three is definitely an amazing game. Along with a great story line the mere 
 graphics of the game are simply unreal yet are very realistic at the same time. I guess what I'm 
 trying to say here is that the game is so unreal that it is scary real. Also the addition of new 
 units and a new third army also add to the twists and turns of command and conquer three. By the 
 way guys this is where the spoilers happen. As we all know, command and conquer: the tiberium wars, 
 is an ever lasting battle between the good and strong forces of the GDI and the sneaky conniving 
 brotherhood of NOD. Command and Conquer three is no different. Kane is back (even though he supposedly 
 died in the second one) and is even more hell bend on conquering the world and taking the Tiberium 
 because he thinks that it is his and his brothers destiny to do so. The good powerful forces of 
 the GDI think the complete opposite and want to eliminate it from the face of the Earth. As you 
 can see two powerful factions have two extreme opinions and since each has its own army, the third 
 tiberium war begins (with the shooting of the space station The Philadelphia) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcthpro
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 22, 2008 5:43 pm PT
Review:  i could try kane wrath for story on 360 & try to kick some people ass on mutlipalyer i can't wait 
 red alert 3 & supreme commander & all new strategy game Like Halo wars Ea Games for once did good 
 quality by buy the Concept of Westwood studio wich is now dead and stick it with nice graphic
 
  unlike old game of ea game wich we know 50% of there game are half good as they shoudl be Halo 
 wars gona be a good game i bet
  The Story is Great I couldnt' see any better Story for C&C 3 
  The Deep Story of C&C Match but 
 there confusion with people
  From tiberium sun we know kane as : a metal & back from ion cannon back then and this is after 
 tiberiun sun and he look totaly human but same stuff happen again in kane wrath and now he is more 
 then never Going to kill you
  with is great evil plan 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: alexmurray
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 15, 2008 5:27 pm PT
Review:  We all know that most games that come out of EA are garbage, but this game along with lord of the 
 rings battle for middle earth 2 have redfined console RTS's. The game, that uses the same control 
 sceam as LOTR includes three factions. GDI a bit like the US. Nod a terroist orrginization and 
 a new faction to the series the scrin. The scrin are very overpowed they are the kings of air and 
 land combat and their untis can crush the enemy. (like the Dwaves in LOTR)
  This game basicly takes the superb LOTR and makes it even better. It is curently the number I played 
 co0nsole RTS on the Xbox 360 and will probably remain there untill the upcoming HALO WARS. Besides 
 the overpowed scrin, the ability to spam units and a extreamly hard campaign. this game is a must 
 buy for 360 owners.
  
  PS Dont buy the map pack nobody plays it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XPHOBOS666X
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 13, 2008 4:58 am PT
Review:  I've played RTS since i can remember, Starting with C&C RA and Star Trek: Armada to Rise of Nations 
 and now Command and Conquer Tiberium Wars. I didn't think a RTS for the Xbox 360 was going to be 
 so easy to play, it really feels like I'm playing it on my PC. Only the thing missing is the click 
 and drag, but still I managed without it. The graphics are great, i love getting in fire-fights 
 with ground forces. The single-player is great, i love the live-action acting, get that CGI stuff 
 out. I love that C&C is the only game with that type of cut-scene. Playing against the computer 
 is, well fun, instead of the old C&C3 where the Computer cheats and starts out with a full base, 
 this one plays fair and gives you a chance. Overall, if your looking for a great RTS stick with 
 the name that has always delivers Command & Conquer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rotary101
Rating: 9
Date: May 12, 2008 4:42 am PT
Review:  Command and Conquer 3 is a great game and by far the most playable RTS game on any console till 
 now. The story is good and the cutscenes like usual are shot in real life and they look really 
 good, but some of the actors are a bit over the top.
  
  The factions have a varied and great amount of units and they all fit each faction nicely. The 
 Scrin faction is really spooky but their units look great. Ea ch factions units play quite differently. 
 GDi units are powerful, the Nod units are speedy and depend on stealth and other sneaky tactics 
 while the Scrin units are also powerful but rely on each other to take any enemy down.
  
  The controls are intuitive but at first they are a bit difficult to get the hang of.
  But there 
 is a tutorial that helps players to learn the controls.
  
  The game looks great and the effects are really good, although the game looks so good, the PC version 
 still has better graphics. The game sounds terrific and large battles are amazing to hear. The 
 music is also quite good.
  
  This is a great RTS game and it is easily one of the best games in the Command and Conquer series. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yourtoast
Rating: 9
Date: May 10, 2008 8:54 pm PT
Review:  C&C 3 is a pretty great game. For an RTS it was done amazingly so it would work on Xbox 360 and 
 it does. Some parts are quite easy but on rare occasions it can get fairly hard. The campaign is 
 long enough and has 3 different views on the war, those being GDI, NOD, and the Scrin. The custom 
 games are really customizable down to even picking the AIs personality. The only problem with custom 
 games is that they are pretty easy until you get to the difficulty of brutal which is quite unfair. 
 The AI gets double the resource and seems to know your every move. It is quite intuitive, there 
 are lots of powers and there are lots of units which each have there own advantages and disadvantages, 
 that are really entertaining to watch roll over. The online play is mediocre because no-one actually 
 plays they just build hundreds of one type of super unit which is boring. Overall it is a good 
 game and if your on the edge i would say go for it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: centruroides
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 17, 2008 1:49 pm PT
Review:  Come on where has u ever played a bad command and conquer game!
  even tho we have a console RTS, but EA has done great work adapting em with the controller.
  
 
  ive never been a CnC fan, but always known n tought of em as good games, this 1 was the 1st i played 
 as my own n i rly liked it.
  
  as mostly RTS r long enough, so, worth the money, skirmish games r great n actually, very fun, 
 no mention online
  
  we have the GDI n NOD... n a new alien race, virtually, they have the same buildings (a building 
 2 infantry, another 1 2 vehicules, another 1 2 aircraft........) , but obviusly, diferent shape, 
 but, is useful 2 have a equilibrate game.
  
  the game is a blast:
  -descent graphics
  -good units distribution
  -single player is very good, as its story line
  -contrasting another 
 RTS, this game regenerate resourses, so, u dont have problems making massive armies... since ur 
 enemy also can do that.
  -the "superweapon" option makes a game that rly takes off ur breath (ya, its displayed the time 
 left 2 be striken by a superweapon, that can blast half of ur base n u can stop it)
  -the controller works just fine
  
  WARNING:
  hours will flow faster when u start playing
 
  
  still here!?, go n get it!, this game rly worth it
  peace out
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: matthewcarlson
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 29, 2008 1:46 pm PT
Review:  reminds of the good old days when red alert came out and when nintendo 64 had the command and conquer 
 games with it. the game brings out all the childhood memories in all of us if we were c&c fans. 
 love the graffics was a little worried about them to see if microsoft can make it good or not and 
 they succeded at it. game play takes a while getting used to if only u played on computers with 
 the game. But within an hour or two u can get a hang of this. Multi player is awsome its nice when 
 you and your opponent set a time laps before you attack each other and sit back and build. I find 
 the single player a little difficult cause u really got to now what ur doing and it makes it hard 
 when ur harvester always dies before anything else. but i give it to this game it might have some 
 down sides but its got more goods then bads 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jason320
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 26, 2008 5:03 pm PT
Review:  C&C 3 on the 360 is basically the same as on the PC. I found it a bit harder because the controls 
 were not as tight as a keyboard and a mouse. Sometimes you would take so long to send out your 
 units that by the time your units get to your opponents base your taost. Thats another factor in 
 this game the a i opponent is way to hard. It is even hard when you play on easy. The cutscenes 
 were a little cheesy and so was the story, but its a typical C&C story that features the same characters 
 as in the last one (Tiberian Sun) back in the day for the PC. Although this game suffers from some 
 issues the graphics and sound effects aren t as bad. Im sure that you would probably ejoy this 
 more for the PC because of the controls. Otherwise there isn t any major issues that make this 
 game bad. This is a game that is worth a try for any rts fan that is looking for a real challenge. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GreekflameX
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 26, 2008 11:12 am PT
Review:  Command and Conquer 3 is arguably one of the best RTS games for the 360. However, if your making 
 this argument you should walk to your bathroom, stick your head in the toilet and flush until all 
 the air has left your lungs. Tiberium Wars isn't a bad game, but it is by no means a good game. 
 In fact, let me tell you this in story form.
  
  Little Billy and his magical journey through Command and Conquer 3 Tiberium Wars.
  
  It was 
 little Billy's birth day and one of his presents was Command and Conquer 3. Billy rushed to his 
 room and put the game in his Xbox 360. Billy began playing it and he was having fun, but then something 
 happened. He had been playing for about two hours now and it wasn't fun, it was infuriatingly hard. 
 Then Billy got angry he began throwing his controller and screaming. He then ripped his Xbox out 
 of the wall and began beating himself to death with it.
  
  This is, of course, a complete dramatization but I think you get the point. Command and Conquer 
 3 is a fun game, at first, but as soon as you get more than two hours into either the NOD or GDI 
 campaign you will want to hurt yourself. If you want to have any fun with this game at all you 
 have to play skirmish mode. Skirmish is the only mode I've had any fun with in the past for a long 
 time. You can battle up to three other ai players on a variety of multiplayer maps.
  
  As far as controls and game play go their both good, except for the over whelming difficulty of 
 campaign as I've said over and over again and the graphics are good. There is one map pack you 
 cane buy, but there is really only one good map out of five. There are very few achievements for 
 this game, I only have three. All in all this is an O. K. game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Battlefront21
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 15, 2008 4:49 pm PT
Review:  So you wanna by a game for ur xbox 360, but there is so much stuff to get, then wat do u get? Command 
 and Conquer 3, this game has an amazing storyline right from the introduction of Killian, to the 
 ion cannon blast on temple prime, to the tower. for online play this game has some decent maps 
 but wat i would have liked to see is online campaign were u could take control of blue zones and 
 stuff, but sadly they dont have that and that is my only real complaint. for old fans of the series 
 u will be happy to see that there is sill tanks and units from the original games, such as the 
 mammoth tank and the stealth tank. But now there is a whole new faction fighting and the story 
 about this faction and wat they want is amazing and everything just goes along great so overall 
 thisone of my favorite games on the 360 although it is better on th pc i still give it so i give 
 it a 9.0/10 its the perfect RTS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zekere
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 11, 2008 10:51 am PT
Review:  There's much discussion about RTS games on a console . And yes, all issues regarding RTS games 
 on a console count in this version of Command and Conquer . However, C&C3 is an incredible game 
 that I enjoyed from beginning to end . A long journey, as the game is quite big . There's a single 
 achievement when you complete the game worth 220 points that I thought was easy money, but I would 
 prove wrong . The single player campaigns are long and quite difficult, even on the easy difficulty 
 setting (although I played on hard) . The control scheme works fine, but it fails to a mouse and 
 keyboard, especially as the game can be really intense from time to time and you have to do much 
 on a short time . And time is an important resource in this game, as winning or losing a mission 
 mostly depends on how quick you are . 
  Strange enough, as a real strategy lover who enjoys the strategic element more than the action 
 element, I loved the fact-paced action this game has . 
  Each faction feels and plays completely different . It's a joy to find out the strengths and weaknesses 
 of each while progressing through the exiting story . 
  Command and Conquer 3 is a good test to see the 360's memory power . During some fights, I encountered 
 serious slowdown when the enemies force started to move towards my base . The frame rate isn't 
 stable either and can drop hard from time to time . Besides these minor bugs, the graphics are 
 more than okay, with each unit nicely animated and detailed . 
  Soundwise the game is good but I still miss the great soundtracks that both the original C&C and 
 Red Alert had . 
  What part 3 has in common with the old games is the return of full motion video . Famous and less-famous 
 actors are doing their best to bring the stories alive and succeed in doing so, although it's sometimes 
 just on the edge . I still miss the in-between cutscenes introducing units etc (who remembers the 
 great Orca chopper movie from the first game) but the video is full HD quality and some of the 
 scenes are simply breathtaking (no spoilers) . 
  The game feels C&C and that's a good thing, as I missed it since C&C1 and Red Alert . While games 
 as Tiberium Sun and Generals wore the C&C brand, they didn't feel the same as the older generations 
 . It's a personal thing, probably . 
  Anyway, anybody looking for a real challenge on the xbox must try this game out . It's a fast-paced, 
 intense and great strategy game . And to those who wonder if the control scheme works, you'll get 
 used to it quite soon after you start the game . If you cannot enjoy this experience on the PC, 
 you'll enjoy the 360 version with as much pleasure without sacrificing much !! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pulsar123
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 8, 2008 11:57 am PT
Review:  have you ever felt of creating your own army and destroying or cnquering the world?... well command 
 and conquer 3 is the right game for you. There is just no other RTS game that can compete with 
 C&C3 (command and conquer 3) . THere are three different groups or army's that you can play as. You 
 can either play as the GDI, Nod, or the alien army Scrin. THey allhave different objectives. But 
 what is even better is that you can play on Xbox live (you have to have a gold membership) and verse 
 other people. You can put your own strategy against other people and see if it works. Last but 
 not least once you start playing this game you will not be able to stop playing. Oh!... I almost 
 forgot. The best thing about this game is that even if your brother, sister, mother, dad, wife, 
 husband, or even a grandparent is playing and will not let you play it is just fun to watch and 
 help them by telling them what too do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nobdow
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 6, 2008 7:26 pm PT
Review:  Campaign It has been 16 years since the end of the last C&C game. You start in the years 2047 assuming 
 the leader of the Brother Hood of NOD (the bad guys) is dead. At the outset of the game GDI's (Global 
 Defense Initiative the good guys) headquarters the Philadelphia is annihilated by a NOD nuke and 
 that triggers the third tiberium war. At this time the Earth is divided into 3 zones. Blue zones 
 are tiberium free and are protected by GDI. Yellow zones are partially infested with tiberium are 
 mostly controlled by the Brother Hood of NOD. Red zones are completely contaminated with tiberium 
 and cannot contain human life. The live action cut scenes between the missions are cheese but in 
 a good way. There are three difficult setting easy, normal, and hard. There are also bonus ribbons 
 to be earned. There almost 40 campaign missions including the GDI and Nod campaigns and the Scrin 
 (alien race determined to annihilate every thing) mini campaign. Most of them include one of a 
 few simple types of missions. In RTS it is not as much what you do but how you do it. Every side 
 has it's own special forces, distinctive abilities, and play styles. It will require several different 
 units to be successful; because every unit has another unit it is weak and strong against. The 
 campaign will take a minimum of twelve hours depending on the difficulty to finish. Online Multiplayer 
 There five ways to play online matches including skirmish, king of the hill and others. You can 
 also play against the computer. On the PC there is an online matchmaking services that will find 
 you a game, but it has been plagued with technical problems. Hopefully the will fix the problems 
 soon. On the Xbox 360 you can also play online and it is relatively easy to find a match. There 
 are a number of maps to play with their own unique style and feel. There are also more available 
 on Xbox Live. You can play as all three fractions. The fractions are different enough and have 
 enough special units to keep you playing for hours. Overall Occasionally the frame rate slows down 
 especially if too many enemies are in the map. Most of the big battles look amazing with all of 
 the laser fire, explosions, and builds being leveled. The game is some times picky to where you 
 can place structures, and the graphics look slightly washed out, but it is a great game for RTS 
 masters and players new to the genre. If you have never played a Command and Conquer game now is 
 the time.
  
  Story 9.5
  Gameplay 9
  Presentation 9.5
  Design 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Richmaester6907
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 12, 2008 2:19 pm PT
Review:  Command and Conquer 3 the newest installment of the command and conquer series it takes a new direction 
 from generals and goes back to the old school tiberium universe with NOD and GDI back and more 
 fun than ever!
  
  The story line itself is very well done their has been peace for many years and NOD are unseen 
 until the beginning of the story. You find yourself as a GDI commander taking the war to NOD when 
 they take control of a blue zone in northern america fighting NOD on the front lines (which is 
 very easy to do on easier modes) . Or if you go NOD you will have to use more strategic methods 
 to make your victories possible. Also the newly created scrin add a new enemy to the series, which 
 are very powerful (only if they get to their later weaponary) with a very formiddable airforce 
 and tripods that rip even mammoths tanks apart they bring a new combat element to the game.
  
  Although their are some balance issues with the three sides for example NOD have almost useless 
 infantry besides the shadow teams and the commando. GDI having a full steamroller army but a very 
 poor airforce and air defence for that matter. And the scrin who start off very weak with their 
 beginning forces but can become the most formiddable enemy in the entire game unless rushed over.
 
  
  Now the campaign has very fun and confronting missions but what about multiplayer. via XBOX LIVE 
 their are a variaty of game modes and many maps too choose from you can either do a basic 1vs1 
 or 4vs4 all on all. You dont even have to play against people just take a friend and take the fight 
 to a Brutal AI on steamroller that would be a brilliant sight to see. 
  
  In conclusion C&C3 is a fun game with many hours of gameplay instore dispire small miss balances 
 every army is very formiddable if used in the correct way. EA has done well so far with this new 
 installment taken in a brighter direction than generals did.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Madbhal402
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 26, 2008 6:33 pm PT
Review:  Command and conquer 3 is an RTS game made by EA LA in 2007. It is the first command and conquer 
 game the continues the Original series in almost 10 years. So many dont know what it is. this game 
 has a rich story about a union of countries called GDI and an Evil group called NOD. they are fighting 
 over an alien substance called tiberium it is a crystal formed resource that is destroying the 
 Earth. So GDI is fighting to destroy it and Nod thinks that it is the Next catalyst in human Evolution. 
 The campaign will to you over 20 hours to finish on the Medium difficulty levels. Their are many 
 unis to go around on both sides. with GDi being more straight forward and powerful while NOD is 
 more stealthily. They surprisinglyeven out really good. With the single said Muliplayer is also 
 a surprise by being very deep and well formed. thier are quite a few maps to fight on with ground 
 control and deathmatch types to keep you playingfor a long time. Command and conquer 3 is an awesome 
 console RS and I reccomend it to anyone that loves Sc-fi and RTS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kevinakathepimp
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 24, 2008 2:37 pm PT
Review:  First, let's start with the single player campaign. It's highly addictive and pretty challenging 
 at times. The storyline is amazing.. one of the better I've seen. You can play as three different 
 factions, which are surprisingly different and balanced at the same time. Although a few missions 
 are kind of similar, it still offers hours of exciting gameplay.
  
  Overall, the single player is awesome.
  
  Now, for the multiplayer. I was a little disappointed 
 with it. When I tried to play a ranked match, within 5 minutes I was completely destroyed. The 
 only way to win a match is to rush the fastest, which leads to a very boring multiplayer. Unless 
 you play with friends who agree to not to rush you, it can be very boring and frustrating. Also, 
 during large battles with friends serious frame rate issues can occur. What seems like an epic 
 battle only lags, which is also a little disappointing.
  
  Overall, the multiplayer is fun when you're playing with friends, but ranked matches are just boring 
 and frustrating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HardcoregamerXX
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 11, 2008 7:43 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay-Command and Conquer has some insane gameplay. Especially on skirmish. You are able to 
 pick a map, up to four computers to play against, your color, and the type of playing style the 
 computers have. This offers very unique gameplay for an RTS.
  
  Graphics-Overall, the graphics aren't bad but aren't good. If I rated the graphics I'd give them 
 a 7.5.
  
  Storyline-Wow, the storyline is amazing. I don't want to give too much away, but I'll say you can 
 play with the good guys or the bad guys. Yeah, I know what your thinking, Sweeeeeeet!!!!
  
  Overall-I give this game an 8.0 because it is very unique, but it isn't the greatest RTS on the 
 XBOX 360.
  
  I do recommend this game, but only if you're a fan of strategy games. Otherwise, stick to halo 
 and cod.
  
  Thankyou for reading my review.........
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kombatmaster12
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 10, 2008 9:23 pm PT
Review:  Now most people think of Tiberium Wars to be the next biggest PC RTS game of the year. Well it 
 also brings itself home to the 360 for those of you like me with the most outdated technology. 
 This is kinda hard for me to write since I haven't played to many CAC games before.
  
  Plot: Tiberium wars takes place in the future of Earth as Nod, a mysterious group (somehow and 
 strangely obsessed with fire) of cultists and warriors plan to merge the world with Tiberium. A 
 strange gemlike substance that corrupts planets, kills life, and spreads like Gupi's in 4 weeks. 
 So the GDI the good guys are gonna go out to fight of Nod and eliminate the Tiberium from Earth 
 and save humanity. Sorta.
  
  Game Play: Those of you who have never played an RTS game before should try to understand that 
 they are medium to learn. Especially hard if you played CAC on the PC and never the 360 yet. Instead 
 of being as hard as it sounds the controls are fairly easy since most of the games actions are 
 with the A button and triggers. You still have to harvest the deadly Tiberium for money which you 
 use to build units, vehicles, structures, and more. These things all have certain properties and 
 can be leveled around with to suit your army. Instead of only having 1 army in the game now there 
 are 3 campaigns. The GDI the default, Nod, and the new race the Scrin. A mysterious alien like 
 race that uses machines and space like attacks to win their battles. Each army you can play as 
 in the Death match mode called skirmish. You enter this mode and choose your color and army type. 
 The same thing applies to the online mode. You build up your army and structures to search the 
 other team and destroy their bases. Simple but very hard to do. You can have very long skirmishes 
 sometimes up to 6 hours like me and my friends the other night. You get some new units like Avatar's 
 for the Nod, and some old favorites like the Orca Bomber for the GDI. Along with each army you 
 get a special power attack. This attack will literally cripple your enemies when you get it built 
 up. It will usually be some kind of nuke and takes usually 15 minutes to charge up. This also adds 
 to the exploration in Tiberium wars. Even though ground units may get killed easy by large things 
 they can seek out stuff like bases easier than sending in a chopper of tank. Saves time and money. 
 
  
  Audio: The sounds and noises for Tiberium Wars is great. The explosions and yells and battle noise 
 are just perfect for the game and feels very good while your yelling at your guys.
  
  Sound: Very good and sounds nice and mixes in with the perfect blend of silence and fighting music 
 as you seek out your enemies in an abandoned old little town.
  
  Graphics: Since most of the game is in a birds eye view perspective, the game zooms like a normal 
 RTS and has very good graphics on it for up close models. You will also pry like the real life 
 footage taken in the game to capture the campaign cut scenes. The graphics are just fantastic.
 
  
  Conclusion: Tiberium Wars is a great game for any RTS fan or CAC fan or just someone looking for 
 a good game. Should last you a while with it. Takes some time to beat a few matches. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZanarkandTidus
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 18, 2008 9:52 pm PT
Review:  Command and Conquer had a great story when it came out, a battle between the Global Defense Initiative (America 
 and their Allies) up against the Brotherhood of NOD (an army of terrorists who gain an almost inexhaustable 
 amount of funds through controlling 45% of Tiberium (a valuable crystal around the world) NOD brainwash 
 people into joining their cause because their leader Kane promises anyone who joins ''eternal brotherhood, no 
 more famine, no more homelessness or suffering''.
  
  Kane has also found other uses of Tiberium, such as preserving youth (Kane is the same age in the 
 year 2047 as he was in 1995) and providing unlimited energy, using Tiberium to create weapons of 
 destruction and Tiberium even has an ability to heal.
  
  The first 2 GDI vs NOD wars were in 1995 and 2030 where GDI were victorious but while Kane is still 
 alive him and his followers will never give up and the 3rd war will be fought in the year 2047 
 and you see how technology has developed so much.
  
  Also an alien race known as the Scrin has showed up to add a twist to the story, they are far more 
 advanced than GDI and NOD, and GDI have to worry about holding off this alien invasion as well as 
 dealing with Kane and his NOD army, while Kane see's the Scrin as a great ally to help fight the 
 GDI with and use their technology for control of Earth and other planets too ;)
  
  The actual gameplay is pretty much like any other C&C game, Tiberium is the only resource you need 
 to worry about harvesting, there is missions you can build a base and build up an army of forces 
 to over run the enemy, some missions you need to capture a base first, or make use with what limited 
 forces you have to eliminate an enemy presense, and using sniper type units to infiltrate areas.
 
  
  However the missions are a lot more challenging than in recent C&C games eg Tiberium Sun, Red Alert 
 2, C&C Generals etc The CPU will try to over run your base with big numbers of forces early in missions 
 so you can't be too slow, you also need to be strategic in where you place units, and which units 
 you build, how you co ordinate attacks etc.
  
  Some missions can be very challenging even on the easy difficulty as you need to protect an enemy 
 base who is trying to destroy you, and the Scrin have highly advanced aircraft that have extremely 
 long range and can damage your ground untis from a distance, and easily wipe out anti air structures 
 and destroy your buildings very quickly.
  
  You get to play the GDI and NOD campaigns which are 15 missions each, then you use the Scrin for 
 4 missions, but to keep gameplay balanced you are not given the full Scrin tech tree until the final 
 Scrin mission.
  
  The structure and unit building menu is a little more convoluted than in past C&C games, I wish 
 they kept the building menu the way it was in previous C&C games.
  
  Unit selection can be a pain, it was a great idea to allow you to select every single unit on the 
 screen with one button click, but you can only choose one unit or all the units on the screen, you 
 can't select a certain amount in between and it causes problems when you want to mobilize a certain 
 amount of units quickly.
  
  The units available take influence from the original C&C, Mammoth tanks are back for GDI, so are 
 flame, stealth and the smaller lighter tanks are back for NOD. I was disappointed the GDI Titans, and 
 NOD's Cyborgs, Cyborg Commandoes (my favorite unit in Tiberium Sun) and Tick Tanks were no longer 
 available.
  
  NOD have new Avator units, which are like giant lazer firing mechs which are a cool idea.
  
 
  The aircraft for GDI and NOD has been upgraded to the extent aircraft do a lot of damage to buildings 
 now so good air defense is a must.
  
  The GDI Ion Cannon has been upgraded so it can wipe out a large section of a base, NOD have their 
 nuclear missle launch capability there still and the Ion Cannon and Nuclear Missle can be used 
 every 6 minutes, so it adds an extra element of tactics knowing every 6 minutes your base stands 
 a chance of being destroyed if you don't take out your opponent's NOD Temple/Ion Cannon.
  
  The Scrin themselves have a Rift Creator which does as much damage as a nuclear weapon, they have 
 a mothership which can do as much damage as a nuclear weapon to a base every 20 seconds, and their 
 Tripod ground units in large numbers are almost unstoppable.
  
  GDI and NOD are fairly well balanced as they should be, the Scrin feel much more advanced than you (but 
 they should being a more advanced alien race) but like I said in single player campaign your restricted 
 to certain units when you play the Scrin campaign.
  
  The full motion video scenes are great, Kane and his female commander and lieutenant are great characters 
 and there is twists in the plot and conflict of character during the NOD campaign. When you see 
 the NOD base under attack and Kane, his commander and lieutenant under siege it adds a lot of suspense.
 
  
  The GDI mission briefings are less intense but the FMV of news reports look great and realistic 
 and I remember one news report where they reported a mistake the GDI made by destroying NOD's Tiberium 
 plants and the toxic clouds killed 25 million people, letting you see how wreckless GDI can be at 
 times, and letting you know they will sacrifise millions of innocent people to defeat NOD, and it 
 shows you war isn't completely black and white.
  
  You see beautiful FMV scenes of the galaxy during Scrin mission briefings and the Scrin higher 
 intelligence that gives you mission orders sounds almost Godly. During the Scrin campaign you also 
 see video footage of Scrin aircraft destroying cities and GDI being helpless against the speed 
 of manoeuvrability of the Scrin aircraft.
  
  The graphics during gameplay though look a little ugly.
  
  Overall if you like C&C you should 
 play this game, it is a great addition to the series in terms of story and gameplay and the twist 
 in the story will leave you eagerly anticipating the next C&C game in the series, Kane's Wrath. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vrygar777
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 7, 2008 2:46 pm PT
Review:  C&C3 is a really fun game, but is usually the same material we've played for years.
  One of the most peculiar elements of the game is the storyline, its a battle of wits until disaster 
 strikes (aside from tiberium, the Scrin) . Sure you might not be the type to appreciate storylines, 
 but consider worthwile to pay attention to at least why and what you chosen faction is trying to 
 achieve.
  Aside from Kane and his Brotherhood of Nod and GDI (Global defense intiative) theres the new addition 
 of the Scrin. The Scrin are an alien society bent on the harvesting of tiberium (or "ichor" as they 
 call it) and they'll implement any strategy possible to "remove" the indigenuous forces of that 
 planet.
  Combat is same old same old, you will build up bases around the tiberium in order to generate resources. 
 Tiberium is the key to battles, but strategy is not usually. You have your Air and Land units (no 
 navy, at least not in skirmishes) slaughter enemy defenses usually more or less with rushes or 
 steamrolling (or both) .
  AI is detailed but can be awkward at times, on lower difficulties they wont really try anything 
 drastic but higher difficulties will really make you play for real.
  One of the strongest elements is the online play, its fast, furious, and exciting, but the downfall 
 to this is most enemys (especially Nod players) will usually rush you with cheap tanks and end the 
 game early. This can be frusturating if repeated, trust me.
  Sound is OK, each unit will respond on time and you'll here there little voice of recognition, 
 but the background music is usually some kind of techno-rock music that gets old after a while.
 
  CONTROLS are good, please dont listen to PC fanboys. The controls work just fine for the controller 
 and after a few games you get really good with it.
  Overall C&C3 gets an 8.5 for some of the single greatest battles, but does'nt really add any strategy 
 to the series. The campaigns are unique and its a definite buy for any C&C fan.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: amixedgamer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 28, 2008 7:44 am PT
Review:  command and conquer 3: tiberium wars is a game that can keep you going for a few weeks and still 
 not get old. the story mode isnt much of a story mode and the live acting cutscenes is like a 1st 
 grade play. but the skirmish mode is awsome. there a good selection of maps and there are three 
 factions to choose from, and there a few ai settings that are put together very well. it can be 
 a challenge and a walk in the park if you want it to be. the graphics are very nicely put together: 
 the explosions are very very nice, and the detail on the units and buildings are quite good. the 
 sound is really good too, the sounds of gunfire and lasers are quite nicely put together. the voice 
 of the characters is nice too, but it can get annoying. C&C3: TW is a game that you should pick 
 up if you are a huge rts fan, or if your just looking for something different to play. dont pass 
 this one up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deathstrum
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 8, 2008 11:19 am PT
Review:  When i first heard that EA was yet making another C&C after the failure generals i was shocked 
 at the fact that EA would be foolish enough to release another shitty C&C wannabe.
  That changed when i played my freinds version i was instantly hooked onto it because of the fact 
 that it was a great console port. Most console RTS get poor credit because the controls are faulty 
 however this version has controls that are easy to learn and memorise.
  the game was letdown by the fact that there couldn't be to many units at the same time and in my 
 opinion that was the only downside.
  For the first time i actually enjoyed an EA game (apart from battlefeild 1942)
  
  I am thumbs 
 up for EA now :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bansheebomber
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 7, 2008 11:36 am PT
Review:  This is a truly amazing game. The story line really gets you into the game. The controll shceme 
 feels a bit wierd at first but it makes sense as you get farther in the game so dont get frustrated 
 at the start, it will all make sense later on in the game. and at $45 (tax added) this is a very 
 affordable game for what it is. the cut scens are well done but i dont like the perspective of 
 the cut scene, the graphics are good for a RTS and the zoom feature alows you to get right into 
 the battle. all in all this is a very good game, well worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ulsterdr
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 6, 2008 2:06 pm PT
Review:  I have played all kinds of console RTS games, from C&C64 to Battle for Middle Earth 2. This is, 
 by far, the best. Controls respond well, graphics are quite nice, even on a tube TV. Sound effects 
 are nice, though, some of the unit responses seem out of place in the game.
  
  My biggest problem with this game is that it was obviously designed for online/tournament play 
 in mind. Even in single player most of the levels are practically symetrical. In this game most 
 of the world is supposed to be yellow and red zones, well, you wont see much of the devastation 
 you would assume would be in areas like that.
  
  All in all, I rate this game an 8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deimos113
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 2, 2008 5:51 pm PT
Review:  I real time strategy, Age Of Empires, Age of Mythology, Red Alert. All are amazing. But this game..... is 
 pure bliss. When I started Playing the fist thing i noticed was the veiwpoint. I have a real gripe 
 with view points in games but this one was perfect. You can zoom in and move it all over the place. 
 Next thing I noticed was how the game eased you into playing it. The tutorial is excellent and 
 even my mother could start playing (very badly of course) . The factions are great and are very 
 personalised. The GDI are all over power, Nod focus on stealth and speed, and the Scrin are all 
 about tactics. When I finished playing the campaigns I hit the skirmish mode and LOVED it. Though 
 it could have used a few more maps. All in all, this truly is an awsome game, and this is the perfect 
 game for any RTS lover 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PureRevenge
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 8, 2007 3:53 pm PT
Review:  This game was definatly an amzing CONSOLE RTS game. I didnt get the computer version because im 
 an achievment person. I watched a few reviews and videos of this game then went and bought it. 
 This game actually blew my mind for a C&C game. This game was futureistic and alot of fun. It had 
 great graphics and an amazing online feature. This was obvisloy the best C&C yet. But its for the 
 console. I thought every RTS in the world would be on PC. And i also thought to myself, RTS on 
 the console????? How much crap can that be. BUT IT WAS AMAZING! (for a console RTS) Im sure it 
 was better for the PC. But it was pretty outstanding for the Xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doysh121
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 11, 2007 7:26 am PT
Review:  command and conquer 3 is a excellent game for people who have played RTS on any platform before 
 but may be confusing for people new to this genre. the game play above anything is top notch and 
 will take up more of your time than you would like to admit. The visuals are not as good as the 
 pc version but you wont notice in the intense standoffs with Nod and the scrin. The multilayer 
 in this game is also great and is very addictive even though one lapse of concentration will be 
 punished with total destruction of yr armys and base. Over all a great game the i would recommend 
 to any one who has played RTS and even thoughts who have never been near the series before. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: motownboy
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 11, 2007 12:08 am PT
Review:  I must confess to being somewhat of a late bloomer to the series, as I didn't get to play a lot 
 of Red Alert. And to be fair, I haven't gotten very far in the Campaign either. However, I have 
 sampled everything in skirmish and have enough background in the campaign.
  
  This is a very fun game. It sounds and looks great, particularly with the alien race the Scrin, 
 which have several units that look simply amazing. The missions I've played are simple yet getting 
 more and more challenging as the campaign progresses, and the skirmish is excellent for something 
 to kill some time with. I love that each class has its advantages when used right, leading to varying 
 types of play (although strategy can still be split into rusher and turtle as usual) that forces 
 you to get accustomed to your faction.
  
  Overall, a great game with a good storyline that is simple to get the basics on, but tougher to 
 truly master. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackyroberts
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 29, 2007 7:40 pm PT
Review:  This game is simply awesome. If you like RTS games, you'll fall in love with Comand and Conquer 
 3. This game is must buy and the online is pretty cool too, even though I always get whopped on 
 it. This game has to go down to the Best RTS of its kind. fdsfs f sdfsd f f d ds f s fs f s fs 
 f s f sf s f f s fs d f f f f fs f sd f fdf df d fd fd fd f d fd fd f d fd fd f df d f f f f ff 
 f f f f f f f f f s s s s e e e e e r r r r r r t t t g g g g g g g g g g 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jsdhagljkgh
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 21, 2007 3:23 pm PT
Review:  With the release of C&amp; C available to Xbox, i was hesitant to buy at first until i was repeatedly 
 informed that it was the best console RTS. After i caved, i realised that it was exactly what i 
 heard. With how the developers set up the controls, its very graceful to move from groups of men, 
 and to do other actions on the battlefield. The storyline is intense, with an invasion of NOD into 
 Washington D. C. in the beginning, then later on an alien invasion. The difficulty settings for 
 each mission on the campagins makes it available for any kind of RTS player to get a hold of. The 
 multiplayer features on Xbox Live is fluid, swift, and easy to get into the action. This version 
 is quite possibly the best developed, and entertaining in quite some time. It surely erases the 
 bad memories of starcraft and C&amp; C 1 on N64, and personally makes me look forward to more RTS 
 on consoles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dartharel
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 17, 2007 1:57 pm PT
Review:  Since my pc is a dinoasaur and crashed whenever an enemy unit appeared, i got this hoping i would 
 be able to see what its really like. I didnt think it would be a problem for the 360, as BFME 2 
 worked pretty much fine, but this one is so fast paced, you have to build, produce, build, defend, 
 build etc all in about 10 secs or you will get destroyed, perhaps its just me but i cannot do this 
 on the 360 controller, which ultimately ruins what appears to be a good game. Rent it first, just 
 to see if you can use the controller well enough to enjoy it, jsut dont make the same mistake that 
 i did and buy it straight away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: II-NewEra02-II
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 15, 2007 8:21 pm PT
Review:  C AND C 3 TIBERIUM WARS IS SO SO .... ITS JUST LIKE THE REST OF THE C AND C GAMES THIS ONE DOES 
 NOT FEEL RIGHT ON THE CONSOLE. NEEDS BETTER GRAPHICS AND SOUND AND UNITS JUST NOT RIGHT I GAVE 
 IT A 8.5 CAUSE IT DID NOT LOSE ANYTHING IT DID NOT GANE ANYTHING THOUGH... SO IF YOU JUST WHANT 
 AN RTS REALY BAD ONE THAT U ARE USE TO PLAYING THAN GET IT OTHERWISE.. NOT SURE IF HALO WARS GOING 
 TO BE MUCH BETTER. ITS JUST GOT THE TITLE..... WISH THEY COULD GET A GOOD RTS ON THE XBOX THAT BE 
 GOOD 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bozo9182
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 14, 2007 7:03 am PT
Review:  First off, C&amp; C 3 is an overall great game. The graphics are good for this type of game, the 
 features that come with this game are also awesome, and the story line is great. The multiplayer 
 games are ok but it depends on who your playing. The campaign mode is cool because you can play 
 as GDI (good) , NOD (Bad) , and scrin (aliens) . Although the campaign mode for GDI and NOD is quite 
 hard. While the campaign mode and multiplayer might get you frustrated, the skirmish mode on this 
 game is outstanding. Skirmish lets you play against the computer with no missions and you get to 
 pick what type the computer is. You can pick from things like turtle (they dont rush to attack 
 you) , steamroller (they rush to attack you) , and mix ( a mix of each) . And those are a few of them. 
 This game is great with some flaws but if you just want to play and have fun, this is a game for 
 you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amroe333
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 10, 2007 3:42 pm PT
Review:  Last July, EA launched Battle for Middle Earth II onto the 360. The game was a resounding success. 
 Less than a year later, EA released Command and Conquer 3: Tiberium Wars. The game takes the RTS 
 well-made package that was delivered by BMEII and drastically improves it in every way possible. 
 For, anyone who has not played the series, Command &amp; Conquer tells the story of a series of 
 wars that are fought over a mysterious crystal called Tiberium. On one side is the Global Defense 
 Initiative, or GDI. GDIs only goal is to fight the spread of Tiberium and those who wish to use 
 it for illicit purposes. On the other side is the Brotherhood of Nod. The Brotherhood is an ancient 
 religion that preaches the use of Tiberium as way to evolve humanity to the next level. The game 
 takes place in the year 2057, after Nod has lost two wars to GDI. Nods leader, Kane is presumed 
 to be dead, and GDI has lowered the level of Nod attack to low. That is when Kane destroys the 
 Philadelphia, a space station that serves as the command center for GDI. With the Philadelphia 
 destroyed, Kane moves and attacks GDI all over the world. Eventually, the plot introduces a new 
 race, the Scrin. The Scrin are a species of aliens that seed planets with Tiberium and harvest 
 it one the planets indigenous species are wiped out. The gameplay for C&amp; C3 is exceptionally 
 well done and one of the best parts of this amazing game. The game features three distinct races, 
 each with a drastically different playing strategy. GDI is very offensive. Their units cost more, 
 but can take more punishment and deal out more damage. A tank rush early in a multiplayer match 
 can easily end the game. Nod relies more on cheaper units and special abilities. For instance, 
 the Avatar, Nods oversized land unit, does less damage than the GDI Mammoth tank. However, if 
 an avatars abilities are used to their fullest potential, the Avatar will trash the mammoth. Nod 
 also has a heavy reliance on stealth and lasers. Finally, there is the Scrin. The Scrin are the 
 hardest class to play as, but can be the most deadly if they are used in the right hands. The Scrin 
 starting units are weak and cant be used to rush. However, the units they end the game with will 
 absolutely crush any enemy opposition. The Scrin rely heavily on their air units. This is a good 
 thing because the Scrin air force is nothing short of godly. A full aerial assault by the Scrin 
 will end a game in minutes. Besides the ordinary gameplay, C&amp; C3 adds a whole amount of special 
 features that really helps to make the game. Each race has its own sets of powers that are divided 
 into four classes: offensive, support, reinforcement, and superweapon. Offensive powers consist 
 of powers that deal damage to enemy structures and units. These consist of powers like shock wave 
 artillery and orca strike. Support powers provide special buildings and items around the map. These 
 types of powers can cloak units, build defensive towers, or create wormholes. Reinforcement powers 
 summon veteran units to the battlefield. These are mainly used by GDI to summon in transports with 
 infantry and light vehicles. Finally, the superweapon is a unique weapon that each race has access 
 to. The types of attack vary, but the results are the same, mayhem. GDI has the ion cannon, Nod 
 has the nuke, and the Scrin have the rift generator. Another interesting feature is the ability 
 for units to gain levels. As units kill more units and destroy more buildings, they gain levels. 
 The higher a units level is, the more damage they deal and the more damage they can take. This 
 helps to add a strategic element to the game. The graphics are nothing short of phenomenal. As 
 you play, you will see the shadows of clouds on the ground. In urban areas you will see cars fleeing 
 and people running. The damage to buildings and units is easily see and realistic. Buildings will 
 collapse in billowing clouds of dust. Planes will leave streaks in the sky after they fly away. 
 Oceans will heave and sway. Units will do pushups after they have sat idle for a while. And there 
 is nothing more powerful than the sight of lasers being shot through the air. Each unit is designed 
 with as much detail as is possible. When upgraded, units will look different with new parts. The 
 cutscenes of the game are made up of real people acting the scenes out. The cast was well picked, 
 and the scenes look absolutely amazing. The sound quality will blow anyone away. If nothing is 
 going on, the sounds of wind and civilians can be heard. All of the units and buildings have specific 
 sounds or lines that go with them. Every race has a different voice that informs you of what is 
 going on in the game. The music that is played can always be heard, which is a good thing, because 
 it is extremely well done. The quality of the voice acting, which is a central part of the game, 
 is the best I have ever seen. All in all, Command and Conquer 3: Tiberium Wars is an exceptional 
 game. The game gives a strong single and multiplayer experience. It also gives amazingly well thought 
 out ideas and concepts that enhance the experience. The graphics and sounds of the game area absolutely 
 amazing and will blow everyone away. Everyone should play this game at least once. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doa4-fan
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 6, 2007 3:55 am PT
Review:  the series goes back to its tiberium roots with 3 expansive campaign modes that lets you take control 
 of the valiant gdi forces the underhanded brotherhood of nod and the for the first time you can 
 control the scrin the command interface has been reworked for the xbox 360 version using the triggers 
 to gain control of the build and training options the game is a beautiful work of art i seriously 
 recomend this game for anyone new to stratagey games or if you are a hardened rts veteran everything 
 is perfect not having xbox live i cant really tell you bout the multiplayer so this is just a breeze 
 over of the single player modes 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kevin449
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 2, 2007 5:59 pm PT
Review:  nothing to say really just a good shooter with not so good graphics .. and the gme gets really 
 boring kind of doing the same thing always again and again not so impressed.. a game like bioshock 
 , halo 3 , or gears can own this and is considered as crap over those shooters make a command and 
 conquer 4 with better graphics and better gameplay not soooo boring like it is ... dissapointed 
 in gamespots rating 8.7 to this game ... wow not such an accurate rating to my opiniun on this 
 game i rate this a .............  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stuartm11
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 29, 2007 7:09 pm PT
Review:  Command and Conquer 3: Tiberium Wars is a really great game and the Xbox 360 has converted it brilliantly 
 from the PC to the 360. It is the newest to the series with the new alien race coming into it. 
 The game play is great seeing it is a PC game on Xbox. The missions are quite challenging unless 
 you know what youre doing so walkthroughs are recommended for this one. The achievements on this 
 are hard to get like the Dr. Moebius Award and the GDI Gold as such. Fabulous RTS and possibly 
 the greatest strategy game on PC and Xbox 360 and is definitely better than the Dawn of War series. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AirborneRizz
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 25, 2007 6:46 am PT
Review:  idc what anyone says about RTS games being better on PC's, this game is awesome on the 360! The 
 graphics are great, you can zoom in on you infantry soldiers and see the detail in their weapons 
 and uniforms. I also like the 360 degree rotation you can use anywhere on the map, it comes in 
 handy when trying to figure out where to squeeze that extra power plant in. I think at this point, 
 the only gripe I have is in the skirmish mode. Beating the AI on ez is cool and all, but go ahead 
 and try it on medium. I usually try medium and a balanced enemy and usually get smoked. idk, maybe 
 I just suck at RTS, but it seems that the difficulties have a steep learning curve. I would recommend 
 to any 360 owner to buy this game. Definitely worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mmallory
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 24, 2007 2:03 pm PT
Review:  All I really have to say in this review is that the controls for a console RTS are still not good 
 enough to make me forget how smooth and easy a PC RTS controls are. The problem for me is that 
 the ability to move multiple small armies in a coordinated attack is just too difficult to do effectively. 
 This basically takes a lot of the strategy out of the game, as I am forced to make huge armies 
 and basically select them all and send them into the middle of an enemy base if I am to have any 
 chance. That being said the graphics are great, the whole presentation is great, but the controls 
 are lack of quickness that is available in PC RTS just ruins the experience for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mastachieff
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 19, 2007 7:25 pm PT
Review:  C and C 3 Tiberium Wars. Where to find a better game? Maybe the PC version. Face facts. Console 
 RTS still have a long way to go controling standered wise. I still really Like C and C 3 but I 
 do like the PC version Better. But on another note, The gameplay is fantastic. The missions in 
 the United States are really fun, allowing you to try to secure the white house just adds to the 
 awesome factor. Replayability level is Definitly Up there. This game never gets old. Expansive 
 gameplay with new downloadable maps and an upcoming expansion pack Kanes Wrath add to the Exciting 
 gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowXAssassin
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 18, 2007 4:55 pm PT
Review:  If you think it sounds over the top, you'd be right -- but it's cheesy in a good way, and it won't 
 take you long to get involved in the story and the characters that drive it. The narrative is structured 
 well, with the Global Defense Initiative and Brotherhood of Nod campaigns telling the same story 
 from opposing viewpoints. There's also a new player in the mix: the alien Scrin race. At this stage 
 in the series, the mineral tiberium has propagated over most of the Earth, but it's more than just 
 an environmental plight -- it's a key to future technology. It'll take you a couple dozen hours to 
 get through the campaigns, and just when you think you've finished, there are a few surprise missions 
 in store, and they are well worth the time it takes to unlock them. There are also plenty of reasons 
 to return to the campaign once you're done, since the game rewards you with medals based on your 
 performance. The missions themselves are incredibly varied and involve a lot more than destroying 
 an enemy base or defending a particular structure. You'll have to do these things, of course, but 
 you have both primary and secondary objectives to complete, and they include using engineers to 
 capture certain buildings, amassing beam cannons to take out defenses, or teaming up with your 
 sworn enemy to defend against alien attacks. You'll be doing it all in a variety of real-world 
 theaters, such as Washington, DC; downtown Sydney; and the eerily dry Amazon basin. The near-future 
 take on familiar locales makes the intense battles feel even more thrilling because the settings 
 are recognizable and meaningful. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: msta0924
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 14, 2007 6:38 pm PT
Review:  C&amp; C 3 is a sweet strategy game. The controls on the console, while not as good as on a PC, 
 are still quite good, allowing great freedom of action. The campaigns are lengthy, and are pretty 
 hard, while the skirmish mode and the multiplayer are definitely the best part. The 3 factions 
 are really cool, and even though they have basically the same types of units, they all are unique. 
 The game looks pretty good, with a definite sci-fi look to the graphics. The only thing that could 
 be better would be more air units, and maybe some naval units (ooh fun! battleships!) Overall, 
 C&amp; C 3 is a sure buy for the 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ahmedbilal1993
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 7, 2007 10:04 am PT
Review:  Command and Conquer series made its debut on xbox 360 with its third installment tiberium wars. 
 The developers have tried their best (of course) to fuse the game into the xbox 360 but naturaaly, 
 they have terribly failed. The fact people don't understand is that an RTS cant be played without 
 a mouse or a keybard at the very least. Same with CNC3. Graphics although are excellent and so 
 is the plot but without strong gameplay, the game is a peice of crap. The hype is due to the fact 
 that Kane has returned and GDI and NOD once again pull out all the stops to terminate each other. 
 The military units are excellent and so is the voive over and the story line. New units are also 
 introduced and the graphics are strong and good. However gameplay is awkward and sort of 'hyperphobolic' 
 without the mouse. If u want to play the game, u better buy the PC version to release the RTS true 
 glory. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smintz2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 6, 2007 3:12 pm PT
Review:  The First RTS game I ever played was Herzog Zwei on Sega Genesis back in the mid 90's, and I've 
 been hooked ever since. Bringing a top dog like CC to the 360 was genius! and if you guys aren't 
 playing it in HD... you're totally missing out! I've finished the game, but I still play the skirmish 
 mode almost every day! The battle sequences are super cool, and I love the real time damage of 
 the vehicles and buildings as they get pounded by your artillery. I really appreciate the way the 
 developers kept this version similar to the older CC versions of the past. I actually tried to 
 use some of my old maps and codes to up my game, but no dice. Anyway this game is way cool and 
 easy to get lost in. I can't wait to go online with this baby! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: premier111
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 11, 2007 4:49 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay- 4
  
  Graphics and Sound- 4
  
  Replayability- Medium
  
  Difficulty and Annoyances- High
  
  Basically this game does what it does best, deliver the 
 RTS style of gameplay into the next-gen console of the 360. This game set the par on rts and i 
 hope more games could be like this. Halo Wars is another RTS coming out, and it looks like a CnC3 
 look alike, so I'm excited for it. I am a true command and conquer red alert 2 fan. I've been playing 
 fro years now and I haven't lost in multiplayer in so long it got boring. I have played and won 
 so much against the toughest ai, but making the transition from pc to 360 is difficult. I am running 
 on a laptop that doesn't have the best graphics card so I can't paly CnC3 on it. Highly disappointed 
 in my comp. CnC3 is the fresh fun gameplay i've been waiting for and now I can't wait for Kane's 
 Wrath. New sweet vehicles, troops, and superweaopns. EXCITED!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dollada
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 5, 2007 9:33 am PT
Review:  Its not too bad of a game considering most of the CRAP that has been out lately. Real Time Strategy 
 Games are sweet, Next Gen makes them 10X better. Can't wait for the next installment of this game 
 to come out!! It would be sweet if they made more maps for this games Multiplayer mode though, 
 it only has a handfull of maps. All in all it is a well made games with a rather lengthy playability -- the 
 story mode is really difficult when you get to those seige missions, but when it comes down to 
 it the Xbox Live! is what makes this game so fun... I give this game an 8. Wont be selling this 
 anytime soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrmarshmellow
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 4, 2007 1:41 pm PT
Review:  Thats right i am doing it i am comparing Command and Conquerer to Ecco the dolphin and whats more, 
 i'm proud to be doing so. With the release of the 'Next Gen-Consoles' i was whooping with joy, 
 until it turned into the whooping cough. I (as many faithful gamers did) brought up the change 
 from behind the couch and from under the morbidly obese cat to go out and nab me a 360. Expecting 
 amazing graphics and quality of gameplay i was mildly surprised to play games that were hand me 
 downs from the PC. Thinking i was deserving of another game i left to go buy the next real time 
 strategy i saw and found generals awaiting on the shelf. Buying the game i got home praying to 
 god that THIS game wouldn't tell me to put it in a 360 console (yes w'eve all been there) . And 
 low and behold it didn't. Gameplay was cohesive with storyline (not sure abount the actor for the 
 NOD though) . I found myself lusting after the half asian actress as in all General games and was 
 mildly amused. I then encountered new strategys such as 'massing' a particular unit. Controlling 
 a couple of hundred raptors (fully upgraded) always tickled my nickle and made me feel 'cool'. 
 People got annoyed, called me a hacker for winning... Overall the game was alright but to be honest 
 i really still havn't found the next generation games for the next generation consoles... except 
 obviously the ecco the dolphin game from XBLA. You rock lil' mammel fish. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: charley_mcd
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 4, 2007 12:52 pm PT
Review:  New Console, New reviewing style.
  
  Graphics 6/10: Not the best graphics and the RTS genre rarely does have the awe-inspiring graphiccs 
 that other genres are capable of. The graphics can be good at points but rougly 2/3 of the game 
 settles for the typical EA 'baron landscape'that is found in most of there games.
  
  Sound 4/10: There isnt a lot of music in the game other than suttle bird noises in the background.
 
  
  Gameplay 8/10: they have implemented the RTS controls very well into the 360 I was impressed at 
 how easy it was. Thought sometimes it can be VERY hard to selcet one units out of a bunch of units 
 etc. If you play to long then you start to fell dizzy which is unusual but maybe it's because I 
 played it all day!
  
  Story 9/10: I'm new to the C &amp; C series so I dont fully understand the story. And like I say 
 Real Actors and video games do NOT mix the actors and effects are terrible but not unbearable. Infact 
 you may want to go into the Movie Browser which they put into the game just to catch up on the 
 story plot. The story itself is huge. Two 17 mission long campagned filled with cheesy cutscenes 
 and an additional alien campaign is truly making this game worth the money!
  
  Online 8/10: Online in C &amp; C 3 is really fun. Good community. Good game modes. And hardly any lags.
 
  
  In the end this is a good game for C&amp; C fans and a good RTS to be put on a console. If you dont 
 like slow paced games stay clear-or if you're and acheivment addict give it ago but the acheivment 
 are VERY hard to get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigb89
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 28, 2007 8:03 am PT
Review:  Settings
  
  The story of Command &amp; Conquer 3: Tiberium Wars takes place in the year 2047, at the advent 
 of and during the Third Tiberium War , when the Brotherhood of Nod launches an unexpected and worldwide 
 offensive against the Global Defense Initiative; abruptly ending a period of seventeen years of 
 silence and crippling GDI forces everywhere. With the odds tipped in Nod's favor this time, GDI 
 field commanders rally their troops and begin to combat the Brotherhood's second re-emergence, 
 trying to restore lost hope.
  
  The storylines of the factions are closely interwoven in the same fashion seen previously in the 
 Firestorm expansion pack of Command &amp; Conquer: Tiberian Sun. In any one faction's campaign, 
 references are made to the events and missions that occur in the campaigns of the other factions.
 
  
  Plot.
  
  Background
  
  Command &amp; Conquer 3: Tiberium Wars begins roughly sixteen to seventeen years after the events 
 of Tiberian Sun: Firestorm. While the conflict between the Global Defense Initiative and the Brotherhood 
 of Nod appears to have subsided substantially ever since, Tiberium infestation has begun to reach 
 critical levels and continues to destroy the Earth's ecosystems at an alarming rate, prompting 
 GDI to divide the world into three different geographical zones based on the levels of local infestation. 
 30% of the world's surface has been designated as red zones , which have suffered the worst contamination 
 and can no longer support human - or otherwise carbon-based - life. 50% of the regions in the world 
 have been designated as yellow zones , which are dangerously contaminated yet contain most of the 
 world's population. Decades of war and civil unrest have left these regions in a state of social 
 collapse and have continued to provide the Brotherhood of Nod with opportunity for concealment 
 as well as large-scale recruitment over the years. The remaining 20% of the Earth's surface is 
 unscarred by Tiberium outbreak and is relatively untouched by war. These blue zones are considered 
 the last refuge and hope of the human civilized world and have been placed under the direct protection 
 of the Global Defense Initiative.
  
  Campaign storyline
  
  In March of 2047 the Brotherhood of Nod suddenly fires a nuclear missile at GDI's orbiting command 
 station Philadelphia, destroying the fulcrum of GDI's senior command structure in a single major 
 blow. Since the end of the Second Tiberium War, Nod has silently built up its influence and its 
 military potential into the status of a true superpower, and by providing enforcement of stability, 
 strategically placed medical aid and hate-mongering against GDI and the blue zone populations from 
 within the yellow zone territories, the Brotherhood is now supported by a significant percentage 
 of the world's population. Unprepared to handle the coordinated offensives led by Black Hand shock 
 troops across the entire globe, the remainder of the Global Defense Initiative's top military and 
 political officials take charge and begin rallying all of their standing forces, determined to 
 turn the tide and achieve a new victory over Nod.
  
  At this point, General Jack Granger takes control of GDI's military forces while acting Director 
 Redmond Boyle, the highest-ranking surviving member of GDI's burueacratic leadership, takes over 
 administration.
  
  After successfully managing to drive the invading Nod forces out of a number of the world's blue 
 zones , General Granger, acting on intelligence gathered from POWs, begins to fear that Nod may 
 be preparing to use WMD's and subsequently orders a pre-emptive strike on a Nod chemical weapons 
 facility near Cairo, Egypt. Once there, GDI discovers that Nod apparently was not only preparing 
 to deploy their nuclear arsenal on them, but that they were also in the process of manufacturing 
 a liquid Tiberium bomb of unprecendented destructive power based on research from a similar Nod 
 chemical weapons facility, located somewhere in Brazil. The swift response by GDI prevents a pending 
 nuclear strike from Nod, but Kane continues his construction of the liquid Tiberium device unabated 
 within the newly erected Temple Prime , which has been built over the site of the previous temple 
 in Sarajevo, destroyed back in the days of the First Tiberium War.
  
  Temple Prime subsequently comes under siege by a GDI strikeforce, but this strikeforce is defeated 
 by Nod reinforcements. However, these Nod troops, supposedly under the command of General Kilian 
 Qatar, suddenly turn against Kane and begin to assault Temple Prime itself. When the Nod forces 
 allocated to the temple's defense manage to eradicate these treacherous troops, Kane evacuates 
 as GDI soon after launches a second and ultimately successful attack on the main temple complex. 
 General Granger plans to lay siege to the site until Kane and his Inner Circle would surrender, 
 but Director Boyle orders the use of the ion cannon upon Temple Prime to eliminate Kane's threat 
 once and for all . When the ion cannon is fired over Granger's objections, it detonates a deposit 
 of the liquid Tiberium stored underneath the temple, creating a massively destructive explosion 
 that reaches out into space and kills millions of people in Eastern Europe's yellow zones , Kane 
 and his Inner Circle believed to be among the casualties.
  
  Shortly afterward, GDI's deep space surveillence network suddenly detects multiple large and unidentified 
 objects closing in on Earth. Director Boyle orders the ion cannon network to be turned against 
 the vessels, but the craft are unphased by the attack and alien forces, known only as the Scrin, 
 land on Earth and begin to swarm throughout the world's red zones , soon after launching massive 
 and unrestrained assaults on all major cities across the globe in a series of diversionary attacks, 
 to draw the human defenders away from the landing sites. Kilian Qatar, having assumed control of 
 the Brotherhood of Nod since Kane's apparent demise, joins in an uneasy alliance with local GDI 
 commanders in Australia to fight the invading forces, whom she views as a more dangerous threat 
 to the Brotherhood's survival than GDI itself. Within the middle of these operations between Kilian 
 and Australia's garrisoned GDI forces however, Kane suddenly reappears, denouncing Kilian's actions 
 as an unforgivable sin and orders her capture and execution as well as a nuclear attack upon the 
 local GDI forces she was collaborating with.
  
  At this point, GDI high command has become aware that the invaders' agenda was to divert the humans' 
 attention away from a series of massive towers that were being constructed within the world's red 
 zones . At the same time, the Scrin themselves have become aware of Kane's entire premeditated 
 plan; that he had provoked the world war with GDI in order to deliberately lure them into using 
 their ion cannon upon Temple Prime , which was the only weapon that could create a large enough 
 detonation of liquid Tiberium to prematurely awaken the Scrin and bring them to Earth, so that 
 Kane could complete the last stage of his plans; to capture one of the Scrin's monolithic Threshold 
 towers.
  
  GDI eventually succeeds in destroying all but one of these towers, which is protected from their 
 assault by elite Nod forces, and the Scrin are thus able to finish the tower's construction, enabling 
 their last remaining mothership vessel to evacuate just before GDI destroys a mysterious central 
 control node located in Italy, which apparently was powering all of the Scrin's forces on Earth. 
 With the tower completed, it becomes impregnable to all known forms of human weaponry and GDI is 
 left with no option but to leave it standing under close observation, as it is completely inert 
 following the destruction of the control node in central Italy. Kane, meanwhile, prepares to enter 
 the tower using the key codes Nod forcefully obtained from the Scrin forces, and sets out to uncover 
 the secrets within, while the Scrin themselves are preparing a full invasion force with the intent 
 of obtaining more information on Kane, and then to annihilate the human race.
  
  Global Defense Initiative
  
  The Global Defense Initiative's internal structure and organization 
 is quite similar to a supranational and large-scale integration of all of the world's major modern 
 day conventional armies into a single globalized military force. GDI is capable of instantly deploying 
 vast quantities of well-trained and well-equipped soldiers backed by powerful ground, air and naval 
 assets to any point on the globe, and this in ways that are considerably more organized, advanced, 
 as well as on a much greater scale than any conventional real-life military force of today possibly 
 could. Global Defense Initiative troops utilize both superior armor and firepower, making them 
 typically much more powerful than Nod forces in direct open confrontations, but also more cumbersome 
 and less flexible, the exploitation of which the Brotherhood is notoriously adept at through its 
 combinations of futuristic guerrilla warfare with uniquely advanced Tiberium-based technologies. 
 By the year of 2047 GDI's forces were restructured to allow for decentralized operations in multiple 
 theatres of war, through the establishment of forward-operating bases in all types of terrain, 
 and the deployment of proven, specialized and cost-effective ground and air forces supported by 
 the most advanced network of orbital artillery satellites in history. In-game, their units are 
 unit-for-unit more powerful than those of Nod and the Scrin. Their superweapon is the quintessential 
 ion cannon, an orbital weapon that has appeared in every Tiberium game to date; previously capable 
 of destroying only a single building at a time, the ion cannon now devastates a large area.
  
  Brotherhood of Nod
  
  The Brotherhood of Nod is a mysterious, enigmatic and highly militant 
 Abrahamic society of an allegedly ancient origin, which in modern times began to show the combined 
 characteristics of a vast religious movement, a multinational corporation and a boundaryless nation-state, 
 whilst being none of the three in itself. The globalized brotherhood is led by a mysterious man 
 who is known only as Kane, and its influence in the world at the advent of the events in which 
 Command &amp; Conquer 3: Tiberium Wars takes place eventually reached nothing short of the status 
 of an unconventional superpower. The Brotherhood of Nod represents a flexible, elusive and worldwide 
 cultic army which thrives on the synergy between low-tech guerrilla warfare and highly-trained 
 forces that are equipped with state-of-the-art communications gear and the most advanced weapon 
 systems available, which all have been derived from the Brotherhood's uniquely adept understanding 
 of Tiberium-based military technologies. Nod tactics are highly radical and appear more cruel than 
 GDI's, often showing little to no regard for human life, and their religious fascination with Tiberium 
 also leads them to use the dangerous and toxic substance offensively whenever possible. In-game, 
 Nod forces typically are weaker than GDI's or the Scrin in a head-on engagement, yet are able to 
 use flexible strategies and advanced hit-and-run tactics to their advantage to control the pacing 
 of the battle, as well as sabotage an opponent's momentum. Their in-game superweapon is a nuclear 
 missile.
  
  Scrin
  
  The third faction featured in Tiberium Wars is an extraterrestrial force known only as the Scrin, 
 who have come to harvest all of the Earth's Tiberium deposits. They have remained dormant along 
 the edge of our Solar System for millennia, until awakened by the massive detonation of liquid 
 Tiberium beneath the Brotherhood of Nod's Temple Prime . Upon approaching Earth, they are surprised 
 to encounter a heavily militarized native population still coping with Tiberium's spread, and swiftly 
 proceed to launch an assault on Earth's cities, wreaking havoc on GDI and Nod alike. Scrin units 
 and structures show a distinctly bio-mechanical and insect-like appearance, and possess several 
 economic and military advantages related directly to Tiberium, including the ability to promote 
 the growth of the substance, store it in infinite amounts, and to use it to enhance the performance 
 of their units and weaponry in a multitude of ways. Scrin forces possess a powerful aerial fleet, 
 able of constructing fast Stormrider fighters, hovering Devastator warships and the versatile Planetary 
 Assault Carriers , which are capable of generating localized ion storms. The faction also features 
 the ability to create wormholes and to instantly teleport units around the battlefield through 
 various means. The Scrin are additionally able to deploy a large aerial unit known as the Mothership 
 , which features a massively powerful energy weapon that can devastate all structures in a large 
 radius beneath it by initiating a chain reaction upon them. Their in-game superweapon is the rift 
 generator , which creates a rip in space-time in the targeted area, drawing everything near to 
 it into deep space.
  
  Novel
  
  A novel based on the game was written by Keith R. A. DeCandido, and released by Del Rey Books in 
 June of 2007.
  
  Casting
  
  Electronic Arts confirmed through an early trailer for the game - in which the iconic character 
 of Kane was featured - that Joseph D. Kucan would indeed return to reprise his role as the leader 
 of the Brotherhood of Nod. The cutscenes of Command &amp; Conquer 3: Tiberium Wars were directed 
 by EA in-house cinematic director Richard Taylor.
  
  Actors
  
  A number of well known actors were cast in the full motion videos of Tiberium Wars: * Josh Holloway 
 (Lost) appears as a Nod intelligence officer by the name of Ajay. * Tricia Helfer (Battlestar Galactica) 
 portrays the Nod General Kilian Qatar. * Michael Ironside (Top Gun, Starship Troopers, Tom Clancy's 
 Splinter Cell video game series, SeaQuest DSV) appears as the Global Defense Initiative's Lieutenant 
 General Jack Granger. * Billy Dee Williams (Star Wars Episode V: The Empire Strikes Back, Star 
 Wars Episode VI: The Return of the Jedi, Batman) plays GDI Director Redmond Boyle. * Grace Park 
 (Battlestar Galactica) as GDI Lt. Sandra Telfair. * Jennifer Morrison (House, M. D.) portrays GDI 
 Lt. Kirce James.
  
  News casters
  
  Electronic Arts Los Angeles has employed the talents of several real-world news casters to deliver 
 TV-style reports of the Tiberium Wars within the game's cutscenes: * Freelance CNN news reporter 
 Shanon Cook (Robin &amp; Company) plays the character of Cassandra Blair. * Las Vegas Fox News 
 anchor John Huck appears as William Frank. * Shauntay Hinton (Miss USA 2002) was additionally cast 
 as the reporter Brittany Murphy.
  
  Gameplay
  
  Electronic Arts Los Angeles designed Command &amp; Conquer 3: Tiberium Wars with the intention 
 to return the Command &amp; Conquer real-time strategy (RTS) series to its roots, as originally 
 established by Westwood Studios. As such, numerous features that were characteristic of the Command 
 &amp; Conquer games prior to the release of Command &amp; Conquer: Generals in 2003 define the 
 gameplay of Tiberium Wars; * The return of the Tiberium substance as the game's sole and hazardous 
 resource, and all the in-game economics traditionally associated with it. * Return of the classic 
 pre-Generals right-sidebar user interface, a feature announced early on in an interview with IGN. 
 * Destroyable and repairable bridges, etc. * Forward-base construction through mobile construction 
 vehicles (or MCVs ) , and construction yard buildings. * From version 1.05 and onward, a Classic 
 C&amp; C Mouse Setup option was added to the game's configuration menu, allowing the player to issue 
 commands to units and structures with the left mouse button, in identical fashion to the C&amp; C 
 games produced by Westwood Studios.
  
  Single player
  
  The single player mode of Command &amp; Conquer 3 consists of 38 missions, spread over three campaigns. 
 Each campaign depicts the view of its respective faction on the globalized Third Tiberium War , 
 with the portrayed story being furthered by full motion video cutscenes which play in between each 
 of the individual campaign missions. Players can elect to start with either the Global Defense 
 Initiative or the Brotherhood of Nod campaign, however both campaigns of the traditional two factions 
 require to be completed before the bonus campaign of the new third Scrin faction is unlocked.
 
  
  Each campaign mission features a main objective, the completion of which will instantly end the 
 mission successfully. Several optional bonus objectives additionally are present, which can facilitate 
 the ease with which the mission's main objective can be reached when they themselves have been 
 completed. All campaign missions can separately be given a difficulty rating on the theatre screen 
 before they are started; the available difficulty settings range from Easy to Medium to Hard .
 
  
  As the player progresses through one of the campaigns, new entries in the game's Intelligence Database 
 become unlocked, providing the player with additional background information on the storyline, 
 the factions, as well as their units and structures. Several of these database entries require 
 the player to complete the bonus objectives of the various missions before they can be accessed.
 
  
  Skirmish
  
  The skirmish mode AI in Tiberium Wars features numerous settings which each embody a type - or 
 a combination of types - of classic RTS strategies, such as turtler , rusher and steamroller . 
 These behavioral settings can additionally be given a difficulty rating ranging from Easy to Medium 
 to Hard , along with handicap settings that can be applied to either the AI, the player, or both.
 
  
  Multiplayer
  
  Command and Conquer 3: Tiberium Wars supports multiplayer games over LAN, and online play over 
 Gamespy servers. Players can participate in 1v1 , 2v2 , and clan-based 1v1 and 2v2 ladders - each 
 using separate Elo rating systems - or they can elect to play unranked. In addition to the official 
 ladders, a number of independent ladders have been set up, the most prominent of which currently 
 is clanwars. cc .
  
  BattleCast
  
  Electronic Arts is making an attempt through Command &amp; Conquer 3: Tiberium Wars to market RTS 
 as a sport through a project entitled BattleCast . A service centred on the game's official website, 
 BattleCast is designed to allow for players to schedule upcoming games with others, to spectate 
 in games that are currently being played, and to serve as a centralized replay archive of previous 
 games. BattleCast additionally allows for players to function as commentators in a game, providing 
 a running description of the match as it unfolds. Commentators can talk to other observers of a 
 game through BattleCast , and use a paint -style brush to draw onto the screen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gr1pp7
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 24, 2007 8:55 pm PT
Review:  Great game, very well developed and among the few tactical games that one needs to *actually* plan 
 a well thought out strategy to get through the game. no winging it here! cut scenes are, of coarse, 
 a bit corny at times, and seem a bit ... over budget ... at times. if they had slowed the pace 
 from the PC to the xbox i think things might have worked a bit better - but, working without a 
 mouse and short-cut keys is killer... i highly recommend getting the -PC- version of the game. 
 ~~~that's all i have to say - really, really it is, but apparently I'm still short from the 100 
 word minimum... this good enough yet? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaSt3rSnIp3r91
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 23, 2007 9:06 pm PT
Review:  I have played older Command and Conquers on the PC in the past. Ones like red alert and and tiberium 
 sun. They were fun games and I ended up playing them for a long time. Playing those games led me 
 to thinking that this game was going to be great. It was one of my favorite games coming out on 
 my favorite console. I was right.. in a way. Command and Conquer still has that same feel as the 
 past games, but some new features which changed the gameplay. In some cases it changed the gameplay 
 dramatically and others not as much. One of the things I noticed right away was that they certain 
 units that were just strong against certain things. (ex: rifleman are strong vs. infantry) why 
 not just have it like it is on most other RTS games and have the more expensive unit the stronger 
 it is. It is kinda like that in this game, but in some cases you can buy a really strong unit and 
 it will have a hard time killing a lesser unit because it is not strong against them. It is good 
 to have Missile Squads good vs vehicles, but then to have a Predator tank drive up to them and 
 not do much damage because it is not strong vs infantry.. I don't like that. Don't get me wrong. 
 That is just the way I feel about it. As for the ranking system that has always been a cool little 
 feature. A fully ranked up commando can be very lethal and only being able to have one at a time 
 makes him that much better. Not much to say about the multiplayer other than it is really fun just 
 to build empires and organize strikes with your friends. The single player has its goods and bads. 
 It starts out with the GDI side of the story. I didn't pay much attention, but the game tries to 
 pull you in and make you feel like YOU are the commander. During the short video clips the people 
 talk directly to you and call you commander . I didn't get too into that feature, but it was ok 
 to say the least. I would have to say the GDI campaign was the most entertaining campaign. After 
 that comes the NOD campaign. I liked the NOD in the other Command and Conquers because they were 
 a very unique race. In this version of command and conquer they are VERY weak. It was a chore getting 
 through that campaign. The Scrin campaign was short but entertaining, but i'll just leave it at 
 that because I do not want to spoil anything. Overall it was a great game with manageable flaws. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: keith500
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 22, 2007 8:03 am PT
Review:  This is my review for the Xbox 360 Version of C&amp; C 3.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  The graphics in this game are good and much improved on the last C&amp; C game which was generals. 
 Although because it is a RTS game dont expect graphics like Gears of War. The Graphics make it 
 hard to focus someone on the screen because they do look fairly washed out and its very hard to 
 tell which infantry units are which especially when zoomed out to maximum. 6/10
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  The gameplay in C&amp; C 3 is very much like all the other games in the series so if 
 you enjoyed them you will enjoy this game. There are 3 factions, GDI, NOD, and The Scrin which 
 is an alien race. The main aim of the game is to build a base, build an army and destroy your enemies 
 base.
  
  There is a nice long campaign which involve missions for all 3 factions and nice Cinematic scenes 
 between the missions. These scenes are good looking and explain what you have to do but they are 
 usually just people talking and pretend news reports so don't expect to see scenes of epic battles 
 or infantry dying.
  
  You can also play skirmish which is a set up match against up to 3 computer controlled opponents 
 and this is one of the areas where the game is a let down because unlike previous games you can 
 onyl have 4 players and not the 8 so don't expect any big battles. Also the maps are very small, 
 to the point where the harder Ai setting will start putting structures near your base simply because 
 they are running out of room. All this means that matches don't last very long and don't expect 
 any games to last longer then 30 minutes.
  
  Online play is also enabled and is good, although there are bugs and glitches which people exploit 
 and seeing as there is no patch yet for the xbox version these still remain. 8/10
  
  SOUND: The sound is good in the game with all the little war noises you would expect and the cinematic 
 sounds although there is nothing really revolutinary here from any of the previous installments. 
 8/10
  
  CONTROLS:
  Real time strategy games are not really found on the consoles because there controls are suited 
 alot more to the PC. When you first start playing this game the controls are a little hard to learn 
 and all the time your playing you will feel like it is easier to play it on a PC. But it is not 
 that bad and especially if you can't get access to a PC or you would have more play time on a console 
 then it is worth the sacrifice. 7/10
  
  VALUE: You will get alot out of this game compared to other games. You can expect to spend 15 hours 
 on the campaign and you may even want to try the campaign on a harder difficulty after so that 
 could be 30 hours. And then if you add in all the skirmish maps and multiplayer fun you can have 
 you are easily looking at a game which will give you 100 hours. 10./10
  
  PROS:
  - Long Campaign
  - 3 Factions to choose from.
  - Huge replay value.
  - Online play.
  - 
 Fast paced Gameplay
  
  CONS:
  - A few bugs in the game.
  - Controls are weaker then PC version.
  - Only 4 players in Skirimish and online.
  - Washed 
 out visuals.
  - No exciting improvements to the C&amp; C series.
  
  On a last not as a review im giving it an 8.0 but if like me you really like the genre and in particular 
 the C&amp; C series then it is probably worth more but the score is for the more casual player. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheCamGrdnr
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 22, 2007 4:11 am PT
Review:  We all know that console RTS has been a really hit or miss genre with alot of misses, but C&amp; C 
 3 does an excellent job in bringing the RTS to the console. It is not plagued by the control issues 
 that most other console RTS games are, as it is comfortable to play on the controller. The campaign 
 is relatively short, but can be at times really challenging/frustrating, but overall is well presented. 
 It's multiplayer is solid all though i wish at times it could support the same ammount of players 
 as the PC version. The unit variety is good but, most games are still dominated by the age old 
 mammy rush so to speak, with most matches outcomes being determined by who can build the better 
 units faster, not who uses them better. All in all I would recommend this game to everyone, because 
 it shows that RTS games can be done on the consoles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chewygun
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 18, 2007 9:49 pm PT
Review:  First of all, I'd like to say that if you have a PC, I would suggest you buy the PC version. This 
 is because the controls on the PC versions are pretty much easier/better to use (well for me it 
 was, at least) but you really cant blame the game for that since it obviously lacks the amount 
 of buttons that a mouse and keyboard could provide. The visuals are alright, not as good as the 
 PC version may look, but nice overall. Another thing I don't understand about the 360 version of 
 this game is the reason there is a command bar. In the PC version, they didn't have this, therefore 
 allowing them to have an army of, say, 100 mammoths or something. On the 360 version, this will 
 limit you to about 40 that you can make until it says insufficient command points and I'm sitting 
 here like, WTF?, while on the PC version I'm like, yeah look at all those tanks . The online play 
 is alright, with good competition, but on the 360 version, its pretty much who can smash their 
 RT and A buttons better I guess to get up the tech tree, and obviously get a bigger army before 
 your opponent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SeanReuben
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 16, 2007 11:25 pm PT
Review:  Command &amp; Conquer 3 manages to be a fully functional console RTS and even surpasses that by 
 adding more frosting to the already scrumptous dolce de leche of an RTS. The main reason this game 
 succeeds is because controls and gameplay fit don't conflict. I have read reviews calling this 
 game a classic RTS with no innovation, but we rarely see RTS on console because of control issues 
 and for the reason that mouse is far superior to the controller when it comes to managing the battlefield. 
 But the 360 controllers are just as competent, and I was quite surprised at how the controls panned 
 out while on the battlefield. It's clever for example how the left top button can select whole 
 members of my army as opposed to a selection box brought on by dragging a mouse, or how I can quickly 
 access one of my groups by the click or press of a button. This really makes managing armies spread 
 across the battlefield possible. However, this doesn't make Command &amp; Conquer is an easier 
 game. in both gdi and nod campaigns, the first stages can be forgiving but in latter parts you 
 really need to be the aggressor because youre often put at disadvantage and the AI is relentless. 
 I found the ruthlessness of the stages and AI actually quite enjoyable and added a lot of excitement 
 to the gameplay. It's fast RTS action that's a great distinction from the turtling in older games 
 as warcraft. The graphics are what you'd expect from a 360 game with excrutiating specular and 
 texture details in the battlefields, which humourously bear resemblance to miniature landscapes. 
 The soundtrack is really pumping and often reminds me as that of battlestar gallactica, it really 
 feeds the suspense of the battles. yes, and lastly, Number Six and Boomer and that bad guy from 
 Lost make cameo appearances so all your fav celebrities should be some incentive to get Command 
 and Conquer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: klasco
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 20, 2008 7:03 am PT
Review:  Command and Conquer 3 Tiberium Wars:
  With Nod threat level downgrading you a Commander sent in to search a small Nod presence (when 
 starting with GDI) , But as you would expect Nod is not a low threat its back and with a shocking 
 plan up its selve not to metion a ultra powerful weapon...
  
  All in all Command and Conquer 3 its a great game with its HD movie cut scenes with actual actors 
 it gives this game that extra something that you can't get from games these days, the live play 
 in this game is good with the vision used it again adds that extra something seeing someone face 
 when a superweapon attacks there base or when a engerneer takes a control of one thats ready for 
 use
  
  The Storyline its self is amazing although it can feel at times as if you are stuck in a rather 
 small area, but what great is its RTS controls for console this now the new benchmark with stuningly 
 good layout, the action also is alot more fast pased then most RTS games and doesn't ever let the 
 sense of danger go down
  
  But now with Kanes wraith on the way (Command and Conquer 3TW Kanes Wraith) don't get this game 
 get Kanes Wraith in 2008 its a long wait but at least you will have money left over to buy other 
 games and then get kanes wraith next year why because it has got a HUGE extestion to the game it 
 has more Campaigns, units etc etc by what i've heard its CC3TW x 2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dazer1234
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 13, 2007 4:51 am PT
Review:  i got c n c bout 4 weeks ago and cant put it down i just had to complete it such gd game play and 
 the campaign is so gd 3 of them keep me goin 4 ages tryin to do them on hard and they added a new 
 bit scain g8 things i admit that the controls that a little while to work out because it is so 
 weird but once u hav mastered it the game is so gd graphics colud hav bin a bit better and u should 
 be able to build more then one superweapon so gd even better online i am a big commmand and conquer 
 fan and this had to be the best one yet gameplay brillant controls not so gd but u get use to i 
 and keepin nod and gdi brillant also its nice to figth someone new like scain there weird but very 
 gd over all 9/10 because controls took me ages but the due to the campaign and on line it is well 
 worth iit 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoshS24
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 12, 2007 2:45 pm PT
Review:  I was pretty skeptical buying this game at first. I have always been a fan of the C&amp; C franchise, 
 but only on the PC. So, I figured I'd try it out on 360. To my surprise, the controls are very 
 good. They aren't overly complicated at all and the game runs very smoothly. The acting is good, 
 I enjoy cheesy futurisitc war themes, so it appealed to me. The unit voices could use some work, 
 more interesting responses. Otherwise the game runs smooth and its adjustable difficulty makes 
 it playable for everyone. If you enjoy the C&amp; C franchise, I suggest you pick this up, its a 
 great game with tons of hours of fun, the online play will keep you up late at night, which is 
 always a good thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackinkMG
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 7, 2007 3:32 pm PT
Review:  Reviewer's Tilt. I have been playing strat games since i was little, And actually also played this 
 very series on the PC while growing up. So I came in with a positive mind.
  
  Gameplay. Alot of fun if you like Strat-games. Basic in ways and yet still complex enough to add 
 alot of strategy options while playing.
  
  Graphics. Impressive, Nothing i saw in the game bothered me or anything, sept i guess i was anoyed 
 that they used actual people actors for their video's. game actors are just never... as good as 
 they should be it seems.
  
  Sound. Nothing good or bad enough to catch much of my attention.
  
  Value. Alot of fun if your 
 open to this style of game. Online is alot of fun as well as Single player. Rent if you are new 
 to Strategy games. If not and you enjoyed the series then you wont be dissapointed. Go ahead and 
 purchase. It's worth owning.
  
  INK Black~ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jay_k3
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 7, 2007 1:31 am PT
Review:  I grew up playing this game. I remember when the first one came out. It was awesome. There were 
 other games that diverged from c and c, but they kind of sucked. At first I was a little reluctant 
 getting this game because I am used to playing rts on a pc. Playing on a controller was something 
 that I was skeptical about. Well I was completely wrong. The gameplay is fantastic and easy to 
 control. The game itself looks beautiful. I know that it probably looks better on pc, but its not 
 a huge difference. The story is pretty cool and you have the original Kane in this game, plus an 
 alien enemy that ads a twist. The storyline can get corny, but you'll soon forget about the corniness 
 once you start playing. Some levels can be pretty challenging, but you'll love it no matter what 
 if you like rts. If you grew up playing this game, you must get it. Truly this game is unique and 
 awesome and one of the first successful rts games to come to a console for the next generation. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rick-garza
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 4, 2007 1:08 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: The Gameplay is very strategic and very good you never know whats going to happen next! 
 The first time i used the Ion Cannon i was in awe! The Gameplay itself is highly worth the replay 
 value and very fun! See im not the type of person to play RTS (Real Time Strategy) Games. They 
 have alot of things like Garrisons to protect a group of soldiers but not forever! But the Garrisons 
 is also like a watch point... remember strategy. But this one blew me away Literally! But sometimes 
 when you drop the bomb you get a semi lag , But nothing to complain about. Because you'll still 
 be like holy crap!
  
  Graphics:
  You would think the graphics are just a basic WoW or even Ages of empire style.. But its not the 
 detail on some things are just Great! Even the zoom in feature makes the game more intense. So 
 far I Have seen Zero Glitches in the gameplay everything is smoothed out.. One of the best RTS's 
 i have ever seen!
  
  Sound:
  The sounds in this game are great you can hear the soldiers running, to the planes flying, shooting 
 in the distance, and even replies to every command you give them. It even sounds great in surround 
 sound. Especially for a RTS game. But it needs more rumble when the bombs drop.. i mean blow my 
 12 inch speakers rumble.. i want the neighbors dogs to go crazy! lol
  
  Value:
  The replay Value is high. From single player to split screen to online its just worth every penny 
 you pay for it.. I highly Recommend this game to any RTS Gamer.. or even someone that wants to 
 try something new for once instead of run and gun or even a FPS.. This game is very worth it.
 
  
  Tilt:
  Everything I've Said is true.. its a great game. it has great sound, graphics, and a high replay 
 value, and it is worth every penny. The downfall is the Lag you get when you drop nuclear bombs. 
 and sometimes the computer is very challenging but it is a strategy game. So if you can't out-smart 
 the computer your toast. Literally. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ccstrauss94
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 2, 2007 8:37 am PT
Review:  When I first herd that command and conquer was coming out for 360 I was very suprised for all the 
 years I have usualyy been playing it for the pc. So later in in the next two weeks i heared about 
 it i decided to go to best buy to get it.. Then when i started to play it I was in shock how good 
 the game was. out of all the years i have been playing command and conquer I personaly think this 
 is the best one yet. So if I were to rate this game i would give it an A an 9.8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: najmusqazi
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 31, 2007 10:03 pm PT
Review:  but.. it should have been related to GENERALS series cause i miss my GLA Toxic Demolition Stealth 
 USA Super weapon Air force Laser and CHINA Tank Nuke and Infantry. 3 great Armies all unique . 
 but o k i take it the GDI AND NOD etc. i am crazy at the GENERALS series Zero Hour i am commander 
 in chief and in GENERALS i am Brigadier what i mean by that is... i am used to mouse and keyboard 
 so its hard for me to control on xbox 360. as far as the story is concerned i WILL like the story 
 ha ha yes i just used WILL cause i don't have the game but... i will love it i know that for sure. 
 i played the demo on xbox 360 and pc and its pretty good for xbox 360 its fun with the playing 
 with the joy pad but its hard cause i am used to keyboard and mouse. and yea i sure as heck will 
 miss JAR MEN KELL BLACK LOTUS :- ( and yea of course the Captain America COLONEL BURTON but it still 
 would be awesome.... i give it 9.0 cause i know it's gonna be good so... PLAY HARD and PLAY SMART 
 guys! PEACE out !ALL HAIL!  
::::::

::::::
UserName: simon1978
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 27, 2007 10:04 pm PT
Review:  4 Words, THIS GAME IS AMAZING!!! For those who say RTS is for PC only I say you need to step into 
 the 21st century. Gone are the days when the only way to play RTS was with the mouse and keyboard 
 the pad works surprisingly well and it doesn't take long before it is natural and instinctual. 
 The advances that EA have made since BFME are just what the doctor ordered its great to see a developer 
 that listens to feedback and implements it. I am not a fanboy I have played RTS on PC since the 
 very beginning with Dune 2 and later C&amp; C (the original) and if I can make the switch then anyone 
 can. Plain and Simple one of the best games on 360 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IOUOneGalaxy127
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 24, 2007 8:49 pm PT
Review:  I wasn't sure what to expect with this game. How well can an RTS play on a console... Well, in 
 my opinion, surprisingly well. This is my first RTS on the Xbox 360 and I was worried about how 
 the controls were going to adapt as I'm sure most people were. There is no doubt that an RTS will 
 always have its home on the PC but they have done a wonderful job bringing them to the consoles.
 
  
  Now, I'm not the greatest RTS player so for me personally, I had a tough time getting through the 
 game and trying to accomplish the mission with all of the bonus objectives. I've spent many long 
 nights getting close to the end of a mission, only to find myself in a whole and having to start 
 the whole thing over again. You do have to have a lot of patience when playing this game - that 
 is, if you play it like I do. Graphically, the game looks really nice and has some pretty solid 
 voice acting which makes you feel like you are really commanding an army of great size. This game 
 will also take you quite a bit of time to get through. There is a lot of gameplay to be had. Besides 
 the fact that most of the missions will take at least an hour to complete, there are three campaigns 
 for you to play through and with each campaign, there are real actors and familiar actors showing 
 you what you need to do. At first, I was worried about how this would actually play out but it 
 actually does increase the realism of the game and continues to enhance the experience.
  
  All in all, this game is a lot of fun and though it may some time to learn all of the controls 
 and get used to them, they are pretty solid. This is a fantastic game from top to bottom and if 
 you're looking for something that's not a first person shooter and will take up a lot of your time, 
 I'd say to give this game a try. Trust me... You'll know you made the right decision once you have 
 30 Mammoth Tanks crawling across the field destroying anything that comes into its path! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: webby1
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 20, 2007 11:40 am PT
Review:  The Command and Conquer series have been out for quite a few years now. Dating all the way back 
 to systems such as the Saturn but along with pretty much every Real Time Strategy game out they 
 are known for not only selling better on the PC but in almost every case playing better than their 
 console counterpart.
  
  So first off how does the PC version compare to the 360, obviously controls are more responsive 
 and since command and conquer is easy to navigate anyway it is pretty easy for anyone to use. The 
 360 version is quite impressive in that it only really takes maybe around 30 seconds or so to get 
 used to the controller and you will be well away. Just looking at C&amp; C 3 you instantly know 
 how far the series has come, especially the Tiberian-Tiberium franchise releasing even FPS spin 
 offs Command and Conquer: Renegade . But this game is graphically impressive in every department 
 not only from ingame graphics and astonishing visuals but the sequences in the game or filmed making 
 the game even more interesting and adding realism. The sound quality is obviously as good as you 
 would expect, hearing either your troops confirm there orders to hearing them die or even explosions 
 of all different kinds going off everywhere.
  
  The gameplay is also as impressive, again you can play as GDI and NOD but this time there is also 
 SCRIN, which are alien like creatures that have invaded Earth. But no matter who you play as none 
 are really that much different to another, balance wise that is. Of course they all have units 
 specialising in certain things but overall they do seem pretty balanced. You might find that a 
 lot of people just Mammoth Rush if their GDI but if your NOD you can play smart and counter attack. 
 For example the Mammoth Tanks Anti Air isnt the most impressive in the game so making it quite 
 a bit easier to take them out from the air. Along with a lot of other things you will find. The 
 single player story overall, I will have to say it lasts quite long, you do have 3 campaigns to 
 play through. The online mode is great fun too. So if you enjoy either RTS games or enjoyed a command 
 and conquer game in the past or maybe just wanting a game to play online with your friends this 
 game is worth checking out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azhar85
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 20, 2007 1:48 am PT
Review:  I am not a fans of strategy games, but this games is totally awesome. I'll think this games was 
 the best of Command and Conquer series so far. The graphics are improves, the campaign modes games 
 are interesting and multiplayer gaming also give me satisfaction. For Xbox 360 owners, don't forget 
 to buy this game if you like strategy games because of it's worth playing and buying. -aaaa aaaa 
 aaaaaaa aaaaaaaa aaa aaaa aaaaa aaa aaaaaaaaaaaa aaaa aaaaaaa aaaaaaa aaaaaa aaa aa aa aaaa a aaaaaaaaaaaa 
 aaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaa aaaaaaaaaaaa aaaa aaaa aaaaaa aaa aaaaaaa aaaaaaa aaa aaaa aaaa 
 aaaa aaa aaaaaaa aa aaa aaaa aaaaaaa aa aaaa aaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaa aa aaaa a aaaaa aaaaa aaaaaaa 
 aaaaaa aa aaa a aaaa aaaaaaaa aaaa- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GuitarsOfWarr
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 18, 2007 9:16 pm PT
Review:  Alright, now before I start, let me say this: I have NEVER played an RTS in my life before this 
 game. This means I have nothing to compare it to, no god examples or bad examples. Okay, now for 
 the review.
  
  To start off the game, the tutorial is fantastic. It's simple, it covers all of the bases and you 
 understand how to play by the time you are done. With that being said, this game throws you right 
 into a huge conflict that you may not be prepared for. Now I have played through the GDI campaign 
 on Medium and I have just begun the NOD but let me tell you, this game is difficult. Many levels 
 early on in the game (such as the Pentagon) are simply overwhelmingly hard and boring. The levels 
 without a base to command are simply lacking but that is made up for by the excellency of the title 
 when the option to build is available. As for the story, I thought the way it was presented was 
 a bit laughable but I'll give them credit, there were a few faces I recognized in there (mainly 
 Josh Holloway from LOST) and some of the scenes were intense and very intriguing to say the least. 
 Having not played as the Scrin yet I cannot speak for their campaign however, I did find it a bit 
 disapointing how similar the GDI and NOD forces are. Also, having three full campaigns adds a bit 
 of bang to your buck. I don't have Live right now because my wireless internet is down so I am 
 also yet to explore the online of C&amp; C3.
  
  In conclusion, a few minor setbacks cause this game from being all it can be but I still found 
 it an excellent 360 game and a good example of a decent RTS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Driver2020
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 13, 2007 9:51 pm PT
Review:  Command &amp; Conquer 3 Tiberium Wars is in a nut shell the latest and greatest in the Command 
 &amp; Conquer series. If you have played any of the c&amp; c games before then you will know they 
 are basically all the same and technology and graphics get better each time. If you are a fan of 
 the series then this game is a must have, if your not a fan or never played command &amp; conquer 
 games before then i suggest trying an earlier title for the pc which would be cheaper and would 
 let you know exactly what the game is about ,then if you discover you really liked the earlier 
 version or versions then i say to you that c&amp; c 3 on the xbox360 is very good indeed and is 
 almost identical to the pc version the only draw back that i could find with the xbox360 is a slight 
 slowdown when multiple things are going on, on screen all at the same time, the other slight problem 
 would be the xbox 360 controller which takes a bit of getting used to and trying to remember what 
 buttons to press slows you down especially when online play is all about speed, as the typical 
 mouse use with the pc game has always been standard and is a dream to play this way.
  
  Online play is great on xbox live and pc.
  
  I highly recommend this games and would go as 
 far to say that as a real time strategy game C&amp; C 3 is the best out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: a_big_fat_clown
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 13, 2007 2:22 am PT
Review:  C&amp; C3 is an awesome game. Well worth the $60 I spent on it. Sound - it was great had no problem 
 with the way anything was as far as sound goes.
  
  Game play - Awesome, is all I have to saw about it. Loved how it played and how the diffrent campaigns 
 gave the view of that certain faction.
  
  Graphics - the graphics are awesome had no problems with the way anything looked was very well 
 put together.
  
  Value - Well worth the $60 I payed for it.
  
  I thought that the story was awesome and this game was very well put together for an RTS game on 
 the Xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: penguin5555
Rating: 3
Date: Jul 13, 2007 12:10 am PT
Review:  Control setup is terrible and un-workable. One would never be able to control it fast enough to 
 have a chance, especially in the later levels on the harder difficulty settings.
  
  I've finished tha game on normal and some of the later levels on hard and although difficult, the 
 controls in the PC version did not give me any trouble. For an RTS to succeed on a console with 
 limited buttons, it needs to have customizable controls I think. AVP: Extinction was playable since 
 there is no building and the unit process is handled through a menu.
  
  Definitely a rent it first game!!!
  
  (Note that may difficulty rating reflects the controls, 
 not necessarily the game) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benboz
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 5, 2007 2:05 am PT
Review:  Command &amp; Conquer is back for antoher mind blowing game and this time it is also on the Xbox 
 360. Command &amp; Conquer 3 Tiberium Wars continues from the other Tiberium War games. The controls 
 are really good and easy to get use to like LOTR Middle-Earth 2. This game has 3 campaigns but 
 one is where you have to unlock by finishing the first 2. One campaign is from the GDI and one 
 campaign is from the NOD. The unlockable campaign is this alien force. The campaigns are really 
 good but sometimes there is no excitement at all but the cutscenes are really well done and good 
 to watch. The game also has mutliplayer where your able to verus your mates, rivals or someone 
 around the world. The graphics are excellent on the 360 and it is great to just have a C&amp; C 
 game on a console instead of the PC. The Xbox 360 has started to use RTS games and I reckon they 
 are going to be a success on this console. C&amp; C3 Tiberium Wars is a excellent game with few 
 things that might make it not look good but if you are a C&amp; C fan you will like this game. C&amp; C 
 has come a long way to get great graphics on a console. Awesome game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reymundo514
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 12, 2007 7:01 pm PT
Review:  Command &amp; Conquer 3 is exactly what I expect Star Craft 2 to be when it's finally complete. 
 However, EA had the pleasure of beating them to market. There are 3 races: GDI, Brotherhood of 
 NOD and Skrin. The GDI are analogous to the Terran in that it is a futuristic military organization. 
 The Brotherhood of NOD, another human race, is a group of terrorist that is geared towards a style 
 of play similar to the Zerg. The Skrin is an alien race similar to the Protoss that comes to earth 
 to eliminate both the GDI and Brotherhood of NOD and claim Earth as its own. In addition to the 
 races being strikingly similar, the only resource you're required to collect in C&amp; C3 is Tiberium, 
 which is a green crystal much like the blue crystal mined in Star Craft. In fact, some Tiberium 
 is even blue!
  
  Typically, we've only been seeing RTS games like this for PC due to complex control necessary to 
 make the game playable. However, EA developed an excellent RTS control system for console games 
 in its Lord of the Rings: Battle for Middle Earth series. This control system is also used in C&amp; C3. 
 I suppose if you have something that works well then why invent something new. Big props to EA 
 for that. I wouldn't be surprised if this control system becomes an industry standard for console 
 RTS games.
  
  In the single-player campaign there are little cinematic cut scenes with real live actors who brief 
 you on your mission. I haven't played the other C&amp; C games but apparently this is a trademark 
 of the series. The cut scenes are a little on the cheesy side but in an amusing kind of way.
  
  C&amp; C3 also boasts excellent online play. This is also identical to LOTR: BFME II. It features 
 versus, capture the flag, king of the hill, capture and hold and siege game modes.
  
  Essentially, C&amp; C3 = Star Craft + graphics upgrade + nicely ported to XBox 360.
  
  It's 
 a winner in my book. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scott_michal
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 12, 2007 12:12 pm PT
Review:  Command and conquer 3 tiberium wars is an exellent RTS game and should be a role model for all 
 console RTS games! Even if you never played a command and conquer game this is a great time to 
 start. In tiberium wars you are rewarded with a lot of live action video, I have to admit the actors 
 did a great job. Nod figure head Kane is back and is undeniably creepy as ever. The actors who played 
 lando carrison and sam fisher play as GDI directer boyle and general jack granger. In TIBERIUM wars 
 you play as 3 factions the global defence initiative aka GDI ,the brotherhood of NOD ,or the alien 
 faction the scrin. Each faction is unique has different units and at least 1 superpower like GDI's 
 ion canon NOD's nuclear missile and scrin's BLACK HOLE each power and unit fits each faction perfectly. Though 
 it is fun to play as GDI and NOD the games greatest challenge and delight is playing as scrin because 
 it is so different from the other factions. Strangely the controls don't feel at all awkward. The 
 game would be almost perfect if it was not for the washed up graphics. Overall you don't need to 
 be a RTS fan to get this game you just need to like intense battles and earth shattering explosions. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: honk_sm
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 11, 2007 6:23 pm PT
Review:  Another great RTS for teh XBox 360. That said, there have really only been two, but this and Battle 
 for Middle Earth are great.
  
  This is solid C&amp; C RTS. It works well on the 360 controller, meaning that they will probably 
 make more instead of destroying the series. Graphics are good, but after playing on the PC, it 
 doesn't look like there is anything surprising here. If they did make it too realistic, I don't 
 think it would do well for this genre.
  
  The story is good, but a little campy. The cut scenes are silly, even though you can tell that 
 that was what they were going for , vice by accident. I've seen almost all of these actors on other 
 shows/movies, and they are better than that, so it's kind of funny. Jennifer Morrision is especially 
 funny contrasted to her character on House. Lando.... what can AI say about Lando.
  
  This game is worth the buy. It is fairly long, offers an unlockable campaign ( only 4 levels, but 
 it's the aliens) , and is definitely a C&amp; C game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grueol123
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 11, 2007 5:47 pm PT
Review:  C&amp; C3 Tiberium Wars for the 360 is a wonderful game. The gameplay plays very smoothly, it is 
 well balanced, and it delivers. The game plays pretty much the same as most other games, except 
 the building method. You gather resources (in this case, tiberium) , build troops, and send your 
 army against the bad guy's walls. Tiberium Wars games run very fast (15-30 minutes) and are deeply 
 enjoyable. The storyline is great and original. There has been a return of those cheesy cinematics 
 from its predecessors (thank god!) that immerse you into the storyline. Each side is balanced and 
 different from every other side. There are a few units that are a bit pointless in multiplayer, 
 though. The multiplayer is fun and has several different game modes, such as CTF and siege. Overall, 
 EA Games has put together a game that, while not original, is still very fun to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chEEsey120
Rating: 2.2
Date: Jul 10, 2007 6:37 pm PT
Review:  To start the campaign is boring and just plain sucks. The multiplayer is also crappy, everybody 
 just rushes and uses super weapons and powers which ruins the 'strategy' of the game. I tried to 
 fight the A. I and they do the same thing superweapons, powers and just go after your harvesters. 
 Whats worse is you cant even turn super weapons or powers off, without them the game would be alot 
 better. When I tried to take the game back and trade it out I couldn't and I'm sure as heck am 
 not going to sell it to hamestop for 10 bucks so they can sell it for 55. So I guess im stuck with 
 it. I wish I had rented it first which is what you should do before buying this piece of s**t! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sto1c-1
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 9, 2007 7:24 am PT
Review:  The user interface was pathetic. I think that games of this nature should remain on the pc, as 
 it is much easier to control with a mouse and keyboard. The cinematic in the story mode needed 
 a lot of work. They looked like scenes from a low budget sci-fi movie. The gameplay was interesting, 
 but some of the controls were annoying. The storyline was not very interesting. Maybe I missed 
 out on some of the issues in previous Command and Conquers, but there seemed to be plenty of missing 
 details. The story line just didn't have anything in it that really interested me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ElitesIgnorance
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 3, 2007 11:55 pm PT
Review:  Blue, Yellow, and Red Zones are the only thing that stands out of this war. Tiberium Wars are honestly 
 the only resource that goes well, and is the only resource to use during your commanding missions. 
 Fighting againist all opponents are the only way to let your leader see what was good in you. Many 
 missions are awaiting in this last war of wars, cause this one is the one that counts the most... 
 the greatest Tiberium War of all Tiberium Wars.
  
  Tiberium Wars is maybe the best thing this summer for the Xbox 360 got until who knows... the fall. 
 Usually, the RTS games really don't fit well into the Consoles, but with the exception of this 
 one, Command and Conquer 3: Tiberium Wars is the best one of this genre for the Xbox 360. I personally 
 found it odd for Westwood not making this game, but EA making the games now, but I should shut 
 up because the last one I played was Tiberium Sun 1999. After playing this version, I found it 
 that C anc C 3 blows away any one of them. The controls were probably the most riskiest part of 
 making the game. EA has done a very well good job to handeling the control scheme of controling 
 your squads, tanks, etc. The controls do take a while to handel, but after an hour or two, you 
 be killing Nod like there is now tomorrow. Without a mouse, you basically control things with one 
 cursor, but it doesn't move anywhere of the screen like the PC. It remains stationary, but with 
 holding L, R, when selecting troops, developing, transforming, etc. you can really have no fear 
 of what may come unexpetently.
  
  The story is also done very well. You have two, or three maybe... been hearing about the another 
 one, campaigns to become the master of those damn achievments. You have the GDI, who are mostly 
 in control of the Blue Zones and don't like the Tiberium manifesting the world. The Nod, who are 
 the ones living in Yellow Zones and love manifesting the Tiberium. You are probably wondering, 
 what is the Tiberium? It is a very radioactive crystal that mostly inhabits the world now after 
 a Nuclear War or something else. You can choose sides, which I personally love the GDI missions 
 because that is my favorite team.
  
  The graphics are so-so, mostly just looking average for an Xbox 360. Honestly, I think their great, 
 but they aren't that too superb for this kind of system. You have the awesome particle effects, 
 and you have the great videos... wait they are real life... Now that is classic. However, you won't 
 be tearing out your eyes in amazement if you see these kind of graphics.
  
  The sound is just as blast out as you can get blasted out of a speaker. You have the real life 
 videos with outstanding voice actors. Though, the one Nod dude said, I would tear out my left nut 
 to see this battle. was super sweet. But back to the action, the sound is tuned to where the explosions 
 are ment to be, with also the firing the guns and all that two... it sounds like war is you get 
 what I saying. However, your soldiers will also say some rather dumb stuff in the middle of battle, 
 but you will laugh cause it will give the game more character.
  
  So in the end, buy this amazing game, because with a superb value at the end, the game will show 
 some rather amazing momments for the rest of the summer. C and C series have a new and bright future 
 with EA because this is the one that will put sequels more serious than what Westwood does to their 
 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lewishhh
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jul 2, 2007 9:06 am PT
Review:  Gameplay
  
  Very fun, but it can get a bit tedious starting all over again, but thats what RTS's are all about 
 isn't it? The controls you have to get used to, but you will eventually.
  
  Graphics
  
  Abseloutly amazing. the war torn cities are immensely detailed, the effects are pretty damn good 
 aswell. some units arnet up to scratch however.
  
  Sound
  
  Explosions and bullets sound great, but the voice acting and those corney videos, o dear....
 
  
  Value
  
  Seems very long, but the campain can get a bit boring, those videos really get on your nerves aswell.
 
  
  Overall
  
  The best in the series, but its not ground breaking. definatley buy if you're a C&amp; C fan 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slapshotsaint
Rating: 4.8
Date: Jul 1, 2007 7:42 am PT
Review:  Imagine if every day you sat down at your PC you could only navigate with the Tab Button to do 
 everything and not the mouse,, It would take a hell of a long time to do anything and would make 
 any sense. This is Command and Conquer . Simply selecting a unit may mean having to completely 
 flip and rotate your Television screen view just so you don't accidentally select all your units 
 at once and send then into wherever. Why do I want to spend 90% of my time watching a building 
 make a group of troops or and airplane. Throw in way too many windows to navigate through with 
 using the controller instaed of the mouse just make it slow and cumbersome and kind of ruins it 
 for a rental as well cause you will prefer just playing it on your PC.. Save your Money. Your REAL 
 Review.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halolegend35
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 1, 2007 4:06 am PT
Review:  command and conquer is a truly brilliant rts with hilarious real life cutscenes which bring the 
 game together. while the graphics are not a patch on the pc version they still improve on last 
 years lord of the rings. the best faction in the game is the scrin, even the lowest units light 
 the screen with huge blasts of plasma and the tripods lasers look superb during battles. a variety 
 of maps and game options make this a success on xbox live and the fascinating story told through 
 the eyes of the 3 factions in 3 lenghty campaigns make a lot of game time and if you feel really 
 brave you could increase the diificulty. overall this a fanstastic game for hard core fans and 
 light gamers and is definatly worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kletomax
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 30, 2007 7:58 pm PT
Review:  I have been a fan of the C &amp; C series since its conception. This is the first console RTS game 
 I have played, and it plays well. In my opinion the weakest part of the game is the graphics. Its 
 seems to fall somewhere between Red Alert and Generals. The controls are intuitive and easy to 
 pick up. The gameplay runs smoothly and units are easy to control. The additional non-required 
 tasks in the scenarios are a nice touch. The story of the game and the appearance of familiar characters 
 is classic C &amp; C. I now believe that RTS for console without a mouse is now a reality. Hopefully 
 there will be another version soon thats even better! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vicon1
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 28, 2007 9:21 pm PT
Review:  Vary good game althought one thing i really wish..... MORE RACES SCRIN NOD and GDI ant cutting it 
 for me but other then that amazing..
  
  
  ... .. . . ...... .. ... .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 
 .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ... . .. ... ...... .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ... .. 
 .. ... .... .. .. ... .. ... .. .. .. .. .. . .. .. ... .. .. .. ..... .. .. ... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deadalus91
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 26, 2007 8:38 am PT
Review:  Overall this is a good and addictive game there is just a couple of things that lets it down for 
 example:
  the multi-player is annoying as everyone tries the same technique also, it is nearly impossible 
 to have a game without lag it is really annoying.
  As for the campaign it is very good it is lenghy and quite a good and fun challenge to play if 
 they could fix the multiplayer the game would be perfect so they could more to fix this however, 
 EA are quite lazy in doing this so i do not realy think they will change this anytime soon it is 
 ashame could of been so much more luckily thought it is still one of the best xbox360 games out 
 it is still amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: foller21
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 24, 2007 10:19 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome it is revolutionary because it lets you command a vast army the problem is 
 that you need to spend a lot of time creating units so one mission might take a lot of time to 
 pass and another it is too picky when you build structures but this game is good and fun and simple 
 but in some missions it is hard to figure out the right strategy to win the mission yes i love 
 this game but if you could have better military units like the riflemen it get's killed too easy 
 even if its a veteran unit it dies pretty fast so try and avoid this unit but the greatest unit 
 too me is the sniper because it can hold of enemies better than a riflemen if it had better armor 
 and gun it be better . The game is revolutionary and the only one of its kind the good is that 
 the controling an army part is awesome but it could be better 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scarface67898
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 23, 2007 12:09 am PT
Review:  wow this is a great game for the x box 360 it has everything an RTS needs and its a definite must 
 buy i don't know why i wasn't give a higher review but i would of give it at least a 9.2 but thats 
 just me .the multilayer i great but it also has flaws with the rankings and skill level but other 
 than that its pretty stable and it has live vision capabilities. the achievements are great and 
 aren't to easy or too hard and it has a great replay value .the graphics and sound a very well 
 well done this is a definite must get so go out and buy you wont be disappointed I'm not 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MiguelDavid
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 20, 2007 9:12 pm PT
Review:  This is the first RTS game I ever played and so far I havent stop playing, I'm not really into 
 the campaign although I think its great, but where the real action in this game is in the multiplayer 
 on Xbox Live, facing different oponnets all day is super fun and you can never stop playing. Trying 
 differnt stradegies with every new opponent makes the game very addictive and ambitious. The game 
 is made with lots of detail and the graphics are great, simply the idea of the game makes you want 
 to buy it, however you should download the demo before you go buy the game to the store, just in 
 case you never played and RTS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SirusIanvirus
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 19, 2007 5:59 am PT
Review:  Absolutely Stunning I was completely amazed with this game and the game makers.
  Who knew that EA games could actually pull off an RTS on the 360.
  I was surprised when I bought 
 this game and set down with it for the first hour the controls are easy to get used to and the 
 graphics are stunning. ma bey its because I like to see things blow up in hi-def i'm not sure but 
 it got me hooked .
  If you like the C&amp; C games then its a must have the interface just takes time to get used to. 
 sure its not as good as the PC version but if you really want to play this game and you don't have 
 a high-end gaming computer this will suffice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lil_zelda_dude
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 17, 2007 6:28 pm PT
Review:  Command and Conquer 3 Tiberium Wars is a fantastically suprising game. LOTR was very slow paced, 
 but here they speed the pace up tremendously and it shines in its simple controls. Dont be fooled 
 by the big words in the Boot Camp (training mode) this game is quite simple, and just because its 
 a console RTS doesnt mean you should let this game down in the controls area. Your Units are both 
 beautiful artistically and technically, though I wish you could zoom up more on them. The Game 
 on online may tend to slow down when several units are on the screen, but this may be caused by 
 the slow connection of others. The Single player campaign lets you play 3 factions, GDI, Nod, and 
 the Scrin. The Scrin are unlocked later on and are the more unusual of the 3. GDI is famous for 
 there tanks, Scrin for there tripods and aircraft, and nod for there Venoms and Avatars, yet they 
 are all balanced and work very well.
  There are many modes in multiplayer like King Of the Hill, Versus, Siege, and more, they all entertain. 
 I rather turn to this game then Gears of War sometimes (which is hard for me) and enjoy that I 
 have another entertaining option for the 360.
  Conclusion- The Campaign runs rather long and forces you to build different forces with its varied 
 mission objectives, stays solid throughout. Multiplayer is competitive and addictive, this game 
 is a must have for RTS fans and even those interested in other genres of video games. P. S The live 
 action cut scenes arent that bad either! =] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robdpremier
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 17, 2007 12:26 am PT
Review:  I was very pleasantly surprised by C&amp; C3 TW! Given some of the criticism it had gotten I went 
 in not expecting much at all! I am a new C&amp; C player so maybe that may be part of why I felt 
 so impressed by this game and what it accomplishes. I played LOTR BFME 2 and liked that game which 
 I have heard is the same talent behind C&amp; C3! I have heard about how a PC is the only way to 
 play a game like this! Let me tell you something, you will be amazed at how satisfying the developer 
 has made it to play this game! I've heard the complaints about using a controller vs a mouse/Kb, 
 frankly this complaint is getting way too played out by gamers UNable to adapt their gameplay skills! 
 My 1 disappointment of this game would be its Graphics kinda stink on an SDTV!! The game is great 
 on HD, but it is by no means worthy of running out and picking up a new set! All in all, if you 
 already have the setup and aren't Married to your mouse, give this 360 title a go round you'll 
 be impressed! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sonic_Wolfe
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 17, 2007 8:26 am PT
Review:  Introduction
  
  It has been some time since we saw our last full instalment of the central Command and Conquer 
 storyline, not since the Tiberium spread in the amazing Tiberium Sun. However, years later and 
 after much hard work, the third part to the amazing series has landed on both PC and 360 - and 
 it has never looked better, or played smoother, and thats even on the console!
  Whether you are a PC gamer or a 360 gamer or just a fan of the RTS genre, you should go out of 
 your way to own this game.
  
  Story
  
  Kane is allegedly dead, the GDI have been struggling to keep control of their Blue zones , areas 
 where no Tiberium infection can be found and where humanity strives continuously to survive. Yet, 
 there is a dark and foreboding feeling in the air as the Brotherhood of Nod from the darkness strikes 
 against the GDI, destroying one of their most powerful tool, the space station Philadelphia.... the 
 gauntlet is thrown! Now GDI and Nod once again face battle as Kane is rumoured to still live..... but 
 a new faction enters the war, and on no ones side - The Scrin have come!
  
  Gameplay
  
  One thing the CnC series has done succesfully over the many years, and through its many variations 
 of the game is stay true to what makes the game so popular in the first place, a good smooth control 
 system, a simple tech tree and vastly different races to command, not to mention the always involving, 
 yet pleasingly cheesy storylines, and CnC 3 is no different especially on the 360. Never has an 
 RTS felt so organic on a console before. The game starts with the GDI campaign that gives you the 
 option of a tutorial, and I fully recommend you do it, as getting used to the controls over a mouse 
 and keyboard is tricky to start with, but once the tutorial is done, your all set.
  The main campaign will, level by level introduce you to more technology, bigger and more dangerous 
 enemy units, more complex and elaborate missions and optional missions. With each new unit you 
 gain control of and learn how to use, your enemy seems to gain a unit that balances your new arsenal 
 out. From the outset the games AI does a good job of letting you get used to things, but increases 
 in difficulty very quickly, as the game rarely gives you a break as it will constantly send troops/units 
 in to harass you, but this is good, the game keeps you on your toes.
  The control system is so simple its insane, but this simplicity is what makes the game so great 
 to play - everything is controlled by the left and right triggers of your controller. Pull the 
 left trigger to bring up various menus with easily recognizable thumbnails allowing you to cycle 
 through assigned groups, unit building ques, to construction ques. You no longer need to micro-manage 
 your army, and you can issue construction orders from anywhere on your battlefield, making CnC 
 3 feel so smooth its amazing. You never feel like you are fighting with the game to keep control 
 of what is going on, and at times there can be a heck of a lot going on.
  The organic control system, coupled with the advantage of a big TV screen (if you have one) can 
 make CnC 3 seem so much large than life at times, having a game of such high calibre as CnC 3 playing 
 on your TV can be impressive, especially if you make use of the nifty camera, which is fully controllable, 
 from zooming into look your troops in the eye, to zooming out and panning to all angles to get 
 the best view of a rocket pinching an enemy unit right out of the sky!
  Each unit in the game has also been given a specific function and are rarely made obsolete by the 
 next bigger tank et al that you can construct, for example the Pitbull buggies you get near the 
 start of the GDI campaign have ground to air rockets that can fire at a reasonable rate, later 
 in the game when you have Predators and Mammoths, you will find that the Pitbulls when upgraded 
 act as better SAM sites than anything you can build stationary, plus they are mobile! So the game 
 has been extremely well balanced, the GDI forces tend to lean towards outright power than anything 
 else, their Mammoth tanks pack a whallop with their Railguns, the Commando can chew through enemy 
 troops almost unscathed and Firehawks make light work of any foes base with their air to ground 
 bombs. Nod has a different approach eschewing straight up military power for a more cloak and dagger 
 approach sees Nod using Stealth Tanks to sneak around up on your enemies blind spot and hit them 
 where they are weak, to using your Venom 'copters to blast their way through a unsuspecting ground 
 force, to sticking a Nuke right up your opposing factions proverbial a**. Now the new faction makes 
 life extremely difficult for both Nod and GDI, as the Scrins speciality is air forces, their Carriers 
 and Destroyers have much longer range than the GDI/Nod and can inflict heavy damage to anything, 
 however, the Scrins ground forces can easily be wiped out and left for dead - except their Tripods 
 which can go toe to toe with any major attack group!
  As you can see there is a lot of new and old gameplay tricks up CnC 3s sleeve, and it delivers 
 on every front!
  
  Graphics
  
  Command and Conquer 3, is to say the least, THE best looking RTS I have seen to date, the units 
 are of a high level of detail, from the muzzle flash from their weaponry to the explosive burst 
 of gas as rockets are sent streaming through the air, the GDI Railguns also look particularly sweet. 
 The landscapes are realistic and uneven, spreading conflicts across various hot spots on each map. 
 The animation of every little detail has been painstakingly watched over, if you look close enough 
 at the Refinery, you will get an impressive surprise.
  Even the cut scenes between missions are impressive to watch, as they are crisp and clear, and 
 the set design is pretty out there, but fits the game nicely. Plus there is the bonus of various 
 high classed actors getting in on the CnC action!
  
  Sound
  
  All things considered, this is primarily a high tech war game, so the sounds are pretty standard; 
 gunfire, explosions, unit movement, unit speech and so on, all pretty bog standard, but to say 
 that the sound matches the context of the game, is to tell the truth, alone the sound is nothing 
 spectacular, but when all rolled into one, music, special effects and speech, CnC 3 sounds utterly 
 as good as it looks and every bit as smoothly as it plays.
  
  Value
  
  With two large central campaigns (GDI/Nod) , and one relatively smaller Scrin campaign, the single 
 player mode alone gives you a lot of value for your money as each campaign will take roughly ten 
 hours to finish if not more.... add to this the lengthy, technically never ending online multiplayed 
 modes and your laughing all the way to the bank, as CnC 3 really does stretch out to be a long 
 lasting game, but would we expect anything less from a RTS? Would we?
  
  Misc
  
  Its Command and Conquer, and now in 3D, I really dont need to say anymore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: newwaytodie
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jun 14, 2007 11:42 am PT
Review:  I love command and conquer. I also love Xbox Live. So naturally I thought hey this sounds like 
 a good time, think I'll give it a try. 
  
  I wholly regret purchasing this game....
  
  So it would be that this game is not the chocolate meets peanut butter match that I was so desperately 
 longing for. I mean we're talking about Command and Conquer here! Despite a valiant attempt made 
 at making this game work on a console, I feel let down...
  
  Unless microsoft comes out with support for mouse and keyboard options, RTS games will remain, 
 for me, on PC. Which is why I am so disappointed; This game on xbox live should be a knockout. 
 The controls are VERY clunky... I am left with the nightmare of not being able to put what I want, 
 where I want it, when I want it there. It's nearly impossible to micro manage units, and even worse 
 manage buildings as they are being pummeled by opposing forces.
  
  I still like this game but it has potential that is not realized on a console. It's not unplayable, 
 but it is VERY VERY frustrating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marmin
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 14, 2007 2:37 am PT
Review:  I have always loved RTS games. It think it was the locust like swarm of RTS games that came out 
 a few years back that really turned me off from them. But I truly loved them. Back when C&amp; C 
 first came out thats all I did; got home from school play some C&amp; C. Get home from practice; 
 play some C&amp; C.
  
  Then with the rise of consoles RTS games took a backseat, to me at least. Truthfully I didn't think 
 there was a way to play a RTS game on a console.
  
  Flip forward to now. More specifically, flip forward to Command &amp; Conquer 3: Tiberium Wars.
 
  
  It is just a great game. Its fun, its fast, and you get to blow as much stuff up as you want to. 
 Sure I love a PC based RTS like Company of Hero's, but honestly who doesn't have their secret desire 
 to overwhelm a base with twenty Mammoth tanks. So now you know how I feel overall, I'll give the 
 rundown:
  
  Graphics: On the whole very pleasing, playing in HD is great, as always. The textures seemed at 
 times to not be as crisp as they could be but, even fully zoomed out it is easy to spot your lone 
 sniper team amidst a pile of rubble. Vivid colors, diverse models, and crowd pleasing special effects 
 make the game watchable as much as playable. As a side note the campy live action movies are just 
 the right mix of 'Iron Eagle' and 'Starship Troopers' (and who knew Sawyer wasn't lost anymore) . 
 The one drawback is some framerate issues in larger than normal battles.
  
  Controls: Now heres the thing. After playing the game for about five or six missions, the controls 
 seem almost second nature. Its like when you've played so much Halo and a friend asks you how to 
 play, you can't even really tell them which button does what. They do take some getting used to 
 but once you get them down you can play almost as well as with a mouse and keyboard.
  
  Sound: The one killer for this is the repeated one liners you get from building units. The structure 
 build completion phrases aren't as bad since you don't hear them as often, but when I build fifteen 
 missile soldiers I really don't want to hear each one report for duty. Seriously, just let me know 
 when you're all accounted for. Voice acting takes this very campy script and carries it further 
 than it should have gone. Theres a lot of recognizable talent used and it pays off.
  
  Those are the big three, besides the campaign I haven't played much multi player, but the skirmishes 
 are fun as always and I'm sure the online play is great as long as the matching system works well 
 enough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ocdog45
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 14, 2007 1:17 am PT
Review:  if your not a pc gamers its hard to get into the world of rts since its parable the best form of 
 playing it. but ea did a great job turning this pc game into a masterpiece.
  
  Gameplay - simplicity is the best way to describe it. the found a way to use your toolbar in a 
 simple manner. rookies will find the boot camp to be useful. ea makes it clear to help those in 
 need. veterans rts gamers won't like the fact that the mouse and keyboard are gone. rts game simply 
 put is strategy, thinking, planning, executing. its a great way to work your mind.
  
  graphics - the look great and zoom in and zoom out feature and movements look crisp.
  
  achievements 
 - playing through the game should get you almost all the points.
  
  online play - get ready to play against some vets here but its overall a good system... if you can 
 find more then one player.
  
  overall - while not a must buy for me its wroth it when the price drops down on the game. if you 
 into thinking and strategy this is your game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: genmonkey
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 12, 2007 4:21 pm PT
Review:  No matter how many times they try, developers just can't seem to get RTS games quite right on a 
 console format. Hampered by the control system and lack of resolution real-estate, most attempts 
 thus far have made a bludgeoning stab at the genre rather than a precisely co-ordinated attack 
 at the minds of couch-bound gamers, and left many with a feeling that maybe the relationship just 
 isn't meant to be. Last year, EA attempted to change that situation with the relatively well received 
 Battle For Middle Earth II; a game that almost managed to instill the strategic mindset into thousands 
 of players, but still fell agonisingly short of the quality marker to be crowned a true classic. 
 The same development studio returns this year with a version of Command and Conquer; a title with 
 as much strategic pedigree as any other in the industry, and one that has all the requisite hallmarks 
 to turn the tide of the battle against console-RTS adequacy.
  
  Harking back to the series roots, 'C&amp; C3: Tiberium Wars' features the return of fantastically 
 cheesy and over-the-top full-motion video (with fan-favourite NOD leader Kane resurrected for another 
 stellar performance) and speedy gameplay. In fact the sheer pace of the game engine may be a bit 
 of a shock to those players introduced to the series through 'Generals', or even anybody thats 
 gotten used to titles such as Company of Heroes or Dawn of War on the PC. Whilst speed probably 
 wont be the primary concern of many genre die-hards, there is no doubt that the emphasis on fast-action 
 gameplay gives Tiberium Wars an adrenalised atmosphere, perfect for the average console gamer. 
 Units fly around the battlefield at an alarming rate, similar to that of the first PC title in 
 the series all those years ago, and probably closer to the original Red Alert than anything else.
 
  
  Of course the same sense of speed that charges the atmosphere also plays right into the hands of 
 the chief bug-bear of a console implementation; the control scheme. EA has taken a wise evolutionary 
 step here, and anybody that played BFMEII last year will feel right at home with the new tweaked 
 interface, which is no bad thing at all.
  
  With the lack of any keyboard input, all of the usual build, unit selection and tactical choices 
 have to be mapped to an on-screen menu, and making such a system easy and fast to navigate has 
 proven to be a chore in the past. To get around this issue, C&amp; C3 essentially uses the right 
 and left triggers as the kick-off point for any of the on-screen input, with the face buttons and 
 bumpers acting as modifiers and context-sensitive choices depending on the units selected. Pulling 
 the right trigger brings up the main build menu from anywhere on the battlefield, or a context-sensitive 
 menu depending on the group or structure selected, whilst the A button acts as confirmation in 
 all circumstances. The d-pad acts as group selection and assignment, as well as cycling through 
 your choice of 'special' units (engineer, commando etc) , and waypoints can be plotted with the 
 left bumper.
  
  Whilst navigating the environment this way can be daunting at first, there is an excellent set 
 of tutorials in the main menu that walks new players through all of the basics; and once you've 
 played through the first couple of missions in the GDI campaign, the crucial elements will have 
 become second nature and you simply wont be thinking about the pad anymore. There really isn't 
 any functionality I can think of that's more than one or two button presses away, which is the 
 ultimate compliment I can pay the interface, and other console-bound RTS games could do worse than 
 to bastardize the system for future releases.
  
  That's one hurdle successfully leaped by the development team then, with another to go. The issue 
 of on-screen visuals proves to be a little more tricky to circumnavigate, but whilst any team has 
 to code for standard-definition resolutions as well as the more advanced HDTV variety, this won't 
 be going away in a hurry unfortunately.
  
  Simply put, on a HDTV (and especially so at 1080p) , Tiberium Wars looks fantastic. All of the detail 
 resplendent in the PC version is translated well, and whilst the 360 still cannot match the raw 
 horsepower of a top-end PC, it is at least a close-run competition this time around. There are 
 a few frame-rate issues from time to time, but text is clean and precise, and units stand out well 
 from the terrain without ever looking artificial. Heat-haze and environmental effects are thrown 
 into the mix, as well as a stylishly muted colour palette that accentuates the rain and weather 
 effects on some of the menacingly darker levels.
  
  Drop down to a standard-definition resolution however and all of the usual complaints begin to 
 manifest themselves. Ground troops suddenly turn out to be near-impossible to spot without zooming 
 right in; and text, whilst by no means as bad as some other titles, still isn't suitably adapted.
 
  
  Of course that particular complaint is largely the issue of the delivery platform, and not the 
 software developers themselves. There is only so much that can be packed onto a lower-res screen, 
 so it would be harsh to criticise the title for failing to deliver in those circumstances. That 
 isn't to say that Tiberium Wars doesn't play well on older technology however. Whilst there are 
 the niggles listed above, you can certainly see well enough to hammer out a decent game, and the 
 frame-rate drops that occur more frequently at higher resolutions fade away to be of less consequence.
 
  
  So essentially that's the two main problems with console RTS games knocked out of the park, finally. 
 Unfortunately whilst the team has done a stellar job in overhauling the main mechanics of the title, 
 less attention has been paid to the fine balance needed for a successful single-player game, and 
 this shines through a couple of times during the campaign mode. Some of the tasks in question simply 
 require a keyboard and mouse to successfully complete, at least without absolute perfect timing 
 and game-save abuse every two minutes. Unfortunately this particular issue only occurs near the 
 beginning of both the campaign modes, with the knock-on effect of all the subsequent missions seeming 
 like a leisurely stroll. It's by no means a game-breaking problem, but it would have been nice 
 to see the missions adapted properly, and a more uniformly scaling difficulty level as a result.
 
  
  With all that said, each of the single-player modes is a joy to play through, with the fantastically 
 awful acting in the HD cutscenes a suitable prize to be offered up along the way. There are a few 
 cast members that you'd think could do a little better (Michael Ironside, Billy D Williams etc) , 
 but they all get caught up in the silly atmosphere of the story and deliver some excellently over-the-top 
 performances. I might be in the minority of people that can appreciate the intentionally bad production 
 values here, but if this sounds like your sort of thing, you'll be in heaven.
  
  Multi-player is as well-balanced and robust as you would expect from the Live service and a game 
 of this caliber. There seem to be a decent number of opponents on offer at the moment and thus 
 far I haven't run into any of the annoying Halo-esque college frat-boy crowd that plagues other 
 titles. On another positive note, there doesn't seem to be any clearly over-powered race or any 
 cheap tactics in use yet (besides the obligatory tank-rush) , although I'm sure this will come in 
 time. Network lag issues seem to be minimal, making the game as fast-paced as it needs to be. Given 
 a strong takeup of the game, this could well be one of the more enduring multiplayer communities 
 on Live, and with the generally good-natured games I experienced, that could be very good news 
 for the public persona of the service.
  
  With Tiberium Wars finally correcting so many of the problems that have beset the genre since its 
 console inception, it would be hard not to recommend this as a purchase to any 360-owning strategy 
 fan. Whilst there are still some hardware limitations that cramp the immediacy of the control and 
 the clarity of action on lower-end equipment, the core mechanics have now reached a point where 
 the benefits outweigh the issues when playing on a console, and with the Live service in tow you 
 could even make a solid argument for this to be the definitive version of Command and Conquer 3. 
 High praise indeed, and all the sweeter for being fairly unexpected.
  
  Note: This text was originally written by myself and published over at thunderboltgames. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stickminty
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 10, 2007 10:24 am PT
Review:  Command and Conquer Tiberium Wars is a pretty good game, but, for some reason it just doesnt seem 
 as fun as it should be.
  
  Gameplay:
  Being on the Xbox 360, you might think it would be impossible to control your guys without a mouse. 
 But they did manage to make it pretty easy, and for the most part it works quite well. It can be 
 a little tricky when trying to select certain groups of different guys, but you rarely run in to 
 that problem. Its basic mechanics are all there and they work pretty good. Really, there almost 
 nothing you can say that is really bad about this game, but at the same time, theres nothing you 
 can say that is really good about it.
  
  Graphics:
  If you had to choose one wors to sum up the graphics it would be... meh . Nothing really astonishing 
 about them, and when you have a lot of guys on the screen, and there's a lot of stuff going on, 
 it can lag quite a bit. But other than that the graphics are ok.
  
  Sound:
  Not a lot to say about the sound, it ok, again. All the sounds are there, but none of them really 
 stand out too much. And the voice acting in the movie parts is pretty corny, but it works well.
 
  
  Value:
  After beating the games single player campaign, (which is quite long by the way) on the various 
 difficulty levels, you can always go for the multiplayer, which is fun, but also... not fun. I personally 
 found it sort of dry and there wasnt much to do.
  
  Tilt:
  bla
  
  Overall:
  A pretty good game, but it falls short in terms of simply how fun it is. Its just not entertaining 
 enough to keep your interest for long periods of time. Although all the mechanics are there, you'll 
 probably drop the game halfway through it, and not come back for a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hastati4
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 7, 2007 4:09 pm PT
Review:  This was my first C&amp; C 3 game, and i can guarantee you it won't be my last. There a lot of great 
 things about Tiberium Wars, like its incredibly faced paced gameplay, which makes for intense, 
 action-filled matches that don't drag on forever. Gameplay: My favorite part about this game. Never 
 have i played a more action filled RTS game. In literally minutes you are cranking out tanks and 
 soldiers of all kinds and engaging the enemy in all out warfare. The single player campaign's gameplay 
 is good, not quite as good as the multiplayer's, but good. The campaign may seem hard for the first 
 thirty or so minutes, but once you figure out how to successfully be able to defend your base, 
 each mission is a breeze. C&amp; C 3 features a lot of live action video in between missions. over 
 90 minutes actually. The actors are great and really make the campaign more enjoyable. You will 
 find yourself wanting to crush the mission you are on just so you can see what happens in the next 
 cutscene. Graphics: This area could have used some improvement. While the graphics are incredible 
 and probably the best of any RTS to date, some of the effects could have been improved, and the 
 game sometimes doesn't really feel next-gen . But if you have your xbox hooked up to a high def 
 tv then this game will look awesome.
  
  Sound: Sound is great. Scrin sounds are quite odd and appropriately alien. Explosions are nice, 
 and overall the sound in Tiberium Wars just makes the battles all the more intense and action-packed.
 
  
  Value: People who really love this game will find themselves playing it for months, as there are 
 three campaigns to beat on three difficulty settings, and you are encouraged to go back and complete 
 bonus objectives for achievements. Value is found in the multiplayer as well. Players can compete 
 in unranked or ranked matches in five different game types, including Versus, King of the Hill, 
 Capture and Hold, Capture the Flag, and Siege. You will find yourself constantly coming back for 
 more.
  
  Setbacks: Graphics could have used a bit of work in Tiberium Wars. Apart from that, most of the 
 online community plays games with random factions, so if youre only good with one faction and refuse 
 to play as any other, you may have a hard time finding a match. Campaign can grow too easy for 
 experienced players, even on hard difficulty.
  
  When all is said and done, Tiberium Wars is a superb game, and will be the king on console RTS's 
 for some time to come. I highly recommend you grab a copy and get in the action! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snowblind54
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 7, 2007 2:05 pm PT
Review:  You probably already know this is the best console RTS, but that doesn't mean anything. What does 
 is the gameplay of this game. The singleplayer story is done extremely well, and features actual 
 movies for the cut scenes, which improves the story a little bit, although most of the actors are 
 pretty bad. As you play through the three campaigns you'll see the story through the different 
 sides and find out more about what happened. The unfortunate thing is that the Scrin campaign isn't 
 as exciting or long as the other campaigns. Playing the singleplayer also helps you learn how to 
 use each side, which is extremely helpful when you play the multiplayer. This game is extremely 
 addictive and has a lot of value considering all there is to do both online and in the single player 
 campaigns and skirmish mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halo3andGRAW2
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 6, 2007 10:34 am PT
Review:  this game would have to be one of the best games iv playd on the 360 yet an iv played alot of games. 
 The campainges are pretty hard but u can save whenever you want and when u actually do complete 
 the mission u feel well relieved. Theres ultimate replay value allowin u to do any of the missions 
 uv done again for a better medal for achievments. The skirmishes are really good aswell allowing 
 upto 4 sides to play death and team death matches. Basically, if u love RTSs then uv gota play 
 this brilliant game. For those who dont already know, there are 3 factions. The GDI, the NOD and 
 the Scrin (the alien race) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gruber1990
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 3, 2007 9:24 pm PT
Review:  This game was pretty good. i liked it alot. its was pretty easy to get used to the button layout. 
 it was so easy it made gameboy's button layout look hard. lol no not really. but it was pretty 
 easy for only having 10 buttons plus the control stick. (i counted clicking the control stick a 
 button.) but anyways it was an all round good game. and i recomend it to all ages, except for kids 
 under 12 maybe. lol. and the graphics and sound and gameplay were awesome. it was almost as if 
 i were playing it on the computer except i was on the couch and with a controller instead of a 
 keyboard. lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mathebert2007
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 2, 2007 4:15 pm PT
Review:  well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, 
 well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, 
 well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, 
 well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, 
 well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, 
 well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well well, well, well, well, well well, well, 
 well, well, well well, well, well, well, well well, well, well, well, well well, well, well, well, 
 well well, well, well, well, well well, well, well, well, well well, well, well, well, well well, 
 well, well, well, well well, well, well, well, well well, well, well, well, well well, well, well, 
 well, well well, well, well, well, well well, well, well, well, well 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krakowwak0001
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 2, 2007 11:11 am PT
Review:  This game has everything. It takes from the classic and original c and c and also there is a lot 
 of new things added all i can say is there is nothing freaking cooler than this but to make it 
 better it add a lot of new units but keeping the original style of the game the sameprobably wasn't 
 the funest game they had made but this one i can stop playing i am going to go play right now. 
 But It says i need to have 100 words. but there is only one word i can think of F**K. I do like 
 the graphics I was not expecting graphics but there they are 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Xeauz_
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 1, 2007 2:33 pm PT
Review:  I've always loved command and conquer, ever since the one on play-station I've been a fan. I was 
 worried that the command and conquer franchisee would either lose its genius game play by lacking 
 the real depth it had before. Or simply being jam packed with so many new features that it can 
 no longer be called command and conquer. Well fortunately for Command and conquer three the balance 
 is just right, ever since i played the demo I feel in love with this game and to my surprise the 
 sheer game play still keeps me coming back for more. If you wanna buy another shooting game as 
 there are so many and just blow the hell out of enemies then thats fine, but if your looking for 
 a real mans game which actually takes skill and good judgement, then command and conquer three 
 is for you.
  The reason why this game is so good if I were to try and put my finger down on it, is because the 
 fact that the player makes the game him or herself, every match is different and the enemy along 
 with you will both react according to the other side to gain the upper advantage. It's never the 
 same game. The story alone is fantastic as it drops you into it with very personal real life cut 
 scenes which makes you feel your actually inside the game, this should not be missed by anyone. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chex81
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 1, 2007 11:21 am PT
Review:  I was excited for LoTR: BFME2 earlier last year as it seemed a developer finally figured out a way 
 to replicate RTS controllers on a console remote. Lets just say I was really disappointed in BFME2, 
 so I didn't expect much from this game... I was thoroughly impressed by the demo, considering the 
 controllers worked and the visuals looked great. It's a great game overall.
  The single player is awesome, the cutscenes ROCK (yes, they're old-school and still ROCK) .... the 
 online is very good, lags with very big battles but otherswise works perfectly.... easy to setup.
 
  
  Pros:
  -Controls work VERY well
  -Great visuals
  -Online works great with awesome modes
  -AI is smart, great to play against offline
  
  Cons:
 
  -Lags with huge battles online 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boricuafirez3
Rating: 9.9
Date: May 31, 2007 7:43 pm PT
Review:  I have played both major strategy games released for the XBOX 360, and Command &amp; Conquer 3 
 is completely better than LOTR BFME.
  C&amp; C3's graphics are superb for a strategy game.
  The gameplay is upbeat, exciting and challenging.
  The single player campaign consists of three 
 different parties, each with different missions, enough to keep gamers busy for hours.
  The multiplayer games are immensely fun and exciting.
  All in all, this game is virtually perfect 
 as a strategy game.
  I recommend this game to people who usually don't buy strategy games and are thinking about buying/renting 
 this one, because those were my initial thoughts. I can't wait for the next installment of C&amp; C. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hoss-The-Boss
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 31, 2007 4:58 pm PT
Review:  Continuing the story off of the previous games, Command &amp; conquer 3 brings it all, from older 
 type weapons from your favorite past games to the new improved ones that will make you not regret 
 buying this.
  
  Haven't played it for very long, but It's better then anything ive ever seen console wise. If your 
 not going to spend the full $60 its currently going for, then at least rent it out if you have 
 the 360. Controls are a bit confusing, being that there seems to be a million different commands 
 and ways to build up your forces of destruction, but its still worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheVinster
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 31, 2007 3:17 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: C&amp; C is your basic RTS where you start out with an MCV then expand it into a base, 
 grab resources such as Tiberium, then make units and ultimately destroy your enemy. The controls 
 on this game are probably the best you'll get on any console for an RTS, but I feel they could 
 have fine-tuned it better. When you're playing the single-player campaign, you really start to 
 miss the mouse and keyboard because you don't have those shortcuts, you can't access individual 
 units easily, and this game doesn't really ramp down the difficulty to adjust to the fact you don't 
 have quick keys and such. The story is great, so are the live action sequences; some people say 
 they're so cheesy they're good, I feel they are good in a real sense, I actually feel obligated 
 to watch them because they aren't just some computer-generated cinematic. Moving on, there are 
 5 Acts in the GDI and Nod campaigns (consisting of a couple missions per Act) , then there is the 
 unlockable Scrin campaign with 4 missions only. The missions on all the factions get quite difficult 
 within a couple of hours, and you'll notice yourself resetting the game often; it's really a dissapointment 
 you can't restart the mission the instant you lose, you have to go to the main menu then reload 
 it. Multiplayer over Xbox Live, from the few games I played, I experienced lag among my competitors 
 and sometimes the game lagged so much it froze (we could still talk, but the screen wouldn't move) . 
 I really feel EA has the worst servers, so I blame that moreso than the game itself. Anyway, it 
 has Xbox Live Vision support; an uninteresting feature because everyone's just staring at the screen 
 (c'mon, this aint Uno, EA) .
  
  Graphics: Think of the computer copy of C&amp; C, then ramp up everything to max, that's the graphics 
 you'll get on this game. Pretty superb and you don't need to pay a hefty amount to upgrade a PC; 
 Xbox 360 is your complete package here.
  
  Sound: Everything makes the associated sound, tanks sound destructive, guns sound like guns, airplanes 
 spew forth rattling amounts of firepower, and so on. If we're talking acting, I personally liked 
 it (like I started earlier) , the units have decent words to say that don't get repetitively annoying, 
 and that's about it. You get what you want and more.
  
  Value: With over 35 missions, Xbox Live and Vision support, then an array of difficulty levels, 
 skirmishes, and game types; you could be busy for quite a few weeks. I found the game to be limited, 
 mainly because of my bad experience with the EA servers, but if the bugs are fixed this game is 
 a great buy. Achievement-wise, they are cheap and try to milk you of your life (I mean 20 achievement 
 points for beating a campaign on easy? Come ON) . Then if you want the different difficulty leveled 
 achievements, they don't stack (say, like you play Hard, you don't get the Medium/Easy achievements 
 like on GoW) . Lastly, there's an achievement for 100 hours of online games; get better servers 
 and it might be worth it. The value is basically up to you, if you go for achievements then it's 
 a great buy, if you like to play the story it's a good rent, if you love RTS then this is also 
 considered a buy.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: I love RTS, this game doesn't keep you teching for 10 minutes then to throw your 
 army at your enemy and possibly die, it's a fast-paced game that keeps you thinking. Ultimately, 
 if EA was replaced with a more competent company, I feel this game might deserve a full 10 score. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Viryn_Sane
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 31, 2007 11:49 am PT
Review:  If you own a PC and have the graphics card and RAM to play this game, buy the Windows version. 
 If your computer is not up to par, then by all means, pick this one up. I've always been a RTS 
 fan, but not a big Command and Conquer person. That's why when I bought this game I didn't really 
 have the highest hopes for it. Upon playing though, I found out what all the hype was about.
  
  The transition to the 360 was done beautifully. The controls, camera, everything just seems 
 to work. While it's not as good as owning a keyboard and mouse, it does the trick if you do not 
 have that luxury.
  
  One thing to mention though, if you didn't like C&amp; C before, you won't like it now that it is 
 on the 360. It is still the same game with it's over the top cut-scenes and mass unit movement. 
 But, if you have always been a fan, then this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gaeren
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 30, 2007 9:32 am PT
Review:  not being able to to open and expand a box to select large groups en masse is kind of a pain, but 
 other than that it works really well.
  
  i'm a turn based kind of player, but once u get used to the frenetic gameplay, and the training 
 kicks in u really start to find a comfortable stride. the weapons and units available seem well-varied 
 and work well to their suited tasks. the vintage live action cut scenes would be laughable if it 
 weren't for lando / sam fisher / and boomer-athena from battlestar.. i. e. billie dee williams, 
 michael ironside, and grace park. that actually makes the goofy scenes fun strangely enough.
  
  kane is indeed laughable though. can i just call him lex luthor and get it over with?
  
 
  that said even with the greast tutorial the learning curve is steep and less than forgiving. but 
 stick with it and u will get it eventually.
  
  all said and done i'm glad i took a risk on a console rts, and this is oodles better than lotr 
 battle for middle earth 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: resuto
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 29, 2007 7:37 pm PT
Review:  The game was very fun but reminded me of Lord of The Rings: Battlefield of Middle Earth 2 alot.. I 
 enjoyed both yet I liked Lord of The Rings: Battlefield of Middle Earth 2 better. IMO C&amp; C Tiberium 
 Wars is an addicting game to me on account of me liking RTS. This game offers innovative and intense 
 addicting multiplayer and quite a wonderful and enjoyable campain. The campain was a little long 
 to, so that adds to the enjoyment!! This game used the Xbox 360's controller to very well and I 
 had no disappointment or trouble playing the game. IMO C&amp; C Tiberium Wars is a MUST play!!! 
 and should be bought even by the casuals *wink* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: racinmason101
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 29, 2007 10:12 am PT
Review:  I am going to start out saying good job to the designers!!! This is an excellent game. You can 
 only appreciate the sound if you play it on a higher end surround sound system. If you have one 
 of these systems crank it and enjoy!!! Moving on to graphics. The in game graphics are pretty nice 
 and they hardly ever make the game lag. (It does happen though.) The unit detail is incredible 
 when you have the camera zoomed in as far as it goes, great exsplosions and special effects too!!! 
 The cinematics look great in HD but they are kinda corny but thats video games now a days! Last 
 but not at all least. Online multiplayer is wonderful. All the different game types are cool it 
 sure does beat just regular old kill kill kill your opponent! I am a PC command and conquer veteran 
 and was very sceptical about a console version because I don't understand how a PC keyboard and 
 mouse game can be played with a controller but if you have a bunch of people testing concepts and 
 ideas it works out for sure!!!!!! GOOD JOB EA!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alfie1980
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 29, 2007 6:04 am PT
Review:  For a long time now, the major developers have tried to side step the console market when it comes 
 to releasing an RTS. That all changed with the release of Lord Of The Rings: Battle For Middle Earth 
 2. With its excellent control system, it made life alot easier for us to do pretty much anything 
 with the touch of just 1 or 2 buttons. Gladly in Command and Conquer 3: Tiberium wars this control 
 method has been kept nearly the same. With all of the commands still just a press of a button or 
 two away, its has kept the user friendlyness of its Tolkien based predescessor; but it has also 
 tightened up the way that can group certain units together (which was my main gripe with lotr: bme2) . 
 As for the game itself, Command and Conquer does move along at a good pace with minimal slowdown (sometimes 
 maybe a little too quick) . The learning curve is just right for someone who is new to these games 
 with the obligitary easy first few missions that gradually build up to some really quite tricky 
 levels later on. The graphics are good and give you a decent overview of the ongoing battles, with 
 good details on each unit as you zoom in. My only gripe with this games, is the lack of factions. With 
 just 3, it comes up a bit short of the 6 in LOTR: BME2 and could lose some of its lifespan due to 
 this. That said, its still a worthy game for anyones collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: X_gamer_god_X
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 28, 2007 8:07 pm PT
Review:  When I first began playing C&amp; C3 it was like I was playing C&amp; C for the 64. It has a great 
 new shine to it. Well the first thing is you have a new faction to play as, an alien race called 
 Scrin. There is also of course GDI and NOD. NOD is planning on using Tiberium as a superweapon, 
 and you as GDI have to stop them. If you play the NOD campaign then you have prevent GDI from stopping 
 you. I'm not sure what the Scrin Campaign has in store for you. You get a couple of new units aside 
 from the Scrin. And very shortly into the GDI campaign you will see how much the Ion cannon has 
 improved. Theres multiplayer, you can guess what you do in multiplayer. Ummm and... aside from 
 that there is not much new about the game. It is just better in every way from previous ones. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FearlessSpirit
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 28, 2007 12:26 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay
  ========
  
  Command and Conquer 3 picks up the old school gameplay from the original Command and Conquer and 
 adds new elements to keep it fresh, but still a true CnC game.
  
  The game is set in 2047 after the first CnC and after Tiberian Sun. It's set in the same universe 
 as those games. Meaning Tiberium is the main source of funds, units are futuristic and it's basically 
 a fast paced war. CnC also knows two other universes; Red Alert, where the units are slightly futuristic, 
 main source of funding is Ore, but the gameplay is also relatively fast paced. This universe doesn't 
 differ too much from the Tiberium universe. Then there is also the Generals universe, which revolves 
 around present day warfare, with Supplies as main funding and the gameplay is allot more general 
 paced then Red Alert and Tiberium Wars.
  
  CnC3 is set in the Tiberium universe and in it, it's revealed to you farely quickly that Kane is 
 back. Which is good news for fans of the series. The single player portion of the game has a good 
 length. Offering around 17 missions for GDI, 17 for NOD and 4 missions for the new faction; the 
 Scrin. It should take you around 8 hours to complete GDI's campaign and then another 8 for NOD 
 respectively. The Scrin missions can be done in as little as two hours. Still, the overall length 
 of the game is great.
  
  Besides the 3 campaigns there is also the standard Skirmish mode. You can take it up against 3 
 AI's at a time or team up with one of them and go against two other AI's, or whatever teams suit 
 you best. There aren't allot of maps in comparison to other CnC games, but there is still enough 
 variety in them to make it enough for the time being. Skirmishes are as always extremely fun to 
 play when you go crazy with the settings. In previous CnC games you could only adjust the AI's 
 difficulty. In Tiberium Wars you can not only adjust the AI's difficulty (Easy, Medium, Hard, Brutal) 
 but you can also decide what strategy they will use on you. You can choose from balanced, rusher, 
 turtle, guerrilla and steamroller. Or you can keep it a suprise by chosing random.
  
  A balanced AI is pretty much you're traditional CnC AI opponent. Using infantry, tanks, aircraft, 
 superweapons and whatnot. Basically using everything at their disposal, but nothing truly massive.
 
  
  A rusher AI explains itself. It usually attacks you straight on in the first three minutes of the 
 game with infantry or tanks or a combination of both. Depending on the difficulty, he will rush 
 you just once on the lower difficulties, where on the higher ones, he will rush you as fast as 
 possible and then provide a continuious flow of more units to you're base.
  
  A turtle AI also speaks for itself. It builds allot of harvesters in his main base and expands 
 his base usually only once and in a small step. He builds allot of defenses and uses a few tanks 
 and infantry here and there, but mostly relies on air power. Depending on the difficulty, he also 
 builds a decent force of tanks along with his aircraft to try and swipe you off the battlefield 
 in one hard swipe. A turtle never really attacks early on in the game, but also rarely with few 
 units.
  
  A guerrilla AI is a new tactic which actually doesn't work all that well. A guerilla AI doesn't 
 rely on advanced weapons, but more on definding his base a little bit and expanding allot. As you 
 may guess he also tries to garrison every structure on the map with infantry. He uses some aircraft 
 and some tanks. It's a nice strategy in theory; expanding base allot, garrison every structure 
 and try to defend you're base from other points on the map so they can't make it to you're base. 
 But in practise this AI proves the least threat against you. The brutal guerrilla AI is probably 
 the first brutal AI you can defeat.
  
  A steamroller AI is argubly the most dangerous in the game. It builds loads of war factories and 
 barracks and spams out a whole lot of basic tanks along with a few other ones. When he has a decent 
 force he will attack and from there more and more tanks will roll towards you're base (hence the 
 name steamroller) . A brutal GDI steamroller is basically unbeatable if you wait too long. Before 
 you know it, you have 50 enemy tanks in you're base, with another 50 on the way.
  
  Other then single player, there is also multiplayer via Xbox Live. You can chose of various modes 
 made specifically for Xbox Live. You can chose from a standard versus match to things like King 
 of the Hill where you need to control a point on the map for a certain amount of time. There is 
 also a mode called Siege, in which rushing is impossible. A special barrier prevents you from moving 
 out of you're main base with any unit for a set amount of time. Time can be set from 3 to as long 
 as 10 minutes. At that point the barrier will be lifted and the game is on. It's suprising that 
 this mode isn't available in the PC version. Because fans must know how many people state before 
 the match starts: 'No rush for 5 min!'. It's suprising to see this mode this late since so many 
 people are apperently in need of it. So it's a great addition for allot of players.
  
  The new faction, The Scrin, are a great addition as well. GDI has always been about very expensive, 
 slow, but very powerful weapons. NOD has always been about relatively weak but cheap and fast weapons 
 along with sneaky tactics like stealth. The Scrin are basically like NOD on the ground and like 
 GDI in the air but even a step further. So, they have relatively weak ground forces with a few 
 strange twists like their main tank is able to fire at both ground and air targets and is effective 
 in it for it's price. They use a strange standard infantry unit called Buzzers which can be compared 
 to Kryl from Gears of War. A group of strange things flying around and instantly killing enemy 
 infantry when they make contact. But they are weak so in a 1 on 1 with standard infantry of the 
 other side they will lose. When handeled correctly though, they can take out allot of enemy infantry. 
 They can also clear garrisoned structures when they make contact for a second or two. In general 
 they have a not so effective ground force, but it sure has some useful strange twists. Their air 
 force however is the most powerful in the game. Most of their air craft do not require a landing 
 platform on an alien air field like usual. They can just maintain there position anywhere on the 
 map and fly anywhere they want. Also, none of their air units need to get back to base for re-arming. 
 This makes them devestating units. There main air unit isn't all that powerfull and requires a 
 slot in the airfield. However, it never has to return to base if you don't want it to. Which makes 
 them very useful. In large forces they are extremely hostile but you can only build 4 of them per 
 airfield. The more advanced air units cost up to 3000 bucks but are worth there money in power. 
 The Scrin can also equip air units with shields that improve their health by 25%. When the shield 
 is destroyed it will regenerate after enough time has passed. In short, the aliens can be very 
 dangerous foes, but they lack good rushing strategies and their truly useful units are very costly. 
 It's hard to describe their tactic but like stated; they are NOD on the ground and they are GDI 
 in the air. Let's keep it like that.
  
  Graphics
  ========
  
  The graphics in CnC3 are great. There improve on the graphics of Generals allot. However, considering 
 how much time has passed since then makes it not that big of an improvement. Some things do indicate 
 that they are pushing the 360's power, like a unit cap. However, this is probably for frame rate 
 issues. Which, the game barely has, even in large battles. Sometimes it has some frame rate drops 
 but nothing truly annoying. Overall, the graphics are decent, but they could have used more time 
 to get it right.
  
  Sound
  ========
  
  The sound is true CnC. Dying sounds are real CnC work. The background music is great and the live 
 cinematics and voice overs make the sound worth being mentioned as suberb.
  
  Value
  ========
  
  Easily put, this game is worth your money. The single player campaigns should last 
 you around 20 hours to complete, give or take a few depending on the difficulty. Then there is 
 allot of Skirmishing you can do and you can go nuts with the settings. It will be a long time before 
 Skirmish ever gets old. Then there is multiplayer which should have you hooked a long time. If 
 you are a true CnC fan, you can easily game the multiplayer until the expansion or next CnC title 
 arrives.
  
  The live cinematics also add to the replay value. You can watch them if you beat the campaign. 
 They are great to re-watch since they are played neatly. And... Kane. That's all I'm saying.
  
  Tilt
  ========
  
  It's been a long time since a CnC game was released from this universe. 
 It makes it's comeback, and greatly. It's pure CnC and fans won't be disappointed one single bit. 
 Playing this game really takes you back to those days and it reminds you why CnC can be considered 
 one of the best RTS games at this time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ptuta
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 28, 2007 6:49 am PT
Review:  I Thought that could have no played this game without a mouse and a keyboard. They&acute; ve found 
 a way to simplify the gameplay by only using the 360&acute; s controller. Excellent game-play and 
 fabulous graphics. Zoom in into the terrain and you will see what I mean. The game worth every 
 cent invested on it. I haven't finished it Yet, but I will, I SWEAR... We are three at home and 
 we are waiting in line in order to continue each one game. Looking like hungry wolves, expecting 
 to get the control and start the next step in our career. If you are a RPG fanatic. You won&acute; t 
 be dissapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: QueConsegui
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 25, 2007 9:11 pm PT
Review:  Hey, man, how was your weekend? 
  It was good, I met up with Cass at the movies and we hung out afterwards. How bout you? 
  Oh, 
 I stayed home. I wanted to check out the new Command &amp; Conquer game. I couldn't believe how 
 well the controls worked! 
  ... Well, that's awesome man, but come on, it's an RTS, how easy can PC controls get? 
  Oh, this 
 isn't the PC version. It's the Xbox 360 version. 
  .......... What? RTS... on... a console? 
  Yeah dude, and it's amazing! 
  .... Hahahahhahahaha! 
 
  
  Scripted above is the #1 most sure-fire way to get an RTS fan to double over in laughter. And sure, 
 maybe it is an amusing concept. Afterall, PC has dominated the Real-time Strategy market ever since 
 their development. Heck, it has a virtual monopoly on it. Sure, there have been RTS console attempts 
 in the past - Red Alert on the PS1 and LOTR: Battle for Middle Earth II on the 360, for example 
 - but none have really been successful. Now however, there emerges a simplisticly creative game 
 with controls that take almost no time to master - and its all done with only a control stick and 
 some buttons. The C&amp; C Universe struck gold years ago, when its incredible battles yet simplistic 
 tech made it the standard for the RTS industry. Even now, many games and many years later, its 
 omnipotence continues to shine. Few today can honestly proclaim that they've never once witnessed 
 the exciting confrontation of GDI and Nod forces. If you are one who can say that, I would suggest 
 C&amp; C 3: Tiberium Wars, as the perfect stepping stone.
  
  The story is easy to get into, fueled along by short cutscenes with decent acting and adequate 
 backgrounds. Of course, you can more or less skip the entire sequence of cutscenes without missing 
 much, and you don't really need any prior knowledge to be able to play. The campiagn is beautifully 
 done, with every situation under the sun to explore - from rebuilding a desecrated base to escorting 
 convoys to building a massive army of tanks to crush your enemy. Along the way, you gain more options 
 and greater troops, as well as some nice perks (Ion Cannon, anyone?) . When you have garnered enough 
 experience from the campaign, train yourself in the Skirmish option, which allows you to set up 
 a custom multiplayer game against up to 3 AI opponents, each of which can be customized by difficulty 
 and strategy. If your really feeling bold, you can take the battle to Xbox Live, where you can 
 face off against the best the world has to offer.
  
  Even though the trek to console has been rough, developers like EA LA have forged ahead, promising 
 a rewarding experience for all. If you are a daring person looking for something innovative to 
 devote your free time to, I would wholeheartedly suggest getting the console version. You lack 
 the freedom and control you can have with the mouse and keyboard, but you gain an entirely new 
 perspective, and even an option to get some Achievement Points. After all, why waste your Live 
 account you paid $50 for to play a game on the PC, when you can easily play it for your grand ol' 
 360.
  
  In conclusion, if you're looking for a different approach to the RTS genre, with plenty of experience 
 and tradition to back it up, look no further than Command &amp; Conquer 3: Tiberium Wars.
  
  Great work, Commander! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: windsorr
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 25, 2007 8:16 am PT
Review:  I have played every C&amp; C game there is and this is almost the best ever. Certainly the best 
 console version. Grpahics and gameplay are stunning as is the much more sophisticated AI. My only 
 gripe is that I really loved the generals concept where you could take on different personna and 
 get special units and powers. This has not been repeated here but the addition of the Scrin faction 
 more than makes up for this as it requires a RADICALLY different strategy to play... Command limit 
 is also a good readdition as this does prevent the turtle-up and completely overwhelm strategy,,,, Aweseome 
 game... not owning this is not an option so sell you granny and get it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scorpian99
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 25, 2007 1:19 am PT
Review:  From all the games of this style this is the king. It has easier control system you can play out 
 of the box without reading the manual. something I dont do.
  The graphics are great more detailed than previous games.
  Its a pitty they dont update the beginning 
 games in this series as they now look like old 1970 style graphics.
  
  The let down is that I would have liked to have seen the war been between all the armies of the 
 earth against the scrin ( the aliens) . who are the enermies in only a few missions after you have 
 played all Nod and GDI games.
  
  this game has a longer game play as with the skirmish maps you can play as any group *nod gdi scrin 
 which extends the life of the game.
  I am still playing Generals.
  This game is not like the single path games were you have to follow a fixed path. and the baddies 
 are at the same places.
  
  Look out for the best deals online for price. I Only paid &pound;17 for mine.
  
  you can select 
 different level of play easy to dam hard. on easy you will have time to get some defence on hard 
 you will fight straight away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bamarolltide16
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 24, 2007 3:11 pm PT
Review:  In my opinion this game is good enough to keep you playing it for a while. Its got a descent story 
 line. But to me whats makes this game good is the overall skirmish mode they put in it. Because 
 sometime you dont wont to have to do a mission or listen to the objectives of the game. Some time 
 you just want to KICK SOME ASS. And by adding that I think it will keep people playing. And choosing 
 what kind of enemys you have and there style is good to. You can make them quick warfare, hit and 
 run, or strategy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamermatt13
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 23, 2007 8:53 pm PT
Review:  BesT game to Play online. Greatest game that came out. Fun 2 play with a friend online. The best 
 Command And Conquer. Worth The money to buy it.
  Don't give up it may be hard at the begginning but still is great. Theres really cool machines. Good 
 caption, play as good or evil. I think that its the best EA game out write now. If you haven't played 
 a C&amp; C game ever it doesn't matter you could start off in the 3rd one. if your not sure about 
 it try the demo out in xbox live. The demo is almost as good as the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: markfarren2004
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 22, 2007 12:19 pm PT
Review:  Well it has been a while since the last installment of the command and conquer franchise arrived 
 on pc which was also an excellent game but changed the core dynamics of command and conquer so 
 much that you could be forgiven for mistaking it for another game.
  
  Command and conquer 3 returns to the old fashioned roots and doesn't dissappoint the GDI, NOD and 
 the wacky story lines are back. As well as a new race the technologically advanced scrin to mix 
 things up.
  
  The game appeared earlier on pc and was a smash hit and the 360 version does not disappoint. The 
 controls are excellent (for a console) and you will have little trouble learning to command huge 
 armies (albeit a limit on the size of your army) overall the graphics are very good but some levels 
 do look a bit gloomy whereas city levels look fantastic and so do the unit models.
  
  The story is exactly what you would expect from C&amp; C terrible acting, useless dialogue, but 
 for some reason its brilliant! and it really defines the command and conquer games.
  
  The only flaw I could find with this game is the command limit and the sound is not as kick ass 
 as it used to be but these are only minor flaws and overall command and conquer is an excellent 
 game and well worth checking out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnfrusciantex
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 22, 2007 10:04 am PT
Review:  Okay, I hate RTS games, especially console RTS, but oh my gosh, this game has so many features, 
 so many options. Im glad I downloaded the demo, because if I didn't try the game, I would have 
 never of known about this game.
  
  Pros: Graphics are good. The factions have uniqueness. The single player and multi-player both 
 have many features. The Scrin Alien Faction kicks major a**. The flow of the game, the way you 
 get credits, how you have to work for a win, the different strategies. Also, great acting for the 
 Brotherhood Of Nod faction.
  
  Cons: Only one thing keeps me from giving this game a perfect 10. The fact that you can't build 
 a MASSIVE army. I played the computer version of command and conquer 3, and you can build over 
 1000 units. In this, you can't. I really would have liked to have done that.
  
  Overall: I definately would buy it ( I personally can't, money problems) . But for now I will have 
 this game from blockbuster until they get pissed off and call me. I have been playing for about 
 four days now. Therefore, the money is worth the game. This is one of few games that I can say 
 with confidance that you should buy it ( considering I hate RTS ) .
  
  contact me at: http://www. youtube. com/profile? user=guitarRHCPfan 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EliteKill1942
Rating: 9.9
Date: May 21, 2007 4:56 pm PT
Review:  i have Never played a better game than this. it just rocks. the factions are balanced and nothing 
 could be better. the detail in units are scratchy but not everything can be perfect. the gameplay 
 is just unmatchable. The GDI campaign is a great for learning. the basics of the game are learned 
 here. and the strategies for your gameplay is formed here. at the beginning of the third tiberium 
 war the fate of earth is in your hands leave it to NOD or the Scrin. The NOD campaign is readying 
 you for some hard core action. to kick some real a$$. GDI is for beginners NOD is for the real 
 men or woman. who just want to win. The Scrin are odd. not focusing on brute force or stealth. 
 im still trying to figure it all out but im getting there. it depends on your personality and how 
 you play. Anyway C&amp; C 3 is one of the best RTS games out there and is great for both PC and 
 360. it really revolutionized RTS gameplay and put it all on console and suggested in doing so. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BikerPunk
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 21, 2007 6:44 am PT
Review:  Yes, it is just that good.
  
  If you are a player of the Demo, but havent played the release, go try it. I played the demo, and 
 thought it looked good, but wasn't worth 70 CDN bucks. However, i went and purchased it so i could 
 play with some friends of mine. NO REGRETS!!!
  
  The single player, although a little too easy on the easy level, is still entertaining, where the 
 Med-High levels can really challange you. The multiplayer always leaves you feeling good, even 
 if you get man-handled. The graphics are great, and with the new devestating moves, such as the 
 Nuke, and Rift, you can turn a battle in only a couple seconds. The visual countdown on these big 
 attacks, also can bring you alot of heat. When players see that countdown, you better be ready 
 for an attack, as player will do anything to stop you.
  
  There is currently some lag issues, that are common on this game, as many users have noted. But 
 when you get that mooth running game, its unbelieveable. If you have not followed the Tiberian 
 Series of this game, the learning curve is nice and easy, when making your selections, it will 
 tell you what each building does, and unlocks, which doesnt have the player randomly building thigns 
 to see what they unlock.
  
  The controls, which i thought would be a little sketchy being on a console, has actually brought 
 me to enjoy the Console RTS gaming over PC, if you can imagine that.
  
  I highly reccomend this game, to any RTS fan, on any level. Hope you enjoy, and ill see you on 
 the Battlefield. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aaaaaa11021102
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 20, 2007 9:26 am PT
Review:  the game is amazing, just like the other ones of the C&amp; C series, but personally i don't like 
 the way units are controled so i would prefer playing this game on a PC rather than an Xbox., parts 
 of the game are identical to the previous C&amp; C games ( engineers, MCV, combining infantry and 
 vehicle, etc ) and there are some new stuffs like towers, fog of war ( not sure bout this ) , distintive 
 ability ( war factories automatically repair vehicles, jetpack, etc) and some game play changes 
 ( separate tab for airbone units ) overall this game is great and it's worth buying, especially 
 if you're a fan of C&amp; C ( like me ! ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamercyco
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 19, 2007 10:45 pm PT
Review:  *Virtually Flawless*
  
  This game is Virtually Flawless, having only a few minor cons. I am new to the Command and Conquer 
 series, and this is the only game in the series I played, so you have the right to be skeptical. 
 This game uses the same basic handling system from the XBOX360 version of EAs Lord of the Rings: 
 Battle for Middle Earth 2, but with a few added amenities. The games only con is that you have 
 to sit on your couch to play it! With an all-star celebrity cast, including one of my favorite 
 actors, star in cut-scenes flawlessly put into the puzzle. Over all, this is the best game ever! 
 (Excluding the Halo series by Bungie, of course) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: taynel
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 19, 2007 8:23 pm PT
Review:  i downloaded the demo off xbox live and have been playing it for 2 weeks now and im getting the 
 full version soon cant wait! it is a great game but has some let downs like game slow down when 
 there is alot of units on screen but its ok cause the rest of it awesome. on MP u will find alot 
 of nubs but it is fun playing them cause you kick there teeth in and might make u feel better if 
 you aint winning many games. i cant wait to play all the new MP mode like siegh ect and trying 
 out the new race scrin. so in the end if you dont already have a copy of CnC 3 you should get one 
 right now cause its woth it =D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jac494
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 18, 2007 10:13 am PT
Review:  I actually had a lot of skepticism about this game and the ability to do a RTS, game on any console. 
 I wound up being as surprised as I was when Starcraft was put on the N64. In that case it wasnt 
 great but it wasnt the worst game ever made either. Sure a lot of titles have attempted to do 
 RTS but all of them fell short of the mark with awkward controls and a general lacking of depth. 
 I think what was done with Command &amp; Conquer is great. I am even more so pleased by the fact 
 its playable on live. What can I say it could only have been better if it was Red Alert, but it 
 is by far the best RTS for any console. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: payne6705
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 18, 2007 8:18 am PT
Review:  first off the controls in the game are easy to get into. yet you have to get used to it because 
 if you are a C+C fan like me you are used to a mouse and keynoard. don't worry though they arent 
 that hard. next i personally thought this game has amazing graphics i mean when you see the particle 
 uplink cannon or the nuke you will have a eyegasm (well i did) the game breaks down into 3 campaigns 
 NOD, GDI, and the scrin which are an alien race and the new guys to the tiberium saga. oh and of 
 course there is the skrimish mode which i adore in every C+C game. also this game has xbox live 
 matches it also includes the camera so you can see your friends or whoever faces if you really 
 want to and if you want can turn it off. now there are some problems with this game the first problem 
 is its a port what i mean is in single player mode the game is somtimes too fast for the controls 
 and yes the controls are good but your playing with buttons and thumbsticks not a mouse another 
 thing is the pilot AI is dumb as hell after they bomb a target instead of going back to base they 
 sit there in the air getting shot at you need to watch them. another problem is sometimes the game 
 slows down for some reason yet i only expirenced this in skrimish mode agaisnt 4 players. the other 
 problem i had was stucture placement its very very picky i could have enough room for the barracks 
 but no matter how i twist and turn it the barracks won't fit. the other problem is the silos if 
 you played in the past you know it holds more tiberium for you but it doesnt hold enough i build 
 a good decent amount and it still tells me i need more i had more silos on the field then units 
 finally the last problem is the cursor sticks to units and structures but its too sticky and somtimes 
 messes up what i want to repair. other than those problems the game is enjoyables and one more 
 thing the super weapons (nuke, particle canon, rift) are extrmely super what i mean is it will destroy 
 EVERYTHING but your command building maybe maybe your tiberium factory and your super weapon building, 
 you can kiss evrything else good bye i saw a nuke hit my base over and over nothing was left but 
 a crater and 3-4 buildings and like 3 defense weapons so a warning if the enemy has a super weapon 
 knock it out before anything. if you have a decent computer who can handle this game then i would 
 buy it for the comp if you dont have the power then buy the 360 game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oscar8563
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 18, 2007 8:09 am PT
Review:  This is an absolutely awesome game. Everything about it is great! The graphics are breathtaking, 
 the gameplay is almost flawless, sound effects are amazing! Th trip from PC to 360 did not make 
 it lose any of its predecessor's greatness. Sure, it has some minor technical problems, but don't 
 all games? Even the best ones are never completely perfect. But this game gets close! It is definetily 
 a must-own game for everyone. So go out there and buy it, rent it, borrow it from a friend, what 
 ever you have to do to get your hands on it. The Powers That Be command you!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brettoxford
Rating: 10
Date: May 18, 2007 7:39 am PT
Review:  If you are a fan of Command and Conquer, prepare yourself for another smash hit . This is the most 
 beautiful game in the series yet. From the first mission on you're hooked. NVIDIA owners BEWARE!!! 
 There is a serious update needed for the the NVIDIA cards. You will many crashes after the splash 
 screen and after playing the game for a while But the game is so good, it's worth it to play through. 
 There really is nothing more to say but I have to have 100 words here so I can post a review so 
 I hope that this enough to get me through. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ValleyofDoom
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 17, 2007 12:45 pm PT
Review:  My first opinion of this game goes as following:
  
  I think it owns. Very short but that's the only name for it... I'v played the first 6 missions 
 and I think they are very smart put out. Every action you make has consequences on the next mission. 
 At one point, you have to choose between two mission. In one mission you have to cut supply's of 
 the NOD so they can't proceed with enriching Tiberium. In the other mission you have to rescue 
 4 snipers and more essentially, an airbase that provides you air support in the mission which you 
 haven't done yet. I didn't experience a lot of air support in the other mission, so I wouldn't 
 recommend to do this mission first.
  
  Something I didn't like was negative achievements. I don't see the use of achievements that give 
 you an astonishing 0G's. My point isn't the achievements, because I couldn't care less about these 
 useless points. But the fact that you actually get a ploing when you disobeyed a direct order. 
 An example: I'v played the demo of C&amp; C, so I knew the exact controls of the game. I selected 
 the first mission of the GDI and suddenly there's a pop-up. The pop-up went like this: We recommend 
 you to do boot-camp first . I thought: Screw you, I'v played the demo, I did boot-camp, so I won't 
 play boot-camp all over again . And just after I selected NO I heard the 'achievement-sound'. I 
 pushed the Xbox-guide-button, because I was curious about the achievement I just unlocked. I took 
 a good look and discovered that there were another 6 achievement that would give you, after unlocking 
 them, 0G too. I'm very sorry, but I don't see the use of achievements that shows other gamers that 
 you disobeyed orders and that you lost 3 times in a row, just to name an example.
  
  But, let us forget the fore mentioned and let us look at a 1e class RTS that blows your mind at 
 every single battle. It doesn't matter at all how many forces you construct or how many buildings 
 you made in the single player. The game keeps going smooth and well put together. Although the 
 sound does have some flaws. You can hear explosion before they happen, but this doesn't happen 
 very often. And when it happens, you probably wouldn't even notice, because the battle is too complex. 
 I didn't even hear my brother yell, when he said the amplifier was too loud. I think this game 
 is superb. Some would say it's a rip-off from other RTS games, I say it was inspired by other RTS 
 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xantiriad
Rating: 7.9
Date: May 17, 2007 4:42 am PT
Review:  Pros: New faction is cool; intuitive console controls with clever shortcuts, wonderfully hammy 
 acting, unit animations are good; solid classic C&amp; C gameplay.
  
  Cons: Maps are quite small; could do with further zoom-out; necessary DLC purchases; lack of multiplayer 
 variety; little gameplay innovation.
  
  Achievements: Hard
  
  Being a thirty-something gamer I can claim to have grown up with the C&amp; C series. Ive played 
 most instalments since the original Westwood game: Dune 2  Battle for Arakas.
  
  Having burned my PC games a few years ago, this is the first instalment since Red Alert 2 that 
 I have owned. It is both pleasing, and a little disappointing, to see how familiar the game is 
 to previous instalments. In fact, many of the classic gameplay mechanics, pioneered in Dune 2, 
 are still present, including harvesting a common resource* and the propensity for turtle vs rush 
 strategies. (*although Tiberium replaced the Spice) .
  
  In many ways I think the RTS have evolved beyond C&amp; C, with games like Total Annihilation 
 and Supreme Commander offering more effective tactical gameplay. Having said that, C&amp; C still 
 offers a hugely enjoyable RTS romp that is perfectly suited to console play - provide it has adequate 
 controls.
  
  C&amp; C on a console was never going to offer the same degree of flexibility offered by keyboard 
 and mouse, but the developers of C&amp; C 3 have done a brilliant job. C&amp; C 3 successfully provides 
 simple navigation whilst also offering more complex instructions and interactions through the use 
 of double tap button combinations that become second nature once learnt.
  
  Clever use of menus and rally points mean that you seldom have to scroll around the battlefield 
 unnecessarily, which results in a much more immersive and less frustrating user interface experience 
 than previous attempts at console RTS.
  
  Another time honoured feature of C&amp; C games has been the use of FMV to progress the story. C&amp; C 
 3 has a fantastic ensemble cast and some wonderfully hammy acting that make the FMV sequences a 
 real joy: the return of Kane, with the original actor, is inspired; whilst Michael Ironsides over 
 acting is hilarious.
  
  The graphics, sound effects, music, and overall presentation of C&amp; C 3 are top notch. The unit 
 animations, particularly from the new alien faction, are really cool; especially if you zoom right 
 in on the action. Despite the excellent graphics, the overall experience is limited by an apparent 
 lack of a high level zoom, such that you can see enough of the battlefield to make tactical decisions. 
 This restriction can make the game quite difficult when the action really hots-up. I suspect the 
 decision to lock the zoom was to sustain the frame rate but I would happily sacrifice some texture 
 and detail to get a higher view.
  
  The Multiplayer experience a bit hit and miss. The maps are well designed but small, and the core 
 collect &gt; build &gt; slaughter gameplay is a blast. However, there is no real variety in the 
 match mode, except for capture the flag and territory variants stolen from FPS games. It is 
 a shame that the developers couldnt have come up with some slightly more original ideas, or even 
 a co-op facility. Most 4 player games become 2 player games very quickly, so you might end up watching 
 for a while. The limitations of the strategic elements within C&amp; C are also more prevalent in 
 multiplayer, and it is often the fastest builder than wins rather than a clever strategist.
 
  
  C&amp; C 3 features some 30+ missions that are pretty varied and feature all three factions. Multiplayer 
 and Skirmish modes offer endless games for real aficionados. The achievements are pretty challenging, 
 but not impossible, and will keep achievement junkies (Stu!) busy for some time. There is also 
 the prospect of imminent DLC, including larger MP maps, but the fact you will have to pay for maps 
 that should have been included in the retail release sucks.
  
  In summary, C&amp; C 3 offers the classic C&amp; C experience, in a highly polished and well executed 
 package. C&amp; C 3 features some clever and well thought out controls, cool unit animations, and 
 timeless gameplay, which makes C&amp; C 3 a solid buy for strategy game fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yoshiehsan
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 19, 2007 12:13 pm PT
Review:  this is a fun worthy game its hard but thats the point who wants a little challenge when u can 
 have lots lots lots more? its great online play makes it worthy to be on a console or pc many gamers 
 do not care about RTS games but once u find the great point of this game it can be a Whole load 
 of destruction. Their are 3 factions Scrin, Nod, and the GDI first of all the GDI is basicly the 
 people who try to stop the iberium from dustroying earth, Nod thinks Tiberium came from the heavens 
 rofl, and the Scrin who started the Tiberium and came back to earth to collect its reward the superweaposn 
 are ,Nod=Nuke, GDI=Ion Cannon it is stronger that it sounds, Scrin=Black Hole that is the big thing 
 nod gets Avatars that is the big laser machine Gdi get Mammoth Tanks hich is good and Scrin Get 
 Tripods these are their strongest Veihcle units so this game is very rewarding for achievements 
 dont forget while only and u win dont forget to talk in the winner circle about how fun it was 
 or to show off that u won 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rallierf1
Rating: 5.9
Date: May 16, 2007 12:02 am PT
Review:  The control interface are the same as in the 90's (red alert 2 was my favourite) and it is absolutely 
 the same apart from the intelligence tab. Even the units are few and clear... Therefore there is 
 no breakthrough here. Still an enjoyable game to play nevertheless with quite a few missions (some 
 of them quite challenging) but as it is based on the same old game engine you could use about the 
 same strategy as you did in older C&amp; C to win.
  I could even say that red alert 2 had more units (if you add yuris revenge) therefore this one 
 could need some workaround and remind developers that we are in the year 2007 not 1997!!!
  On the plus side is that it is bug-free but the harversters are still dumb as cockroaches. Worth 
 playing if you have nothing to do but do not expect miracles either. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: freerunner01
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 15, 2007 6:44 pm PT
Review:  Up to date there was only a single half decent RTS on Xbox 360 but Command and Conquer 3: Tiberium 
 Wars changed all that. Although many may be apprehensive of getting a RTS for a console but this 
 game manages the controls decently. Its not a replacement for a mouse and keyboard but nevertheless. 
 Single player campaign is long with three different factions with an interesting story keeping 
 the game moving along. Although at first the actual movies with celebrity actors may seem weird, 
 it's a definitely unique addition to the game. Another strength for C&amp; C is the multiplayer 
 with its 5 game modes and up to 4 players (human or AI) and finally a skirmish mode when you just 
 want to hone your skills against the AI, which is very competitive indeed. Unlike the human counterpart, 
 the AI is very intelligent and is very capable of multitasking very quickly. All in all, this is 
 a good game and the best RTS for a console up to date. If you like RTS even a little bit, the quick 
 pace will sure to draw you in. So stop reading this review and get it already!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: royalpierre
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 15, 2007 2:07 pm PT
Review:  I have always been a fan of the Command &amp; Conquer games since back in the PC days. I played 
 Red Alert 2 till my eyes went blind. So I was expecting this game to be a lot better but not lose 
 the great qualities of Red Alert. The game did just that. The campaigns are fun and the missions 
 vary greatly. Plus i love the skirmish modes because to me those are the funnest. Which leads me 
 to the multi player. The multi player is organized and set up well. There are 5 different ways 
 to play online from capture the flag to straight up blow your opponent out of the water. The graphics 
 are good and I love the way you can zoom in and out easily. Plus, just move the left stick left 
 and right and you have a great 3D addition. It takes some getting used to because there are so 
 many different structures and units in each faction. So starting off as GDI, you have to learn 
 everything about GDI and NOD because you are facing NOD. However, that's not so easy because you 
 cannot be NOD in the campaign until you beat GDI campaign. But you can always skirmish being NOD 
 and learn NOD structures and units.
  
  Anyway, the game is great and I suggest it to anyone who enjoys this game genre. It's a nice addition 
 to your collection because there are hardly any games like this on the 360, and this game is well 
 done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RandomTask221
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 15, 2007 1:51 pm PT
Review:  I have always been a man of two types of games, First person shooters and Real time stratagy games. 
 For the first time I get to enjoy an RTS game on my Xbox 360 console, something that has originally 
 been looked down upon because of the difficulty which is the control setup. Command and Conquer 
 3 works where other console RTS's have failed, one such game comes to mind when I think of the 
 horrible transfer from computer to console RTS games, Starcraft 64. The original SC was and still 
 is one of the best RTS games every to be created, but transfering that to Nintendo 64 was just 
 a plain mistake and lucky for us C&amp; C 3 doesn't fall down those steps again and regains control 
 of what a RTS is all about.
  
  The graphics seem to be a bit of an upgrade from its PC brother, although many people most likely 
 wont agree with that comment, it seems to make that the graphics on the 360 version are clean and 
 sharp. One thing to note though, during extreme battles, there is a bit of slow-down of Frame rate, 
 but its nothing too horrible. The sound is good, just as good as the PC version and explosions 
 sound better then ever in surround sound. The gameplay is just like any other RTS you have played 
 before, build a base and destroy your targets. If you have every played any other C&amp; C game 
 before, you get the idea. Now, on to the controls, the thing that either makes or breaks a console 
 RTS. I must say that EA pulls the controls off very well and it flows alot easyer then I would 
 have thought it would have. We first say the very primative control setup on the consoles (made 
 by EA) with Battle for Middle Earth 2 for the Xbox 360, which wasn't as clean cut as the system 
 used in C&amp; C, so hats off to EA on upgrading your controls and making them work very nicely 
 with the user. Finally, the online multiplayer is always were its at. Yes, it is very fun and actually 
 very easy to find games with or without your friends. The game is one of the first to actually 
 utilize the Xbox Live camera feature which gives you the ability to see the people that you are 
 either owning or getting owned by. Although, something to note about the camera, in my personal 
 expirence I havn't seen many people useing it, in fact I have never played a whole game with someone 
 who actually has the camera and uses it. Besides all of that the game is very well made and any 
 RTS console fan should pick it up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: willwells16
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 15, 2007 11:48 am PT
Review:  this is a amazing i would go as far to say its about the best game i have played but only because 
 i am a very big fan of RTS games it has a great feel of game the controlls are perfect its a very 
 long game and in my eyes cant get boring as the battle field is always different, the units and 
 the tech trees are limited but well formed units i would say the maps/battle fields are very well 
 constructed with lots of emphasis on war the maps look like a real war would look like destroyed 
 buildings, fire ridden cars i would say a must buy for every war loving gamers 9.2/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Frankenfrag
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 15, 2007 4:55 am PT
Review:  I played previous versions of C&amp; C on the PC and with the latest PC version reportedly requiring 
 a higher end machine to run I decided to take advantage of the 360 version. So far I can say I 
 haven't been disappointed.
  
  I learned the controls playing the demo for weeks prior to the release, which helped out a great 
 deal with my initial enjoyment of the game. I have found the controls to not only be easy to use 
 but also to provide some benefits in creating new units quickly while in the heat of battle.
  
  Below is are my scores for each ranked area and an explanation of the score given.
  
  Gameplay 
 (9/10) : C&amp; C3 excels at gameplay. The campaign mode that I am playing currently, GDI, makes 
 me feel like I'm in a movie in which I control the outcome. The live action actors really make 
 you feel like this is a true crisis and you are the Commander making the combat decisions to win 
 the war. The skirmish mode is exceptional and play is enhanced by a well thought out control system 
 and easy to follow screen layout.
  
  Graphics (8/10) : The graphics are excellent and I find myself zooming in on battles to see the 
 action close up rather then from a distance. I have notice some washout in some areas but the gameplay 
 so pulls you into the experience that you don't really notice them unless you are looking for them. 
 The developers did an excellent job of blending quality graphics with great performance.
  
  Sound (8/10) : The sound is good, although I personally turn the music off as I like to hear the 
 battlefield sounds. The audio configurations are nice and give you control over virtually every 
 sound. Although some sounds did seem a bit faint even cranked up, the sound quality overall was 
 well done.
  
  Value (9/10) : Lots of online skirmishes and offline practice time in a nicely customizable single-player 
 mode give this game a lot of value.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt (9/10) : I'm hooked... I only hope that future RTS games use the same strategy for 
 design and development that was used in C&amp; C3. And of course I hope that C&amp; C continues to 
 be offered on the 360.
  
  Great game I would highly recommend this game to anyone who likes RTS games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kujel
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 14, 2007 12:41 pm PT
Review:  Let's start by saying this is the longest game I've beatn in the shortest time, what I mean is 
 any games longer then ten hours tend to take me weeks if not months or years to finish but C&amp; C3 
 keep me so hooked I played through in four days because that's about all I was doing. The controls 
 were much like LOTR: BFME II but with some great tweats that made it much more managable and enjoyable, 
 I only really have one major complaint about it sometimes when I want to select just one unit out 
 of a group the stick cursor would slide over the wrong unit but other then that it was solid. I 
 should note I would have liked an easy way to select all my harvesters and/or engineers on screen 
 like I can combat units but it's not a big deal. The game play was great, I really had fun with 
 the missions, starting with NOD, then the Scrin, and finally GDI. This is just the order of what 
 I felt were the best campaigns and I still found them all fun. The missions were all well designed 
 and faction specific (I should point out the mission objectives were much better then BFEM II's) 
 and weren't the standard go kill all enamy structures, like so many games do. Each level worked 
 really well with the story and the objectives seemed more realistic then a lot of other tiltes. 
 The story was great, the videos were really cool and the acting was really good too. Taking a page 
 from StarCraft EA LA choose to have one story line told from three perpectives and it work very 
 nicely. By playing through GDI, then NOD and finishing with the Scrin (you can't play the Scrin 
 with out finishing GDI and NOD fisrt) you get a fully and complete story and not two partial ones. 
 The Graphics were awsome, very crisp, clean and beautifully drawn. Each faction had a unique style 
 and it played out nicely in the videos. The gamespot critic complained of system slowdown and framerate 
 problems which I never saw once and I had on a number of occations large forces moving on screen 
 but they said the same thing about BFME II and I only ever saw such a thing when I had nearly double 
 the pop cap allowed. I have to wonder if the gamespot systems are wearing out from over use. The 
 sounds were all very good and fit each item and unit well, the unit voice overs were also well 
 done and fit quite well. As for the music I never really noticed it beacuse I was just too in to 
 the game and didn't pay attention to it. To conclude if you love strategy games (especially RTSs) 
 go pick this one up, it's a real gem and I can't wait for EA LA to realease an expantion pack for 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamerINchief
Rating: 8
Date: May 14, 2007 11:28 am PT
Review:  Like most real time strategy games, those willing to look pass the less than stellar graphics and 
 often time frustrating missions, will find a true gem to spend countless hours playing. Though it 
 is recommend that you take breaks while playing C&amp; C3. I've been playing for hours straight 
 and I swear whenever I close my eyes I can still see hordes of mini tanks across battlefields. The 
 missions are remarkably simple but requires the upmost in strategy ( I am not kidding) . Still though 
 each of the 30 plus missions are unique and fun to play through. This game gets high replay value 
 because of its lengthy single player mode and addictive multi-player modes. Of course though, this 
 game is not for everyone and those with not the patience or attention span will quickly dismiss 
 this game. Overall a good RTS game that will please both old fans and newcomers alike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Coopdeville69
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 13, 2007 8:11 pm PT
Review:  I'm very impressed with the way C&amp; C3 was ported to the X Box 360. Finally a RTS for a console. 
 One thing that you will notice is how familiar this game feels like all the other C&amp; C games 
 from the past. A lot of people doubted a RTS on a console could ever feel like a PC RTS . The graphics 
 are nice and runs fairly smooth. The story line is great and with a lot of familiar actors/actresses. 
 The game also has tons of replay value which makes this game even better. Hopefully this game will 
 pave the way for other RTS games to be ported from PC to consoles. Now it's back to the fun. Thank 
 You EA. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonofares
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 13, 2007 4:52 pm PT
Review:  I got the new Command &amp; Conquer 3 Tiberium Wars for the XBOX 360. I had never played any of 
 the previous C&amp; C games so I didn't know what to expect. I must say I am pleasantly surprised. 
 This game is damn fun. I've never seen a game use so many live actors. Heck, Billy Dee Williams 
 has a role in the game!! It's very cool to see video games using actors........ at least you can't 
 say they don't look realistic. Tiberium Wars is a Real Time Strategy game. It's pretty complex 
 and there's definitley a learning curve but it does a pretty good job of taking you through training 
 to learn the ropes. Also you can play on easy, medium, or difficult. I'm starting on Easy. Remember 
 the Lord of the Rings Battle for Middle Earth Strategy game on the 360? Well, imagine that game 
 but instead of guys with arrows, you have soldier with missles, riflemen, soldiers with jet packs, 
 aircrafts with heavy artillery, snipers, grenadiers, engineers, tanks, and other groups and types 
 of weaponry and warriors. One thing that's really cool is some of the story takes place right here 
 in the U. S. where you're protecting the Pentagon and White House and getting to fight right there 
 on our own soil. The game has gotten GREAT reviews and so far I love it. In fact, I'm going to 
 play it now. I love it love it love it. It's fun and the best game released on the 360 in months. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solidsnake7882
Rating: 10
Date: May 13, 2007 3:52 pm PT
Review:  I have played C&amp; C for years and have enjoyed it alot all theese years. It has been a long time 
 since it was on a console and I have to say EA did a great job. It is very difficult to port an 
 RTS to a system b/c of the massive ammount of commands you have to give in any given mission. Thus 
 features are lost in order to accomidate it for a console. Does it always work? No but in this 
 case it did. My computer can't run it so i got it for the 360 and I can't say I regreted it. The 
 display actually looks better form what I've seen of screenshots of the PC version. what I mean 
 is it's not as clutterd as it typically is in any RTS. The controls are very simple to figure out 
 and it opporates very good for an RTS using only 6 buttons instead of a keyboard. Framrate issues 
 are nonexistant and graphics look really good. Sound is very well done, both music and voice acting 
 aas well as the destrucitve sounds. The FMV cut scenes, are surprisingly well done. FMV cut scenes 
 are usually very cheesey but in this case whyile there is a bit of a cheese factor are done very 
 well and blend in nicely. A great cast to do it as well, Michael irronside, Billy Dee Williams 
 are among the great cast of this game. Mind you though this game is very difficult and not for 
 younger players who get easily frustrated. The introductry levels are fairly easy but the later 
 levels are much harder. This is a perfect example of how RTS game should be on a console and I 
 hope this is not the last we see of C&amp; C games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThePerkster15
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 12, 2007 7:49 pm PT
Review:  I just picked this up yesterday, and i am really addicted to it. It is such a great game. It is 
 just like the old ones (except for the control scheme) . It is a really fun game to play, expecially 
 online. The skirmish mode is fun along with the campain. They keep the campaign interesting, with 
 plenty of missions and side missions to accomplish. The weapons and tanks are fun. It can be hard 
 and frustrating at first, because the control scheme is hard, but stick in there, it will be loads 
 of fun!. The graphics are ok, but thats not the important thing. its all about the great gameplay, 
 which command and conquer 3 definitely has. Each of C&amp; C3's battles are never the same and will 
 give you many extra hours of gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NinjaMunkey01
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 12, 2007 1:34 am PT
Review:  This game is great for newcomers to the genre or pros and delivers a solid experience. the first 
 thing that catches your eye are the graphics. troops and tanks look stunning and wathching massive 
 tanks explode never gets old. Also the little things like watching harvesters collect tiberium 
 and then put it into the refinery to be turned into credits is cool and shows how much attention 
 to detail has been given.
  
  the action is fast paced and exhellirating and if you arn't quick enough then your in setrious 
 trouble. enemy forces waste no time getting all available units unlocked and attacking you. You 
 may think that having to use a controller will slow you down but you can still move around quick 
 yet be able to be presise enough to be able to select specified units to go into battle. but i 
 suggest you do the boot camp mission on the main menu before starting. just reading the manual 
 will not be good enough as there are many combination buttons to press which sounds complicated 
 but once you have completed this mission and a few of the campaign missions you'll be well on the 
 way to mastering the controls.
  
  The missions do not take hours of building up resources with tedious tech trees though which makes 
 the game much more easier or challenging however you look at it. it will not take long to gather 
 enough resources to construct a kick ass army but this also means that the enemy will be repeatedly 
 attacking you very soon which will get in the way of plans and attack strategies.
  
  This game uses more tactics than you may expect which means that building a huge army isn't enough. 
 you will need the right mixture of infantry and vehicles as everything has a counter. Enemy troops 
 will garrasion in buildings which means small groups of men can take on large armies and the only 
 quick way of stopping them is to use grenaders and small tanks will make mincemeat out of your 
 men without counter tanks or rocketeers.
  
  All in all this game is amazing and wil throw you into huge cinematic battles almost instantly 
 which is great and watching enemy bases turn to dust whether youre using an army or each factions 
 super power which lets you drop a huge bomb completely ennialating a base is always rewarding.
 
  
  I believe that even if youre only remotely interested in RTS games you should buy this game. it 
 is one of the few great RTS games for a console that are actually amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BLISTER-HERETIC
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 11, 2007 6:32 pm PT
Review:  What can i say? Its friggin Command and Conquer for god sakes. I know I know, that doest exactly 
 mean it will still be a great game considering that its being ported to the 360 from the PC. Well 
 im here to tell you that the C&amp; C series still is the KING of all RTS's ,and now, all console 
 RTS's.
  
  I dont know where to start... the graphics, the sound, the gameplay, the cinematics... its all GREAT.
 
  
  Ok i'll start with the graphics and sound. Graphics wise, this game is a gorgeous plate of explosions, 
 effects, and textures. Everything looks awsome in my eyes. I know it doesnt quite stand up to the 
 maxed out graphics on a high end pc. But its pretty damn close, and thats all that matters.
  The sound is great too. From the voice overs to the explosions, its all great... simple as that. 
 Which brings me to the cinematics, well... im proud to tell you that they are back in all their 
 cheesy glory, and they look better than ever.
  
  Gameplay is just down right perfect. The interface setup is as simple as counting to 3. Its just 
 second nature, and i love it. From building units and structures, to moving and looking around 
 the battlefield, to selecting and deselecting units, its all simple and smooth.
  
  Seriously people, you need to buy this game. It's absolutely perfect for any C&amp; C/RTS fan. Buy 
 it... NOW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zer1015
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 31, 2007 5:40 pm PT
Review:  Command and Conquer 3 Tiberium Wars is straight up awesome game. It is the best RTS on the 360 
 (although there aren't many to chose from) . The graphics are good and the controls are easy to 
 learn. I haven't gone deep into the single player campaign yet, but so far I think it's great. 
 The missions are not too hard, but they aren't too easy either. The online is really fun to play. 
 I like how there can be more than two people in a match. It makes the game more difficult, but 
 more fun at the same time. Overall I think C&amp; C 3 is a great RTS and is definitely worth buying. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FraserAlexander
Rating: 6.1
Date: May 11, 2007 12:38 pm PT
Review:  It's true. This game is good, but it's not true to the first titles even though the reviews say 
 it is. This game to me is a 7.5 nothing more... still good, but not almost a 9 for sure.
  
  It's too fast - this takes away from the strategy. I think these games are fun for arm chair generals 
 who want to be able to spend a little time planning a massive attack. The units build too fast 
 as well- the older games made it seem like more of an accomplishment when you built things. This 
 game the money comes in so easily at a very quick pace, and buildings, units are made in about 
 10 seconds. I feel almost like there are already all available, and all i have to do is go through 
 the motions to put them there.
  
  CC was more fun on my Saturn machine because of the above reasons, but as well because of the controls. 
 The controls are nedlessly complicated. On the saturn you could 'click and drag' a bock and any 
 units within would be highlighted, you could then order them and hot key them easily if you wanted 
 to. This game also feels flashy like EA's normal deal these days. Mostly flash and little substance.
 
  
  I do like the FMV stuff though, done well just like number one.
  
  my score should be a 7.5 but it averages it wrong. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bloodyrooster
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 11, 2007 11:46 am PT
Review:  The control scheme is a little sticky still, but it's still pretty amazing for a console RTS. It's 
 the most worked out RTS on a console ever. It's easy to pump a lot of things out, wheras console 
 games had a real hard time doing this previously. In comparison to Middle Earth the main problem 
 with middle earth is that the game is just done poorly. You can almost immediately sense the quality 
 put into this game with units and abilities right away. The story seems pretty realistic with almost 
 a Starship troopers feel of cheesy news stations popping up all the time. If you like Warhammer 
 40k or Starcraft (if you like a good sci fi RTS) , then CC3 is right up your ally with obvious things 
 that make it stand out on its own. It will keep you busy and challenge you to be very tactical 
 in the way you think and deploy units. The multiplayer is pretty good. It works whereas ME2 had 
 a lot of limitations (like inviting a friend to play with you) . If you like playing on your xbox 
 more than your pc, which is my personal preference. This game does it right and should automatically 
 get a score boost for being good on a console since I can sit on my couch rather than sit at my 
 work desk. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bob1354
Rating: 9
Date: May 11, 2007 9:06 am PT
Review:  ok so i just bouth this game last night and oh my good god is it amazing. ive played it on the 
 pc and while it was not on the best graphics card available it was pretty good and it looked good 
 on top of it. but then i bought it on the consule and wow. the graphics are simply amazing, the 
 game play flows great, and the control interface is as smooth as a knife through warm butter. this 
 game is everything there could be about a command and conquer. while i hav enot played this game 
 much yet it looks good and it feels good to play and you'll be rooting for whatever side you play 
 good or bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FoxHoundADAM
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 11, 2007 7:08 am PT
Review:  C&amp; C 3 for the Xbox 360 is the latest in the very popular RTS PC franchise which hasn't had 
 a release in almost 5 years. The 360 version uses an update of the engine that was used for the 
 Lord of The Ring: Battle for Middle Earth 2 which was released just last year on the 360.
  
  C&amp; C 3 impliments a control system that is, for the most part, user friendly. It will probably 
 take you about an hour to really get a handle on the controls but once you do it wil become second 
 nature. The control system revolves around the use of an onscreen HUD that alows you to manage 
 almost all of you building and troops simply by use of the trigers and D-pad. You can also use 
 the typical click on the barracks and build troops that some PC games might be used to but this 
 can become a chore during the major battles. The controls aren't perfect, some things take longer 
 than they should but all and all they get the job done.
  
  The graphics looks pretty impressive on the 360. I am sure a high end PC could produce high resolution 
 on the textures but comepared to LotR: BFME2, C&amp; C 3 has better character modles, better ground 
 textures and all and all better special effects. During battles the screen is lit up with weapons 
 fire, explosions and partical effects that really make it appear you are in a large scale battle. 
 I have heard complaints of choppiness and slowdown but the only time I noticed this was during 
 sequences when command was giving additional information which is done with real actors on real 
 sets. The presentation is really pretty entertaining, all of the story as well as most of you mission 
 updates are done by real actors on real Hollywood sets. Sure the actong is B-grade quality but 
 it is obviously that was intentional, yet the devlopers pulled it off in that Starship Troopers 
 type of way. Side note the commander from Starship Troops is on of the GDI generals.
  
  Being an RTS game strategey and planning are a major part of the gameplay. However this is one 
 of the few areas I was left wanting a little more. There are 3 factions in C&amp; C 3, GDI, NOD 
 and Scrin (Scrin is only playable after you have beat both the GDI and ND Campaigns) but the game 
 feels more like rush first think later, which kind of makes some the unit typs more of a novelty 
 than a nessicity. LotR: BFME2 had 6 different factions each with their own unit types so 3 factions 
 seams a little 1994. However, the powers are pretty fun to use and can cause quite a bit of devestation 
 if used properly. I do enjoy the fact that the game focuses less on a chain of upgrades and more 
 on being able to build different unit types.
  
  There is a very solid online system with multiple game modes so after the moderate campaign you 
 are sure to get some extra life on the online battlefield.
  
  Overall C&amp; C 3 takes much of what BFME2 did right last year and turns it up a notch in every 
 category. This mixed with the unique style and gameplay of the Comand and Conquer series make sthis 
 a game that any self respecting RTS fan or 360 owner should really give it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigtruckseries
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 10, 2007 9:23 pm PT
Review:  First off.. let me just say that I was highly anxious to get my hands on this game - having been 
 a fan of the series since the days of RED ALERT 2 YURI'S REVENGE; Tiberian Sun: Firestorm, etc. 
 Unfortunately, when I got my hands on the demo - downloadable through XBOX LIVE, I was highly dissapointed. 
 Don't get me wrong, C&amp; C3 is a good game: great looking, fun to watch and fn to play, BUT, I 
 am highly dissapointed because the new control configuration SUCKS.
  
  In traditional C&amp; C games, you highlighted units, structures, etc you wish to use by left-clicking 
 a mouse and draging the cursor over the units you intend to use. UNFORTUNATELY, that has been replaced 
 by a highly confusing controller scheme which utilizes ALL of the 360's controller buttons. Now 
 before you go and say the controller isn't as good as a mouse , I want you to take a look at all 
 the C&amp; C games that were released for the Playstation 1. I had them all. All of them allowed 
 you to merely click the X button, drag your cursor and select your units. There is no dragging 
 cursor now. There is merely a target reticle which allows you to select units one by one.
  
  I hate this because it doesn't allow me to select my units as fast as I'd like. Furthermore, 
 you can no longer select individual troops as they all come in squads now. The entire squad rises 
 or falls as a squad. Making special teams is also annoying now because of this new system. I find 
 myself having extreme difficulty, selecting/deselecting units without getting confused over what 
 I'm choosing. Yes - there are controller shortcuts which use the bumper buttons to modify selections, 
 but in the heat of battle, this is ridiculously confusing. The D-pad is used to quick select special 
 teams but, it doesn't feel as good as being able to select them from the menu bar. Speaking of 
 which - the menu bar has gotten as pedantic as the designers could possibly make it. the Building 
 tabs have been seperated so that base defense weapons are no longer part of the structure tab as 
 has always been the case. The same goes for aircraft under the traditional vehicles tab. Now ever 
 single entity gets its own tab making the game just a little more confusing. Though the control 
 scheme sickens me The GRAPHICS are fantastic and units/structures are very well detailed. Firefights 
 look spectacular as you watch bullets and lasers fly back &amp; forth. The camera allows you to 
 zoom in/out to get closer/further from the battle, reminiscent of the effects I first experienced 
 when I played GROUND CONTROL on the PC. In fact, with the exception of the ability to build bases, 
 this game looks JUST like GROUND CONTROL.
  
  The Sound isn't half bad either. A very good, techno themes score.
  
  There are plenty of Achievments 
 to unlock including Medals and Ribbons to win so XBOX LIVE players (who bother to buy this game) 
 will have lots of challenege awaiting them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vickietjia
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 10, 2007 9:55 am PT
Review:  THe best command and conquer ever created. its definitely worth buying, well of course the graphic 
 also very good since it's for Xbox 360, the story are so much better. even though the control is 
 a bit difficult for first time player, but after we learn from how to control from boot camp it 
 is so much easier to control. i like this command and conquer because it's more futuristic, they 
 have futuristic equipment, futuristic tank. i just love this game so much. good think i pre order 
 it, otherwise it'll be sold out.
  
  Ps: try to skip the boot camp and go directly to single player mode: you will receive something 
 funnny !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcgillmaine01
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 10, 2007 6:31 am PT
Review:  Well looks like EA's at it again. Are they money hungry? Are just smart? That's for you to figure 
 out. But the long and outgoing series of Command and Conquer has made its way over to Xbox 360. 
 And it does bring the heat!
  
  Game play: Well it's an RTS. Shouldn't have to go in detail about that. So you know what youre 
 up for. Lots of strategy and building. What makes this different from other RTS games is its fast 
 place of game play. Now you can turtle (camp) if you want. But most of the best players are going 
 to gain resources quick. And build an army for an attack.
  
  What makes things so easy and smooth are the controls. LOTR was the 1st game to convert the PC 
 RTS keyboard to the 360 controller. And C&amp; C just tuned it up. So the outcome is well mapped 
 controls that work perfect. You can select for whole army, or just the units on screen. You have 
 the option to group any thing by just pressing one button. These all play a major role because 
 multitasking (macro management) is the key role in making a good player. You also can build on 
 the fly with the on screen interface.
  
  There are 3 factions that players can choose from. They all have strong and weak points. But for 
 the most part C&amp; C is a well balanced game. The most fun comes when you tech up and start to 
 get more powerful units. But for every unit there's a counter unit for it. So don't go loosing 
 your head when your screen looks like a war movie or a scene from independent day (those lil aliens 
 ships) .
  
  Graphics: In a RTS type game these really don't matter to me. As long as I know what I'm looking 
 at and it looks fairly good. And C&amp; C does a good job at that. Nothing Big here. But it works. 
 The lighting is very good also. You'll see fights light up with bright colors. Call it cheap eye 
 candy
  
  Sound: Once again in a RTS all you need is basic sounds to represent your units and the action 
 around you. So I'm not looking for some Tom Clancy 5.1 mega speaker blaster game. They get the 
 job done. So thats all that matters. But I have to give credit to them because the alien race 
 (scrin) has some crazy and cool sounds. Very out of this world .
  
  Value: This is the biggest and most important part of the game. How long can it be played? Will 
 it get boring after a while (ex. GoW) ? Well for a true RTS player. Using different strategies is 
 the key to victory. And with this game it can always be different. The Mission (SP) mode consists 
 of about 30 missions. There's Xbox live online play. To me this is where the meat is. You can play 
 up to 4 players. Teams, CTF, King of the hill and Siege. So the fun never stops. You'll make the 
 value of the game yourself. And the vision camera is so sweat. I love looking at the other face 
 after a nuked his base. Or after I won and I get the screen to my self. The sweat smell and look 
 of victory.
  
  Overall if you didn't like the slow pace of LOTR and the whole hero theme. Then youre going to 
 love this. Its all out war and action. The game plays a lot faster then LOTR. But it makes it 
 better in the long run. This is a must buy for any RTS fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wow100
Rating: 7
Date: May 9, 2007 1:54 pm PT
Review:  Awesome game for PC, pretty good game for 360. They controls weren't to hard and worked well.
 
  
  But the down points go to EA's Make it look shiny and people will buy it technique. It's sad to 
 see that different modes, added material, and other things in the 360 version didn't do much to 
 help. If they added these things to the PC version it would have well received a much higher score. 
 The music was bleak. (this deserves its own line :D)
  
  Over all, EA should stick to making the PC version just as shiny as the 360 version. Even though 
 the PC blew past the 360 one by a long shot :D. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joethepeacock
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 9, 2007 11:35 am PT
Review:  Because you can see screenshots and gameplay video of this game just about anywhere (and see that 
 it's beautiful) , and because everyone and their brother has already talked about how much fun and 
 replay value you'll get from the game (quite a bit) , I'm going to focus this review on the only 
 part that worried me - the control schema. was skeptical, to say the least, about the cons of trying 
 to wrangle 100+ units on the screen with a standard gamepad. I've tried other RTS games with gamepads 
 and the result is usually a smoking gamepad-shaped hole left in the furthest wall from where I 
 am sitting while trying to play the game. EA has done a terrific job of translating the traditional 
 mouse-and-keyboard control schema from the PC version of this game into something not only manageable 
 but also quite intuitive. It took me - a veteran of every Command and Conquer game since the day 
 the first game hit store shelves - about 20 minutes to become truly comfortable with the command 
 interface. I've been playing for a little over 10 hours at this point and can honestly say that 
 the interface feels like second nature at this point.
  
  I will admit, I still get caught up trying to direct-select troops that I've already created groups 
 for, and I sometimes focus back to my base to build structures, but I imagine that, given a little 
 more time, I'll get used to building in the field the way it was intended to be done. Overall, 
 you can judge the gameplay and fun and all of those other things by looking at the offerings at 
 Gamespot. com, IGN, etc. But if you're like me, you need someone not on-staff to verify that your 
 greatest concern isn't really much of one, and that's what I'd like to do here - If you are a fan 
 of the series and are skeptical about buying C&amp; C 3 for 360 due to the difference in controls, 
 don't be.
  
  Everything else: If you like C&amp; C, you'll adore C&amp; C 3. If you've never played C&amp; C before, 
 this is a fantastic place to jump on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: desanc33
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 9, 2007 8:36 am PT
Review:  C&amp; C3 is an awesome experience for the 360 and a must have for RTS fans and newcomers alike. 
 Continuing with the epic struggle for Earth and tiberium between the noble GDI and dastardly NOD, 
 C&amp; C 3 will introduce a third faction later in the campaign as well. This game offers quantity 
 and quality leaving you satisfied and with no doubt that the $60 you spent to get it was not worth 
 the money.
  
  Controls Most people familiar with RTS games would expect the controls to be awful without a good 
 old mouse and keyboard. This is not the case here. EA did an excellent job of coming up with a 
 control scheme that works for the XBOX 360 controller. Queue up units for production, creating 
 groups, snapping the view to your base and other functionality can be accessed via a few button 
 presses. The command interface is located in the bottom left corner and will expand to accommodate 
 construction queues, powers tabs, available groups and other information. With ten minutes of practice 
 you can easily command and conquer with your army without having to pause the game to look up what 
 the X button does.
  
  Graphics Having played the game on the PC as well, the graphics are comparable. The unit models 
 are clean and detailed. It is easy to differentiate between them even in large groups, like when 
 a GDI commando is attacking your base among a group of standard riflemen. Each of the three sides 
 has a distinctive look and feel. The environment looks good as well. Depending on the map you may 
 see burnt out cityscapes, government buildings under siege, barren wastelands, vast forests and 
 on. The only complaint is the units don't appear as sharp as they do on the PC which is a common 
 problem associated with PC-to-console games.
  
  Sound
  
  The sound is excellent. The various weapons and units all sound as you would expect them to such 
 as the powerful blast of a railgun upgraded GDI mammoth tank going to town on an enemy unit. The 
 Scrin sound especially cool and chilling at the same time with their impersonation of the aliens 
 from The War of the Worlds. The music is standard C&amp; C affair with hard rock/heavy metal tunes 
 and such. Single/Multiplayer
  
  The single player campaign is long and varied, offering alternatives to build and destroy. Extra 
 missions and performance evaluations via medals will keep you coming back for more. Multiplayer 
 mode offers five different games types offering up lots of excitement. From quick, intense games 
 to long, drawn out battles you will have more than enough options to keep that Live account. The 
 quirky Xbox Vision cam allows you to perform a victory dance after annihilating your opponent in 
 multiplayer matches.
  
  Bottom Line
  
  Awesome game, worth the money, will make you happy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: THE_PREZIDENT
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 9, 2007 12:40 pm PT
Review:  To put it plain and simple, this game rocks!
  
  I am one of those people that do not have a very powerful PC to run a RTS game, just when all hope 
 was lost, dreams was shattered, they mention that this game was coming to the 360.
  
  Sure mouse and keyboard are a major factor in these games, but seriously, EA managed to put to 
 good use the 360 controller. In fact its easy to get used to. If your just hating on it because 
 it is on a console, please dont ruin the fun others could be enjoying or getting.
  
  As for visuals, sure it frame rate drop here and there if you got a massive war happening, but 
 it should not last that long, hell be grateful for once, if you do not own a powerful PC, you'll 
 never see such nice visuals for years. This is the best that you can get. Also the live action 
 cut sense are nice, hell in HD you sure fall in love with the videos.
  
  Sounds, with a nice sould system you'll blow your ears away. Just hearing the explosions of the 
 war is a nice affect, EA is just keeping its classic tradition of RTS and putting it into good 
 use.
  
  Sure its kinda expensive compared to the PC version, but it worth every pretty penny and MP, skrimish, etc 
 will just keep you hooked on the game and you'll be comming for more and more. Even the single 
 player mod will keep you coming for more as it story mod is large and unique.
  
  For those that are a fan of the C&amp; C universe, I recommand that you pick this game. You will 
 not be dissapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TMass1
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 8, 2007 10:44 am PT
Review:  Command and Conquer 3, Tiberium Wars, is a highly anticipated strategy game that is expected to 
 do better than battle for middle earth. When it comes to strategy games, consoles usually do not 
 do that great. It comes down to the same debate of PC vs. Console gaming. But this game is an exception 
 to the clunky strategy gaming and brings new elements to the table such as beautiful graphics and 
 entertaining real (life) actor cut-scenes. This lighting is excellent and the use of the grayed 
 areas is done nicely. One major difference between this game and the older ones is the dramatically 
 shorter building times. This provides quicker and more involving single (and more importantly) 
 multi-player gameplay. With a variety of interesting units from rocket units to the notorious mammoth 
 tanks, this game will engage the user with ours of great gameplay. The new alien race isn't so 
 bad either. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
