-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Conan
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/conan/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Captures the Conan feel.
 Combat is fantastically brutal.
 Incredibly fitting orchestral soundtrack.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Lots of chunky-looking textures.
 Ron Perlman not a great fit as Conan.
 Jumping sequences are clunky.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 24, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.0, 52 Review (s)
User Score: 7.5, 1,581 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: THQ
Developer: Nihilistic
Genre: Fantasy Action Adventure
Date: Oct 23, 2007
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Derivative as it is, Conan is still a viscerally satisfying adventure. 

  There might not be a direct connection, but it's hard to imagine the God of War series existing 
 as it does without Conan the Barbarian preceding it. At their hearts, both are brutally violent 
 and dark tales of swords and sorcery, so it's not entirely surprising that developer Nihilistic 
 has taken extensive inspiration from God of War in developing a game based on Robert E. Howard's 
 iconic adventurer. Conan neither goes as big nor has the same high shine as God of War, but its 
 graphic carnage still packs a real visceral punch. In a way, the game's unapologetically lowbrow 
 take on D&amp; D fantasy enhances the experience.  

  The game opens up with Conan, voiced here by a decidedly unbarbaric-sounding Ron Perlman, out on 
 an adventure, battling marauding specters on a remote island while in search of a valuable gem. 
 What he finds instead is the tomb of a dark sorcerer named Graven, which Conan accidentally opens. 
 In his exodus from his magical prison, Graven strips Conan of his armor and leaves the Cimmerian 
 warrior for dead. When Conan washes up on the shore of another island, he meets up with a smart 
 and steely warrior queen with a vested interest in finding Graven and recovering Conan's armor. 
 And so the two team up, fighting their way through legions of pirates, the Stygian army, an elephant 
 demon cult, vicious beasts both real and mythical, and more supernatural forces in their hunt for 
 Graven. The story, which is told as though it were an ancient campfire legend, isn't terribly weighty, 
 even though at one point you're essentially tasked with saving the world. Still, it does a good 
 job of establishing the primal and lawless feel of the land of Hyboria.  

           This is what awesome looks like inside the brain of a 13-year-old boy.      

  Conan, 
 both the character and the game, is all about a good fight. You'll spend most of the game taking 
 on small groups of enemies as you work your way through island jungles, devastated cities, dank 
 caves, snowy mountain fortresses, and more. Conan has a light and a strong attack, and he can string 
 these attacks together into a number of different combos, many of which culminate in a beheading, 
 dismemberment, or a disemboweling. Though Conan starts off with just a single sword, he can recover 
 weapons from felled enemies, and his fighting style changes depending on what he has equipped. 
 A sword and a shield provides a nice balance of offensive and defensive abilities, while dual-wielding 
 swords allows for fast, close-quarters attacks, and large weapons like broadswords and staves provide 
 powerful and far-reaching attacks, though at the cost of speed.  

  Though the look of the weapons changes as you travel to different locations, the weapons from the 
 start of the game are no different from those at the end, so it all comes down to your ability 
 to wield them. As you kill enemies, smash treasure chests, and rescue topless maidens, you'll earn 
 orbs that can be spent on more powerful combos. These combos are always specific to one of the 
 different weapon styles, putting the decision to you as to how you want to allocate your orbs, 
 and ultimately, which fighting style you're going to favor, though there's an argument for spreading 
 it out, as you'll find different enemies to be more susceptible to specific attacks with specific 
 weapons. Your enemies' ability to block incoming attacks, and the different combinations of enemies 
 you'll face, are a big part of what makes Conan a fairly challenging game. Conan can also block 
 incoming attacks, and if you block an attack right before it hits, you'll perform a parry, which 
 creates a short window where you can execute a brutally choreographed finishing move. Some attacks 
 are unblockable, though, and in those situations it's better to use the right analog stick to perform 
 a rolling dodge maneuver.  

  As Conan recovers pieces of his armor through a series of huge, bloody boss fights, he gains a 
 number of magical powers, something that Conan isn't particularly thrilled about, though he appreciates 
 them as means to an end. At first you can turn enemies into stone for a brief period of time, and 
 eventually you're able to call down a rain of fire from the sky, a murder of crows, and more. The 
 magical energy needed for these attacks is fairly scarce, making these magical attacks most valuable 
 when you find yourself simply overwhelmed -- which, as you progress, can become more and more frequent. 

  What makes the combat so satisfying is how barbaric it is. When Conan gets shot with an arrow, 
 he yanks it out of his hide with his bare hand. When he comes upon a treasure chest, he doesn't 
 open it daintily; he kicks it in with the heel of his boot. In a pinch, Conan can chuck barrels, 
 crates, or even one of his own weapons at distant foes. The game is also fabulously inventive with 
 the savage mutilation of your enemies. One of the most basic dual-wielding moves you learn is a 
 series of downward strikes with both swords, which can shear off both of an enemy's arms at the 
 shoulders, leaving them to stand there screaming as blood sprays out of them until they finally 
 collapse -- and it only gets better from there. As Conan becomes more powerful over the course of 
 the game, attacks that would simply drop enemies to the floor turn them into exploding sacks of 
 wet viscera. It's telling that along with total playtime and the number of enemies you've killed, 
 the status screen at the end of each level also provides a running tally of dismemberments.  

 
           Crom would approve!      

  Breaking up the wonderful gore are some light puzzle-solving and the occasional acrobatic sequence, 
 and it's in these areas that Conan stumbles. The puzzles are never terribly complicated, but they 
 can be unclear, and on a few occasions you'll still find yourself wandering around after you've 
 cleared out all the enemies, trying to figure out what you need to push over or break in order 
 to advance. As nimble as Conan can be in combat, this doesn't translate to his ability to leap 
 chasms and climb up ledges; these sequences, while usually brief, are almost always kind of clunky. 

  The game's presentation can also be a little uneven. All of the combat animations and gore effects 
 look fantastic, and the game uses some nicely layered lighting effects to give the world some depth. 
 But upon close inspection, nearly all of the textures have a jagged, pixelated look to them, something 
 that's especially noticeable during cutscenes. Same goes for the sound. Ron Perlman doesn't quite 
 fit as Conan, the topless damsels in distress sound more like corny strippers, and you'll hear 
 a lot of quips from both him and your enemies repeated. On the plus side, the pounding orchestral 
 soundtrack has a wonderfully primitive, battle-march feel to it that really enhances the overall 
 experience. These characteristics are the same in both the Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3 versions 
 of Conan.  

  Perhaps the biggest mark against Conan is its length. At around six hours, it's a pretty brief 
 adventure. But a good deal of craft went into making all of the game's over-the-top violence look 
 so great, and it's the kind of guilty pleasure you'll want to savor.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (126 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: DRAKOOZ
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 18, 2009 4:56 pm PT
Review:  As a fan of mystical things, and a big fan of GOD OF WAR , i like the game, since CONAN stories are 
 about beating monsters and going to mystical places and magic and all.
  the good of this game, comes first with the different movement we can make, different finishers 
 and different style of weapon we can use, although the places we visit, the monsters we kill, all 
 in all makes it a solid game and worth your time to spend.
  but there are some cons, that this game needed to improve:
  first, relatively short, the story 
 is not also that deep, they could add more mystical beasts and monsters to make it look more scary.
 
  at the end , i enjoyed my time playing this game and when it ended i felt i need more , so i'm 
 saving it until i play GOD OF WAR 3 ,although i dont think i will have the chance since it will 
 be on PS3 and i'm not willing to buy it, i'm a fan of XBOX360 and i will stay loyal to this console. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: buckizard
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 11, 2009 8:28 pm PT
Review:  For $10 bucks in a discount bin, and being a Conan fan, I couldn't resist. Besides a horrible camera 
 at times hte game is really a lot of fun to play and I've really been giving it a work out. Fun 
 hack and slash with a variety of wepaons and moves, skill build ups, great boss fights and puzzle/combo 
 moves make the game a great break from all the other games out there and has me hooked. 
  
  The graphics are solid, perfect Conan-esque cut scenes and voice complete with saving topless chicks. 
 Puzzles are fun, not horribly difficult, with fun results. Despite it being a hack-n-slash, continuing 
 upgrades to combo moves give satisfying finishing moves and great combos. Magic is present and 
 not at all overwhelming, just a touch to add to that classic Conan environment.
  
  Well worth the try if you never played and find it in the discount bin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coop36
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 15, 2009 12:19 pm PT
Review:  To start off, I am a fan of the Conan series. And Frank Frazettas art associated with Conan. So 
 I wondered about this game but figured it was just a cheesy rip off of God of War. But I was surprised 
 to find thats not the case. This is a solid action game. I loved the violence and being able to 
 catch enemies on fire and throw them into spikes etc. You feel very powerfull in this game, just 
 as Conan would. The graphics are better than I expected and there are some pretty cool bosses. 
 My only real complaints are the cheapness of some enemies. you know, getting contantly knocked 
 off ledges and ganged up on without being able to fight back. that kindof thing. But after awhile 
 you figure out tactics to avoid it. This game requires skill for the final boss. very frustrating 
 but rewarding once its finally over. As cheap as this game is now you would be only ripping yourself 
 off not to check it out. Especially if youre a fan of Conan comics and movies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danger_sHarKs
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 10, 2009 10:24 am PT
Review:  Yeah, look at the cover. You see a muscular man with two swords with a trail of blood behind him 
 and nude slave chicks in the background. Does this not attract your attention!? Anyways, Conan 
 is a great hack-and-slash adventure. But I would recommend renting it because it's quite short. 
 The combat is really fun and gory and it works well with comic-book graphics. The story doesn't 
 matter. It's Conan. Nuff said. The music is nice and goes with the combat. But it would be best 
 to support it with music from the films. Yes, I know this isn't based on the films but it would 
 be better anyways. After each level you get a boss battle which are really awesome, fun and nerve-racking. 
 Sometimes you can't damage them normally so you have to figure out how to defeat them. So, sure, 
 go ahead and rent this game! You won't regret beating it in five days! So, yeah, there's nothing 
 more to be said.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pelm
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 31, 2008 2:59 pm PT
Review:  Bringing conan from the fantasy books and turning it into a video game has worked but it's also 
 had it's drawbacks. This game has it all it's gory, bloody, you can learn and use a different array 
 of tons of combos you can wield one handed weapons like swords, axes, and maces you can wield two 
 handed weapons like spears, and claymores you can wield two weapons in each hand like more axes 
 and more swords. This stuff is wonderfully done but the way its used in fighting is very flawed 
 for eg: when your fighting enemies every time you go to swing your sword at them they right away 
 come back at you and continously don't stop slashing at you never giving you a chance to actually 
 hit them.
  
  That's totally BS because your conan in the game you should at least be able to fight back that 
 flaw is throughout the game and at times its not that bad but when you get farther in the game 
 it amps up and starts to get annoying then that leads to full blown anger. Something else that 
 is bad about this game is that when you fight the big guys with those claymores and you attack 
 them they continously block your attacks THEN they come at you crushing you and its like you never 
 know when to attack and when to block its very confusing.
  
  Now while a lot of things have worked in this game a lot of other things haven't and that's fine 
 but when it starts to become too hard where it effects the game-play it stops you from progressing 
 and that should never happen in video games. It shouldn't be so hard to kill one enemy or a bunch 
 of enemies just because theirs a bunch of them or just because one enemy has a bigger sword then 
 you it's just not fight. Now that being said this game is violently fun all the way through and 
 even with its drawbacks will still live up to its promise of total satisfaction.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mandalorian_81
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 6, 2008 7:11 am PT
Review:  Conan is one of those games that you can pick up and enjoy anytime. Have you ever sat there looking 
 at your collection of games and you just cant decide what to play ? well get Conan and you cant 
 loose.
  The operatic musical score that blast out on the main menu really sets the mood for the entire 
 game giving you a sense that something big is about to happen and heads are gonna roll !
  The game has a good story line, its no GTA4 of course but its perfect for Conan and just what you'd 
 expect of the mighty barbarian and should keep you interested and immersed as the story progresses.
 
  The Graphics are fantastic. My only gripe about the graphics is that the characters sometimes 
 look a bit cartoony and detatched from the scene but that only happens in close up action and dosnt 
 detract from the gameplay, I imagine if they made it ultra realistic on the graphics side then 
 those pesky censors would be waving their dissaproving finger of self righteousnes.
  The main thing in this game is of course getting to hack and slash your way through hoards of enemies 
 as the mighty Conan and the game delivers superbly on this front.
  The fighting system is simple but the amount of combos and devastating finishing attacks you can 
 get from it will keep you amused and grinning with wicked delight as you master each new way to 
 'crush your enemies, see them driven before you, and to hear the lamentations of their women' !
 
  The enemies in this game are quite varied, not just in looks either but in skill, fighting style, 
 special moves and even personality and should keep you on your toes as you learn their attack patterns 
 so you sneak in a parry and unleash one of the gruesome and over the top finishing moves.
  One of my favourite things is the end bosses. I normaly hate end bosses because they are normaly 
 dull and overpowered for no good reason other than to annoy you, however the end bosses in Conan 
 are excellent and also very varied. I wont go into much detail about them because its best that 
 you see for yourself.
  The ways in which you finish off these end bosses is one of the most satisfying things in the game, 
 the brutality and violence is at its peak in these scenes and the game maker manages to keep you 
 in the action with a series of buttons you must press to keep the scene rolling rather than simply 
 switching to a cut scene, oh and dont worry, the button combos at the end of the boss scenes are 
 easy to get and shouldnt have you howling at the moon in frustration because you have to keep going 
 back to learn the sequence.
  I recomend Conan to anyone, it wont be the best game in your collection but it will be one of those 
 games that somehow you cant bring yourself to trade in at the game store because its just too much 
 fun to come back to for some out and out violent fun.
  One last thing i'll say is that youv just watched any of the Conan movies then i defy anyone who 
 dosnt immediately want to play the Conan game.
  Just buy it, its probably super cheap to pick up by now so you cant loose and it beats the snot 
 out of Viking : battle for asgard ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: W8I8Z
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 12, 2008 10:46 am PT
Review:  I'm sure you have all heard this before, but this game is very similar to God of War and any other 
 hack-n-slash game out there. Here is what makes this game tick...
  
  
  You play as Conan (duh) , and you are travelling in order to find the pieces of your armor which 
 were stolen by an evil wizard. Anyone else who wears the armor becomes very powerful and evil. 
 Soon you find a travelling companion and a ship and you go from City to City trying to find the 
 wizard and the source of the black death.
  
  What makes this game fun is the constant flow of enemies that you just mow down with your sword 
 attacks and combos. You attacks consist of having 1 sword, sword and shield, 2 swords and a two 
 handed sword. You can choose which one your more comfortable with and stick with it or change it 
 up as your play. You can increase your moves by killing enemies and finding secrets which allow 
 your to collect orbs. The orbs are points that you trade in for new and stronger moves and longer 
 combos. My favorites were the double sword or sword and shield as they were quicker attacks. You 
 can also block most attacks but if you block at a key momment you can counter attack with a really 
 cool instant death move. The more you do this type of counter attack the more orbs you get to increase 
 your health and points.
  
  As you collect your armor you also get some small magic attacks such as Stone, fire, attacking 
 birds and a warp zone thing that I never used. (it used up too much magic and hardly worked) The 
 stone attack was my favorite because it stopped a group of enemies and turned them to stone, allowing 
 me to catch my breath and destroy them before they returned to normal. 
  
  The boss fights werent all that difficult but some of them took my many many tires. Once I got 
 their pattern down I was able to defeat them with ease. The Elephant God and Giant Squid were actually 
 pretty cool Bosses. The final Boss was long and drawn out and very difficult because of the smaller 
 enemies that he would summon. They would gang tackle me and I was usually overcome in a few seconds. 
 I found a way to avoid them and continue my fight against the main Boss. 
  
  Overall this was a fun game that allowed me to relieve some stress by decapitating and slaughtering 
 loads of bad guys at will. Worth playing if you enjoy hack-n-slash and mindless killing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eggo1982
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 11, 2008 10:27 pm PT
Review:  I am biased in this review because I have always enjoyed the world of Conan and the character itself. 
 From the movies to the books I was pleased to see another venue for Howard's famed character. First 
 the story is very solid. You fight hordes of enemies across many of the lands of Conan and cutscenes 
 help to explain the entire story as you progress.
  
  The strong points of Conan are the gameplay and the sound. As the gamespot review asserts, the 
 sound is by far the best part of Conan. The screams of your dismembered enemies, the voice acting (which 
 I thought was exceptionally done by Ron Pearlman) , and the backround music gave me an enhanced 
 feel for the game. Esspecially the backround music. The combat which is the other strong point 
 is incredibly brutal and awesome. Combos are relatively easy to complete, blocking and evading 
 attacks adds to the strategy and fun of the combat, and the many ways in which to destroy your 
 enenmies is excellent.
  
  The graphis are decent to good although sometimes they can look somewhat blocky and the one other 
 complaint with the game is some of the boss battle are long and boring and take a lot of patience 
 in order to complete. Esspecially the final boss battle which is ridiculously hard and lengthy, 
 but there are many save points so if you finish one section of the boss battle you don't have to 
 restart the whole thing. Overall the game quenched my thirst for violence and fun and was well 
 worth the twenty bucks.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: VonStrom
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 11, 2008 5:52 am PT
Review:  This game follows the feel of Conan comics and books pretty closely. A must play for any Conan 
 fan! 
  
  Can be pretty easy. With simple fighting moves. Basic hack and slash with a moderate story line.
 
  If you have played any fighting games you will find this game pretty simple. The boss fights can 
 be a bit dificult at times but it makes the game worth playing after slashing easily through the 
 goons.
  
  Excellent array of weapons, including using a balista!
  The level system is fun, allowing you to pick attack moves as you level. Spend the points on the 
 moves you want to use! 
  Considering the fact that you can pick this game up in most gaming stores used for under $10 it 
 is a bargain for the fun you will have hacking off limbs and rescuing half naked maidens.
  A word of caution, do not play around young children.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: troyxx
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 10, 2008 12:30 pm PT
Review:  okay ,,
  this has to be the worst game i have played in a very long time 1st of all the camera is just BAD 
 how can the developers expect us to finish a game on a hard diffculty if you can't see the damn 
 thing
  second of all the story is just bad and boring to death also the game is too short but this might 
 be a good thing so we can end this nightmare sooner so if you have an xbox360 and you want to test 
 the worst game on this consol be my guest BUT TEST it as a rental this is not worth buying
  You get 4 different styles of stance to customize your own style, 4 different types of magic (that 
 you gain as you progress through the game) . Boss fights are not extreme enough to bring you to 
 the edge of your seats (in comparison to GOW) . At the end, if you're extremely bored & played all 
 your current collections, head down to blockbuster or get it on gamefly to kill a mere day or two. 
 I was able to walk through the game in a little more than 5 hrs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrFurious78
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 8, 2008 12:11 pm PT
Review:  The first thing that you'll probably notice about this game is that it bares a striking resemblance 
 to the 'God of War' Series. Not only is the gameplay and feel very similar, but also from a graphics 
 standpoint, large portions of this game seem like they belong on the PS2, especially the cut scenes. 
 Don't get me wrong. There are some stunning and visually exciting portions of this game, but overall 
 it just doesn't feel like a bonafide next-gen product. Another area of mixed reactions is the gameplay. 
 Parts of it are extremely satisfying. Conan's brute strength paired with some ridiculously large 
 swords inevitably lead to some wickedly gory kills. The combo system is pretty fluid, and the three 
 different weapon sets to choose from are cool. The problem arises from repetitiveness and lack 
 of diversity in the enemies. Also some glitches in the blocking system allow the AI to get some 
 pretty cheap shots in. Again on the plus side, the boss fights are engaging and not frustrating, 
 except for the final boss. This was one of the most ridiculously absurd sequences in gaming of 
 recent memory for me. Even the most seasoned gamers will find that it takes them several hours 
 of trying to finally beat him. It took me a whole afternoon. Over all though, I'd have to say I 
 enjoyed this game. I'm a sucker for bloody mayhem and swordplay, which probably influenced me into 
 giving this game a higher rating than it deserved. So if you liked 'God of War' (and who didn't) , 
 and you wouldn't mind playing a slightly watered down version with a few glaring errors, check 
 this one out. Crom demands it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ivory_soul
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 7, 2008 4:30 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Nice graphics, fun combat, tons of blood and guts, nude women, varying environments
 
  
  The Bad: No counter attack button?, plastic graphics, uninspired story, God of War rip off?, no 
 hidden sex mini-game, long load times
  
  If no one knows much about Conan there are a few things you should know. He is NOT a comic super 
 hero (he does have comics, but that's not his origin) and second Arnold Schwarzenegger is plays 
 the best Conan ever. The story is not exactly great, but it evolves around the Conan mythology 
 where he seeks the four pieces of armor to defeat Graven who has put the Black Death upon the world. 
 The game's story is nothing special or interesting, and the only thing that keeps you hooked is 
 acquiring new abilities, and seeing the cool levels.
  
  The main focus of the game is the combat which is pretty satisfying and fun. You have heavy and 
 light attacks, a grab, you can throw weapons, and use magic. You have different fighting styles 
 by picking up different weapons such as double handed weapons, dual wield, sword and shield, or 
 single sword. Each of these has it's own set of attacks you can acquire by upgrading. There are 
 tons of attacks and you may not even acquire all of them by the end of the game. The combat, ironically, 
 is also the most flawed part of the game because there is no counter attack button, enemies will 
 wail on you and kill you without have some sort of shock wave type attack to knock them away, plus 
 the heavy enemies can be really cheap. You try to attack them and they'll block but there is no 
 block breaker attacks that are effective. You can grab small enemies and do as you wish with them 
 such as take their weapon and slice them in half, take their shield etc.
  
  The magic system is only used when you're in dire need of help. You have four attacks over the 
 course of the game yet they seem to use too much energy so you're left dry after a few attacks. 
 You can increase your health and magic by finding three circles on the ground and stabbing them. 
 These can sometimes be hard to find so hopefully you have enough health to survive through the 
 course of the game. While the combat is fun it still has it's frustrations like I pointed out, 
 but it's nothing you can't handle.
  
  Now that we have the core of the game put aside let's talk about visuals. The game has great graphics 
 yet they look like plastic. The characters have low-res textures and everything just looks like 
 it's made of plastic. The game has pre-set camera angles like in God of War so you don't have to 
 worry about fighting the camera. The game has lots and lots of buckets of blood and guts and lots 
 of... mammaries. Yes there are nude women in the game and these come in the form of helpless maidens. 
 Conan must find them chained up in places and free them. They yell things like "Crush me with your 
 love!", and "I didn't my savior would be so... strong.", and "My clothes! Where are my clothes?". 
 While this may be corny it's still hot and you gotta love it.
  
  Speaking of God of War the game has a lot of similarities to that game such as a giant dragon fight 
 inside a building (think of the first boss fight in Chains of Olympus (PSP) , a giant squid on a 
 boat (think of the Hydra in God of War (PS2) , the fixed sweeping camera angles, lots of blood and 
 guts, nude women, a buff overaggressive hero, a sexy heroine he has to save, wow the list just 
 goes on and on. I think a certain developer tried making a God of War clone and it's written all 
 over Conan's Neanderthalian face!
  
  No matter though the game is pretty fun and you'll appreciate these similarities. The achievements 
 are easy to unlock and there is incentive to play through again thanks to those, but the game is 
 extremely short with a playtime of 6-8 hours depending on how slow or fast you are. I highly recommend 
 Conan if you can look past the many bugs (collision detection issues, invisible walls) , combat 
 flaws (no counter attack, wailing enemies) , and nude women (well... I'm sure you can handle that 
 :-) . Plus did I mention the long load times... every time you die!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: monkey23KING
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 22, 2008 8:36 pm PT
Review:  Nothing here that hasn't been seem or done before. Your typical hack / slash / button mashing with 
 a bit of tactic here & there with a few certain enemies. Plays a bit like GOD OF WAR in terms of 
 action. Storyline is a bit dead boring, nothing extreme or special to make it stand on its own.
 
  
  You get 4 different styles of stance to customize your own style, 4 different types of magic (that 
 you gain as you progress through the game) . Boss fights are not extreme enough to bring you to 
 the edge of your seats (in comparison to GOW) . At the end, if you're extremely bored & played all 
 your current collections, head down to blockbuster or get it on gamefly to kill a mere day or two. 
 I was able to walk through the game in a little more than 5 hrs.
  
  Perhaps they should have added a online co-op to make it more interesting. Or even some sort online 
 gladiator tournament to add more playing value with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: watersports2001
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 22, 2008 11:39 am PT
Review:  I Probably would have given it a 9.5 or more for this game but the fact the games camera is static 
 and cannot be moved make this game slightly annoying. The graphics are incredible and so are the 
 cinematic's. The only other downside is that the bosses Ive played so far really didnt give a clear 
 path to defeat. The other items were when there were alot of enemies on the screen and it was either 
 hack and slash or hack and die. There is also no multi-player which would be great for further 
 play since in theroy there are 2 players in the story.
  I'm kind of a "Metroid Prime" player and HAve played through Halo 3 so I was assuming things since 
 when I started seeing letter combos on them I assumed it be like the presentation they give of 
 gos of war on "gaming HD" smooth and sweet.
  
  *I was playing on medium so thing may be different in "easy" and "harder". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LiK
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 7, 2008 2:08 am PT
Review:  So yea, Conan really surprised me. The game is actually quite fun and the combat was deeply satisfying. 
 For all the naysayers out there, I actually found the combat system deeper than the God of War 
 series. Controlling Kratos was always a bit of a buttonmasher and made the game too easy. On the 
 other hand, Conan features a surprisingly deep and very enjoyable combat system which requires 
 more precise attacks and blocks. It became more and more fun when you unlock more moves for Conan 
 and they look pretty great. Conan can take out enemies in a wide variety of ways (depending on 
 the weapon) which added some variety to your arsenal. I was also quite pleased with the parry attacks 
 function which made the game more tactical against certain enemies and bosses. As for the enemies, 
 they are quite tough in the later stages and block quite a bit. I actually had to learn to use 
 various tactics to take them out. While most are dumb, some of the shielded guys and honor guards 
 are very defensive and won't let you take them out so easily. Fun fun.
  
  The downside of the game are the graphics. While the animations for Conan and all the enemies look 
 super smooth and animate really well, the textures are blurry and lack detail. There's a slight 
 gloss look to some characters and the level environments could've benefited from more detail and 
 special effects. It looked a lot like a high res last gen game which is a shame. I didn't really 
 mind it after a few levels in, but this game would've or should've had more work done on the visuals. 
 The concept art during the loading screens look great and it's a shame that the final game didn't 
 live up to it. But like I said, the animation for the characters looks great. The various finishers 
 and parry kills look especially amazing in action.
  
  The music is alright and added a good amount of epicness to the game. It's not quite as memorable 
 as the God of War series, but it sounds good. The voice acting is good and sounds acceptable. Even 
 the enemies sound decent enough that you won't be disappointed with it. It's pretty good overall.
 
  
  The story is not anything amazing but it works for the Conan world. You won't find any major twists 
 or revelations but there's just enough to the plot to keep you going. One thing I really liked 
 were the cinematics with the 2D and 3D art. They are really well directed and looked interesting. 
 They actually made me more interested in the story just because they're so well presented.
  
  In any case, I actually like the game quite well. Even with the flaws in the visuals, the combat 
 system is what made the game fun. Like I said, it's surprisingly deep and satisfying. If you're 
 a fan of the God of War series, this is a very good alternative. I wouldn't mind a sequel if they 
 improved the visuals and made the story bigger and better. This game is worth checking out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jwgamer119
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 28, 2008 3:12 pm PT
Review:  There might not be a direct connection, but it's hard to imagine the God of War series existing 
 as it does without Conan the Barbarian preceding it. At their hearts, both are brutally violent 
 and dark tales of swords and sorcery, so it's not entirely surprising that developer Nihilistic 
 has taken extensive inspiration from God of War in developing a game based on Robert E. Howard's 
 iconic adventurer. Conan neither goes as big nor has the same high shine as God of War, but its 
 graphic carnage still packs a real visceral punch. In a way, the game's unapologetically lowbrow 
 take on D&D fantasy enhances the experience. 
  
  The game opens up with Conan, voiced here by a decidedly unbarbaric-sounding Ron Perlman, out on 
 an adventure, battling marauding specters on a remote island while in search of a valuable gem. 
 What he finds instead is the tomb of a dark sorcerer named Graven, which Conan accidentally opens. 
 In his exodus from his magical prison, Graven strips Conan of his armor and leaves the Cimmerian 
 warrior for dead. When Conan washes up on the shore of another island, he meets up with a smart 
 and steely warrior queen with a vested interest in finding Graven and recovering Conan's armor. 
 And so the two team up, fighting their way through legions of pirates, the Stygian army, an elephant 
 demon cult, vicious beasts both real and mythical, and more supernatural forces in their hunt for 
 Graven. The story, which is told as though it were an ancient campfire legend, isn't terribly weighty, 
 even though at one point you're essentially tasked with saving the world. Still, it does a good 
 job of establishing the primal and lawless feel of the land of Hyboria. 
  
  Conan, both the character and the game, is all about a good fight. You'll spend most of the game 
 taking on small groups of enemies as you work your way through island jungles, devastated cities, 
 dank caves, snowy mountain fortresses, and more. Conan has a light and a strong attack, and he 
 can string these attacks together into a number of different combos, many of which culminate in 
 a beheading, dismemberment, or a disemboweling. Though Conan starts off with just a single sword, 
 he can recover weapons from felled enemies, and his fighting style changes depending on what he 
 has equipped. A sword and a shield provides a nice balance of offensive and defensive abilities, 
 while dual-wielding swords allows for fast, close-quarters attacks, and large weapons like broadswords 
 and staves provide powerful and far-reaching attacks, though at the cost of speed. 
  
  Though the look of the weapons changes as you travel to different locations, the weapons from the 
 start of the game are no different from those at the end, so it all comes down to your ability 
 to wield them. As you kill enemies, smash treasure chests, and rescue topless maidens, you'll earn 
 orbs that can be spent on more powerful combos. These combos are always specific to one of the 
 different weapon styles, putting the decision to you as to how you want to allocate your orbs, 
 and ultimately, which fighting style you're going to favor, though there's an argument for spreading 
 it out, as you'll find different enemies to be more susceptible to specific attacks with specific 
 weapons. Your enemies' ability to block incoming attacks, and the different combinations of enemies 
 you'll face, are a big part of what makes Conan a fairly challenging game. Conan can also block 
 incoming attacks, and if you block an attack right before it hits, you'll perform a parry, which 
 creates a short window where you can execute a brutally choreographed finishing move. Some attacks 
 are unblockable, though, and in those situations it's better to use the right analog stick to perform 
 a rolling dodge maneuver. 
  
  As Conan recovers pieces of his armor through a series of huge, bloody boss fights, he gains a 
 number of magical powers, something that Conan isn't particularly thrilled about, though he appreciates 
 them as means to an end. At first you can turn enemies into stone for a brief period of time, and 
 eventually you're able to call down a rain of fire from the sky, a murder of crows, and more. The 
 magical energy needed for these attacks is fairly scarce, making these magical attacks most valuable 
 when you find yourself simply overwhelmed -- which, as you progress, can become more and more frequent. 
 
  
  What makes the combat so satisfying is how barbaric it is. When Conan gets shot with an arrow, 
 he yanks it out of his hide with his bare hand. When he comes upon a treasure chest, he doesn't 
 open it daintily; he kicks it in with the heel of his boot. In a pinch, Conan can chuck barrels, 
 crates, or even one of his own weapons at distant foes. The game is also fabulously inventive with 
 the savage mutilation of your enemies. One of the most basic dual-wielding moves you learn is a 
 series of downward strikes with both swords, which can shear off both of an enemy's arms at the 
 shoulders, leaving them to stand there screaming as blood sprays out of them until they finally 
 collapse -- and it only gets better from there. As Conan becomes more powerful over the course of 
 the game, attacks that would simply drop enemies to the floor turn them into exploding sacks of 
 wet viscera. It's telling that along with total playtime and the number of enemies you've killed, 
 the status screen at the end of each level also provides a running tally of dismemberments. 
  
  Breaking up the wonderful gore are some light puzzle-solving and the occasional acrobatic sequence, 
 and it's in these areas that Conan stumbles. The puzzles are never terribly complicated, but they 
 can be unclear, and on a few occasions you'll still find yourself wandering around after you've 
 cleared out all the enemies, trying to figure out what you need to push over or break in order 
 to advance. As nimble as Conan can be in combat, this doesn't translate to his ability to leap 
 chasms and climb up ledges; these sequences, while usually brief, are almost always kind of clunky. 
 
  
  The game's presentation can also be a little uneven. All of the combat animations and gore effects 
 look fantastic, and the game uses some nicely layered lighting effects to give the world some depth. 
 But upon close inspection, nearly all of the textures have a jagged, pixelated look to them, something 
 that's especially noticeable during cutscenes. Same goes for the sound. Ron Perlman doesn't quite 
 fit as Conan, the topless damsels in distress sound more like corny strippers, and you'll hear 
 a lot of quips from both him and your enemies repeated. On the plus side, the pounding orchestral 
 soundtrack has a wonderfully primitive, battle-march feel to it that really enhances the overall 
 experience. These characteristics are the same in both the Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3 versions 
 of Conan. 
  
  Perhaps the biggest mark against Conan is its length. At around six hours, it's a pretty brief 
 adventure. But a good deal of craft went into making all of the game's over-the-top violence look 
 so great, and it's the kind of guilty pleasure you'll want to savor. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: afq2846
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 26, 2008 9:14 pm PT
Review:  Conan is here and the first thing you must know is that its not the movie version. This is your 
 basic hack and slash game. You play conan and you slash your way throughout. You basic attack is 
 the light slash and then you have the strong stash. You have a few other attacks but lets face 
 it you will be hacking and slashing thru out. The graphic here are ok with again the usual glitchness. 
 The music is average and the gameplay is fun. At times thats is but this game suffers from what 
 most games like this suffer from. At times the enemies come in droves and then it makes the game 
 no fun. There is something fun about chopping someone up in a weird way and boy do you get to do 
 it in this game. Over and over again and you see the blood and arms everywhere. I have to admit 
 that the last boy is very hard so be forewarned you will be spending a lot of time on that one. 
 If you can get this game on the cheap you should get it for the mindless fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: satanwershipsme
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 22, 2008 11:23 am PT
Review:  This game makes me feel like a nice guy in a way. I mean if I saw a pretty girl chained up and 
 no shirt on then I would let her go but not before a little action (just kidding) . The other side 
 of me makes me feel like I can take on anything. But then when I went to school to talk crap to 
 the school bully I got my ass kicked (just kidding again) . All kidding aside the game was great 
 very gory, cool combos, cool enemies to cut off there arms in one power attack. the only thing 
 that got me upset was the fact that the game kept glitching. At first I thought the game was scratched 
 but there weren't event a single strand of hair one it. You know that is just like Kingdom Hearts 
 2, Spider Man 3, and Iron Man. But thats just me I like those games when you have to press the 
 button it tells you on the screen. To my surprise this game is very solid with the handling. To 
 me it looks like a game that will live on foe generations to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Uesugi-dono
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 12, 2008 11:13 pm PT
Review:  Conan is my hero. He has been ever since I read my first Conan the Barbarian comic at age 5. It 
 was reinforced by the movie. (Only the first one, I disavow the existance of Conan the Destroyer) 
 Since that time I've collected the entire original Marvel comics collection.
  
  Now that we've gotten that out of the way;
  
  I was following this game from the first design 
 sketches. The early art and screenshots were so beautiful that my anticipation built to a rabid 
 frenzy. However, I had accidentally mixed elements with Age of Conan, instead picturing a super-game 
 where you played Conan in an open-ended sandbox world. The reality of this game, as reported, was 
 quite a disappointment, The first reviews blasted it as a God of War (GoW) clone. I didn't like 
 God of War (I know, I'm weird) so you may imagine my disappointment. I passed over this game, reluctantly 
 NOT buying it. I played the demo, hoping it would change my mind, but it didn't. It only reinforced 
 what I initially felt. Months later, I played the demo again, this time giving it more time. It 
 was better than the last time. The game had already bombed, thanks heavily to GoW fanatics who 
 felt Kratos was threated by Conan. The game had dropped in price to 19.99 so finally, I gave in. 
 A review follows, but in short... I love it.
  
  Conan is a linear-path action-platformer with context sensitive button sequences. To most people 
 this makes it a clone of GoW. In reality GoW did NOT pioneer this, that honor belongs to the magnificent 
 Mark of Kri. Similar to GoW, Conan has to face a number of huge bosses. GoW didn't pioneer this 
 either, that was Shadow of the Colossus. But Conan also has partial nudity, directly ripped off 
 from GoW.... no wait, Leisure Suit Larry... So what did GoW pioneer? Well maybe the first game 
 with a half-naked man in full body makeup who dances around with knives on chains...
  
  OK, now that we've discredited the "Conan is a God of War clone" argument let's talk about the 
 game. Conan deeply captures the world of Conan. Savvy? Playing it is very much like playing an 
 actual R. E. Howard story. For this the game excels. Now, the breakdown;
  
  [Graphics: 8.5] Graphically it is stunning, beautifully gory. Ironically the worst of its graphics 
 belong to the cut scenes, which seem a little out of place compared to the in-game sequences. They're 
 still good, just could have used a bit more work. 
  
  [Music: 10] Musically the game is art. The score is moving and powerful, and perfectly suited to 
 the dark cimmerian setting of Hyborea. 
  
  [Gameplay: 9] Play is smooth, easy to learn, moderate to master. Mastery is rewarding too, the 
 parry-kills are gory and viscerally satisfying.
  
  [Camera: 4] I cannot stress enough how much fixed cameras suck. Although this particular camera 
 isn't the worst of this genre, it is still a fixed camera and that leads to missed items, surprise 
 attacks, and general headaches. A rotating camera would have improved this game's score. It serves 
 as the only major distraction to the game's enjoyment.
  
  [Weapon Selection: 7] This game provides an excellent variety of weapons... cosmetically. Practically 
 there's only 3 plus one variant. (sword plus shield) Still, it's asthetically pleasing, just would 
 have been nicer if there was more variety in manuvers-per-weapon. Conan's a crack shot with a thrown 
 
  
  {Length: 7] I'm about 3.5 hours into it and that apparently equals halfway. Granted I'm pratically 
 running, but to be honest there's not a lot of reward to more thorough exploration, since it's 
 linear. Still, since it is linear, it's pretty much on par.
  
  [Replayability: 8] In addition to multiple difficulties the game is fun to play. It's a good stress 
 reliever to be able to pop it in and work off some frustration by chopping Baracan pirates in half. 
 I'll definately be playing this one again.
  
  [Fun: 9] As I mentioned, this game is lots of fun. The only thing marring it is the crappy camera. 
 A rotatable camera would have added so much... a zoom would have made it even better.
  
  Overall Conan surprises, and pleasantly so. I expected, from earlier reviews, for it to be more 
 like God of War, which irritated me. But Conan, while being preceded by it's contemporary in the 
 genre, remains fresh. A vividly imagined tale worthy of the Cimmerian. What is best about Conan?
 
  
  "To crush your enemies, see them driven before you, and to feel the adulation of the (barechested) 
 women!" 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FleshTone
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 9, 2008 9:02 pm PT
Review:  Honestly... this is the ultimate guilty pleasure - silly over-the-top gore; topless chicks and a 
 buffed out mono-syllabic hero who doesn't know the word 'subtlety'. This is a good game - the gamespot 
 review gets it largely right.... climbing can be annoying but the game itself is a riot if a tad 
 redundant at times. The game has a solid enough plot (pretty standard Conan fare with a sorcerer 
 who's taken your armor and turned it into powerful dark magic) . His daughter (who you hook up with 
 pretty early on) and you are on the hunt for him. You'll battle through demons, specters, giants 
 and pirates (and a heap of Stygians) . The weapon choices are a bit minimal but then, how many variants 
 of swords, spears, axes and shields can you get? You also gain 'runes' which, over time, enable 
 you to learn special moves... and here is where the game shows it's genius. You can break people's 
 back, torch them, impale them, turn them upside down and crush their heads into the ground, crush 
 them with rocks, slice them in half or literally cut their arms off and leave them screaming. And 
 if that's what you're aiming for in a game titled 'Conan', then you're in for a bloody treat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -HaloHitman-
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 2, 2008 3:54 pm PT
Review:  Conan for the 360, is not the greatest conan game available, it lacks alot of substance that other 
 action/adventure games have, and it also looks like a gigantic God of War ripoff most of the time.
 
  While the story is decent in my opinion, you will end up meeting charecter's that will help you 
 along the way in your quest, or other charecters that will just want to kill you.
  Although the game has some good boss fights, you will also be interupted during gameplay when trying 
 to get certain objects, and also trying to rescue damsels in distress.
  The game lacks alot of certain objects, you cannot always explore alot of areas in different sections, 
 the fighting system in the game feels the same every once in a while, and the story didnt satisfy 
 me that much.
  If you want a action game that will leave you satisfied this is probably not the game for yoy, 
 you might want to check certain other games in the same type of genre.
  Overall if you want to buy the game, dont, just go out and rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadowscale18
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 23, 2008 11:25 am PT
Review:  Conan the Barbarian and his antics have always been very cool and interesting, and when he was 
 translated into a video game, I bought it with high expectations. I wasn't too let down, but at 
 the same time, I was. Lets check out the review.
  
  The story of Conan is a wholly original one, and for all intents and purposes, is fairly solid. 
 You begin with a prologue sequence in which Conan is looking for this treasure in an ancient tower, 
 when he unwittingly (he's a barbarian- give him a break) awakens a dark sorcerer who takes his 
 armor and strips him of his memories. He awakens in the ocean around an island, swims to shore 
 and meets up with a woman who is hunting the very same sorcerer. So the rest of the game involves 
 the two going from place to place, finding Conan's armor and hunting for the man. Not a work of 
 Shakespeare, but it gets the job done, and it has lots of smart cutscenes which makes the player 
 always know what is going on in the story.
  
  The gameplay of Conan has been described as derivitive, boring, and recycled from more successful 
 action games. This is where I wholly disagree. I think the gameplay is a blast, and Conan's combat 
 system is a ton of fun. Conan can either wield a single sword, double swords, a two handed weapon 
 or a sword and shield, and each combination is accompanied by a varied list of combos, making the 
 action always seem like it has something new to offer. The enemies are all recycled though, as 
 there are only maybe five enemy types in the entire game, but with all the combos at his disposal, 
 you can make sure that you dispatch a large portion of them differently. There are some platforming 
 sequences, which to me feel a bit out of place and clunky, and serve to distract from the action 
 expereince. They do, however, let the player take a break and catch his breath, as the combat is 
 pretty hard at times.
  
  As Conan gains his armor, he gains magical abilities he can use to further slaughter his enemies, 
 that range from turning them to stone to raining meteors down from the skies, to my personal favorite- 
 a pack of bloodthirsty crows which eat enemies. These magic attacks serve a good purpose, and that 
 is to make the combat not only easier, but to make it more varied. Some of the enemies you'll encounter 
 are insanely tough, and provide a good challenge when defeating them. However, when you can cast 
 magic at them and kill them in one hit, it seems cheap, right? Actually, Conan has a limit to his 
 magic, making him use it extremely sparingly. So it's not as cheap as you think.
  
  The rest of the gameplay involves running around, setting huts on fire, solving simplistic puzzles, 
 drinking wine and saving naked maidens. The puzzles are give or take, with some so simple a third 
 grader would blast through them. There are sets of runes in each level you can activate, and if 
 you get all three of them you gain a health bonus, or a magic bonus. There are also the aforementioned 
 naked maidens, hidden throughout the levels. While slightly linear, Conan's levels offer a bit 
 of exploration, and the prospect of finding experience chests, power-ups and naked maidens makes 
 the exploration easier to deal with.
  
  The graphics in Conan are not too impressive to me. They're certainly next gen, with some nice 
 lighting effects and such, but all the textures seem grainy and murky. From a distance, it's a 
 great looking game. Get up close and it's sort of bland. However, the animations are top notch, 
 and look very real and appealing. And of course, it's always satisfying to hack an enemy's arms 
 off and watch the blood spurt from them as he runs around before dying.
  
  The sound is good. The sound effects, like the clanking of swords, cuts against skin and roars 
 of dragons and such, are top notch. The score of music is a very nice barbarian soundtrack, filled 
 with war drums, epic horns and great sounding tracks. The voice acting is where the sound takes 
 a turn for the worst. Ron Pearlman plays Conan, and while he is incredible, he seems too good to 
 play Conan. I mean, he makes Conan sound civilized and sophisticated. Pearlman is no barbarian, 
 and has no business playing one. Overall, the sound is good, but a better voice cast would have 
 made it all the better.
  
  The game is not an overly hard game, but it has its moments of difficulty. You'll find yourself 
 dying a few times during the course of the game, but thankfully the game is fun, so you won't mind 
 playing through a certain sequence again. It has a fair amount of replayability, as you can use 
 different combos of weapons and such, but I doubt anyone will be playing this game for that long. 
 It just seems kind of forgettable to me. If you want a solid action game with thrills and gore, 
 look no further. If you're expecting the next God of War, you might want to keep looking. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ianbradley26
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 22, 2008 4:49 am PT
Review:  The animation and graphics are amazing. I think the gameplay is derived more from the LOTR series, 
 so it may appear more of that than something original, but the bosses are well done. Music is excellent 
 as well as sound effects. Some of the monsters and villains are repetitive. Not enough story. I'm 
 thinking also that Age of Conan might be more worth it, but this one was done fairly well. Really, 
 the animation and graphics with the sound, is amazing. If you liked the LOTR series on PS2 or Xbox, 
 then you'll appreciate this game. Currently, I'm reading the Conan stories, and they sometimes 
 have a comical moral or one that may be more laughable than the story itself. The stories can be 
 very dark, but it usually ends up on a lighter side, which I really admire. The whole experience 
 with the game really connects you to that world, but I don't so much care for the violence in it. 
 It used to be that we'd play a game like Revenge of Shinobi on Xbox. Well, it wasn't enough to 
 see enemies blow up, so they gave us Mortal Kombat, and everyone's going with that way too far. 
 I don't know what these games put in our blood, but it isn't always a good thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 09231991
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 19, 2008 9:15 am PT
Review:  Conan is just a standard action game. It definitely is great but way to short. The story is not 
 the best but still good. The combat portion of the game tries to be like God Of War but it doesn't 
 do it with the same "oomph" that it had. The violence is definitely very bloody and gorey so that 
 definitely is a plus. The combat also can be a regular button masher but also deep at the same 
 time. You basically purchase combos and such for yourself. Any weapon you get is from killing your 
 enemies and taking their weapons so you don't have a very special weapon as your own and such. 
 Overall, Conan is not worth buying unless your a action fanatic. If you aren't, this will be just 
 a rent. Other than that, its a solid action game that delivers bloody, gorey action that will satisfy 
 bloodthirsty fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chadurwalla
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 7, 2008 3:29 pm PT
Review:  This game offers us deep, intuitive, responsive gory combat and tittties (yes 3 t's becz gamespot 
 censors)
  
  
  
  But since one sentence is not considered a review i guess i can elaborate: this game offers us 
 deep, intuitive, responsive gory combat and tittties Yes thats right this game is all about slicing 
 and dicing and it does it well. Conan starts out as a good game and becomes amazing as you unlock 
 more and more moves. What sucks about the game is no coop and no level select once you complete 
 the game. An easy 10 with those two included but without it its just a 9. If you want to have some 
 mindless barbaric action then conan is your game if that doesn't appeal to you then i doubt conan 
 will either. But chadurwalla you ask why would i pick conan over a game like ninja gaiden? why? 
 because that game is too twitchy difficult to be any fun. While playing conan you can relax its 
 like rampage or dynasty warriors where as in order to play ninja gaiden you have to drink 6 cups 
 of coffee psych yourself up into a frenzy and then sniff some coke. so yeah give conan a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xFuryx
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 2, 2008 1:17 pm PT
Review:  So I'm surfing Gamefly for a couple games to rent, I come across Conan because I hear it's sort 
 of like God of War, couple days later I got it in the mail, started playing it and 5 hours later 
 (on medium difficulty) I finished it. Was it fun? No. Was it worth a try? Yes.
  
  Story 6/10 - This is the high point of the game (that's not saying much) , the story gets interesting 
 for a bit, then just gets boring, the ending is nice, but I felt like they could've developed the 
 plot a little more.
  
  Gameplay 5/10 - Best strategy for the ENTIRE game? Spam the X button, then evade, the do it all 
 over again. It's a pain in the ass when you're going against multiple foes, when one gets you into 
 a combo and finishes, the others will start their combo and NEVER let you attack until you die. 
 Tossed in the air? Well don't bother trying to come down, because the enemies will keep you in 
 the air with no way to recover until you die. There is NO variety in enemies, simple break down 
 of enemies: Dudes with 1 sword, dudes with 1 sword and 1 shield, dudes with TWO swords (OMG!) and 
 dudes with 2h weapons. As well as mutated birds AND gorillas! And sprits and statues. THAT'S IT. 
 The button presses during the cut scenes or battle are GARBAGE. The context sensitive crap, you're 
 given a fraction of a second to correctly input the button you've seen in multiple scenarios, by 
 the time you've seen it, your chance has already passed. The good parts? The boss battles can be 
 entertaining, as well as the finishing moves. And the boobs, yes, the boobs are nice too.
  
  Sound 6/10 - Nothing wowed me here, but I did notice something VERY wrong and I highly doubt 
 it was my TV. Whenever Conan were to hit/strike an enemy you can BARELY hear the sound of the blade 
 hitting an enemy. And Conan says something pretty uninteresting things.
  
  
  
  Overall, it is worth a try, but don't get your hopes up. This game a straight rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadyvillian
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 1, 2008 11:57 am PT
Review:  If you like Conan you will appreciate this attempt. Good fighting mechanics but everything else 
 fall short. If you like hacking and slashing this game is right up your alley. You could call this 
 game a poor man Devils May Cry or Ninja Gaiden 2 without the level of finish that those games poses. 
 I know Ron Pearlman likes videogames but this is not Hell boy. They could have gotten a better 
 voice actor to play Conan. His voice just doesn't do it for me. No real grunting that you would 
 expect from a barbarian or anything to that extent. The half naked damsels in distress are always 
 a reason to play, but even that gets boring when you realize they all look the same and sound the 
 same. Which makes this game fall way short. It still deserves at least one play through. Ohh by 
 the way if your looking for a higher gamerscore (for those who have the 360) , this game helps out 
 in that department also. I would play a second version or a part two to this game if they fixed 
 all the bugs associated with this title. I feel this title could be a sleeper hit if they could 
 get it right. Maybe some coop online wouldn't hurt . THey could take it from the Arnie movie Conan 
 the Destroyer when he had the ultimate band of rag tag crew by his side. That's enough for a four 
 player game right there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snakes3425
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 22, 2008 10:51 am PT
Review:  Conan the Cimmarian, one of the first great action heroes of the 20th Century, who's popularity 
 the old Weird Tales Pulp Magazines helped establish the modern genre of Sword and Sorcery style 
 Fantasy. Ever since Robert E. Howard first introduced the world to Conan in the story the Phoenix 
 on the Sword he has appeared in a multitude of forms, ranging from Comic Books, novels, cartoon 
 shows, and two movies. 
  
  The video game Conan, successfuly captures the feel of Conan and the Hyborain Age. In Howard's 
 original stories, the Hyborian Age, though full of magic, wasn't protrayed as an enchanted land 
 full of candy ruled over by a party loving king. Instead the Hyborian Age was protrayed as a very 
 dark world, populated by all mannor of monsters and evil sorcerers. The game successfully captures 
 the dark, gritty feel of the Hyborian Age. 
  
  The game's other major strong point is it's combat system, which like the Ninja Gaiden games, allows 
 the player to slice and dice the enemy, with a variety of weapons and spells, and the game's music 
 only adds to the dark feel of the game. 
  
  While the game has it's strong points, including graphics, the combat system and the feel of the 
 world, it also suffers from it's fair share of problems. The worst of these are the voice actors, 
 chosen to play the title characters. With the type of description you have in Howard's novels, 
 you would expect Conan to have a deeper, darker sounding voice, however in the game when Conan 
 speaks, he sounds more like a librarian then a warrior. The other major flaw the game has is it's 
 game play, which tends to grow repetitive, and the lack of special moves also robs the game of 
 a lot of promise with it's game play. 
  
  Conan, while not on par with the other major Conan games, is still a very appealing game, and will 
 appeal to fans of Ninja Gaiden, Devil May Cry, and other hack and slash type games, as well as 
 fans of the Conan stories. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jirf
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 14, 2008 8:59 pm PT
Review:  as a action fan i absoulutely had to get get a game that revolved around conan, i thought of the 
 possibilities of what conan might be able to do, and this did not disapoint.
  
  the general grphics of conan is a bit of a mixed bag, its models, framerate and gore effects are 
 superb but the graphic design is a bit awry, but i think that the other parts make up for the lack 
 of state of the art graphics.
  
  the sound and gore effects are absolutely fantastic, every intestine lying on the ground made a 
 splat, and the musicin general suits the overall game.
  
  slicing and dicing numerous enemies is always going to be fun, i heard that conan apparently stole 
 most of its themes from god of war, i have never played god of war and this game gave me a very 
 good impression that it was original. so i dont thik any less of it since i have never played god 
 of war.
  
  overall a fantastic game, extremely underated as well, anyone a fan of gore should check this out.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: megamaster32
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 1, 2008 7:25 pm PT
Review:  This game is pretty fun i say chop off arms and alots of blood and good combo and beatiful graphics 
 the voice acting is great sounds like arnold the governor of california anyways the acting is great 
 the combo and it is excellent game play a must buy the story goes where conan the barbarian was 
 captured by weird pirates and he went out and killing bunches of pirates and he met this girl cortona 
 but i cant tell you more it will spoil. but you should get this game and the gameplay is supreme 
 and the ladies not saying anything but this game is a must buy and you should see the movies of 
 the conan itself. The boss battles are pretty fun pressing the buttons but i havent completed the 
 game the last part is very hard with slimy dudes i was very furstated but over all a must buy game. 
 The characters are ok in the game but the most fun is the graphics the combo and the setting and 
 the story the bosses are fun once again and this is a must buy game if you like combo 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SadExchange
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 1, 2008 6:49 pm PT
Review:  From the books of Robert E. Howard to your living room televsion comes Conan for the Xbox 360. 
 Releasing on October 23rd of 2007, players are given the chance to command one of the most barbaric 
 men who has been apart of everything from movies to comic books. Conan brings hack and slash gameplay 
 much like God of War into your very own Hyborian adventure, but is hack and slash gameplay good 
 enough to justify a playthrough of this latest adventure game?
  
  Like most titles in the adventure genre, the actual storyline isn't the most memorable component 
 of the overall game and the same can be said with Conan. Although it's somewhat interesting through 
 the beginning, it doesn't quite explain all the details and background information that you'd probably 
 prefer when dealing with the Cimmerian Warrior. You'll begin the game with Conan in all of his 
 glory with all of his armor and magical powers, which for some fans of Howard's, may seem somewhat 
 odd, due to the fact that Conan is the type of warrior who dislikes the magical dark arts, but 
 regardless, the story must go on right? Anyway, you'll start off as Conan searching for some valuable 
 gem throughout some dark tombs, but as you're looking, you crush apart a statue that releases a 
 dark sorcerer named Graven. Now, at the beginning, this may not seem like the most terrible thing, 
 due on part to not actually knowing about Graven, but in the next few moments, you'll soon find 
 yourself washed up on a beach with any of your armor and not knowing truly what happened. It's 
 not the general cliche of warrior without a past, but somewhat along the same lines, but a good 
 thing is, as you progress throughout the game, you'll slowly come to learn of the background of 
 not only yourself in the Hyborian world, but also that of Graven and the story surrounding his 
 stone prison before you unleashed him. As you adventure to recover your armor pieces, you'll come 
 across raiders, dark magical beings, and creatures that would make normal men quell in fear, but 
 along with enemies, you'll meet a Akanna, a warrior queen that would fit beautifully in with any 
 Amazon tribe. As you progress through the game, you'll help each other out. While you're trying 
 to retrieve your different armor pieces, she also wants the same armor pieces to reimprison Graven 
 and save the world. Although the storyline isn't the most interesting in terms of details, it helps 
 provide a natural flowing progression of the game from beginning to end, enough to satisfy most 
 adventure gamers.
  
  Because when you're talking about adventure games, you're mostly thinking about the gameplay and 
 Conan certainly does decently with the overall fun that can be had with combat system. If you're 
 looking for a game with gore, then look no further because the savagery expressed upon the foes 
 of the Cimmerian Warrior can look priceless when the right combos are gone through on the controller. 
 There are many different types of combat stances that can you master over the course of the game, 
 whether you're fighting with one sword, sword/shield, dual-weapons, or a two-handed weapon. With 
 a multitude of combos for each weapon style, plus the ability to do some wholesome beatings hand 
 to hand, the combat system in Conan has to be seen as one of the best out there. After waking up 
 on the shoreline of the beach after having your armor taken from you from Graven, you'll pull a 
 simple one-handed sword from the stomach of a dead sailor and from there, the world is your oyster 
 with the combat system. Throughout the different chapters of the game, you'll find one-handed axes 
 and swords, two-handed swords, pole arms, and many other weapons that all have different in style 
 and grace. With each weapon stance, there are different combos that you can purchase with experience 
 (red orbs that you pick up from dead bodies) , that only open up the combat even more. When following 
 through with some of the combos, you'll come across some pretty intense finishing moves, some that 
 completely decapitate the head from a foe, or even one, done with dual-weapons, where you easily 
 slice off both of your opponent's arms only to see the blood gushing out the limbs. But the combos 
 aren't the only moves that will leave your jaw on the floor from gore filled screens; when battling 
 some foes, if you push the block button right before they swing, you'll have the chance to again 
 push a context sensitive button flashing across your screen, to pull of a one hit finishing move 
 that consist of many different animations ranging from ripping the heart from your enemy's chest, 
 to making a multitude of slices only to kick the abdomen of your opponent and seeing each limb 
 go a different way, with blood gushing everywhere of course. You'll pretty much leave each room 
 you battle in drench in blood which makes you smile after awhile. Much along the same lines as 
 the one hit finishing moves, there will also be sequences in different parts of the game or when 
 killing a boss, to push corresponding buttons that flash across the screen to pull off certain 
 moves, much like in God of War. While this might be frustrating at first, you'll soon learn the 
 different buttons and will be growing through these sequences with a little more ease which leaves 
 you more time to watch the cool animations that finish off your opponent. And as Conan makes his 
 way through the game regaining pieces of his armor back, it'll open up new magical powers to unleash 
 upon his foes, such as a Medusa like stone gaze, a raining fire spell, a power that unleashes a 
 multitude of bats onto your enemies, and finally a power that opens a dark void which sucks nearby 
 enemies into. The barbaric nature of the combat moves that can be completed while in combat is 
 what sets this game apart from the rest. Even when being attacked by archers, if you don't have 
 a shield to block with, or you don't roll away in time and eventually take an arrow in the chest, 
 you'll need to press a button to yank the arrow out or you'll slowly lose more health. These little 
 details and touches from a barbaric sense really add to the entire Conan experience. All the combos, 
 powers and different moves that you're able to pull off with the different weapons give the game 
 and its combat some breathing room, making it less repetitive as you'll spend the majority of the 
 game in combat, and just a small fraction of the time completing some simple puzzles. The graphics 
 component of Conan is where the game could've used a little more work. Not the actual look of the 
 game, but some of the graphical glitches and mishaps that could've been taken care of before release. 
 The different environments look great from the start when you wake up on the beach and walk into 
 the jungle setting, or when you'll come across little huts or small little settlements of your 
 enemies. These will make you feel like you're in a true Hyborian setting right out of Howard's 
 book. All of your enemies are modeled well and the boss models look especially nice when you're 
 battling against them whether it's just a small raider, or the huge undead elephant. Models for 
 Conan and Akanna are especially well done, but some of the glitches come upon when the cutscenes 
 begin such as some of your weapons seeming to disappear when a cutscene begins and then reappearing 
 when it's over. Just little hitches like this or when you're battling an enemy and back him into 
 a wall and he's actually battling from 'inside' the wall. Not huge mishaps, but certainly hitches 
 that could've been completely eradicated through a longer development cycle. As you progress throughout 
 the different chapters, you'll come across almost completely naked maidens that will call out for 
 you to save them, and all that is needed is a simple break of the chain holding them done and then 
 they'll thank you promiscuously and one must note that their models look great like the rest. Another 
 graphical misstep to note would be that the camera can sometimes hinder your movement while in 
 combat or out adventure, but as with all adventure games, the camera angle always comes into play.
 
  
  Sound wise, the game is decent enough. Ron Perlman voices the part of Conan and while that may 
 seem like a great choice, throughout your travels, it'll just seem like he didn't put everything 
 he could into it. Some parts seem like he's pushing the words from his mouth and this can take 
 away from the story element of the game. While it's not terrible, it couldn't have been just a 
 little better. Other parts voiced throughout the game, such as Graven and the Warrior Queen Akanna 
 sound great and really drive the game forward. Sometimes though, you'll hear some of Conan's punchlines 
 repeated too closely where it takes away from the wittiness of the actual comments. On the other 
 hand, the orchestral score sound great throughout each and every locale and during the big boss 
 fights. Whether you're decapitating an enemy or maneuvering different puzzle pieces, you'll be 
 pressed onward with a great musical score along the way that really captures the barbaric adventure 
 from beginning till end.
  
  Replay value for Conan is decent, whether you're pushing for the numerous achievements that consume 
 most of your combat throughout the game, or you're trying out the different difficulty settings. 
 Although, once those two objectives are complete, it's hard to tell who would come back to Conan, 
 but the same can be said about God of War and multitudes of people, including myself, could easily 
 go through that game again, strictly for the combat system and that just may be Conan's saving 
 grace in the replayablity factor. One thing that might hinder the various playthroughs is the time 
 spent loading. One would thing, with having a next generation system such as the Xbox 360 and the 
 fact that the game is split up into levels, that would make the load times pretty decent, but for 
 some reason, you'll be spending more time than usual between levels, even if you've just died five 
 steps from a checkpoint, the load will always be the same. And this loading with seem even more 
 time consuming with the final bass battle because of how frustratingly hard it can be.
  
  Overall, it's a decent action/adventure game all around. With an a decent storyline, to some of 
 the best combat, to decent graphics and sound, Conan is a game that can be enjoyed by a lot of 
 people, fans of Robert Howard's fantasy setting or not. With a fully fleshed out combat system 
 that rivals the like of God War, with a decent enough story starring the Cimmerian Warrior everyone 
 loves, Conan is a game you should spend some time with, at least for a few days because It only 
 takes around six to seven hours to complete the entire game. Gameplay 9
  Graphics 8
  Sound 8
  Story/Plot 8
  Replay Value 6
  Stability 8
  Overall 7.88 
::::::

::::::
UserName: celtic1962
Rating: 8
Date: May 26, 2008 4:45 pm PT
Review:  One thing that sometimes unfairly works against games is when they have similarities or are obviously 
 getting their inspiration from a superior game. A prime example is Conan, which as most people 
 already know has some definite similarities to the great God of War games. Though I wouldn't put 
 Conan on the same pedestal as GOW, I still found it to be quite an enjoyable experience.
  
  GAMEPLAY (9) - Most of Conan's gameplay is simply one melee attack after another against a variety 
 of enemies. However, the combat does have a surprising amount of depth. Conan can equip himself 
 with the weapons of fallen enemies, and they will be what you would expect: Swords, both one and 
 two handed. spears, torches, axes and even shields can be used as weapons. Where the combat gets 
 fun is in using a parry attack, much like Assassins Creed. In fact it pretty much becomes necessary 
 to learn this as you'll generally be blocked time and again if you simply hack at your enemies. 
 By calling a block just before getting hit one of the letter buttons will pop up. Simply hit the 
 button and Conan will unleash a devastating parry attack, of which there is a decent variety. The 
 game will temporarily go into slow motion, reminding me of the combat from the movie "300", as 
 Conan pulls off fantastic moves that results in severed limbs, decapitations or sometimes even 
 bodies split in two! A bit surprising for Conan fans there is also magic use, again inspired by 
 GOW, though personally I did not use it too often unless I was really getting into a bind. By defeating 
 enemies, finding treasure chests and freeing "maidens" Conan will receive red orbs that can be 
 used to purchase special combo attacks. There will be a fair number of boss battles that will require 
 strategy and generally involves using the environment against them. There is also some puzzle solving 
 but in most cases it will be very obvious as to what needs to be done. Finally there is some platforming, 
 and fortunately most of it is very basic though there will be an occasional frustrating jump or 
 two that has to be attempted a few times before timing it right.
  
  GRAPHICS (7) - Visually Conan is definitely a mixed bag. On the one hand there is a nice variety 
 of some truly fantastic environments, but at times they seem to be lacking a bit in textures and 
 detail. However the character and enemy models do have a nice amount of detail to go along with 
 the ridiculous amount fo blood you'll be spreading. Unfortunately the game uses a fixed camera 
 perspective but fortunately in almost all situations it did a competent enough job.
  
  SOUND (8.0) - Conan features an above average sword'n'sorcery style soundtrack along with some 
 decent voice acting by Ron Perlman (Hellboy) and Claudia Black (Farscape) . Sound effects, both 
 weapon clashes and dismemberments, were done well.
  
  VALUE (7) - Conan took me just over 10 hours to complete, not great but not bad for a non-stop 
 action game. There is no multiplayer but of course there are the more difficult levels to play 
 at, and some will be tempted to play it multiple times in order to receive the numerous achievement 
 rewards. This game should now be available for a decent price, I bought it for about $25 and I 
 think it's worth it for a sub $30 purchase.
  
  SUMMARY (8) - Conan's story certainly isn't deep, it's pure sword and sorcery fantasy that's perfect 
 for an action videogame. I should mention that in addition to the over the top violence there are 
 also numerous topless maidens to be rescued. This game deserves its M rating. Overall I do recommend 
 this game to anyone that's a fan of the God of War games and can keep their expectations a bit 
 lower, or to anyone else that's interested in trying out a game of this genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roger7660
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 20, 2008 7:42 pm PT
Review:  conan is a pretty good game for the xbox 360. I had fun slashing up my enemies with my sword. the 
 boss battles are great, but this game was too short. however the action is fast paced and brutal. 
 its fun while it lasts and it has some replay value. I would give the game play a 6 out of 10. 
 so as I said pretty good. the game play is action packed. I would give the graphics a 7 out of 
 ten. good graphics. 9 out of ten for the sound in the game. the music suited the game, the sound 
 effects were great, and the voice acting was superb. I give 5 out of 10 for value and repaly value. 
 it does have some replay value, but not much. the controlls were great and it was easy to control 
 Conan. 8 out of 10 for tilt. so overall I give this game a 6.5 out of 10. its worth a rental, but 
 not worth buying. way too short of a game. rent this game first if you're curious about it and 
 if you like it then buy it. that way you will know if you like it or not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: akiraxander
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 20, 2008 2:01 pm PT
Review:  Conan is an action game threw and threw. Lots of gore and nude girls make this not a kids game 
 by any means. Action is fun, with lots of combos to keep the game flowing. Macho hero who kills 
 the bad guys brutally and gets the girls. Gore lvl is pretty high, with the ability to lop heads 
 and arms off, as well as chopping enemy's in half or in twain. Boss battles feel huge but can be 
 a little aggravating for there cheapness. Music does well, voice acting also adds a nice feel with 
 out being annoying. But if your looking for a long game id pick something else with it only taking 
 5 hours to beat the game on normal. Playing through again on hard does add to the games length. 
 More enemy's come at you as well as there AI being a bit better. Story was lacking any depth but 
 as with most big action flicks as long as you've got great action a lack luster story can be forgiven. 
 In summery id say for those brutal action fans without much free time or got some extra cash to 
 give this one a shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiredcrescent
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 20, 2008 6:41 am PT
Review:  Through playing Conan i often wondered what the game would be like without the exist of God of 
 War. It certainly tries to set itself of in such a manner as to which you can't help asking that 
 question. However once you get bast this barrier of hating unoriginal gameplay, you'll find that 
 Conan is actually a fun little game
  
  Conan begins as he opens a tomb and releases the black plague amongst the world. While doing this 
 he loses his armor and must go back and retrieve it. He meets a young warrior maiden in the process 
 and "befriends" her. They sail to go find how to fight the black plague, and find answers along 
 the way, since somehow the magic that unleashed the plague erased Conan's memory of the event. 
 During this journey you will find yourself going through deserts, islands, jungles, snow capped 
 mountains, cities, and even caves. Sounds like a lot on paper, but pleases know that the actual 
 game lasts around 6 hrs.
  
  Soundwise Conan is really average. The clanging of metal on metal sounds well and the disembowelment 
 of living things sounds really gives you that feel of power. The music is loud and in your face, 
 but sometimes the points in the game when it occurs feels off. During dialogue moments it tends 
 to keep playing and actually drowning out conversation, and it seems to be lower in actual gameplay, 
 which doesn't make sense to me. The voice acting has the same feel as the movies and sounds real 
 cheesy, but for the avid Conan fan you'll feel right at home. Although, Conan is slimed down from 
 the "Arnold" movie version for a more lean and understandable character instead of only grunting 
 and yelling Krom all the time.
  
  In the Graphics department you'll see that the bulk of this game is on par with the average game 
 of the day. Some graphics such as blood and a few main character models are done real well. On 
 the other hand it overshadows the actual environment making you feel like the artist spent more 
 time making the blood look better than the actual landscape of the game.
  
  The game plays like maybe Spartan: Total Warrior or a dumbed down version of God of War. Doors 
 are opened by command prompts that appear when you activate the highlighted item, and they are 
 predictable. The combat feels sluggish at times, but i expect thats what they were going for, as 
 Conan is a barbarian not some monk with a lot of finess to his attacks. With that said the combat 
 is sometimes more difficult than you would think considering the game doesn't take itself serious, 
 and you may find yourself wanting to play on easy before you figure out that waiting on your opponent 
 is the only way to beat them without taking to much damage. It does however keep some depth as 
 boss fights all have some certain pattern you must figure out in order to beat them, and certain 
 mission objectives have you tinkering with different things such as: bastillas, torches, and a 
 whole lot of pulling on chains to bring stuff down. Conan must have been really great at tug of 
 war. You also will come upon some maidens in distress to rescue and in return you get experience 
 points. There are also treasure chests to find that do the same. These experience points will got 
 to learning new moves that can be done with 1 blade, sword and shield, 2 weapons, or a two handed 
 weapon.
  
  The game seems to be aware of itself as you never feel as if you are in an epic battle, but instead 
 you get the feeling that your just going around killing a bunch of dudes and that is really what 
 the game is all about. The storytelling is not that great, nor is it deep. It really only sets 
 up a place for you to go to work on a bunch of bad guys and have a great time doing so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: illuminati_777
Rating: 5.5
Date: May 18, 2008 2:44 pm PT
Review:  Wow, Conan, in 2007. It could be great, or terrible. Too bad it's terrible.
  
  The story is a joke - a copy and paste from the fiction. Very sloppy and poorly told. They could 
 have done something special here, but instead they obviously didn't really care. Saying "Crom" 
 every other line does not make this a "Conan" game.
  
  The platforming elements in this game almost break it - they are dumb, annoying, and un-needed. 
 Why the designers thought this game was part Tomb Raider is far beyond me.
  
  The combat is OK, but seriously dated for 2007. It's just button mashing, plain and simple. Every 
 enemy has a predictable set of moves you have to learn. Then you mash buttons when they are vulnerable. 
 You can do combos which helps, but after you've done them 100's of times it gets very, very old. 
 This game may be the definition of repetitive.
  
  Deaths are often very cheap, as are certain enemy attacks. When you die you don't feel like you 
 failed, but rather that some attack is overpowered, or that the game is half-done. Speaking of 
 half-done, the graphics are good at a distance, but up close they are sloppy, especially the character 
 models. Again, there is potential there but the game's not done.
  
  So yeah, Conan. Repetitive, cheap, and boring. I wanted to like it, it seemed like a good rental... 
 now I'm wondering if I even should have done that. There are many other games out there more deserving 
 of your time. Only play it for points and, for the love of God, not for full price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AzelKosMos
Rating: 8
Date: May 8, 2008 12:57 pm PT
Review:  Conan is based on Robert E. Howard's fantasy creation set in the world of Hyboria which has already 
 had comics, films and games dedicated to it. Yet Conan's biggest source of inspiration comes not 
 from within its own universe but from another violent title; God of War. That's not to say that 
 Conan is a clone of the game, as its setting and combat mechanics are quite different, and in many 
 ways more refined, only that the connection is obviously there.
  
  The game begins with the Cimmerian barbarian accidentally setting free an ancient evil, a sorcerer 
 known as Graven. Upon release from the magical prison his brother had set him in, Graven attacks 
 Conan, stripping him of his armor and leaving him to die in the ocean. Barely surviving, Conan 
 teams up with a warrior Queen to defeat Graven and get back his now magically tainted armor. The 
 storyline to this title is nothing special, but serves as a good vessel to carry Conan through 
 many varied environments in which death may be served. 
  
  Conan is pretty much all about visceral violence. Though the combat has a surprising amount of 
 depth and reflex, there is little subtlety about the end result. Limbs fly, heads roll and bodies 
 impale as Conan travels through war zones and tribal lands. Conan starts off using a mere sword, 
 but can pick up other weapons such as axes, even bigger swords, as well as shields. Depending on 
 the weapons, depends on the speed and moves in which Conan carries out though they are the same 
 in principle. Conan has a light and heavy attack which can produce different combos and moves depending 
 on order and timing in which they are used. More moves can be unlocked as Conan travels by collecting 
 orbs and spending them on whichever you see fit. These are gathered either through chests, killing 
 or by rescuing near naked buxom beauties. Each weapon set has specific moves (bare handed, dual 
 wielding, single and shield, two-handed) which can only be used with that set up.
  
  Combat is however, not that simple. Many enemies will block, and sometimes even counter certain 
 attacks that Conan will throw at them, so timing for parry attacks and knowing block breaker moves 
 is essential to make progress though the game. Button mashing the light and heavy attack buttons 
 will only get you so far, having said that, physical attacks are not all in which Conan has at 
 his disposal, as magic will become available to him too. These powers are gained every time the 
 barbarian recovers a piece of his armor which was stolen and cursed by Graven. A total of four 
 spells with different results will become available for Conan to wreck havoc. 
  
  The fighting is, as afore mentioned, pretty brutal and the boss fights are no less barbaric with 
 some well played out action sequences with active button presses like God of War and many other 
 recent action games. For example, with one such boss Conan leaps into its mouth and proceeds to 
 cut his way out of it through its eye, leaving the player with a brutal and almost carnal satisfactiion.
 
  
  Visually Conan is satisfying, though not awe inspiring. The blood and spell effects are great, 
 as are the level designs and scale of some of the bosses. The textures aren't all that great though, 
 the water effects are also unimpressive and close up some of the character models are nothing to 
 write home about with hair traveling through shoulders, but these are however only minor issues. 
 The sound has the same result as the visuals. They aren't bad in any way, in fact, the barbaric 
 music fits the action, and the voice acting is far from bad, but you won't really take them away 
 with you after you have finished playing either.
  
  The game is short, maybe 8 hours long and with little replay value outside of getting any runes 
 to extend Conan's health and combo bar you may have missed. There are also quite a few achievements 
 that will take more then one play though to get if you want them, these are demonstrative of this 
 titles primal brutality; "1000 dismemberments" = satisfying.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: polsci1503
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 23, 2008 12:14 am PT
Review:  THQ has done an admirable job the past few years of producing games that may not be AAA titles, 
 but that are fairly solid and fun to play. I was still a bit skepitical, however, of Nihilistic 
 developing the game after their dismal Marvel Nemesis, so I wasn't so sure what to expect from 
 Conan. 
  
  My hopes were high that Conan would turn out to be a quality game due to me being a Conan fan since 
 the early 1980s when I bought every Conan comic book under the sun. Luckily for me, Nihilistic 
 delivered a flawed but highly entertaining game that was true to the spirit of the original Robert 
 E. Howard stories.
  
  The God of War comparisons are inevitable with Conan. Both share a badass protagonist, skilled 
 with weapons (and the ladies) , in a fantasy world setting. Each game features gory, visceral combat 
 in all it's limb separating glory. Also shared is the button pressing cut scenes, camera angle 
 and a similar red orb collection system that allows you to learn new moves.
  
  Where the two games deviate is speed. God of War has a fluidity about it that Conan does not have. 
 There are moments when Conan rivals Kratos in unleashing combos, but controlling Kratos is a fairly 
 effortless affair whereas Conan isn't as smooth. In some ways, this actually makes Conan harder 
 than God of War. You will need to be more patient.
  
  The moves themselves are well done. Conan has a stable of attacks depending on which weapon you 
 are carrying (one handed, with or without shield, two handed, and dual wield) . Red orbs are spent 
 learning new moves and each move can be mastered by using it numerous times. Personally, I went 
 for dual wielding axes most of the time. 
  
  The enemies you fight are also well designed, especially the bigger ones. It's not hard to discern 
 their fight patterns - usually it just means waiting for their attack animation to end and nailing 
 them at a weak moment. The variety in the enemies was pretty good, but the game could have used 
 just a few more.
  
  Graphically Conan is not going to win any awards, but the game does look pretty good. To put it 
 kindly, the game does look a little rough around the edges, but doesn't detract from the experience 
 and the overall design of the game fits the Conan style.
  
  One annoying aspect was the music - mainly just the menu music which blares from your screen and 
 will wake the dead. The in-game music isn't very noticeable, which you can view as good or bad.
 
  
  The voice acting was actually very good. Ron Perlman (he of Hellboy fame) voices Conan and lends 
 the right brand of machismo and sexism Conan is famous for. Conan was never a poet or a gentleman 
 after all. Unfortunately, the story that the actors have to relate wasn't all that compelling. 
 That being said however, Conan's original tales were epic in scale but really were just about slaying 
 fools, hooking up with scantily clad women and forging a legacy that would eventually see Conan 
 become King. On the first two points the game does fine, but in the grand scheme of Conan's world, 
 this story was a blip.
  
  Most of the bosses in the game are not that difficult to beat. Each boss fight is broken down into 
 stages, with most having 4-5 stages to clear before beating them. Notably, if you die during a 
 boss fight you are respawned at the beginning of the stage you were killed on - you are NOT returned 
 to the very beginning of the boss fight. This makes trial and error possible without feeling that 
 you're totally wasting your time.
  
  If you read what others have to say about the game you will come across major complaints about 
 the final boss. This boss has 7 stages and can be very frustrating for some gamers to beat. If 
 you take a straight ahead approach to attacking this boss you will be flinging your controller 
 out of the nearest window and into oncoming traffic. The trick is to be patient, wait for his underground 
 attack and then hit him. When he enters his tentacle phase, run around the dais, time your jumps 
 to avoid his tentacles and when he retracts the tentacles take that opportunity to turn the cogs 
 that will bring about his end. I died a number of times fighting the final boss but as with the 
 other bosses, you are re-spawned at the beginning of the stage you died on, so stick with it and 
 you will get him.
  
  Another serious complaint is that there is a glitch in the 2nd to last level that prevents some 
 gamers from going any farther. You will need to make a jump and no matter how hard you try you 
 won't be able to make it. I can CONFIRM this glitch as it happened to me too. If you reload a previous 
 save (not the one closest to the jump, the one before that, which will require you re-fighting 
 about 6 minutes of the game) the glitch will not be there and you can continue on. I would recommend 
 browsing a walkthrough of the game to know where this glitch is.
  
  Overall, Conan is a fun game and definitely worth playing. I was tempted to give it an extra .5 
 on my rating due to being a big Conan fan and happy that I could finally play as my favorite sword 
 slinger, but really it is a solid 7.5. Since the game hasn't sold particularly well, it doesn't 
 look as if there will be a sequel, but if there is I'll be there to continue the adventure. If 
 you find a copy for $30 or under, you should grab it and give it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vortexwx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 22, 2008 10:06 am PT
Review:  I totally love this game. I am on my second time through it right now. I am a huge Conan fan in 
 general, so I was a bit skeptical at first. Once into the game about 30 minutes, I was so pumped 
 up and feeling like Conan that I couldn't stop playing. Lots of testosterone here. The battle is 
 fantastic, and while some say it is repetitive, it is cool enough that you want it to be repetitive. 
 There are some moves I do specifically because they are so much fun to watch. The last boss is 
 unbelievably difficult, but aside from that it is a good game to just sit down and feel like you 
 are a barbarian. Great for stress relief, and not so complicated as to take the fun away. It has 
 enough challenges to keep it satisfying. I think it has good replayability value. Granted, it is 
 too short, but I think it is worth it anyway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadygeneral
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 27, 2008 2:25 pm PT
Review:  The most surprisingly good game ive played in a long time. Think God of War mixed with DMC, reduce 
 the quality slightly & thats this game summed up. 
  
  Its just fanstastic fun. The combat system is immediately accessable & yet hides a surprising amount 
 of depth. It has loads of combos that can be purchased using red runes received from killing enemies 
 & building your combat meter up - a la DMC. All of them pretty damn useful. 
  
  The greatest thing about the combat though is the parry system. Block enemy attacks at the right 
 time then press buttons as they appear on screen - a la GoW - to create some of the bloodiest deaths 
 ive ever seen. They are brilliant & laugh out loud funny. 
  
  We also get screen filling bosses (the squid being a particular highlight) & the hammiest & funniest 
 voice acting ive ever heard. You'll be quoting lines from this for weeks. 
  
  Its just let down by a lack of polish. The graphics are functional but nothing great. Theres the 
 dull colour palette & occasional difficulty spikes. Lastly it does get quite repetative & tedious 
 after extended play. 
  
  But all in all a great game that is highly recommended. Buy it if you see it cheap, you wont regret 
 it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: irishscott99
Rating: 3
Date: Mar 13, 2008 2:29 pm PT
Review:  I would have given the game a 7.0 since it was mindless fun and took the chance of having *gasp* 
 nudity while allowing me to happily go about decapitating, cutting people in two, disemboweling, 
 etc. However I have to give this game a complete failing grade. There is a glitch quite near the 
 end of the game that prevents you from continuing on. Yes, I know I should keep multiple saves 
 so I can go back and reload a previous one. While normally I do this, I failed to here. However, 
 you can't tell me they knew nothing of this glitch. Plus, I should not have to rely on previous 
 saved games. If the official solution for your game is to load different saved game or restart, 
 YOU FAIL! If I had a second saved file, who is to say that it would not have the same problem? 
 It was fun and I truly enjoyed the carnage and finally a game that realized the hypocrisy of allowing 
 absolute and disgusting carnage to your enemies is okay but some bosoms is not. Next time fix the 
 game halting glitches before release. Seriously THQ, you keep shooting yourself in the foot with 
 these games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GODofSUPER
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 12, 2008 5:52 pm PT
Review:  The combat is sometimes repetitive and fun, the story is strange, Conan using magic? Interesting... 
 Although the game is sometimes good or bad, this game has some moments that you would want to play. 
 The graphics are well, but to me some things are just to strange. The Replay value is ok, you'll 
 probably come for seconds but not thirds, this is quite good, but not quite, maybe they'll try 
 again, but its a good game, you should check it out if your looking for a God Of War clone or just 
 wanna play a game with blood and nudity. This game is worth playing and renting but not buying. 
 Although the game does sometimes have an interesting story, but it lacks to me somehow, but maybe 
 you could like the game. This game is not perfect nor not bad, but its decent. You have my word, 
 if the game is bad, I shall play God Of War, this game keeps you at the edge so this must mean 
 its not bad, check it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: popeyfolger
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 1, 2008 4:24 pm PT
Review:  This game was a surprise for me it's a pretty enjoyable game with some gruesome action and an interesting 
 main character. There is some witty dialogue though most of it is fairly bland and the story lacks 
 the depth to truly make this game a classic. Another complaint that must be stated is the shortness 
 of this title lasting roughly anywhere from 6 to 8 hours. There's a good musical score and the 
 game truly is addictive. There are some obvious flaws with this game it's far from perfect. On 
 the other hand if you need a fix to hold you off till the next god of war. This game serves as 
 a decent copy of our friend Kratos with all the violence and gore that one can stand. Which fits 
 the character and the atmosphere perfectly. Plus at the low price of $40 it's a game well worth 
 putting in your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: patrico11
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 24, 2008 9:28 pm PT
Review:  This game is fun aside from a few frustrating segments. Graphics are more PS2 era. The characters 
 look like apes but I think they designed it that way on purpose. The voice acting is solid and 
 entertaining. The combat system is pretty fun with lots of combos to learn with some sweet looking 
 kills. This game spares no expense on blood. The jumping segments were terrible I died a lot due 
 to poor control design and bad camera angles. The levels are pretty straightforward with good challenges 
 and a few puzzles. Each level has some treasures and maidens to rescue. The naked maidens cracked 
 me up when they tell conan to "take me and crush me with your love" Conan is fun to play, it will 
 give you 8-10 hours of gameplay. Its not on the level of God of War2 or Heavenly Sword but still 
 has its moments. I was going to score this an 7.5 but I have to take off half a point for the bad 
 jumping segments and the ridiculously huge upspike in difficulty for the last boss fight. Conan 
 is an excellent rental or a good bargain bin game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stewmodulecod
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 17, 2008 10:51 am PT
Review:  To start, I'm a Ron E. Howard fan, this guy wrote all these amazing stories about Conan back in 
 the 20th century, like George Lucas, he forged an entire universe from nothing, and he made it 
 very well. This game manages to both honor and dishonor this man's creation.
  
  Conan, despite it's flaws, is rather addictive, I do have some serious fun cutting off people's 
 arms and heads and pulling arrows from my chest, and of course, saving topless women (in your face 
 Jack Thompson!) which is quite an erotic joy. The game has good sound, the sound of metal clashing 
 and war is very well done here, and why not, it's Hyboria after all. The voice acting is a slightly 
 different story, most of the acting is fairly well done, the sorceress queen sounds appropriately 
 evil, Bone Cleaver sounds like the brute he is, and the topless women sound like they're always 
 ready for some "action." Then you get to the poor acting of your enemies and, the most shameful 
 of all, Conan. Ron Perlman, a good actor in my opinion, was definitely outside his expertise in 
 Conan, I see the developer's happiness in getting some star power, but Perlman is a terrible Conan, 
 plain and simple, he butchers lines that weren't amazing to begin with, like "Face Crom now!" making 
 them much worse then they actually are. His voice simply doesn't match up with the strong, muscular 
 man you see on your screen. What Perlman doesn't notice is that Conan, is a barbarian, I would 
 expect an actor to overdo the barbarian role, but Perlman doesn't do much of that at all, when 
 he says his lines he doens't sound committed to his role, it seems like a "They gave me money to 
 do this" role as opposed to a "I'm gonna play my part" role. Then there are your enemies, who fail 
 on a smaller scale than Conan, because they cycle through the same dumb lines over and over and 
 over again. Next are the graphics.
  
  The graphics are good, but not 360 good, although some parts are appropriately cool looking, and 
 of course the blood looks great, and it's everywhere because it sprays all around the environment. 
 If you look closely, though, you can see the dull textures that would be more appropriate the the 
 original Xbox. Now, let's talk about gameplay.
  
  The gameplay, such highs and lows. The fighting is fun, it is a great pleasure to destroy your 
 enemies with brutal attacks, however, you'll notice the enemy's attacks as well. The enemy attacks 
 can be ridiculously annoying, it will leave you asking "how the **** did I get hit by that attack?" 
 Obnoxious enemies aside, the gameplay also has some basic platforming. The platforming is basic, 
 as I said, usually pushing a large object down, or jumping from platform to platform, and sadly, 
 it isn't well done, button-pressing sequences feel annoying and useless (this also happens with 
 enemies, by the way) and the jumping sequences often cause a mistaken fall because of the strange 
 and useless camera angles implemented by the developer. If you're looking for Prince of Persia, 
 turn back now or be forever lost in annoying puzzles.
  
  The story, what good game is complete without it's story? Conan has a decent story: Conan looks 
 for treasure, Conan accidentally unleashes ancient evil, Conan sets out to destroy said evil, and 
 kills random people and beasts along the way. That's the story in a nutshell.
  
  All in all, Conan is okay, you can see the elements of a good game inside, but it's dragged down 
 way too far by some simple problems that should have never existed.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PaladinJoo
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 9, 2008 11:00 pm PT
Review:  Now, I like sword slashing and boob ogling as much as the next guy, and there's plenty of both 
 in THQ's new Conan game. It's been a while since we've seen any sort of digital representation 
 of everyone's favorite barbarian, and although there's plenty of gory action and high fantasy to 
 be found in this Cimmerian's hack and slash effort, repitition and poor design choices lead to 
 more headache than head rush.
  
  So here's the rundown of this game's story. As Conan, you'll start the game attempting to raid 
 some ancient treasure, but instead, end up releasing some evil wizard to proceeds to strip you 
 of your armor, turning it into a slew of evil minions who proceed to wreak havoc on the Hyborian 
 world. Now, aided by a warrior queen, Conan must hunt down his armor and seal the wizard in his 
 prison once again. This is no masterpiece, but considering that this game is all about hacking 
 baddies into piles of mangled body parts, it's really not important.
  
  What is important is how this game plays, and initially, it seems pretty solid. The controls are 
 responsive, and cutting baddies is all good fun. The game also gives you some choices on how to 
 do that, as you can attack with a single sword, dual swords, sword and shield, or large spear and 
 sword weapons. The variety of ways to kill initially seems great, but as you progress through the 
 game, repetition rears it's hideous face, and later enemies need to be killed with specific techniques, 
 which means your arsenal is going to be even more stunted which really isn't much fun. There are 
 some half hearted platforming bits as well as puzzles to solve in Conan, but these are more often 
 than not, poorly done, and it's a shame that you just won't find yourself really clamoring to get 
 back into combat, no matter how blood thirsty you are.
  
  The presentation of Conan seems equally stunted. Although the stirring soundtrack is a solid addition 
 to the sound quality of the game, the voice acting is either too hammy or too subdued. I love Ron 
 Perlman, honestly, but the way he voices Conan here is too tame and just too intellectual. It's 
 a bad fit.
  
  On the graphical side... ugh... let's not really talk about that. Blocky textures and un-detailed 
 player models galore here. Animations of Conan's skull splitting moves are decent, but they're 
 not really going to bring down anyone's house. Disappointing for a next gen title.
  
  Throw in a single player campaign that is just too long cosidering the game's derivative gameplay, 
 and we have a recipe for mediocrity brewing in Conan.
  
  Crom! I know you don't want me to give you a 6, but to hell with you!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sickness87th
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 4, 2008 7:51 am PT
Review:  It may just be me but where in the title does it say CONAN The GOD OF WAR. both are two different 
 games Kratos was great if you looking for another GOD OF WAR then wait for the PS3 to get something 
 going in about 2 to 3 years. the story is like any other CONAN story some one got really high and 
 cooked this story up. that said the action is off the charts violence is top of the line. game 
 is simple and the combos get better as you go. one key question when is MORTAL KOMBAT combat Coming 
 to HD GAMING. I just hope that Resident evil 5 is worth the wait. well back to CONAN there are 
 some moments that you'll get angry but the GORE will make up for it as you get to chapter 2 you'll 
 see. if not much rent it you'll get at lease 400 achiv points very easy in about 3hrs of play. 
 spoiler the dragon Fight is nice long and simple after that the cinamatic is a great moment in 
 the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SilentDeath777
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 7, 2008 1:49 pm PT
Review:  Conan is on a quest for untold riches but in his lust for gold awakens a untold evil upon the world. 
 This evil steals Conan's armor and uses it to bring chaos where ever it goes. Conan must retrieve 
 his armor and send this evil back from which it came.
  
  This game you are Conan. No not the Arnold movie version, the novel version! He's smart, clever, 
 well spoken (As well spoken as a Barbarian can be) . You can master all kinds of weapons which adds 
 a RPG like element to the game. You must master all the single, dual blades and the two handed 
 weapon. You'll find out the two handed weapons work best on the bosses so make sure you have one 
 if you feel you close to the end of the stage. We all know Conan doesn't like magic, but the only 
 reason why he uses it in this game is to get rid of the magic from his armor. The graphics are 
 beautiful, like a Conan panting come to life!
  
  The music fits..... but I find using the original movie soundtrack "Conan the Barbarian by Basil 
 Poledouris" is the best way to go. It's amazing that no matter what track the song is, how it always 
 seems to fit the stage your on. This game is also not short on the gore. Just huge amounts of body 
 parts and blood everywhere. The voice acting is spot on, Ron Perlman as Conan is terrific. I couldn't 
 think of more strong, commanding voice other than Ron Perlman's.
  
  The game play is perfect, so no worries about a button not working during the final parts of those 
 boss battles. I beat this game on every skill level, and did find the game a little buggy on the 
 LOWER setting, like some easy jumps missed but on the HIGHER setting was more forgiving. If your 
 going for the full 1000, make sure your ready because the mastering weapons and body count will 
 not carry over. I got the 1000 so it is possible but the cheats you unlock will help on the harder 
 settings.
  
  This is truly a amazing game and should be played by any action, adventure ,Conan fan. It is not 
 to be missed. I really hope for a Conan 2 in the near future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yeah_write
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 27, 2008 4:01 pm PT
Review:  It seems strange that Conan hasn't starred in more games. He's an ultra-violent barbarian warrior 
 with a thirst for adventure; that just sounds like the perfect template for a video game action 
 hero. While the folks at Nihilistic did a great job creating a Conan true to author Robert Howard's 
 original-he's every bit as barbarically violent as he should be-the game surrounding the title 
 character is far from unique. 
  
  It's impossible to play Conan without thinking of God of War. The developers have borrowed liberally 
 from the hit action series. From the way the controls are mapped to the color of the power up orbs, 
 several facets of this game seem to have been lifted directly from Sony's franchise. Most of the 
 borrowed content works well, though it's never as grand as the game it snakes from. Despite the 
 "been there, done that" feel of the gameplay, Conan still manages to be a viscerally entertaining 
 ride while it lasts.
  
  The story, told to the player as a camp fire tale, follows Conan as he attempts to regain his armor 
 after a mysterious magical accident, and rid it of it's newly acquired sorcery. The story reaches 
 for epic heights but falls flat thanks to oddly placed cut-scenes, that don't tell players why 
 they are at a location until after the level is over. It's an amusing story overall, with good 
 voice acting and above average facial animation, but it's not going to win any awards.
  
  Then again, how much story is required when your main character is a vicious killing machine? Conan 
 doesn't need motivation to chop up his foes. Armed with his trusty sword, Conan has a plethora 
 of moves to decapitate, disarm and disembowel his enemies with. Killing nets Conan red orbs, which 
 can be used to purchase new moves in three different categories: Sword and shield, dual wielding, 
 and two-handed weapons. The weapons, which can be pilfered from enemies, or found on various racks 
 throughout the levels, help shake the action up and keep the game from getting too monotonous. 
 
  
  Visually, there's a wide selection of weapons, but they all function the same; wielding two axes 
 is no different than two scimitars. It really comes down to a matter of preference. Each category 
 has its own set of pros and cons, and though some offer cooler moves than others, since there is 
 no upgradeable super weapon to be unlocked or purchased, using one over the others won't make much 
 of a difference. Conan does gain some magic powers throughout his adventure, but aside from the 
 first one, they aren't very useful.
  
  The game takes place all over Hyboria, a cutthroat world full of bandits and thugs. The enemies 
 come in various shapes and sizes, each one using a weapon from one of the three previously mentioned 
 categories. In the beginning, Conan hacks apart enemies like he was born to do it. Limbs fly off, 
 heads roll, and blood gushes everywhere, this game wears its M rating with pride (the achievement 
 for 100 dismemberments can be accomplished by the second level) . As the game moves on, these enemies 
 get a bit tougher, and you'll have to switch up your attacks to get through their defenses. Most 
 levels end in a boss fight, many of which tower over Conan. Though some of them are screen-filling 
 monstrosities, most go down without much effort. The one exception would be the final boss. In 
 attempt to make the final clash as climatic as possible, the developers created a seven-stage boss 
 fight. The half hour or more that you spend fighting him is more frustrating than exciting; the 
 whole experience leaves a foul taste in your mouth that does nothing for the replay value. Incidentally, 
 in his human form, the final boss looks a whole lot like Kratos.
  
  The levels look wild and untamed and reflect the Hyboria seen in Howard's novels. The environments 
 all have a grand feel and often require a bit of climbing to traverse them. The platforming bits 
 are far from the best aspect of the game. The camera frames most of the trickier jumps well enough, 
 but it doesn't help alleviate the poor design and execution. In addition to breaking the pace of 
 the action, the jumping portions also bring about some cheap deaths. On top of that, Conan has 
 the goofiest climbing animation ever created. There's also a scattering of puzzles, though they 
 don't present much of a challenge.
  
  Overall, the game is easy on the eyes. The colors are vibrant, and bring to mind the classic book 
 cover paintings. The characters animate smoothly; Conan's attacks look appropriately savage. The 
 visuals do have a few blemishes, like some bland textures, occasional animation hitches and a few 
 underwhelming effects, but none of them are game breakers.
  
  Like the story, the sound shoots for the sky but falls short. The music has all the orchestral 
 grandeur expected for this kind of game, but it often drops out, or comes blaring in at odd moments. 
 The voice acting is well done, though some may take issue with Ron Perlman's decidedly un-barbaric 
 sounding Conan. The Cimmerian throws out a few quips during combat, which begin to grate on the 
 ears after a while.
  
  Overall
  God of War's influence can be seen in nearly ever aspect of Conan. Fortunately, unlike some of 
 the other games that have tried to imitate the winning God of War formula, Conan manages to reproduce 
 it with adequate results. While it may not be the most original experience, it's a solid brawler 
 worthy of a play through.
  
  Purchase?
  Unless you can find it at a discount price, the games short length makes it a tough purchase. You 
 can blaze through the campaign on the default setting in less than six hours, making it a great 
 weekend rental.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rykh
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 25, 2008 11:29 am PT
Review:  I enjoyed this game. It had all the elements to make a goo action game. Are there better ones out 
 there? Yes, god of war is much better. But If your a fan of the genre this is a good game. It is 
 very bloody, as I would expect in a Conan game. The bosses are not too hard not too easy, for the 
 most part enjoyable. The graphics are that of a port from a last gen system, but better than a 
 lot of ports. Sound is good, music is ok. Give this game a chance you wont be dissapointed. Gameplay 
 is solid, a lot of combos to master, and it allows you to play at your taste. But saying that it 
 is strictly a button 
  
  Value, not good enough for me for $60, but a great rental as the game isnt to long and can be beaten 
 in a few days.
  
  Overall 8/10. I would recommend this game, but not to buy. Definately a rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Melenat
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 18, 2008 12:16 am PT
Review:  What fun! I have never had such a great time right off the bat with a game like this. It is one 
 extreme to another. First you are excited, then you are disappointed to find that the game is over 
 before you have to take the first bathroom break. As a side note - for being one of the shortest 
 games I have ever played, there are more topless women in the game than I could have ever imagined. 
 It will make you smile and just shake your head. Excellent combo system and mastery system, if 
 only it was actually a challenge. The combat is almost overboard with the gore, but it stays fairly 
 realistic. I didn't find it to be much of a challenge - getting all of the combos mastered. On 
 the other hand - getting all of those accomplishments unlocked - very, very difficult for me. If 
 it wasn't for the fact that the game was so short, then I would have definitely replayed the game 
 on the harder difficulty levels and tried my best to master the game. The end boss is by far the 
 most annoying end-game boss I have ever fought. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ecordioli
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 16, 2008 1:37 pm PT
Review:  Blood, Blood and Blood, decaptation, bones flying , lims, and a lot of naked women ... A must have 
 game for Machos. , Man. If you like free violence , a lot of strikes and different ways to dismember 
 your opponents , this is your game. Blood, Blood and Blood, decaptation, bones flying , lims, and 
 a lot of naked women ... A must have game for Machos. , Man. If you like free violence , a lot 
 of strikes and different ways to dismember your opponents , this is your game. Blood, Blood and 
 Blood, decaptation, bones flying , lims, and a lot of naked women ... A must have game for Machos. 
 , Man. If you like free violence , a lot of strikes and different ways to dismember your opponents 
 , this is your game. Blood, Blood and Blood, decaptation, bones flying , lims, and a lot of naked 
 women ... A must have game for Machos. , Man. If you like free violence , a lot of strikes and 
 different ways to dismember your opponents , this is your game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AssassinExDeus
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 16, 2008 2:22 am PT
Review:  Yeah I'm sure you heard that one before! Well thats what it should have been called in some instances. 
 Conan proves once again not every games needs story or graphics. Just nudity, gore and..... well 
 really thats it. I was never much for Conan, it was overly silly with its Macho stuff. Not that 
 I don't like being "manly" in games but the game is so overly manly kind of like Witcher it gets 
 old after awhile (although Witcher was also good) .
  
  The graphics of Conan are interesting to say the least. They look like some weird cel shaded, chunky 
 clay junk. Some times it looks fitting but other times it looks so bad you forget your playing 
 a 360 game. This potentially might hurt the game. The bosses seemed more detailed which was fine 
 with me because these were some great bosses that I enjoyed fighting. 
  The gore is REALLY nice looking along with the nudity.... yes the nudity! When you save slave woman 
 they are topless! But don't be thinking anything. You save them and thats it, you move on. As for 
 the gore I'll talk more about it further down!
  
  The story... well.... its nothing you haven't heard before "enchanted armor", "lost the armor", "memory 
 gone"... yadda yadda. This game won't be remembered for its story but its enough to keep you barley 
 remembering whatever it is you are suppose to be doing.
  
  The controls range from easy to pain the butt. If your playing on easy you will see right away 
 that there are things you are suppose to do that your just to busy to remember to do. Which ends 
 up costing you alot of life. And on harder difficulties makes the game extremely hard. The game 
 needs either less controls or easier enemies.
  
  The sound and music was also nothing mind blowing. The music end seems debated. I mean it was good 
 but I have heard way better. If I didn't really notice it was because of the next section.
  
  Gameplay! First off theres one problem I had with the gameplay end besides the controls.... Conan 
 can''t jump for crap, thank god he doesn't seem to take damage when falling 100 feet. I don't know 
 if its bad clipping or what but the jumping is a royal pain in this game at some points. 
  
  That aside the gameplay is a little complicated at first. Conan basically has 5 skills. No 
 weapon (melee attacks) , weapon and a shield, double weapon and double handed weapon (aka REALLY 
 BIG SWORD) . In game you start with a single sword every level but can kill enemies or find weapons 
 to use and just pick them up to switch at your leisure from axes, torches, long swords... etc. And 
 as you kill people you earn points that let you unlock new moves for any of those 5 categories. 
 Really its best to choose a category and stick with leveling up all the moves in that category 
 (such as double weapons) .
  
  This will allow you to do cooler, longer lasting and more damaging moves. And even better finishing 
 moves. Which is the draw of this game. You can chop off heads, arms, people in half (two ways) ... etc. 
 You can even throw people onto spikes, off ledges.. etc. To make things better you can pick up world 
 items like barrels, rocks, and other items. The torch for instance is a great weapon to light people 
 on fire and huts! Also scattered through out the game or various powerups from health and other 
 things like your powers (explained in game) . I won't ruin it but the powers later in game are rather 
 cool. 
  
  And like any game of this genre you can push over items when things pop up on screen, free naked 
 chicks by pressing buttons... etc. Its like God of War or Prince of Persia in that style. "Interactive". 
 Which leads me to the bosses. This is one of those rare games where I actually enjoy EVERY boss 
 I fight. You fight them, get their health gone then you'll do a button sequence to finish them 
 off. Do it right as the scene progress's and you kill the boss, do it wrong and start all over. 
 And because the game is very gory, expect the bosses to not die so...."cleanly".
  
  So besides the few problems I mentioned which some people can take or leave heres what makes the 
 game hard to score. You get various items for beating the game on each difficulty (except easy) ... skip 
 this paragraph if you don't want to know what some of the items are. For instance on Normal you 
 unlock Song which gives you stronger sword power and Master of All Moves which unlocks all the 
 moves which is REALLY great because they cost money to buy and would take you a long time. On Hard 
 you unlock "Armour" which gives you infinite armor power (spells basically) , and on King difficulty 
 you become invincible which for one is useless now that you beat the game on the hardest mode.
 
  
  So the problem is since theres alot of moves that aren't listed and even then you won't have time 
 to pull of because the game is hard as it is.... is it worth beating the game on those difficulties? 
 Some people supposedly haven't beat it on Hard, some even on Normal. 
  
  So anyways I wouldn't buy the game but its 100% a rental and then a buy only if you liked what 
 you seen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darren_ankney
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 30, 2007 8:21 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome - 3rd person adventure game along the lines of prince of persia, but more 
 fun!!! Tis great fun - pick it up!!!
  
  Fighting enemies is very satisfying what with all the combination moves and so on. It is great 
 fun to relieve people of their limbs!! Some of the combat moves will leave you cringing. All the 
 possible weapons combos are good stuff too. Sometimes you have to pick up specific weapon sets 
 to make getting through a particular set of enemies easier.
  
  Finding and rescuing the mostly naked waifs throughout the game is comical. I suppose some small 
 minds may derive some sexual pleasure from these scenarios, but really I think they are just meant 
 to be funny.
  
  I think the game does have a story, although I haven't been paying attention to it. I love the 
 hack and slash and, for once, am not terribly interested in the story.
  
  There are jump puzzles and end boss puzzles. Sometimes these puzzles can be frustrating, but so 
 far they are all defeatable while you still have hair. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: conkerf66
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 20, 2007 7:17 pm PT
Review:  whats great about this game is the blood and gore. You can cut people in half cut there arms off 
 and slice heads off which is all i need for the game to be good because i love blood and guts. it 
 also has a pretty good story .the weapons are fun to use you can duel wield and block attacks and 
 you can grab and throw people. but al ot of the enemy's are hard to kill in the game where you 
 have to often block and attack really quick. also when you kill a boss in this game you get new 
 powers. anyway i though this game was pretty damn fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: micc98
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 19, 2007 5:06 am PT
Review:  Graphics - a bit of letdown. I believe that the designers are trying to emulate the visual style 
 of the many fantasy paintings done of Conan, and it sections it really works and looks outstanding. 
 In other areas, especially the Queen/companion and other cutpieces - the graphics are laughable 
 and the water effects are some of the worst this side of a PS1.
  
  Gameplay - the fighting can be fantastically fun at time. The different fighting styles (two-handed, 
 dual-wield, sword-n-shield) all have their own special moves. Lately I have been partial to the 
 Shield, which allows for some nasty Parry-then-attack death blows. And any game that tracks the 
 number of limbs hacked off earns points in my book.
  
  Voice-Acting - I didn't mind Ron Perlman and Claudia Black is good. The game definitely could've 
 used a few more quips here and there and you will have heard every single one within the first 
 30 minutes of play.
  
  Is it fun? - This is the real kicker, because at its core - hacking and slashing waves of itching-to-lose-limbs-enemies 
 can be both extremely entertaining and satisfying. HOWEVER, sometimes the action gets bogged down 
 by a truly dismal fixed cinematic camera. How any game designer in this day and age could believe 
 that a fixing the camera and torturing players with some perplexing perspectives is the way to 
 go is beyond me. In many places you can forgive it. But when the came doesn't track properly and 
 you forced to do one of the multitude of jumping sequences near-blind. Well, lets just say that 
 the curses start to get dropped rather liberally in my household. It REALLY detracts from my pleasure 
 with the game. Please game developers, listen to us gamers, give US the option to play the game 
 HOW WE WANT TO.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vestile
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 12, 2007 2:58 pm PT
Review:  Conan was a total blast. Typical Hack and Slash.. with skill points to spend and weapon specializations. 
 The boss encounters are well thought out and can be tricky on your first play through. This game 
 was very well done. Plus... Conan totally wtfpwnz :P The game is a sure replay. For achievement 
 hunters... this game will give you a run for your money. You will have for first 500 points picked 
 up by your first time running through the game. After that... you might see yourself chasing one 
 or two achievements per completion of the game. I would totally recommend this game as a light 
 game to pick up and play with low overhead. The game allows plenty of room for multiple save games 
 as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sunsetcrakcer
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 11, 2007 5:25 pm PT
Review:  It's an ok game. The graphics look pretty good, the fight style is good. But it's to bad it was 
 down on the PS2 twice. (GOW 1 & 2) . It's still pretty good, i rented it and if i didn't finish 
 the game in time before i have to take it back i won't really be dissapointed. But it's pretty 
 good, if you like these kind of games it will be a great game. but if you don't want a button masher 
 then this isn't for you. it's deffinatley a well put together game i didn't find a lot of glitches 
 or problems with anything. hope you have fun gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flowman1
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 11, 2007 9:14 am PT
Review:  Now, I know I'm a bit old school, but I grew to like this game in spite of its flaws because I've 
 always loved those old hack and slash games of old. (Like Bard's Tale, Gauntlet, D & D: Heroes, 
 and Reckoning among others.)
  But to start off with the obvious, the graphics aren't really next gen, and the camera movement 
 is unnatural, making for some frustrating fight sequences, and my biggest pet peeve is the achievement 
 system. Some of the achievements are rediculously easy, like "rescue one maiden", "find four chests," 
 "Behead one captain with shield," "impale one enemy with sword," and "kill one enemy by falling." 
 You could probrobly get all of these on the very first mission. But on the other hand, the other 
 achievements are extremely hard and challenging. I've had to play through the whole game several 
 times just to complete some of the more challenging achievements.
  And I'm still working on getting some of the last few acheievements, (if you have done it, drop 
 me a line.) I'm also not entirely sure what the topless babes are about, as you only need to rescue 
 one for an achievement. It would have been better if the game designers made several achievements 
 for the babes, like rescue 10 babes for 10 points, and rescue all babes for 20 points or something 
 like that.
  Now that I've gone over the bad, I'll talk about the good of the game. The fighting system is nearly 
 perfect! As you have to spend experience points to unlock the combo moves and the achievement system 
 in 80% related to unlocking and mastering these combos to then unlock more benefits. This is perhaps 
 the most addictive part of the game as you become immersed in trying to master the four different 
 fighting types and all their combos. The combos are also beautiful to see as your jaw will drop 
 after witnessing them for the first time. Such as watching Conan reach into a man's chest and pulling 
 out his intestines, or watching him decapitate heads and arms and legs in a shower of blood and 
 guts. The parries and counter moves and ground moves are all very challenging but very satisfying 
 to watch in action. The puzzles are challenging as well, without being over done, like in Prince 
 of Persia: Sands of Time, and granted the fight system is very similar to God of War. But I think 
 this game is definitely worth a rental and a play through before you make up your mind on this 
 game.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rentfn
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 6, 2007 5:41 pm PT
Review:  "There is a game called God of War. It made a lot of movie and won a lot of awards. People want 
 more games like that one". That comment had to have been said at some point during the early stages 
 of development for Conan. Because everything that was in God of War is in this game.
  I never played all the way through God of War but I believe that was a good thing because I am 
 sure I would have put Conan down instead of finishing it. You collect different orbs throughout 
 the game, just like GoW. Red for experience, Green for Health and Blue for your magic tricks.
 
  Conan is a really fun and bloody combo game. I played mostly with dual-blades; I found them the 
 most fun. While playing I put on my headphones and listened to some rock music while I took off 
 limb after limb. Although I most note I really enjoy the music Conan had in it.
  Where Conan goes wrong is with its platforming. Maybe times you will climb ledges and jump from 
 one section to another. Most of the time you jump into ditches or you go forward too fast for the 
 game to catch up with you and you instantly die. Most of the time you are trying to advance in 
 the game, with no idea what to do, so I found myself jumping at every wall I could see and eventually 
 Conan would grab onto something. 
  The boss fights were tedious but I never found them over whelming until the end. The final boss 
 fight was nothing but annoying. At parts there was nothing you could do but die and try over again 
 when 15 tar people would over whelm you. If it wasn't for those 40 extra Geek Points I would have 
 taken the game out instead of dealing with a boss I didn't care about.
  The story wasn't quite bad because there really wasn't one. They tried to throw in a twist at the 
 end of the game but I didn't really care much for it. You play as Conan and he is trying to get 
 his armor back because it was taken from him for being a dick. But the armor doesn't make him stronger 
 through out the game as you gather for parts of it. It didn't really do anything except at the 
 end when I received a achievement for getting the full set back that I noticed he was wearing all 
 the parts.
  Conan is the definition of a rental. Its fun cutting people up but its extremely frustrating when 
 you do anything else. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilman5100
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 30, 2007 8:44 pm PT
Review:  Conan is a game thats not based off the film (so ive been told) but dont let that stop you from 
 playing/buying it. This game offers a good amount of things. The battle systems is pretty good, 
 every brutal attack done will leave you wanting to kill more (not healthy sounding ha) . The one 
 thing that angers me is the blood, though it looks pretty good, but its not right, but no game 
 ever gets it right. The game is rather short, worth while, but short, and the story is pretty good 
 as well. Another thing that concerned me was the fact that the choices in weaponry was not a variety, 
 all that can be used is swords and axes... and some spears... well battle axes. the boss battles 
 are not really that complicated, however, some are harder than others, but worth while. I would 
 recommend that people rent it first, rather than buy it, because this game does have controversial 
 issues... and needs to be rented before bought! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: keen_jason
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 8:53 am PT
Review:  I must say at 1st I loved Conan. Its a through back to the old button mashing games of the Super 
 Nintendo/Sega Genesis days. The graphics are awesome as well as the voice acting. You really do 
 not need to waste time buying moves, as its just a simple hack and slash. This could have been 
 a great game, worthy of a 8.5 rating, but they ruined it by making the boss battles, so long and 
 hard, you will just give up. The boss battles as so long, they never seem to end, and you think 
 you have them beat, and they just keep coming back to life over and over until the point you want 
 to see whats on TV instead. 
  I am told Conan plays similar to the God of War game, which I have never had the chance to play. 
 Except for the boss battles, Conan is a really fun game, its just the Boss Battles ruined it for 
 me, and I ending up giving up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: romano007
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 27, 2007 1:50 am PT
Review:  I think this game is great. It has is all. I am a very big fan of God of War, so when I started 
 playing this game, it had me in a spin, when i realized just how similar the games are. Personally 
 I think Conan is better because it is more believable. An example is in god of war you would be 
 fighting mythological creatures, which is alright if your into that thing, but to fight human on 
 human, it can't get any better than this. Sooooo for game spot to give it such a bad rating I am 
 very disappointed. It should have easily deserved a 9. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dogdeifiedgod
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 5:26 pm PT
Review:  Conan is one of those characters that oozes fun. The books and stories have been around for longer 
 than many people realize and the films starring the governator left a lasting impression on fans 
 for years to come. As a result, it comes as no big surprise when the game was met with anticipation 
 from an established fan base consisting of people who have dreamed of this opportunity to control 
 the barbarian-who-would-be-king long before the game was announced. The problem is that the game 
 has a few defining flaws that make it frustrating.
  
  The game starts out wonderfully, and at first glance, it is sheer fun that can not be contested. 
 There is ample dismemberment, tons of hidden naked women to rescue, and a horde of other things 
 that make 13 year olds and people who have been fan of the world for at least 13 years drool over.
 
  
  The game play itself is often mocked as a God of War clone, which would definitely be a problem 
 if God of War was released on more than simply Sony products, which not everyone has. However since 
 it wasn't, clones of the successful franchise are all some people have to simulate the critically 
 acclaimed style of game. 
  
  The combat is frantic and intense and there are plenty of upgrades to your moves list to be had. 
 There are plenty of cinematic death scenes that give you slowed down and varied camera angles of 
 the carnage that you unfold. Now comes The biggest falling of the game: enemy power. Enemies start 
 off as little more than something you slay through, providing nothing more than a way to earn achievements 
 for decapitating. However, at roughly the half way point of the game, the enemies are too defensively 
 powerful to use your hard earned and bad-ass moves on. Where as you may have developed a strategy 
 involving stealing an enemy's sword and using it against him in dual wield fashion, the enemies 
 begin shrugging off your attempts at this. Likewise, the really fun parry system becomes all but 
 impossible by the fourth level, making all those moves useless to you.
  
  Although it is understandable to make the enemies more difficult to perform these moves on, the 
 steep jump in defense on the part of the enemies, with very little you can do about it, makes for 
 a frustrating experience.
  
  It is a worthwhile clone for people who wanted to play God of War but did not want to buy a PS2 
 or PSP, but it has to many issues to be anything more than a rental for most people out there. 
 
  
  Try it, have fun with it, but it's short, so rent it, beat it, then buy a better game with all 
 the money you saved. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: havik0666
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 24, 2007 2:28 pm PT
Review:  Conan is a brutal, bloody and ***** action game and please Don't buy this game for a child.
  
  You are Conan the barbarian, If you don't know, Conan is a fictif hero of Robert Ervin Howard, Conan 
 is a barbarian killing ennemy who try to use Conan or kill it, In the game, Conan lost is memory 
 and he's armor, you will have to fight awesome boss to have your armor kit, more armor you will have, more 
 Conan will start to refresh is memory. You have many weapons, Fighting move (pretty cool ^^) , Ennemies 
 and items to help you. You have special magic power when you kill a boss, they are very cool. The 
 main ennemy is the Dark Magicien who earase the memory of Conan. the gameplay is awesome, parry attack 
 of ennemies and counter it whit awesome move and many others moves against boss for finish them 
 (like god of war) .
  
  Rent it first because the game have no originality, same ennemies and kind of mission -- it's a 
 quite boring in the end.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: moldyspud
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 23, 2007 3:11 pm PT
Review:  This game just comes right in swinging, and thank god it didn't make itself out to be anything 
 other than that. I knew exactly what it was when I got it, and I hoped I'd have a lot of fun doing 
 it. Thankfully I definitely did...
  
  The game has a plethora of moves that you can learn and unlike most hack and slash games, it's 
 a lot of fun to pull them off. Conan can also counter his foes, and holy crap... that's a hell 
 of a counter. He'll wind up ripping an arm off, or chopping someone in half. While the game is 
 basically repetitive, you can make it different by doing the different combos. Each area has a 
 combonation of different badguys to kill, who do diferent moves to try and stop Conan from getting 
 to the end of the map. Once they are killed they reward you with red runes that you save to purchase 
 a new devastating and very cool to watch move. 
  
  Probably the coolest thing about hacking and slashing is that you can pick up so many different 
 weapons. Swords, Axes, Shields, a two handed sword, a pike staff. So many, and each type of weapon 
 depending on whether you dual weild two swords or an axe and a sword, or a sword and shield, or 
 two handed weapons, you'll have a set of different moves classified under single handed, dual weilding, 
 or two handed. It never gets boring... truely. I never once got bored of chopping off arms and 
 legs, splitting people in half at the waist, or vertically from head to toe. I laughed and got 
 creative through the entire game.
  
  In between hacking and slashing there are some very easy puzzles to do, which is a nice break. 
 I would hope for some more complex ones, but I guess having the easy puzzles was nice. Stand on 
 a button, wait for it to raise a platform, hop on the platform, wait for whatever deadly stuff 
 dropping and hop across. Also you can save some naked women, (because the sexist Conan saves naked 
 women) , and you can increase you life, magic, and uh singing swords (yeah its kind of the god of 
 war mode) meters by stabbing your sword into three runes in a set amount of time (some of those 
 were really difficult to get) . 
  
  Then you got the boss fights, which I thought wasn't very well done. Still fun, but there isn't 
 much of a clue what to do... you just get your butt kicked until you figure it out. Which is okay 
 I guess, the boss fights are trial and error, but I felt like it interrupted the flow of the game 
 which was speeding along beautifully until the first boss fight. They are a lot like God of War 
 (although I think GoW had the best bosses) , you sometimes knock over huge pillars, operate levers, 
 slash chains, or pull a bait and dodge to make them smash into something they didn't want to as 
 they try to end your half naked barbarian life. The most frustrating part of Conan was the boss 
 fights, they become more of one hit takes most of your life kind of thing, and they have random 
 attack patterns that can be very frustrating. Even though if they didn't whack you and take half 
 your life bar, it'd be a short fight. So I think they could have added a little more to each boss, 
 instead of just taking the easy way out and pretty much for the most part beating them down. I 
 was hoping for some more interaction of the environment like God of War was so good at. The final 
 boss was the most frustrating... very annoying. It took a lot of deaths and felt really cheap. 
 Once you've beat down the boss at a segment you'll do what God of War also does, push the appropriate 
 button sequence at the right time to watch some amazing feat or the death of the boss.
  
  I was very satisfied with the game, because I wasn't expecting anything other than having a lot 
 of fun killing. I got exactly that, and a little more. It's much better than say "Assassin's" Creed, 
 which was a completely annoying joke of a game. 
  
  Here in Conan, you get to dismember foes, do some easy puzzles, down some giant bosses, and race 
 to the end full of adrenaline. That is until you get to the last boss where you get to die a lot. 
 While there are some parts that can be frustrating, it never makes it so you can't stand the game 
 anymore, you'll definitely want to get to the end. The story is very simple and refreshing, it 
 wasn't very thought out obviously as certain parts you feel like you missed something but you can 
 easily put two and two together. Anyway, I'd hope you didn't buy this game to display your game 
 skills or get totally immersed into a story. It's just hack n slash fun to the very end with minor 
 frustrations like any hack and slash. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UncoloredMATT
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 22, 2007 4:16 am PT
Review:  ok so your at a video games rental store and are wondering what to take out. You know for a fact 
 that you, me and everyone else kinda has a 'rental routine' were they go... played, played, played, 
 played, played, terrible, played, played, played, awesome, played, huh?
  
  That huh was Conan. Many people would probably look at it and move on but just take a little time 
 to add that to your maybe's list.
  
  I found that Conan was a nice little game that was sure to keep you entertained for a few nights 
 or so. Although it is a huge rip off the god of war series for the ps2, its bound to keep you playing 
 with a smile on your face as you piledrive some pirates head into the dirt :)
  
  Speaking of piledrive, there are moves witch you can spend exp points on during the game to make 
 the gory bits even gorier.
  
  In terms of graphics Conans kinda average, don't expect frickin Gears of war or lost planet visuals.
 
  
  But the bottom line is...... If you don't know what to rent out, just consider Conan. And if your 
 10 years-old and love mindless killing and doing the same move over and over again to some poor 
 bandits then you won't be dissapointed. Just don't expect a 5 star game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KrAzY_Croat
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 8:22 pm PT
Review:  It's been a while since i've had that God of War feeling. Too long in fact, as I was willing to 
 try anything that would attempt to reproduce it. One of those games I tried was Conan, an Action 
 Adventure game based on the Barbarian (not the Arnold Schwarzenegger movie, but the books) , a man 
 that kills all those in his way, receives untold riches, and above all doesn't serve women, he 
 services them. Best. Line. Ever.
  Jumping into it, I wondered how awkward this would be stuffing Conan into a role only the pissed 
 off God of War could truly portray well. Conan isn't as big, nor carries the brutal shine that 
 is God of War, but its graphic carnage packs a punch. 
  The game open with Conan, voiced by a character not well fit for the role role, Ron Perlman, out 
 on an adventure battling specters on an island in search of a precious gem. Instead, he finds the 
 tomb of an evil sorcerer named Graven, of which he accidentally opens. In leaving his magical prison, 
 Graven strips Conan of his armor and leaves the hulking warrior for dead. The barbarian would live, 
 as he is washed up a shore of another island. here he meets a steel-clad warrior women. You team 
 up, and in doing so slice your way through countless pirates, the Stygian army, as well some supernatural 
 forces to retrieve his armor, and the memories held within. The story is particularly well weighted, 
 but bottle it down and you are tasked with saving the world.
  Conan is all about the fight, as you spend most of your time battling groups of enemies in the 
 well varied, and beautifully detailed environments. You have your light, and heavy attacks, which 
 combined, in specific orders can unleash some excellent and brutal combos. Most of these culminate 
 into decapitations, dismemberments, and disembowelling. Also unique are the parry kills, when timed 
 correctly can effectively obliterate your enemy with a single blow. What makes this combat a lot 
 of fun is how, truly barbaric it is. You start out with your sword, but you can pick up any weapon 
 off a fallen enemy, and use it to your own will. One thing done particularily well is the wide 
 range of combat options; you can dual wield for fast but light kills, carry a shield in your off 
 hand to deflect arrows at will, or carry a beast of a two handed weapon, something capable of easily 
 over-coming a foe's defenses, but alas at the cost of speed. From beginning to end however, the 
 appearances of these weapons alter, their properties do not change. 
  It's a lot of fun, but the presentation can be uneven at times. As stated before, the voice acting 
 is not well fit, and its also quite corny at times when Conan unleashes his death threat one-liners. 
 And the topless damsels in distress are more like tied up BDSM stripper freaks.
  The combat is excellent, but the greatest thing holding back Conan is its length, at just over 
 six hours its a fairly brief adventure for a game meant only for one person. Conan in the end does 
 not live up to my God of War expectations, but the job well done on the over-the-top violence is 
 something to savour. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterx1059
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 7:26 pm PT
Review:  I'm a fan of the character of Conan. I have been for a long time. So a Conan game has had me excited 
 for a while. Seeing the preview screens and demos, it didn't look as sharp to me as it could have 
 been. Turns out I was right. 
  Conan is a good, solid game that doesn't have much depth. It's a simple slash and kill game with 
 almost no thinking needed to succeed. 
  Graphics are a mixed bag. At times, the environments can look good, and the Conan model is quite 
 impressive. But these cut scenes look like they were rendered by the original xbox. The 360 can 
 do much better than that.
  The music is perfect. As for the sound, the sounds of battle are great, but thte one-liners Conan 
 throws out are terrible. As is the overall story, which has Conan using magic, something Conan 
 despises. 
  If you are looking for a simple beat-up-up, or you are just a fan of Conan, then you'll like this 
 game. If not, maybe you should look elsewhere. There are other games of this sort that look and 
 play better than this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: venasque
Rating: 2
Date: Nov 17, 2007 12:22 am PT
Review:  I have been following this game's release for a number of months now. I was really excited to play 
 it and wanted to love it. Instead "total letdown" couldn't have been a more accurate classification. 
 I never write reviews but my need to vent my anger has brought me here. 
  
  I will start by being fair and pointing out the few things I did like about the game. I liked the 
 world of Conan and all the violent fun that accompanied it. I liked that you could pick up fallen 
 weapons and it would change how you fought. I liked a lot of the animations and (against what appears 
 to be the norm) I liked Conan's voice and look. 
  
  However the game is an exercise in frustration. I don't have a problem with challenge, but I strongly 
 believe in there must be balance. Challenge is not obtained by cheap enemy attacks, ridiculous 
 attempts at platforming (if you won't let me control the camera then you have no right adding "platforming 
 elements") , or throwing more enemies than you can easily handle to make it "harder". 
  
  I'm not going to get overly wordy or cite example after example to support my opinion. Instead 
 let you in on a retaliation I had when trying (and failing) to defeat the final boss. I just wanted 
 it to be over. I wasn't playing because I was enjoying it. I wasn't playing because I was engrossed 
 in the story and needed to know what happened next. I discovered I kept at it because I wanted 
 to complete the game to finally be done with it. 
  
  When you dread facing yet another tedious boss battle. When you're happy the game is less than 
 10 hours. When you aren't left wanting more or to go back and revisit the experience, something 
 has gone horribly wrong. After all the entire reason any of us plays video games is to have a good 
 time. 
  
  I did not have a good time. Sure moments here and there, but my over all experience with Conan 
 was not a happy one. I can't even recommend it as a rental to my friends. I've given it a score 
 of 2 not only because I spent the majority of the time playing it in a state frustration but because 
 I wanted to like this game so much. My disappointment with what was actually allowed to be made 
 just enhances it's black mark. 
  
  Crom judge you Nihilistic. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DanzigThrall
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 2:47 pm PT
Review:  really fun game not too easy its a challenge and thats a rare thing
  the jumping parts are kinda not too fluid and ron perlman's voice doesnt fit conan and is kinda 
 short
  but overall a great game but could have been even more greater
  i think the gameplay was great and in true sense to conan 
  great graphics
  the dismermberments 
 are nicely done 
  gore is one of the really good parts of the game
  the counterattacks are all good
  big on conan
  but ron perlman doesnt fit him
  fun game 
 
  gameplay is great
  the graphics are great
  the violence=CONAN!!
  really is a great game just short needed to be alot longer for my lust for battle
  great game 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jsnm
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 14, 2007 12:40 pm PT
Review:  Personally i was very excited for this game to come out. But once i played it i wasnt very impressed 
 with it, even on normal mode it seemed extremely easy.
  The controls were pretty descent, but the camera felt crappy, and it sometimes got stuck around corners 
 and whatnot. Seemed like it couldnt keep up with the game and its movements or something.
  The story was pretty good and graphics were good too, but definitely the worst part about it, was 
 it felt like it was over in no time. I played the game on multiple nights over the period of about 
 a week and before i knew it is was beat. Does not seem like it was worth $60, i already traded it 
 in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smerlus
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 9:32 am PT
Review:  I beat Conan about a week ago after playing it for about a week in short bursts and while it wasn't 
 a season blockbuster, I found a lot to like about this game. If you don't set your sites too high 
 on Conan, you might walk away with the same impression.
  
  
  What I expected from this game was a bunch of macho bravado, sexist lines, ale drinking and visceral 
 ass kickings all tied around a story that would be shallow and forgettable and that's exactly what 
 was delivered. The combat is slow and not too flashy but on the other hand it is beautifully brutal 
 and bloody. The dialogue is pretty well delivered but nothing special in terms of drama or humor 
 and the music is perfect. This holiday season, if you don't mind the campiness and shallowness 
 of certain games, Conan would be a good used game to rent or check out.
  
  
  I must admit that I liked the graphical style of Conan. I found it a strange mix between almost 
 cartoony but strangely semi-realistic. It's hard to explain exactly what I'm trying to say but 
 to sum it up, the game isn't going to blow your socks off but on the other hand it is more than 
 adequate. When there is this much dismemberment and decapitations in a game, it's easy to overdo 
 it on the red stuff but Conan uses blood and guts at just the right level most of the times. I 
 even found the levels and monster design perfect for this title. There were a lot of subtle little 
 things that really surprised me about this game such as the subtle lighting/shading effects and 
 the style of the creatures and characters.
  
  
  The cutscenes area bit of a different story due to how close up the camera is to the faces of these 
 characters. The eyes don't seem to fit the bodies and seem lifeless compared to the character's 
 expressions and the skin is also a blotchy mixture of strange colors. Other than these shortcomings 
 in the graphical department, there's no slowdown and very little clipping involved.
  
  
  As I mentioned before, the voice acting is delivered well for the majority of the times, it's just 
 that the characters aren't really saying interesting or humorous things most of the times. Apart 
 from the piss poor delivery of most of the maiden's lines, the only other fault I can see is that 
 the actor that loaned his voice to Conan, Ron Perlman I believe, often went with an underwhelming, 
 monotone bravado with most of the delivery of Conan's lines. I know barbarians are supposed to 
 be brief and macho when it comes to conversation but they aren't supposed to remind you of Ben 
 Stein.
  
  
  Music on the other hand was effective and what you'd expect from a sword and sorcery slasher such 
 as Conan, in fact, I wouldn't mind having some of these songs in MP3 format just to listen to and 
 relax sometimes.
  
  
  The combat revolves around four styles of play and a move purchasing that depends on red runes. 
 Red runes come from killing foes, breaking open chests, achieving large combos and rescuing maidens 
 and are essential for purchasing better moves to help you throughout the game. The four styles 
 I briefly mention are grappling, one handed sword with or without shield, dual wielding weapons 
 and two-handed weapons. Each style serves its purpose during Conan; dual wielding is the quickest, 
 weakest and flashiest of the styles, two handed is slow but very powerful and single handed sword 
 falls in the middle. Grappling is also effective and powerful but later in the game, as enemy AI 
 and tactics get better, can only be used on stunned enemies. Rounding out the combat is a meter 
 that, when filled up through consecutive attacks, makes Conan a little faster and stronger. Also 
 when you start getting Conan's armor back, a few helpful spells are at your disposal that can get 
 you out of sticky situations.
  
  
  There are some platforming elements that usually cause the game and Conan to fall short. The jumps 
 just seem to break up the action and the camera angles aren't the best to make precision jumps. 
 However the quick time elements are a nice addition that compliments the game. My only complaint 
 is the same as it has been for most quick time events in that, there should be more variation during 
 these scenes. For example if the screen prompts me to press A, B, & Y, then there should be a separate 
 animation if I have to press X, Y, A. These buttons do various tasks in regular gameplay, why shouldn't 
 they do different things in interactive cutscenes? Also if a boss battle relies on quick time events, 
 it takes the fun out of the battle if the boss keeps doing the same move over and over and keeps 
 falling for the same trick. (I'm looking at you Sand Dragon)
  
  
  Speaking of the bosses, Most of the boss battles were exciting. You'll fight your way past a giant 
 axe toting behemoth of a man, the aforementioned Sand Dragon, an undead elephant god and a few 
 other unique creatures. Most of these boss battles are multi tiered and a mixture of regular combat, 
 a small bit of puzzle solving and quick time events. The variety helps make the battles a little 
 more exciting and engaging.
  
  
  In the end, the game is pretty short, the story is common fare and a few shortcomings such as the 
 platforming and camera angles in certain portions take away from what would otherwise be a solid 
 game. This game doesn't break any molds or reinvent the genre but it's a terrific game to play 
 in between this season's blockbuster releases
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshtheboss
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 7:33 am PT
Review:  God of War seems to be the precedent for all mythological based action games as of late, with its 
 standards in both visuals and gameplay proven to be impressive. But while Kratos delved into the 
 forum of ancient Greece, Conan the Barbarian takes place earlier than his bald-headed brethren, 
 engaging in battle in the middle of the Hyborian times, a period set before even the greatest civilizations 
 on earth existed. While the setting and combat are twofold with God of War, Conan has just enough 
 new things to help make it stand out and not be known as just another blatant rip-off.
  
  Conan begins with the warrior searching for a gem; a gem so valuable that whoever possesses it 
 could control any land at their whim. But things seem to go awry once Conan accidentally opens 
 the tomb of an evil sorcerer named Graven, who has vested his interest into finding the gem for 
 himself and conquering the world. After teaming up with a mythical sorceress whose intentions seem 
 rather diabolical for someone so beautiful, Conan is now on a fight for his life to regain his 
 armor and save the world from complete annihilation. It's the basic battle of life and death for 
 all mankind, but Conan does a good job of telling the story in a campfire-like setting being told 
 by traveling poets. It really gives a sense of how stories and imagination were managed and presented 
 in ancient times.
  
  Conan is no slouch when it comes to combat. Although he has no armor for a good chunk of the game, 
 his meaty posterior and strength more than make up for his lack of defense. You have two attacks 
 at your command: heavy and weak. The heavy attacks rely mostly on disarming or knocking foes to 
 the ground. Weak attacks focus more on quick thrusts that can penetrate armor and catch enemies 
 off guard. Since many of the battles rely on fights against small groups of enemies, knowing when 
 to use heavy or weak attacks is essential. Conan has merely a simple sword at the beginning of 
 his adventure, but he also can wield any weapons dropped by enemies, which opens his attack range 
 to a much wider perspective. Wielding two swords allows him to attack harder, but reduces his speed, 
 while wielding both a shield and sword gives you an advantage on both offense and defense. There 
 are numerous possibilities to how you can approach each situation, but you can simply hack and 
 slash your way to the end with the same weapons either way. 
  
  Since the lack of weapon variations is a slight let down, you can upgrade your attacks based on 
 how you want to fight, making your decision to wield certain weapons somewhat more exciting. Orbs 
 drop whenever an enemy is killed or a damsel in distress is rescued. Similar to God of War, you 
 can allocate the orbs into making more devastating combos, which can usually end in decapitating 
 foes, pulling off limbs, or just spewing blood all over the screen. It is very satisfying to say 
 the least. 
  
  As the story progresses, Conan soon finds himself battling monstrous bosses, all of which have 
 no other pleasure in the world than ripping Conan's spine from his body. These boss battles are 
 exhilarating, and often rival even the best mythological battles witnessed in any game. The battles 
 have a very dynamic scale to them, and countless times you will find yourself ultimately outnumbered, 
 but the thrill of surviving the onslaught to victory is incredibly rewarding. After killing certain 
 bosses, Conan will than regain pieces of his armor, which are also imbedded with special magical 
 powers. Although Conan finds this ludicrous (he happens to use different, vulgar words to describe 
 it) , he just seems to go along with his fate and accept the magical traits. The magic seems a bit 
 unbalanced considering it is only really needed when cornered by dozens of enemies. The ability 
 to use magic is also very scarce, and finding enough energy to pull off some of the bigger attacks 
 can come almost once or twice throughout the game. Still, once you manage to use your special attacks, 
 you can hurl crows at your foes, turn them to stone, and throw hundreds of spears at once.
  
  What makes the combat so fascinating is how it sounds. Ron Perlman does a great job of lending 
 his "Hellboy-ish" charm to the muscle-clad Conan, and throughout battle you will hear him scream 
 in anger, yell at his enemies, and groan at his predicament. It's one of the few times when a Hollywood 
 star has done an exceptional job at voice acting. The sounds of swords clashing and animals stampeding 
 also give a sense of realism to this almost by-the-books slasher. The music is also spot on to 
 the period for which the game takes place, with a great up-beat march ensemble that takes place 
 whenever battles commence. There are a few times when dialogue is repeated too often and some of 
 the enemies sound alike, but it's hardly noticeable during the midst of battle.
  
  Be wary though, as Conan is violent beyond means. Blood will constantly be spewed across the screen 
 and battlefields. Enemies will lose limbs, heads, and other body parts that are not meant to be 
 on the outside. Arrows will pierce through flesh, and Conan will even stop and rip it straight 
 out if he happens to get hit, a scene which is brutally realistic but also cleverly scripted. It's 
 not for the faint of heart, but those gamers who can stomach up the intense gratuitous violence 
 will no doubt be in for a treat as Conan also has a wide assortment of spectacular locations to 
 battle in, ranging from snowy mountaintops to wet, hidden jungles. 
  
  For what its worth, Conan is a rather intense and short game. Fighting through all the hordes and 
 spending time backtracking only amounted to about seven hours of gameplay, and with no multiplayer 
 or secrets to unlock, that's quite a disappointment in terms of replay. In the overall scope however, 
 Conan may copy God of War in terms of combat, but it makes itself known by striking an original 
 story and lush visuals in a truly enigmatic setting.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ACreeder360
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 12, 2007 11:17 am PT
Review:  In this adaption of Robert E. Howards book series "Conan the Barbarian" you play as none other 
 then the hulking barbarian Conan. Sorry Arnold Schwarzenegger fans, this isn't based on the horrible 
 1982 movie of the same name. This game for the Xbox 360 is THQ, and Nihilistic's take on the popular 
 God of War franchise, which is not a very good take. I am a fan of God of War, and Conan is a very 
 sorry replication of a great game. Lets start with the graphics. The graphics are okay, but not 
 as good as the next gen system calls for, and as for the characters, they seem flat, and lifeless. 
 next we'll trash the voice acting, and let me just say Ron Perlman is about as good a Conan as 
 i am. I don't think i have ever heard a worse choice of a voice in a video game. The gameplay is 
 bad, and the slashing is not interesting enough, and makes it feel like a childs platformer with 
 blood and gore. Do not buy this game unless you like to be dissapointed, and if you do, i could 
 give you a list of a couple movies from the 1980's starring Arnold Schwarzenegger for you to peruse 
 at your leisure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackinkMG
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 11, 2007 8:01 pm PT
Review:  It has little play over value and if any its probably just beating it one more time through. a 
 task that would only take another 5 hours of play. 
  
  The game itself though was impressive. i was not expecting much and just figured on some easy achievements 
 but it turned out to be sortof addicting and really fun. 
  
  Its got a few boobies in it, w charming joke i thought, it has enough variety in the combat to 
 keep things really unique and interesting all the way through. It has some interesting boss battles 
 that for the most part are not to insanely hard. (maybe the last boss they over did it some) 
 
  
  Overall though i give this game alot of respect, and i would have given it a higher rating if they 
 found a way to raise the replay value, but they did not and no game only worth playing once should 
 deserve to insane of a rating.
  
  INK~ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spoonful
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 10, 2007 4:28 pm PT
Review:  If you were to ask a horny fourteen year old to make a game, the result would look a lot like Conan. 
 Conan is hilariously stupid in a very juvenile kind of way. Within the first hour or so you'll 
 have ripped out a baddies heart, rescued some inexplicably topless women, used a shield to literally 
 uppercut someone's head off, and just stabbed a lot of people. People who bleed. Profusely. If 
 you're of a certain mind set, it's tough not to like a game so knowingly & brainlessly vicious.
 
  
  Conan slots nicely into the 'like God of War but not as good' genre. So basically there's a lot 
 of stringing heavy and light attacks together into some extremely brutal combos, some light puzzle 
 solving, and the occasional giant boss killing quick time event. Conan skews the balance towards 
 combat, which is lucky, as the puzzle solving is fairly weak, mostly involving the pushing, breaking, 
 and tipping over of pillars. In fact, calling it puzzle solving is probably over egging the pudding: 
 if you can't work out what you're supposed to do you can just run around until you spot an object 
 with the 'Hey! You can interact with this!' glowing circle.
  
  Arguably complex puzzles would be out of place in a Conan game. After all, the barbarian's Rubik's 
 cube skills are less renowned than his ability to chop people up. And he gets to chop an awful 
 lot of people up in this game. Conan's combat is hilariously over the top. From the get go, you'll 
 be launching people into the air only to chop them in half as they fall down, lop of limbs (which 
 the game keeps a running tally of) , and just make folk spurt blood in huge arcs. To try and give 
 the wholesale dismembering some depth, Conan can opt to fight with a sword & shield, wield a sword 
 in either hand, or swing around massive two handed blades. As is the de facto standard for games 
 of this type, dual wielding gives fast but weak attacks, the two handed weapons are powerful but 
 take a fortnight to swing, and the sword & shield combo sits somewhere in between but offers the 
 best defence.
  
  The three weapon combat system does offer up a decent amount of depth, at least to begin with. 
 In the later stages the two handed swords become a lot less useful as the enemies move and attack 
 faster than Conan can swing them and you really need the extra defence offered by the shield. Initially, 
 you can carve your way through the baddies but roughly half way through the game, they suddenly 
 remember that they can do more than die horribly and start putting up a decent fight. At that point, 
 Conan's ability to parry and counter turns out to be more than just a gory gimmick. Hitting the 
 block button just as a bad guy attacks throws him of balance and flashes one of the face buttons 
 up on the screen. Match the button and Conan pulls of a suitably ridiculous (pulling out someone's 
 heart with your bare hands anyone?) and obviously fatal counter. Waiting for openings and nailing 
 successful counters is integral to taking down the tougher enemies.
  
  The visceral combat is definitely the high point of Conan but it's not without flaws. Conan himself 
 sells every hit like an overacting pro wrestler, taking far too long to recover from even the slightest 
 bump from an enemy. You're still vulnerable to attack mid-reel, so if you're up against a couple 
 of quick enemies, it's possible to get caught in a loop until your health bar runs dry. The bad 
 guys are far quicker at shaking off hits and, at some points, can recover from one of Conan's attacks 
 faster than he can. It's most prevalent in the block breaking attacks which, as the name suggests, 
 break the baddies block and, in theory, open them up for attack. The problem is that Conan takes 
 so long to ready himself for the follow up attack that they just throw up their block again or 
 manage to get in a few jabs of their own. It's a truly weird issue and one that makes the block 
 breaking attacks useless.
  
  Another weird issue crops up in the rare combat free sections. These mostly involve leaping around 
 the environment, grabbing ledges, and just making like a sword wielding Spiderman as you clamber 
 around. The controls feel a little sluggish and Conan seems to have a real affinity for ignoring 
 hand holds and plummeting to his doom. It takes a few tries of each platform section to work out 
 just what the game wants you to do. Leaping to a handhold on the right? Then you've got to hold 
 the left stick very precisely to the right. Holding diagonally up or down slightly will make Conan 
 leap in the required direction, he just won't grab the ledge. It's more than a little strange and 
 makes the jumping bits more frustrating than they really should be.
  
  At least the levels you're leaping around look decent, if not all that spectacular. The levels 
 don't feel particularly cohesive; the suitably silly plot, which involves Conan accidently unleashing 
 a big evil type who takes a fancy to the barbarian's magic armour and makes off with it, tries 
 to tie them together but it mostly involves clearing a level then being whisked off by boat to 
 another thematically unconnected island. The baddies within the levels look great with and without 
 limbs, even if Conan does fall victim to the over repetition of enemy types that are part and parcel 
 of this type of game. Conan himself looks pretty spectacular, moving fluidly from attack to attack 
 and looking every bit the mulleted stabbing machine you'd expect. Ron Pearlman lends his voice 
 to the barbarian, selling the shouts of "by Crom!" perfectly well but given Conan's cultural cache, 
 it's a bit jarring that he doesn't speak with an Austrian accent.
  
  Conan is a very, very silly game. It's incredibly juvenile, somewhat short, and a bit of a plain 
 Jane, presentation wise. But it's also unflinchingly stupid fun. Conan the game is essentially 
 the videogame version of the big dumb action film and your enjoyment will vary with how willing 
 you are to sit back, switch off your brain, and enjoy some of the most hilariously over the top 
 combat you'll see in a game this year. If you can appreciate stupid games, be it on a genuine or 
 ironic level, Conan is worth a look. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azhar85
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 10, 2007 7:40 am PT
Review:  I didn't know what to said about this game because when you play it, then you know which games 
 does this games copy from. It is God Of War with slightly different gameplay from it. The graphics 
 also look last gen and the sound system feel sucks. The story feel a little bit interesting but 
 the cutscenes are the worse. But boss battle is great in this game and it's hard i told ya even 
 in easy mode. In the end, if you go through with this game, i'll sure some of you will played this 
 game just once and after finished it you will never played this game again. I'll think this game 
 is to early to be released and the publisher need to polish it more. Anyway, comment from me, rent 
 it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmweekes
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 9, 2007 4:09 pm PT
Review:  I know what the majority will say about this game, that it is not as good as God of War..... which 
 it isn't. So that is a fair point. But if you beleive that every new game has to be better than 
 everything that came before it to be worth a look then you need to lower your standards because 
 the best game ever has already been made which is sonic pinball on the mega drive...........
  
  Anyway. Conan is a good piece of carnal fun, limbs fly about spurting blood and there are topless 
 women who say embarassingly stupid things when you rescue them. The game isn't without its glitches 
 either but despite the woeful voice acting and occasional moments where you get stuck in a wall 
 I did in fact really enjoy it. It has expendable minions to chop down and epic boss fights and 
 thats about all you want from this sort of game. It is about as deep as a puddle but sometimes 
 im so exhausted from work and other stresses that I could drown in a bowl of soup so it is about 
 at the right level for me. The game does still manage to be a proper challenge though especially 
 on the higher diffiiculty settings.
  
  TO SUM UP. It won't last you forever like the call of duty's and oblivion's of this world but next 
 time you have money burning a whole in your pocket and there is a distinct lack of amazing new 
 titles you might want to pick this game up...... because it is mindless and fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nfur33
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 9, 2007 10:33 am PT
Review:  I've always been a big Conan fan. When I hear this game was coming, I got really excited. Overall, 
 it is a good game. I think it is worth about $30, but not $60. The game is really fun to play. 
 The in game graphics are pretty good. The blood and gore are wonderful. It is great fun chopping 
 people to pieces. There a lot of boss battles which are very fun and challenging. The stationary 
 camera can be annoying at times, but overall, Conan plays fine. The downside to the game is the 
 cut scenes. Comparing to God of War 1&2 the cut scenes look terrible. PS1 type graphics - 4/10. 
 The in game graphics are good - 9/10. The sound track is pretty cool and the sound effects are 
 pretty good also - 9/10. Game play is pretty good, sometimes blocking can be a challenge and the 
 enemies can be annoying. Overall - 8/10. It isn't as good as God of War by any means, but it is 
 a solid hack and slash game for fans. 8/10 overall. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _SMYLEY_
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 7:05 pm PT
Review:  Somehow, it remind me of a cheap knock-off of God of War. Unfortunatley, i would have to say that 
 the PS2 epic had not only better fighting, more blood &amp; gore, cooler puzzles, better voiceovers, 
 better music, better storyline, and better characters, but even better graphics. Yeah, that's right. 
 Ive seen some cutscenes from God of War that just click so much better than all of the ones in 
 Conan. Also, the odd weapon configuration isnn't exaclty revolutioanry so don't expect anything 
 mind boggling. So really, if you are planning to get this game, you should probably remember that 
 it sucks; my two cents 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HollowShinigami
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 7, 2007 7:48 pm PT
Review:  Having been looking forward to a game that casts you in the role of Conan, and allows you to kill 
 everything, this was probably one of the biggest disappointments I've faced this year.
  
  Graphics: 4/5
  The graphics were good. Especially when you make someone's head fly off in slow 
 motion, and watch the blood fly through the air.
  
  Sound: 3/5
  Voice acting: Bad. Combat sounds: generic. Music: so-so.
  
  Gameplay: 2/5
  Boring.. Wow.. 
 Just keep using the exact same combos over and over so that you can unlock another combo, which 
 will be used occasionally. Then, hey, what do you know -- do it over again! Repetitive games are 
 really irritating.. Granted, the ballistae scattered around were fun... And a couple times the 
 combat was impressive.
  
  Story: 1/5
  I've read several Conan books. This was a massive disappointment.
  
  Bottom line: 5/10
  This 
 game, while having a wonderful base that could've worked well, fails miserably... And it just left 
 me with the feeling that it was trying to be God of War. I might be wrong, but that's what it felt 
 like to me. Oh, and I was going to give it a 4/10, but, because I have respect for the Conan universe, 
 it gets one extra point. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jono69830
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 6, 2007 2:31 am PT
Review:  Conan is a favourite comic book character of mine, and so i was looking to see if the elements 
 and style of the game were somewhat on course of what i expected. I'd have to say that i loved 
 the story, Conan was always very brutal in his actions and spared no one though on the other hand 
 has always been kind to the maidens who fell at his knees begging for help. The game lasts about 
 7-8 hours as you may have heard but theres a few things of concern when it comes to the gameplay 
 side of everything. The jumping in this game is purely broken, as simply as a thing as this is 
 it brings the game down quite a bit because you'll find yourself dieing over and over when performing 
 what should be a easy task. Other things that hold this game back only slightly is the fact that 
 at some loads the game seems to not register your hits on enemys, there was an instance where an 
 enemy could hit me but when i returned force i was hitting air.......... so i had to reset the part 
 and do it again. By the end of this game you may have become to frustrated to take a second look 
 but all in all i would buy this game once i find it used for 20-25 bucks due to its lack of replayability 
 and utterly useless jumping mechanics. Give it a try and play threw the game though, its worth 
 it for the story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bogeyrobot
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 5, 2007 8:05 pm PT
Review:  Conan is exactly what you think it is, its you playing as Conan fighting groups of people no larger 
 than seven at a time. After you defeat them you can pick up whatever weapon they just dropped (and 
 switch it with the weapon/weapons you are currently wielding, you can carry one double handed weapon 
 such as a staff or you can carry one or two single handed weapons) and continue doing the same 
 thing until the level ends with an almost too easy boss fight. Its the way every level in the game 
 is, and nothing changes, the only that kept me playing was the different combos you can unlock 
 to achieve extremely gory moves, such as removing an enemies intestines. All and all Conan is a 
 good game that is just a little to similar to other games in the same genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thrinaxodon
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 2, 2007 2:54 pm PT
Review:  Combine the God of war elements with the explicit content of manhunt and you got conan.
  The in-game graphics look descent, but the movie sequences are below average.
  But this game 
 ain't about the story and movie sequences, its all about the blood and gore.
  Just how the creators wanted it to be, cause it will approach people in a positive way.
  ofcource 
 blood and killing is a crime and sin, but thanx to this game we can kill on legal statutory.
  
  Unfortunately this game is very short, it takes you about 7-8 hours to finish this game.
 
  But for me it has enough replay-value to play it over and over, but not everybody will agree with 
 that statement.
  
  Rent Conan first before you buy the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stillereize
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 5, 2007 6:18 pm PT
Review:  Um, having played it from beginning to end, ecxept for the gratitous shots of women's breasts, 
 this game is frustratingly weak. He's Conan but he sure don't act like it. You pretty much have 
 to die a hundred times to make through this game from frustrating platform play tco how hard do 
 you have to make the last boss to make up for the lack of content. The last boss on medium took 
 3 hours and about 40 deaths. I don't think I died that much throughout the whole game. Why is it 
 so frustrating? Because they take hand to hand combat and mix in in game button mashing that speeds 
 across the screen so fast that even when you have the last boss killed for the 10th time it's insanely 
 hard to press the right buttons in a flash, and their randomly generated so they are never the 
 same. So if you kill the last boss and miss the sequence, chances are you will kill the last boss 
 and miss the sequence yet again before lucking out for possible %25 chance of getting right in 
 the blink of an eye. This is a rental. How they expect to charge $60 for a 3 hour game with 5 hours 
 of frustration is beyond me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CPatrick
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 5, 2007 12:33 pm PT
Review:  I LIKE this game. It think that complaints concerning the quality of Conan's graphics are made 
 by reviewers that aren't aware that the artists were going after a Frank Frazetta look. I feel 
 that they've done a great job of capturing Frank Frazetta's pallet. A few gameplay glitches appear 
 occasionally in the form of clipping and broken AI, but it's not an annoyance. Some of the levels 
 and boss fights can be frustrating, but not nearly as bad as those found in the LOTR series, which 
 had you trying to complete very long sequences within a specific timeframe. The combat animations 
 are a joy to excecute and watch, especially after earning some devestating combos in the later 
 stages. I don't know whether I'd play through the entire game more than once or twice, but whenever 
 I feel the need to kill some time, I'll load up a save game and laugh out loud as I dismember an 
 entire Island full of combatants. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: humwawa
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 5, 2007 8:37 am PT
Review:  Here's what rocks:
  - Definitely captures the feel of Conan. The developers were clearly resonating with the art of 
 Conan maestro Frank Frazetta - the graphics, especially the colour palette, obviously reflect his 
 influence and thats a good thing. Generally the quality of the graphics is good.
  - Character animation of Conan. This is spot on. Conan really looks the part as her performs his 
 actions from climbing to combat. - Fighting. The game is pretty much about going from one place 
 to another and chopping up enemies. The combos work really well and are very satisfying to perform, 
 especially the more over the top ones you can earn later in the game. Very bloody, lots of fun.
 
  
  Here's what sucks:
  - Too linear. Could have done with some exploring to be done.
  - Camera position often works against the player. Most of the time its OK but occasionally important 
 things are hidden or Conan receded into the back of the frame and is hard to see. This definitely 
 can be a problem in some of the boss battles.
  - Final boss battle. This goes on way too long, is frustrating and repetetive.
  - Voice acting. 
 Ron Perlman is OK as Conan, but just OK. The other characters, especially the females, sound too 
 modern and out of place in Conan's cod-medieval world.
  - Precision jumping. Very unforgiving and annoying.
  
  Although what sucks outnumbers what 
 rocks the game is a fun ride but gives the impression of not having been tested properly and/or 
 rushed. With another 3 - 6 months development time it could have really rocked. Maybe they'll take 
 more care over the sequel... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yandor
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 4, 2007 11:26 am PT
Review:  I don't want my games to be easy. I want a challenge. I've beat Ninja Gaiden on Very Hard. Even 
 beat the Hurricane Pack. That is a rite of passage for many gamers. So when I saw that Conan was 
 coming and would be a slice and dicer like Gaiden, I was excited. (i've been a fan of Conan for 
 decades.)
  Well I just beat it.
  Verdict: Excitement dead.
  Actually, my excitement died early - on level one to be precise. First problem is the camera. What 
 developer decided that gamers wouldn't want to see anything but what was right in front of Conan? 
 At least Gaiden gave the player a chance to look around. Still, I can forgive the camera. I can 
 forgive the terrible voice acting, the redundant enemies, the lame story, the terrible jumping 
 puzzles, the repetitive strategy, the linear levels (it's like Conan on rails. No, really. It is) , 
 even the bizarre sound, which seems to have been left incomplete (it's a little disjointing to 
 see a monster scream but hear no sound) . What I can't forgive is the horrendous combat. If you've 
 read any other reviews, this is the most common complaint, and deservedly so. Crom hates you. As 
 I said, i enjoy a challenge, but there is tough and then there is fair. I started this game on 
 hard because that's how I play, but I admit, I turned it down to normal after a few hours because 
 of the frustration factor. I like it to be difficult, but most important, it needs to be fun. Conan 
 isn't fun. Blocks are mostly ineffective. Enemies (once they decided to actually attack you!) strike 
 with ridiculous accuracy and once an animation begins, it's nearly impossible to break from it 
 until the enemy is finished ripping you apart. There is a very deep combat system that you unlock 
 as you play, but by the time you've finished entering the combos in, your splayed out all over 
 the bloody ground. Most of these combos trigger an animation of your own, which slows the action 
 down so you can see the glorious dismemberments. But honestly, there's more slo-mo here than in 
 a John Woo film, and after awhile it's just plain tiresome. Puzzles are a joke since you can't 
 go anywhere but on the straight line the game keeps you on, so finding things is as hard as finding 
 the A button on your controller. Oh, is that a chest over there, right in front of me, glowing? 
 Gee, I found a secret. There is a string of half-naked maidens you get to rescue , though that 
 is clearly a tacked on feature that offers no reward other than an Achievement and perhaps for 
 those that find cartoon nudity a thrill . . . a thrill. They do offer the funniest lines in the 
 game though. Graphics are a mix of downright eye-popping and downright laughable. Most of the environments 
 and water effects are beautiful, and the characters capture a very cool comic book look. But then 
 there are levels such as the giant sea creature that tries to sink your ship. I saw this in a magazine 
 months ago and couldn't wait to fight this thing. I laughed all the way through it. Aside from 
 the ludicrous  combat, the entire level had the graphical 
 look of an N64 game. I let the squid sink my ship twice just because that's what Conan deserved.
 
  I will say that there are some great moments tucked in this game. The combat had incredible potential 
 and if Conan could wall-climb or use a bow and arrow, things would be better. This game should 
 have been in development a few more months.
  One more thing. On Gamespot , there is (or was) a video of one of the developers playing the game 
 while explaining what to expect. He was in a mission fighting giant red gorillas and getting his 
 butt handed to him. He even remarks a little off-handedly that the game is tough. What he didn't 
 admit is that the game is tough not because of the challenge, but because of the mechanics. See 
 you in Hell, Crom. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Defender1978
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 4, 2007 8:32 am PT
Review:  Gamers are being way too critical of this game. I admit, if you are not a fan of Conan or Robert 
 E. Howard this game will seem mediocre to you. The gameplay does copy some of the elements of God 
 of War and isn't presented as well, but the game is still very good in its own right. The graphics 
 are nice. The voices are done well. The story line is typical Conan lore and the combat is awesome. 
 The combat is truly where this game stands out. The combos that you can perform are great and dismembering 
 is really cool. In fact, the only thing that I didn't like about the game was the nude damsels 
 in distress. Don't get me wrong. If I had made the game they still would have been in the game. 
 I, however, would have changed the foolish things that they say like where are my cloths , and 
 crush me with your love and I would have not made them get up from the ground like professional 
 strippers either. That needs to change. I am not writing this review to convince gamers to run 
 out and buy it. You either are an fan of Conan or not. I am just telling THQ that I really like 
 the game. I want to see sequels. Just drop the stripper routine and foolish maiden dialog and give 
 the women some class. Make them worth saving. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AllGameSystems
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 7:01 am PT
Review:  As much as I love Conan I was dissapointed. The controls are bad and the game is so linear.
  
  The should have made it more like Fable. Its kinda fun slashing a bit, but with little technique 
 it gets old fast.
  
  I recommend God Of War if you like this sort of thing but remember GOW came out years ago.
  
 
  This would have been a nice PS2 or Xbos Game at the time but is not next generation at all in 
 my opinion. Some cool slashing effects give this a bit higher score.
  
  RENTAL.
  xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx x x x x x xxx
  xxx xx x xx xx x x x x x x x xxx x x x x x xx
 
  xx x x 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slapshotsaint
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 6:50 am PT
Review:  This game controls like an old Playstation game and is very linear with little technique involved.
 
  
  I dont understand why some games only use 1 stick? You have to roll in the direction you want to 
 face for the most part with the other stick.
  
  The graphics look ok but very XBOX looking. Enjoyed some of the hacking but not much to do with 
 mashing a button or two. I recommend this as a rental. I wasnt a fun experience.
  
  By the way I love Conan but this game does it no justice.
  
  xx xx xx xx xx xx x x xxx x x 
 x x x xxx x xxx x x
  xx xx xx x xxx xxx xx x x x xxx xxx xxxx x xxx x x 
::::::

::::::
UserName: orenzp
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 3, 2007 3:59 am PT
Review:  For those who so the movie this game is somewhat the same and Conan looks just like good old Arnold. 
 Im still playing it but Im enjoying the game as it goes.
  
  The cut scenes arent that good but the game flows in the nice way. The combat parts are good 
 and challenging in a way that you always need to find out whats the best combo to kill your opponents. 
 The opponents always change still so youre always on the lookout.
  The Boss in this game are very interesting and youre not just punching away in this one, in each 
 new boss there like a new kill style which brings more to the game.
  All in all the writes of this game gave more thought to the fighting in this game then the cut 
 scenes. I give this one 8.0 on the Oren Scale.
  
  P. S please give me feedback so i will feel good about my self :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jtra1n
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 1, 2007 10:07 am PT
Review:  ave a bad taste in your mouth and it just made me pick up the first God of War to wash it out. 
 This game really is only good enough for a rental, if that. Sure some bosses are pretty cool but 
 I just kept thinking about how GoW did it before and unfortunately for Conan took away from originality 
 and authenticity points. Anothe thing which turned me off was the dry sexual undertones of anything 
 that involved a female character. Games already get a bad rap for not including women but it is 
 totally inappropriate and I believe detrimental to the taste of the game to constantly and from 
 the get go merely see the women characters as sex symbols. But hey, If you are satisfied by games 
 that don't have half as much story depth as overt sexual content or consider intuitive action swiping 
 a sword a thousand times than please don't pay full price for this game. Demand more quality from 
 games and play the GoW series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigC43
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 31, 2007 7:54 am PT
Review:  The Good: Brutal ways to dismember your enemies, topless madens say pretty funny, yet suggestive 
 statements, lots of combo moves, well done rip off of God of War.
  
  The Bad: There are too many enemies who you can't use select moves on, boss battles are pretty 
 generic and bland, gameplay is almost completely identicle to God of War, last level of the game 
 is a royal pain.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Conan is the legendary barbarian who has been around for a while. He's been in movies and games 
 before, but it seems like for some odd reason, he's making a comeback to popularity in 2007 with 
 the new game Conan from THQ. Unfortunately, Conan seems to have borrowed some of his new tricks 
 from now legendary gaming icon Kratos and the God of War series. Pretty much, Conan is a clone 
 of God of War, but there's still plenty of fun to be had with this short, but enjoyable game. You 
 play as, obviously, Conan, the legendary barbarian who must fight through hoards of enemies to 
 retrieve the pieces to his legendary armor which have been scattered around the world for some 
 reason. With the help of a sexy archer chick, Conan must hack and slash his way to glory and defeat 
 a powerful magician. The gameplay of Conan is pretty much identical to God of War. Instead of having 
 swords chained to your wrists like Kratos, you can use a single sword, a sword and shield, duel 
 wield swords or use a two handed sword (which you still wield in one hand, for some reason) to 
 kill your foes. One of the most advertised aspects of the game is how much blood and gore is in 
 the game. Conan definately delivers on that front, allowing players to chop enemies in half, decapatate 
 them or chop off their arms with various combos. Usually by the time you're done fighting a large 
 group of enemies, the floor is painted red and there are plenty of severed limbs and bodies lying 
 around. Good stuff. You fight by button mashing and combining various quick, strong and jump attacks 
 into combos that usually deliver brutal resaults, just like what Kratos always does.
  
  In many ways, it almost seems like the developers tried too hard to make the game an almost identical 
 clone of God of War. When you kill an enemy, colored runes similar to the orbs from God of War 
 come out to give you health, experience and song of the sword points. The colors are identical 
 to those of God of War and do pretty much the exact same thing. There is also the inclusion of 
 lots of topless madens who you save to gain extra experience. You can't play a mini-game like you 
 can in God of War, but it is quite amusing when you save them and they utter a pretty sexually 
 charged, but goofy statement such as Where are my clothes? while standing in a prominate position. 
 There are of course the boss battle button mashing mini games that so many games before it have 
 used and there are even some for just opening doors, which get annoying after a while. There are 
 a few minor differences, such as Conan smashes in chests instead of opening them like Kratos does. 
 He drinks health from a bottle, then smashes it and doesn't have to deal with nearly as many puzzles 
 as Kratos does. Dispite the fact that Conan is a blatent clone of God of War, I still had a pretty 
 good time playing it. It is quite satisfying to chop off an enemy's arms and to snap an enemy's 
 backbone over your knee as a finisher. It's always amusing to see what the buxum beauties are going 
 to say next the next time you save one, the boss battles, although pretty generic and easy to figure 
 out, are kinda fun. It may be a God of War clone, but it's a good God of War clone. The biggest 
 improvement over God of War is the graphics, mainly because Conan is on next gen systems, while 
 God of War has only appeared on PS2 so far. The dismemberment is very well detailed and looks pretty 
 good. The environments are nicely detailed and help give the game a next gen feel. The sound for 
 the most part is pretty good, but Ron Pearlman (Hellboy) could have given a more inspired preformance. 
 He sounds pretty wooden and very bored during the majority of the game as Conan. Not only that, 
 but why is Conan throwing out one liners all the time? Who does he think he is, Duke Nukam? The 
 fact is, I really enjoyed Conan dispite the fact that it is a blatent God of War rip off up until 
 the last level, which frustrated the crap out of me. This last level consists of you fighting all 
 of the most annoying enemies, dealing with sections that pretty much consist of parts that are 
 not well explained and can cause you to die a lot. I haven't even gotten to the final boss, which 
 many of my friends who have actually beaten the game insist is probably one of the most painful 
 boss fights they've ever seen, but I haven't gotten there, so I don't know. Even if the boss battle 
 does take an hour, I only have played for just over 5 hours, so the game in it's entirety only 
 lasts about 6 maybe 7. Is that worth your $60? Definately not, but it's worth playing at least 
 if you like God of War.
  
  Overall, Conan is an enjoyable, for the most part, rip off of God of War that gamers in the mood 
 to rip enemies appart will enjoy, but it's so short and the ending is so frustrating that this 
 is definately not worth paying $60 for.
  
  Gameplay: Kratos would be proud because Conan plays almost identical to his much better game.
 
  
  Graphics: It does look next gen, but the cutscenes aren't exactly spectacular.
  
  Sound: Ron Pearlman sounds bored as Conan, but the rest of the game sounds good.
  
  Value: 
 The game lasts 6-7 hours, so it's definately not worth your $60.
  
  Final Thoughts: My clothes! Where are my clothes? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kazona
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 30, 2007 7:10 pm PT
Review:  Almost as soon as you begin playing Conan you'll notice that this is a no-nonsense hack 'n slash 
 game, with blood, gore and flying limbs being the center of the experience. And while the whole 
 does get a bit tedious every now and then, there's just something satisfying about the continuous 
 stream of ultra violent combat.
  
  Undoubtedly there are going to be people who will directly compare this game to God of War, another 
 game with a violent, fearless protagonist as the main character. And while it's quite obvious that 
 there are a lot of similarities between the two games, Conan offers a more simplistic experience. 
 While this may seem like a bad thing, it actually works in the game's favor, as it captures Conan's 
 very nature, which is to simply fight the strongest of foes, and test his own strength and endurance 
 to the limit. That is what adventure is to Conan. Unfortunately, while the idea is a good one, 
 it doesn't really ring true.
  
  Conan offers a solid combat system, with plenty of great combos that can be learned as you earn 
 more experience for defeating your enemies. The thing is, that while all those combos are certainly 
 cool to pull off, the need for them oftentimes just isn't there. Generally speaking, using your 
 basic light and heavy attacks are more than enough to dispatch your foes, most especially the boss 
 characters you'll meet along the way.
  
  The game basically consists of three types of enemies: soldiers, officers, and bosses. Each one 
 comes in plenty of variations, and all of them have their own distinct combat moves. For instance, 
 you'll come across soldiers with just a single sword, two swords, a sword and shield combination, 
 or a large two-handed weapon. And while each of them at first has their own distinct attacks, it 
 soon becomes obvious that they are mostly cosmetic as the majority of the soldiers can be dispatched 
 with simple, and easy counter attacks. Here's how it basically works: hit soldier once, and he'll 
 react with an attack that's generally incredibly easy to parry, which opens up an opportunity for 
 a likewise easy to pull off counter. And considering that counters always instantly kill your enemies, 
 combat doesn't offer any real form of challenge. And even though some of the officers and bosses 
 are harder to defeat, it doesn't take much to figure out their patters and dispatch them. There's 
 also a couple of beasts along the way, but those are even less of a challenge than the regular 
 soldiers you'll encounter.
  
  But even though the game doesn't offer much of a challenge in most areas, you'll likely still find 
 yourself compelled to continue on playing, because just as you think things are getting too tedious 
 to be enjoying, the game throws a new type of enemy or situation at you, which mixes things up 
 enough to keep the whole enjoyable. You'll pretty regularly run into doors that need to be opened 
 by entering a simple sequence of button presses, so those don't really offer a challenge. Occasionally, 
 though, you'll run into a few environmental puzzles that require a bit more work to get past. But 
 even though they require some more work, none of those puzzles are particularly challenging on 
 the mind. Oddly enough, though, the difficulty of the game suddenly ramps up big time as you near 
 the latter part of the game, which means that all of a sudden you'll find yourself dying a lot 
 more, and generally being overwhelmed by the sudden increase in difficulty.
  
  In Conan you'll have the ability to wield a variety of weapons, no different than those used by 
 your enemies. This means you can either opt to go for a single weapon, a faster but less damaging 
 dual wield, a two handed weapon, or a weapon and shield combination. And although the appearance 
 of the weapons changes over time, they're all basically the same thing, so the only importance 
 is your preference in style. Some people will prefer the shield and weapon style, while others 
 will rather use a large two handed weapon. Each style has its own unique combo system that you 
 can basically purchase using the red orbs that signify experience earned for defeating your enemies. 
 Each of these combos, while not really necessary, are fun to pull off, and great to look at. One 
 combo, for instance, allow you to disarm your foe, and use his own weapon to kill him, while other 
 ones will allow you to take their shield, bash their skull in, or cut them clear in half.
  
  The game also offers four simple magical attacks that you can use to quickly dispatch your 
 foes. But you won't have them straight from the start of the game. You see, each magic attack houses 
 in Conan's own armor, which he'll lose pretty much at the beginning of the game. So along the course 
 of the game, you'll encounter bosses that you'll defeat, and with each defeated boss you'll find 
 another piece of armor, and acquire an additional magical attack. You'll start of with the ability 
 to turn enemies to stone, then you'll gain an attack that rains down a shower of meteors on your 
 enemies, a bunch of cursed crows, and last a black hole of sorts that pulls your enemies in. Each 
 one of these require progressively more magical energy to use, which you'll accrue by finding blue 
 orbs from defeated enemies, smashing certain objects, and some special points where you can fully 
 recharge your magic energy. This energy is pretty scarce, however, so you'll have to save your 
 magic for times in which you find yourself overwhelmed.
  
  The game's graphics and sounds aren't really at a constant. While the blood and gore simply always 
 looks fantastic, you'll find various parts in the game where things just look blocky, especially 
 in dark areas that feature a lot of shadows. This is most noticeable on Conan himself when a shadows 
 are cast on his body. Sound sometimes just dies out for a few seconds, only to come return as if 
 it had never left. These small unpolished parts are definitely noticeable, but they're not so bad 
 that one would consider them really damaging to the game's overall quality.
  
  Conan is a rather short, simplistic, and often overly easy game, but despite those obvious short 
 comings, it still provides players with enough enjoyable content to make the whole a pretty fun 
 game to play. The ultra violent combat, and the fun -- albeit mostly unneeded -- combo system make 
 it so that you'll likely enjoy the game's very simple hack and slash nature. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: concordca
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 30, 2007 5:35 pm PT
Review:  This game has so much potential going for it. The battle system is a lot of fun reminding me of 
 the battle sequences from the movie 300 .
  
  SO where does this game turn a blind eye you ask: it comes from the repetition of the gameplay. 
 It has also the ability to really frustrate and annoy you at times, Boss battles mainly contribute 
 to this, as can some minions which are difficult to defeat and slow you down. Although I never 
 beat the last boss, for me impossible although I know it can be done I just couldn't be bothered 
 getting angry and bitter, it was starting to ruin my experience -- what was left of it. And that's 
 exactly what happened: the game went from a promising score of 8 right down to a 6.5 for a stupid 
 ending and annoying me to no end. In the end it's all about the fun we get out of games and this 
 game gives you too much of both but more of the annoying kind. I forgot to mention the bugs, many 
 times I found myself stuck in between walls I couldn't get myself out of, that meant reset the 
 game and losing my progress.
  The graphics are actually quite nice to look at and there are some good points about the game I 
 do like, but I would not pay full retail for it, rent it kill some baddies and try not to let the 
 game's weak gameplay frustrate you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drswank
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 30, 2007 1:15 pm PT
Review:  While the God of War franchise glamorized surreal brutality and larger than life adventures with 
 grumpy anti-heroes, those traits could easily be traced back to the original stories of Conan the 
 Barbarian  the original anti-hero. While it can be disputed that Kratos personality has had some 
 influence from the worlds most popular barbarian, its obvious that Nihilistic and THQs newest 
 action game, aptly titled Conan, more than borrows from the antics of the worlds most popular 
 Spartan. Despite being an almost direct copy of the God of War games, its hard to hate Conan as 
 it manages to suck you in with entertaining gameplay, gallons of blood, and more detached limbs 
 than a leper colony. If youre aching to get your hands bloody with a next-gen God of War game, 
 Conan will most assuredly hold you over. Conan isnt just another twenty-year old movie remade 
 into a game; rather, Conan is based off the original writings of Robert E. Howard and the subsequent 
 comic books that were released in the 70s and 80s. The story, which oozes fantasy to the lowest 
 common denominator  not that its a bad thing, follows Conan inadvertently releasing an evil wizard 
 onto the world, and using the power of Conans armor, controls a number of beasts and warriors 
 to destroy it. After releasing the wizard, Conan finds himself floating in the ocean and makes 
 his way to a deserted island where he meets up with a warrior queen whom Conan immediately aids, 
 as well as services, in an effort to put a stop to the wizard. The story will take you through 
 slaying pirates on the island to fighting tribal warriors and lions in the desert, to taking on 
 giant apes and the undead in caves, and through snow-covered mountains and into deep crypts all 
 while rescuing numerous topless maidens. Needless to say, the environments are diverse and generally 
 look great, though linear in design save for the occasional branching path here and there. Puzzles 
 are present, though not hard at all and pretty much consist of flipping the occasional switch or 
 firing the occasional ballista at specific things. Much like God of War, each puzzle or action 
 acts as a sort of mini game for you to complete. For example, in order to fire off a ballista youll 
 need to rotate the right analog stick to crank it into position to be loaded, aim, then fire. The 
 same goes for boss battles which aspire to be as epic as those seen in other games, but dont come 
 off as polished as those that have influenced it. Still, the boss battles are enjoyable and most 
 can take a god amount of time to complete, given that youll have to fight a boss through anywhere 
 from three to six forms and ending in a series of quick button presses leading up to a pretty grotesque 
 death. By far, the best aspect of Conan lies in the brutal and bloody combat. The fighting system 
 is surprisingly deep with hundreds of moves and combos for you to pull off, each usually climaxing 
 with a beheading, disemboweling, or some random body parts flying off. While Conan starts with 
 his trademark sword, you can pick up weapons from fallen enemies to change things up a bit. You 
 can dual-wield one-handed weapons, grab a shield for better defense, or grab a two-handed weapon 
 for some extra power, reach, and increased bloodshed. Conans fighting style changes depending 
 on the weapons youre carrying, which lets you change up your fighting style depending on what 
 youre fighting, as certain enemies are weaker against one fighting style over another. You can 
 also grapple with enemies to execute head-splitting pile drivers or backbreakers, or you can simply 
 throw an enemy on a sharp stick for a good impaling. Youll learn new moves by picking up red orbs 
 that enemies leave behind, and as you progress further into the game, youll also learn magic thatll 
 help you in those particularly hairy situations. Some combos will definitely result in some bonified 
 oh snap moments, for instance, one of your default strong attacks has Conan chopping the arms 
 off of his opponent which ends up with them standing in the spot for a second or two file blood 
 shoots out of their arm sockets  and thats just one of the tamer moves. The real awesomeness 
 comes in the parry attacks you can execute on enemies that attack you. If you block an attack before 
 it hits you, youll get a prompt to press a specific button. Pressing it in time will execute a 
 suave, and extra bloody finishing move, which ranges from launching an opponent and slicing them 
 in half in mid-air to pulling out their entrails with your bare hands. Its all very satisfying 
 and enjoyable. Especially when you add in things like throwing your weapons and shields at enemies, 
 picking up giant boulders and lobbing them at oncoming goons, and tearing everything part in your 
 path. Thankfully, the combat is tight and responsive considering that youll depend on interrupting 
 combos to roll away to safety in a split-second during later portions of the game. The icing on 
 the cake is the running tally youll get at the end of each level of how many enemies you kill, 
 how many of the environmental items you managed to destroy, and finally, a tally of how many limbs 
 youve dismembered. When it comes down to pure, mindless, and bloody fun, Conan has it in spades. 
 Graphically, Conan is nice enough looking, but much like its gameplay, it lacks polish. This is 
 mostly apparent in the games cut scenes where Conan looks more like a plastic action figure than 
 anything. The lip-syncing is also a bit off where dialog is spoken just about a half-second ahead 
 of the character mouthing it. There also some smaller graphical quirks such as weapons magically 
 disappearing and reappearing in Conans hands right after the seamless cut scenes. Thankfully, 
 load times are virtually nonexistent, though the game does stutter when youre doing something 
 to cause distortions in the environment, such as pushing a pillar over. The combat is brilliantly 
 animated and the transitions between animations are seamless. Conan himself has a lot of detail 
 and will huff after running and eventually catch his breath. Hell also ready his weapons when 
 enemies are nearby. The great animation helps to put a final exclamation mark on the brutality 
 of the game. Conan will lift a giant vat of wine to drink from it to gain health before throwing 
 it to the ground when its gone, hell pull arrows out of his chest, and every move looks like 
 itll break every bone in the body of its recipient. Add to that the great physics, rag doll effects, 
 and permanent bloodstains on the ground and it turns into a morbid visceral treat.
  
  The games sound compliments the onscreen brutality well. Every stage is backed by a pounding, 
 epic soundtrack that stays true to the source material and will swell when danger is near. Conan 
 is even better on a surround sound system where every sword strike packs a real punch, especially 
 if you have a lot of bass pumping through. The voice acting is hit or miss. Conan is voiced by 
 Ron Perlman (of Hellboy fame) and while he doesnt sound very barbaric, he adds an element of intelligence 
 that a certain Austrian cum Governor didnt give to the character. Youll get a lot of blurbs from 
 Conan as he slices his enemies up, and while Conan can speak some mad game, he also tends to repeat 
 himself a bit too much. The topless maidens youll rescue sound more like chicks youd meet in 
 the red-light district of the Netherlands more than proper damsels in distress, however. While 
 Conan isnt an original game by any means, it still manages to be a thoroughly entertaining experience 
 in the end, and thats really what counts. When it comes down to it, Conan is non-stop action all 
 the way through with nary a moment to catch your breath. The insanely violent combat totally appeals 
 to your sadistic side and literally sucks you in, and unfortunately, its all done before you know 
 it as the game clocks in at roughly eight hours. Still, if you have an insatiable bloodlust or 
 are just looking for a plain fun hack and slash adventure game, Conan surely doesnt disappoint. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hiroaku
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 29, 2007 7:53 am PT
Review:  Conan is a nice little game to pass the time with. It's not game of the year material, but it's 
 a great hack and slash bloodfest, that reminds you of the joy you felt with Kratos in God of War.
 
  It's about time there was a game about Conan, and this was done pretty good. It's a bit of a sleeper, 
 since there was no type of advertising for this game at all. The difficulty isn't that hard, as 
 with the learning curve. The many different types of combos and attacks are a great addition and 
 feel to this game, being that you can switch at anytime in the game, given what weapons are available 
 to you.
  The many different ways to eviscerate your enemies, gives you a gratifying feeling with this game. 
 The boss fights, aren't really that hard at all, and you can complete the game fairly quickly. 
 The mechanics are pretty decent as well. There may be some slight glitching, but not nearly enough 
 to ruin the experience.
  I give this game a 7.5. It could've gotten an 8.5, but the graphics weren't the best and it could've 
 been longer, and had some more content, but that doesn't mean that it's not a good game to play 
 or pick up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PlanetSun
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 28, 2007 10:43 pm PT
Review:  Conan had potential to be good, but it falls short in almost every category. It seems like they 
 ran out of budget, couldn't do the final polish pass on everything and forced the release. There 
 are so many graphics/gameplay glitches and inconsistencies that makes it not worth buying. PROS:
 
  -Decent animations
  -Naked chicks
  -Some good battles
  -Some good weapon combos
  -Some interesting enemies
  -You can get tons of achievements with very little work
  
  CONS:
 
  -Worst camera movement in a game EVER. The camera was so frustrating i nearly broke my game in 
 half.
  -Most inconsistent gameplay. I never felt like I was in control of anything, things just happened 
 by chance and I could never fight the same way twice.
  -Most inconsistent environment pathing. I was CONSTANTLY running into invisible walls, getting 
 hung up on geometry, and the effing horrible camera doesn't help with this.
  -Terrible lighting and graphics overall.
  
  All in all, this is a definite NO BUY for anyone 
 who likes games. If you REALLY want to see the naked chicks, go rent it or check the vids on gametrailers. com. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fedgem
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 28, 2007 5:45 pm PT
Review:  Yes. It is like God of War. Which is to say that is a lot like one of the best games made for the 
 last generation of games. This, in my opinion, is not a bad thing. The combat is similar. The spells 
 are similar. Even the experience, health and magic orbs are the same colors. Some of the enemies 
 are blatant rip offs from GoW. Conan doesn't have the same breathtaking scope of Gow or the originality, 
 but it is comparable, and it is a next gen game which is to say that when you get down to it, the 
 graphics ARE better than any ps2 game could be. And there's more boobies. Conan is fun. I played 
 it on hard and am in the process of fighting the final boss. It's longer if you play it on hard. 
 The achievements are also kickass. Ron Perlman isn't that great, which I honestly didn't expect, 
 but he's passable, and the combat is, as many have already said, brutal. You rip out guts. You 
 chop off limbs. You also fight a giant squid. The bosses are challenging and multi-tiered. The 
 environments are pretty, but seem a bit more closed-off than GoW. The narrative is weak. There 
 are elements that once again grossly emulate GoW, but the flow isn't as smooth. Things happen all 
 of a sudden without them telling you why, and you don't really care to begin with. This is a game 
 that is all about combat. The jumping sequences aren't as bad as GS makes them out to be. They're 
 just stupid more than anything.
  
  Once again. If you have played GoW or GoW2, and liked them, or loved them, play this. It's really 
 good. It will fill that need to cut things off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sorenf31
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 28, 2007 4:17 pm PT
Review:  I generally don't care for the mindless button masher action games, but I will admit that I find 
 Conan to and enjoyable romp after a day at work. Maybe it is all the extra gore and heads flying, 
 but if you want a game that allows you to blow off some steam Conan can hit the spot.
  
  First off with the nudity and ultra gore this is certainly a mature title. The graphics are decent 
 but nothing that willl blow your mind. Voice acting is ok and the story is decent if nothing new. 
 The control scheme is acceptable and mastering new moves you unlock through experience is not hard.
 
  
  I haven't found the game too hard or frustrating as some of the button mashers can be. The way 
 you can pick up fallen enemies weapons allows you to try a lot of different combat styles and is 
 a nice touch. Overall nothing special or new, but just a lot of gore filled fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bubbagumpo
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 28, 2007 9:15 am PT
Review:  Conan is a pretty fun game if you like, well, Conan. I read all the negative reviews, but finally 
 decided to get the game, hoping that it was not a waste of money. I was very pleasantly surprised 
 here. It is derivative of Gods of War, Ive played all the way through both I and II, but while 
 Conan is easily a next gen version of the same idea, it is both next gen in graphics and playability, 
 and takes the game play to another level. The voice acting is great, the music is okay. The game 
 is hard until you figure out that you have to use the left trigger to block enemy attacks and you 
 get the rhythm of block / attack with the different types of enemies. Also you have to learn which 
 of the four types of attacks, dual, single, two handed, or magic, works best against different 
 enemies and bosses. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Konman28
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 27, 2007 4:38 pm PT
Review:  Before The Review i want to clarify some things..... Conan story by Robert E Howard precedes God 
 of war so everyone stop saying its copying it. If you haven't noticed EVERY mythical story of a 
 hero has some kind of boat fight, thats like saying every racing game is a copy of each other because 
 they have same cars. People calling this God of War for the 360 are right, because actual god of 
 war is exclusive to Sony, so the fan boys with i'd rather go play God of War on my PS2 should realize 
 not everyone has that console. OVERVIEW Ok now for the review. first off the game is VERY LINEAR 
 like never in the game you don't know where you're going (except for some climbing puzzles that 
 can get confusing) most of the time you just walk a restricted hallway fighting hordes of enemies 
 that come. Occasionally there are forks in the road but those just lead to a dead end stuff with 
 goodies. The puzzles are just a break from the gore and are quite simple with an occasional HUH? 
 (especially is playing with a few beers) but whenever something goes wrong and you die the restart 
 works nice n fast so you can get back to the place of death, game has pretty smart checkpoints 
 that appear quite often so dying is not a problem The graphics are different... the developers 
 for an interesting art style which can get weird at times but overall its not bad and the whole 
 game looks kinda like a history book lithograph. The depiction of gore is the best I've ever seen 
 up to date, from beheadings to gut rip-outs this game will have you in awe of the fountains of 
 blood shot out throughout battles. The whole game is like classic Mortal Kombat Fatality Sound: 
 though lip syncing is very good with only a small amount of terminator trying to smile moments 
 the Conan voice doesn't sound very barbarian-like. he sounds more like an accountant trying thats 
 trying to sound angry. i think some foreign German guy would do more to the authenticity. The music 
 is very well fitted to the game with the classical sounds turning to gladiator battle beats during 
 rough situations. Gameplay: this game is completely singleplayer with no room for co-op though 
 a vs. / survival against the masses multiplayer modes would only benefit this game. The combat 
 system is SOLID, fluid combo/ parry system and a forgivable combo counter allow for quite some 
 strings of combinations that will keep the combo going even with few enemies spawning at a time. 
 the few odd slices occur with the bardiche, and when you're forced to kill the tiger that on top 
 of you Conan gets up right through the dead body. The jumping is the next worst thing to the corridor 
 design of the levels. its sometimes quite hard for Conan to grab onto ledges or even reach the 
 ledges (though it maybe its because before this game i was getting 100% completion on crackdown) 
 i even glitches the game because i found a way to get to a ledge that apparently was beyond the 
 invisible wall which got me stuck in the jump animation in mid-air. enemies are not the brightest 
 of their breed (though they are savages) and they stand around for few seconds between attacks, 
 though their attack pace speeds up the second you start attacking. (i just imagine that to fight 
 Conan you wait for your openings... like when hes attacking ) Overview: in conclusion this is a 
 great hack n slash game, especially if you love gore! This is a game you pop in to release some 
 anger and it works wonders in doing it..... nothing more satisfying that ripping out a mans guts 
 with your fist or slicing him in half in mid air. And as for the topless maidens? Trust me if a 
 woman was captured by savages or pirates she would have NO clothes whatsoever, so the game giving 
 them some clothes is being generous. This ain't a Disney flick, this is Conan!!
  
  Sound: 9/10
  Graphics: 8/10
  Gameplay: 10/10 ( i admit it I'm biased towards GORE ! i Love 
 GORE!!!) Level design/jumping 7/10 Pro's : Mindless Hack n Slash fun, GORE, GORE, GORE, topless 
 maidens, Conan, tons of combos, GORE, and GORE, easily gotten achievements just by playing through.
 
  
  Cons: levels are a bit bland n too restricted, jumping is too low, Conan's voice actor takes away 
 from the savage feel, no multiplayer 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jarrocco
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 27, 2007 9:59 am PT
Review:  don't mean to disapoint any conan fans but i really think they took that trade mark name and through 
 it in the garbage because after playing conan i can't find any reason to say that this game is 
 nothing but pure garbage. once again im sorry i played the game for 2 hours and i can say that 
 it was a very clumpy textureed game, the voice actor for conan was really terrible, some scenes 
 i noticed were overlaping or clipping. i think the developers could have spent at least another 
 month or so just revising the game. umm what else ohh the things i did like how you have all these 
 different options to kill someone like how to rip there guts out with your fist, but i didn't like 
 the controls to much; very sloppy i tryed doing one move were another move had been preformed and 
 then i died because of it, which is why i spent 2 hours playing the game i felt it was really repetitive, 
 not trying to be mean its a different game but i dont think were ready just yet.
  
  .: really didnt like the game-and sorry bout spelling:. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dynomitemasta
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 27, 2007 7:07 am PT
Review:  This developer has a almost unhealthy obsession with God of War, I don't know whether that's good 
 or bad, yet. The game mechanics are almost directly ripped from GOW, down to the breaking of the 
 clay jars for colored power ups. It's just not as pretty or smooth, or fun. Now, it's not like I 
 am not having fun playing the game but when something is so clearly ripped off you can do nothing 
 really but compare. The first place it is lacking is the story. It doesn't suck you in like God 
 of War. Strike one. The second is the washed out colors and scale and detail of the environment, 
 while impressive it fall short of the grandiose scale of each level of GOW, the attention to detail 
 while impressive, it's not like you go, WOW! Ball one. The look of Conan himself is just, well, 
 ugly. His face is terrible. His body is decent. The woman are great. His HAIR should of been pulled 
 back, it looks horrible especially when he runs, and he IS the game. Strike two. THE VOICE ACTING, 
 OMG, WTF!? They should of got someone with an British accent, and a fairly deep voice, but Ron 
 Perlman? So, for the most part, I AM having fun playing Conan, if only because I miss GOW and it 
 somewhat is filling the void. The game could have been fantastic if someone other than the devs 
 played it before finishing it. I would recommend this only because, there really isn't anything 
 like it on the 360, and if you never played GOW, you really have nothing to compare it to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: riccorocco
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 26, 2007 7:05 am PT
Review:  Akhirnya ada juga game action adventure untuk XBOX 360.
  Conan Is Coming Awalnya Gue pikir game ini SUCKS banget, karna dari motion capture saat Sang Conan 
 berjalan aja udah aneh banget, Tapi pas Gue Mainin, Wow Sadis banget, Brutal Banget, Gue Suka Banget 
 game ini.
  Meskipun terlihat seperti God of War, Tapi Conan memberikan sesuatu yang lain. Seperti senjata 
 &amp; combo yang bervariasi, dengan cerita klasik &amp; mistis membuat game ini tetap terlihat 
 keren untuk dimainkan.
  When writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. 
 We encourage you to try to get your review right the first time  you may choose to edit it later 
 on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage 
 you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy 
 and paste it into the posting box below.
  When writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. 
 We encourage you to try to get your review right the first time  you may choose to edit it later 
 on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage 
 you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy 
 and paste it into the posting box below.
  When writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. 
 We encourage you to try to get your review right the first time  you may choose to edit it later 
 on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage 
 you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy 
 and paste it into the posting box below. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blue_Tomato
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 25, 2007 9:59 pm PT
Review:  I used to Love the Conan comic as a kid, and as I also loved God of War on PS2, so this was an 
 easy choice for me.
  
  After playing for a while, I realized the atmosphere of the comic is pretty much vacant. It seems 
 like another victim of smacking some brand on a game vaguely true to the concept and then push 
 it out to the shelfs. It seems like the developers have little knowledge of the comic, and are 
 unable to blow life into the character or the surroundings. Conan's one liners are dull and poorly 
 acted, and the world in general seems flat and shallow compared to the Comic.
  
  Having said that, this still is an excellent hack and slash game. And, the graphics is in my opinion 
 more than what I would expect from a modern game of this type. I had a lot of fun trying out all 
 kinds of nasty combos, relieving Conans enemies from various body parts as he dives further into 
 the story.
  
  The game is in the danger zone of becoming repetitive, but the unique experience system gives it 
 more depth. Basically you receive experience points from killing enemies, rescuing bare breasted 
 girls or find hidden treasure. The experience points can then be spent on new combos, which will 
 then need to be practiced to be mastered. This gives the game a nice learning curve, and by the 
 end you will be able to do some pretty fancy moves, making this more than an exercise in button 
 mashing.
  
  I also like the fact you can pick up almost any item and throw it at the enemy, my favorite is 
 the torch with can in fact put them on fire. Quite satisfying to see a tough enemy who was kicking 
 your ass on fire... You also have some kind of magic, making Conan able to perform some Medusa 
 type of attack, turning enemies into stone for a brief time. All in all, this makes you able to 
 vary the way you play quite a bit.
  
  There's a range of varied boss'es to be found as well, contributing to the game's longevity. I 
 found the boss battles to be quite varied and interesting, however some of them dragged out for 
 too long. Trying to hack through the same boss for the n'th time is frustrating and boring as you 
 have to start from the beginning every time you fail to reach that exact same spot where you are 
 challenged, yawning your way there while repeating the exact same thing over and over. I'm currently 
 stuck in the middle of such a battle, and I'm not very motivated to go back to the game now. I 
 wish the save points were distributed more generously, and the difficulty curve more balanced.
 
  
  The game also offers various puzzles. But they are more for show than anything else. Usually there 
 will be some strong visual clues of what to do, like a blinking lever, so the puzzles only slows 
 you down, never adds any true challenge. Which is good in fact, if I wanted puzzle game I will 
 get Portal or something, this is about chopping heads off! I wish more game developers was true 
 to their genre, instead of trying to put all kinds of mismatching things into the gameplay.
  
  All in all, the very best hack and slash game for xbox 360. An enjoyable and for the most part 
 satisfying experience 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamerguy2008
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 25, 2007 9:57 pm PT
Review:  Conan is a great 3rd person action game from THQ. Its smilier to god of war there interactive cut 
 sences button mashing puzzles. But it has a much deeper and stronger fight system. And its even 
 more gory than God Of War. Theres nude women to save really cool combos to learn and a pretty good 
 story. The combos are great and are easy enough to pull off with out being too easy. Theres platforming 
 smilier to God Of War and it works pretty well. Conan can also pick up any weapons that the enemy's 
 drop. the difficulty's are good easy is easy but not to easy medium is pretty good for better player 
 hard is hard and king mode is very hard to play but never frustrating. so any one can play and 
 enjoy and be challenged but never frustrustrated. But even though the combat is very deep and dismembering 
 your enemy's is always fun. But some people may find it repetitive. the voice acting is also very 
 good Ron pearlmen voice's Conan very well. The graphics are very good also. But are kinda of flat 
 and cartoony but its from the art of the books so it fits. If you like hack and slash games or 
 conan or god of war you will love this game. but its not for every one its repetitive some times. 
 But i love the dismemberment in the game libs fly and gosh blood and it looks great. Over all i 
 think this is a great game but not for every one but seeing as its the only really good hack and 
 slash on the 360 i highly recommend it to those that like conan or hack and slash games if you 
 don't then you will not like the game enough to buy it but its a great rent if you like any of 
 the above then its a great buy theres a demo on the live market place and on PlayStation network. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seamus3860
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 25, 2007 11:30 am PT
Review:  I'm not buying all the God of War ripoff arguments. It's the same genre of game as GoW, but it 
 has enough twists to make it unique. The combat in the game is fantastic and demands strategy when 
 you get into the higher levels. Despite a few cheesy lines, the story is spot on for Conan plot 
 and flows pretty well. Only complaint I have is the camera angle could get tricky at times.
  
  For Nihilistic's first run at this type of game I am very impressed and I look forward to more 
 Conan titles in the future. Game is a definite keeper. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Foehammer111
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 25, 2007 11:01 am PT
Review:  The Good - Solid gameplay, high production values, bloody combat, lots of boobs, smooth animations, 
 sticks to the source material.
  
  The Bad - Voice acting is hit-or-miss, graphics are fairly standard, difficulty is un-even.
  
 
  Conan can be considered one of the original pop culture icons. He was created by the mind of Robert 
 E. Howard during the 1930s in a series of short stories published in pulp fantasy magazines. Hes 
 iconic, savage, and a lover of women and life. In short, every man wants to be like Conan. Now 
 he stars in his newest video game from THQ.
  
  Theres an endless debate going on about how this game is a God of War rip-off. Although the 
 two games share similar gameplay mechanics, Kratos owes his very existence to Conan. In the end, 
 people who enjoyed God of War will likely enjoy Conan, and for a lot of the same reasons.
  
  It should also be noted that Conan is based on the original stories by Robert E. Howard. This 
 Conan is much more intelligent and cocky than the slow-witted version made famous by Arnold Schwarzenegger 
 in the 1980s movies.
  
  Like the original short stories, Conan doesnt have any direct connection to any of the other tales 
 about him. The game starts off with Conan plundering an ancient tomb. When he accidentally releases 
 an evil wizard from his imprisonment, he is stripped of his armor, and washed ashore on a tropical 
 archipelago. From there he sets out on a quest to recover his armor, and stop the evil spreading 
 upon the land.
  
  GAMEPLAY  8 of 10
  At first glance, Conan shares lots of gameplay similarities to God of War. But God of War shares 
 a lot of gameplay mechanics with past hack and slash games. Therefore, you can say that Conan is 
 a standard representative of the genre in terms of gameplay. The controls are tight, and there 
 are no targeting problems. The only downside is that the combat can get somewhat repetitive. But 
 youre encouraged to use different fighting styles as enemies will block and counter more if you 
 use one combo too much.
  
  There are three weapon types you can use. One-handed weapons (with optional shield) are the best 
 over all balance between speed and power. Dual wielding lets you take out weaker enemies quickly 
 but lacks power to kill tougher foes. Finally, two-handed weapons are slow, but very powerful. 
 Best for tough, slow moving enemies. Each style has its own set of combos with different effects. 
 New weapons can be picked up from fallen enemies. This allows you to easily switch styles based 
 on the needs of the battle.
  
  As you fight, youll gain experience, which can be used to upgrade your fighting styles, and purchase 
 new combos. Youll also gain magical powers as you regain your stolen armor. Although Conan had 
 a well-known aversion to magic, this makes sense within the context of the game as the powers are 
 forced upon him.
  
  The combat is especially bloody. Conan fights using the three Ds: decapitation, dismemberment, 
 and disembowelment. Bodies dont disappear after combat, so battlefields are frequently littered 
 with dozens of bodies at a time. Youll also frequently encounter topless Hyborian honeys being 
 used as sex slaves that need to be saved. No one ever said the world of Conan was for the faint 
 of heart.
  
  GRAPHICS  8 of 10
  Overall the graphics are well done, but there are some visual hiccups. For example, Conan is very 
 well animated, and detailed. But a lot of the other characters and enemies didnt get the same 
 treatment. The levels look good, but are too linear in their design.
  
  When performing a counter or grapple kill, the camera zooms in for an up-close view to show the 
 brutal combat. Entrails and severed limbs are commonplace. The game has a unique visual style that 
 is designed to look like classic Frank Frazetta paintings of Conan.
  
  SOUND  7 of 10
  This is a hit-or-miss area. The music sounds great, but tends to come and go at odd times. The 
 combat sounds are gruesome, and sound fantastic. Ron Perlman does the voice of Conan, and does 
 it well. The narrator also sounds good, but other characters like Akanna sound terrible and forced.
 
  
  VALUE  8 of 10
  The long-term value is going to depend on how much the player likes hack-and-slash games. If thats 
 your thing, then Conan will likely last you for many hours. The difficulty ramps up steeply in 
 the later parts of the game. The final boss is especially difficult. So you can expect a challenge. 
 If you dont care for the genre, you might only get one play through out of it. Which lasts about 
 10 hours, and is standard for the genre.
  
  The production values are high, and the cut-scenes are especially well done. However, Conan really 
 could have used some multi-player or co-op play to lengthen out the value. The achievements are 
 a little on the easy side, but others will take time. Such as 1000 dismemberments or beating the 
 game on King difficultly. Others seem downright impossible. Like getting the combo counter to 325.
 
  
  Conan sticks true to the character by not shying away from gore and nudity. Conan will undoubtedly 
 please fans of the character, and is a must buy. Those players that like the genre will also want 
 to pick it up. But this game is fairly standard for the genre. So if you dont get into these types 
 of games, then youll find much of the same here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uklegendkiller
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 25, 2007 9:37 am PT
Review:  The history of digital breasts is like a snapshot of the evolution of console graphics; from Sam 
 Foxs pixelated puppies on the ZX Spectrum to the pendulous peaks bouncing through Tecmos Dead 
 Or Alive - via Laras Crofts gravity-defying, rock-solid bazookas, of course - its encouraging 
 to see the worlds finest digital artists have been busy honing their skills through the medium 
 of polygonal pillows. And in Conan, the barbarians tradition of titanic ta-tas has been taken 
 to outrageous new heights.
  
  Like in the Schwarzenegger movies of old, every simpering maiden Conan rescues is discovered wearing 
 little more than a shredded napkin, her painstakingly rendered jabbercrackers only outshone by 
 her propensity for spontaneous lapdancing - making the game a guilty pleasure and maelstrom of 
 adolescent thrills, but not the sort of thing youre likely to play if your girlfriend is home.
 
  
  Sex aside, whats left is a functional and deceptively shallow brawer; like a Kiwk Save God Of 
 War, Conan features all the gory deaths, relentless combat and slavering monsters you could wish 
 for, but with limited opportunities for linking attacks and dumbass puzzles that can often be solved 
 by trial and error. Factor in the disappointment that the game practically screams for cooperative 
 slaughter but doesnt offer any multiplayer modes, either on or offline, and its hard to recommended 
 this brutal romp unless the jiggle of virtual fun bags really turns you on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JayLeo08
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 25, 2007 1:55 am PT
Review:  When I first put the game in, I really didnt know what to expect. I mean I read a few reviews, 
 and to be honest, critics took some jabs at the game that didnt make any sense. GameInformer bashed 
 Conan for his one-liners in battle... For god sakes, HES A BARBARIAN. Anyway, the game has great 
 graphics, good gameplay, and some challenging aspects to the game. The story is great, some of 
 the boss battles make you feel like your in the shoes of Conan himself. The upgrade system is very 
 basic, easy to navigate and use. I loved the combos, dismemberments, and insane grapple moves. 
 Overall this was a great chapter in the Conan story, and hopefully in the future, another game 
 like this one will be crafted, to tell another story of Conan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: josmith16
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 24, 2007 7:31 pm PT
Review:  I played the demo which made me question whether or not if this game would be worth getting. Read 
 reviews. Still questioning my decision. I finally with not much twisting of the arm decided that 
 since I think I'll like Conan, then I'll just go ahead and get it. I've played for about an hour 
 and I like this game so far. Can't say it's the greatest game in the world, but can say that it 
 seems like it going to be really fun to play. Graphics could have been better, but they're not 
 repulsive. Free roaming might have been nice, but they're seems to be enough to do to keep the 
 linear dynamics of the game seems to be not really much of an issue. Blood, Gore and Nudity. Well, 
 I'm not eighteen and don't get excited about all that stuff. It's adds a interesting flavor to 
 the game, but just really seems kind of something to get the teens all excited. I played God of 
 War. Loved it. The game seems to be in the same genre of God of War. I'd venture to say if your 
 a fan of God of War, then Conan probably wouldn't be a bad choice, but my first impressions would 
 lead me to believe that Conan isn't too far off God of War. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonofares
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 24, 2007 3:56 pm PT
Review:  I wasn't sure what to expect from this game. I hadn't played the demo or heard too much about it. 
 The girl at the game store said...... someone said it was kind of like God of War. I said, perfect. 
 I loved that game. So as soon as I got home I popped that baby in and undoubtedly comparisons can 
 be made to God of War. I would say it's kind of a cross between God of War and the Lord of the 
 Rings games updated for the next generation. I love this game. This is my kind of game. Seriously. 
 It does everything right. I was gonna give the game a ten but when most people see a ten they don't 
 take it seriously and just think it's some kid or something. Trust me I've played every single 
 good game that's been released on the 360 and I know what I like and know what's fun. I love the 
 Conan mythology as well. Not only that my friends but guess what you get in this game? Boobies!!! 
 That's right.... naked chicks!!! And they look nice too!!! And let me tell you..... they've got some 
 great one-liners. If for no other reason....... just for that, this game deserves a ten to have 
 the cojones to put it in there. This is a man's game. It's brutal. It's bloody. It's swords and 
 sex. Decapitation and magic. All the cool stuff in life. And everything that goes together to make 
 one very fun game. I'm hooked! Also with the pre-order at Gamestop they even gave me a free Conan 
 display figurine new in box. Now how cool is that. I hope I helped someone get off the fence about 
 this game....... get off the fence and get it if you like what I've said. True Conan fans will dig 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: damaroik
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 24, 2007 10:59 am PT
Review:  This game is great fun, what else can I say?
  
  I think the thing that really makes this game shine is that deep down inside of it, is the heart. 
 It's got a funny sense of humor... it references some great movies throughout the game for fun 
 (Indiana Jones, the Conan movies obviously... I think there was a Yoda reference in there too... 
 but maybe that was just me) . The game play feels really nice the animations look and feel great 
 It certainly isnt pretentious It just feels like a game that you would want to hold onto like 
 they did back in the old days.
  
  The game play is sold and fun, after I started learning the moves, I just simply started having 
 a good time... even though its a linier action brawler, I still feel I could play through it multiple 
 times just to get that playable feeling again... like Mario Brothers... it just feels nice to play 
 and thats not easy to reproduce!
  
  I am by no means saying this game is a masterpiece, it has its flaws... but in the area of fun 
 repayable interesting games it really doesnt have any that would keep me from telling anyone to 
 pick it up.
  
  If you like to play games, if you like to run around trying to get high scores and brutal kills... 
 then this game is for you! Oh and the Conan character that they have adapted is great! Hes not 
 sold as a rock the guy is like a child, in a muscle suit when he gets mad he kills everyone... 
 when there is a naked lady around he has a good laugh and then takes her to the back room when 
 arguing with the love interest in the story, he folds his arms and pouts in the corner really 
 cool! It did keep me very interested in the story (even though it is quite simple) the dynamics 
 of the characters made it much deeper. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: advanracer
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 24, 2007 10:25 am PT
Review:  hmm.. deja'vu. I especially love the SEA MONSTER / Ship SCENE. Hmmm.. looks way to familiar. I remember 
 playing it on a ps2 platform i believe... LMAO. another Un-original concept. sigh.. what else is 
 new?? Come on PEOPLE... is there any ORIGINALITY in your concept when making this game? YOU know 
 for a fact you've all PLAYED God of war.. hence the Conan development right? Come on... Admit it.. Don't 
 be SHY. See, i can understand if they folks who conceived the God Of War Saga all of a sudden created 
 CONAN but come on.. give us the consumers all a break. We've all BEEN THERE and DONE THAT. (YAWN..) 
 Just watching the Videos on Gamespot makes me want to give my 360 a break and fire up my ps2 for 
 some real original .. hack and slash type game.. yes, it literally is... HACK AND SLASH. The rest 
 ... all FILLERS. A 5.0 for effort... and Hyped marketing tactics. Oh hey.. i'll save my $59 bucks 
 for Call of Duty 4. At least.. those guyz remain consistant with their games. enuf said.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LOCKETHETHIEF
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 24, 2007 8:46 am PT
Review:  If hack-and-slash games are for you, then this game is the cream of the crop. Endless amounts of 
 weapons, an endless array of enemies flinging them self at you, crazy combos, and non-stop action 
 are the keys to this game. However, it gets a bit redundant extremely quick. I think the idea of 
 this game is great, it just would never be something that I spend more than one play-through on. 
 Rent the game first; you will be able to beat it the first night you get it. So, instead of throwing 
 down the $60 dollars for about 6 hours of game play, blow the $6 dollars at your local blockbuster 
 and don't allow the game to collect dust on your shelf. Overall - Fun game, not worth the money 
 in my opinion due to its non-existent replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rimnet00
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 23, 2007 2:19 pm PT
Review:  I picked up Conan about a week ago. Prior to this, I knew close to nothing about this game, other 
 then it was supposed to be a button masher. My reasoning behind picking it up was simple; I wanted 
 to get Age of Conan for the PC when it is released, so this game would surely give me some background 
 on the Conan story. Well, quite frankly, the quality of this game took me by surprise. It is likely 
 one of the best button mashers I have ever played, and probably falls just behind Ninja Gaiden 
 and God of War. With more nudity and gore then the two combined.
  
  Gameplay
  Essentially, this game is a God of War knock off in many respects. Defeating mobs yields you red 
 orbs (exp points) , blue orbs (mana) , and green orbs (health) . The red orbs, can also be found in 
 chests which are hidden through the level, as well as given by chained up nude women, when you 
 save them. Interestingly, when you save these women, they stand up from the ground, in a 'grinding 
 up movement' - quite nice. These red orbs can then be used to unlock moves in the talent trees.
 
  
  There are four talent trees in total. Hand to hand combat, which was useless in my playthrough, 
 and only contains maybe 6 moves. Sword/Shield combat, which is a great for all around fighting. 
 The moves in this tree are quick, do a good amount of damage, and allow you to quickly jump into 
 a defensive position with your shield. Dual Wielding is great for quick bursts of damage, and is 
 great for long chains of attacks. Unfortunately, defense with this weapon set is done through essentially 
 stunning mobs through your combo chains, since a good hit from a mob will KABLAAW you down a great 
 deal of health. Two handed swords, are plain and simple, raw damage. It's slow, but if you time 
 it right, your enemies will be ripped apart. The latter three of these talent tree have somewhere 
 around 20 unlock-able moves each. Each, essentially extending your combo chaining ability.
  
  Another interesting aspect of the game is the parrying. Very similar, but more brutal, then 
 other games. If you block right before a mob hits you, you go into a little parry sequence , at 
 which point the button X, Y or B is displayed, giving your a brief second to hit it. Depending 
 on the weapon set you are using, and the button your press, you will get a difference sequence 
 that destroys the mob.
  
  Each of these moves you get, minus a very select few, can be mastered . Each time you pull off 
 one of these moves, you gain your experience bar, for that specific move, goes up. After doing 
 the move 10-30 times, depending on the move, you will have mastered it. Doing so grants you extra 
 red orbs.
  
  The difficulty is very challenging. Some of the bosses, namely the last two, can have you cussing 
 at the screen. In fact, the difficulty and learning curve is much like the one found in Ninja Gaiden.
 
  
  It took me roughly 16 hours to beat this game on Hard difficulty.
  
  Now, all of this gameplay is beautifully wrapped together with a narrated story, with epic boss 
 fights which can last for hours (such as the final boss fight, which took me two hours to beat 
 on Hard) .
  
  Graphics
  The graphics are pretty good. The polygon count is very high, giving Conan, the mobs, and the environment 
 a very amazing finishing touch. This coupled with the detail put into the environments makes you 
 really feel like you are living in the Conan universe. There is one downfall though. When there 
 are a lot of mobs on the screen, there is slowdown. Slowdown also appears to happen occasionally, 
 when a lot of things happen on the screen at the same time. This is rare, but noticeable. However, 
 these slowdown can be overlooked when you are immersed in the game, as I was.
  
  Sound
  Sound is average. Music is average. However, occasionally, it seems the sound clips don't trigger 
 as they should. I noticed this a few times, but isn't very noticeable.
  
  Conclusion and Score
  The game is a must play for all button masher fans. It is also a must play 
 for those who love 'mature' games. It is a must play for all Conan fans.
  
  Frankly, I would say this game could have easily gotten a 9, had the developers spent some more 
 time on fixes the bugs that plague it. Unfortunately, these bugs have resulted in me giving it 
 an:
  
  8 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Filip_XxX
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 23, 2007 2:08 pm PT
Review:  Nothing like Overlord or Oblivion i'll tell you that right now. I hear Beowulf will be similar 
 like this game but that game comes out later. Conan is just plain fun, you'll never get bored of 
 it. I think its just impossible to get bored of this game. Thier is not stop bad guys and action 
 in this game. Game could be beaten pretty fast but because it isn't an easy game it will take you 
 some time. I recommend this game to bought or rented because it is a very fun game for my taste 
 atleast. Even for those people that don't like this type of roll-playing games, this game will 
 for sure change your mind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeg69
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 12, 2007 7:15 pm PT
Review:  YEP you read right thq everyones best bad company have managed to make a GAME. Things didn`t look 
 good for this title after the announcment that the dreaded thq where taking it on but this time 
 its hats off. As someone else here said its not quite perfect but what it is is fun 60fps would 
 have been nice and there are some camera issues especaily late on in the game where the camera 
 dose not move untill after you have fallen to your death . Small flaws i know but flaws all the 
 same. This game takes me back to when games where fun. Smashing heads in and severing limbs, very 
 entertaining its like the eightys bad video nasty`s all over again ,I love it. CONAN 2 now please 
 in which conan tries in vain to shave his feet , use long words and get thq some more gaming respect. 
 Now that would be worthy of crom. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ultimatebeer
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 10, 2007 1:39 am PT
Review:  I completed conan Yesterday night and i can tell you that this has got to be one of the most difficult 
 hack and slash games that i have ever played and trust me i've played alot of them. Firstly the 
 controls feel pretty intuitive but in later levels of the game you'll mostly be using the basic 
 combos due to the enemies blocking every third strick you do. Also at some points the camera has 
 got to be one of the most frustring cameras every created for a game. Also most of the bosses you'll 
 be able to deafeat on the first or second try but the last boss in the game graven is near on impossible 
 to beat as i died about 30 times trying to kill him and with this boss there is only one pattern 
 ATTACK ATTACK ATTACK. So in the end i completed the game almost entirely down to luck. But besides 
 those few points explained above conan is a really good game but there are those few problems that 
 lower the score of this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stabby
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 6:35 am PT
Review:  With all the mega hype that has been put into the recent Halo release, it might come as a shock 
 to even hear or know off anything else playable on the 360. Well more me personally, I don't see 
 what makes the Halo Franchise unique and for that I was one of the lucky ones. Also appearing on 
 the 360 is a true piece of old school gaming with a modern face. That game is Conan and it's far 
 from the barbarian's previous game reputations. The hack and slash genre is a huge hit or miss 
 within the game industry and of course your current views on over the top sword play will be a 
 factor in any game purchase decision.
  
  So ask yourself this: Do I like hack and slash games?
  
  If your answer is no then step click 
 back on the upper tab now. If your answer is yes then in short you will most likely enjoy Conan.
 
  
  GRAPHICS 6/10
  Of course I wouldn't' go as far as to say Conan has bad visuals, but after such eye popping graphics 
 from games like Bioshock and Gears of War, Conan will sure look like a children's cartoon. But 
 wait, when was the last time you saw a cartoon with plentiful amputation and busty boobage? Conan 
 looks good enough to be a modern game and since graphics aren't its selling point I'm inclined 
 to let the developers off on this one. With interesting looking characters, smooth animation and 
 enough splattered blood to paint Mt. Everest, you will barely care about the almost painted on 
 colours and textures. From this you can easily come to the conclusion that it doesn't take full 
 advantage of the graphics engine the 360 has to offer, but the variety in character movement and 
 style surely make this stand above any last generation hack and slash. As for the boobs... that 
 REALLY depends on the gamer.
  
  SOUND 6/10
  Are you mad? Its Conan, like its going to have anything mind blowing, epic or even smart to sound 
 off. The voice acting is pretty much as basic as it comes, while you can trust that it presents 
 the character's own style (although Conan doesn't sound Conan enough for one thing) and drives 
 the plot forward for it to become slightly more engaging before the you know what gameplay. Acting 
 is flat and doesn't do justice to the cool effects when Conan flies through the air slice and dicing 
 enemies as they come, but it rarely comes up enough to hamper the hack and slash experience. The 
 music isn't original but then again plenty of games have unoriginal soundtracks and no one seems 
 to care then. And lie now as I write this I never cared either and it's probable you won't to. 
 Simple war like trumpets that fit the raging combat to come pretty much sums up what is to come. 
 It's neither a hit nor miss. But wait, it can't sound entirely mediocre? How does it feel to hear 
 a sword slice through fresh flesh only to hear the screams and blood splatter on the hard stone 
 floor? Pretty good if you ask me, and on that note I can safely say the weapons and movement sound 
 effects save to gameplay experience from being shadowed by bland background noise.
  
  GAMEPLAY 9/10
  Well of course you want to hear about the good stuff, and I won't postpone it 
 any longer. One by one the come and two by two they get tossed, butchers, crushed, hacked, man-handled 
 and sliced up into stir fry. That's pretty much the gist of it; you play through various levels, 
 each with different sets of enemies that throw themselves at you at every moment that occurs. It 
 might get repetitive if played in large doses but then again so can most games. If you're a fan 
 of previous hack and slash games like Dynasty Warriors or action fantasy epics like God of War 
 (notably God of War) then Conan serves up a well worth crowd combat experience. There's also a 
 nice line up of boss battles, each ranging from dragons to krakens and have that puzzle element 
 like God of War. However the puzzle elements in general, boss battles or not do seem presented 
 for the simple minded. Lets see, I'm not allowed to go through the door... hmmm, well there's a 
 huge boulder just above it, just hanging over the edge so much you wonder why the laws of physics 
 haven't kicked in. Like God of War (again) there's no shortage of button action events but unlike 
 God of War, these apply to nearly all the enemies you'll encounter. What sets Conan aside from 
 the most basic of the hack and slash/action adventure is the upgrade system. And no no, this is 
 not like God of War where you can upgrade your small choice of set weapons and magic. In Conan 
 you get a choice of moves to fit the weapons you use and weapons you'll most likely be changing 
 24/7. At one point you have a short sword then a sword and axe, then a two handed sword, then a 
 club and a sword etc etc. Upgrades are for simple new combos to dish out against the on coming 
 horde. Each is different enough to allow a second play through possible. So in summary it's like 
 God of War but God of War was an excellent experience so any element from that do Conan good. The 
 combat might look rather basic to begin with but change happens and it grows on you, but of course 
 this will only apply to genre fans.
  
  CONTROL 8/10
  There is no camera control, instead there are just fixed frames that follow Conan in the third 
 person that change depending on location. While at times you wish you could control it yourself, 
 most of the time you will be happy such tasks are computer controlled leaving you to put your effort 
 into the combat. The combat itself is more like a fighting game. Remember the combos in Tekken 
 and/or Dead or Alive? The same applies here and each different combo must be used for each different 
 enemy. Most of the button sequences will occur ALOT and the button events do come and go a little 
 to quick for you to pick up on, notably when you're surrounded. Overall the control scheme isn't 
 perfect but works entirely within its genre.
  
  VALUE 7/10
  This factor will also depend on your gaming tastes. The game is rather easy but the harder modes 
 do stretch it out slightly longer. Estimated gameplay time is within the range of 6 to 10 depending 
 on your set difficulty on your skill. Hardcore players should be fine whereas casual players might 
 die enough times to drag out the experience. Might not sound like enough for one to buy on release 
 (and I agree) , the range of different combo moves and 360 achievements can extends the games overall 
 value enough for multiple play throughs. It's a shame there's no multiplayer but if expectations 
 are still high we might get more Conan in the future. The rent or buy factor will depend on the 
 buyer.
  
  CONCLUSION
  Pretty much as it is advertised. Like God of War, not as good but still playable and most important 
 fun. If you are thirsty will blood lust or just want to hack p enemies then Conan should be an 
 easy choice to look into. It has its noticeable flaws but when it comes right down to just an over 
 the top gore fest, you want really care. As for a Conan fan, this is a must have.
  
  Pros
  - Lots of combat
  - Upgrade system works
  - Gore, gore and lots more gore
  - Great 
 boss fights
  - Feels like Conan
  
  Cons
  - Poor acting
  - Background visuals nothing special
  - Shorter than expected 
::::::

::::::
UserName: R1Ben
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 1, 2007 12:32 pm PT
Review:  Now you can never say that the Conan the Barbarian films were a marvel of acting and Arnie should 
 of been up for an Oscar at the very least but I loved the films. They were daft and gory.. badly 
 acted and over the top body count... quality! This game is of the same kind of vein... run around.. find 
 bad guy.. mutter silly one liner... fillet him and then mutter another one liner! Great!
  
  The game is not that original to be honest with you. In this era of games with free roaming enviroments 
 it can look a bit dated. Its fairly basic really, start of at the beginning of the level, kill 
 a load of bad guys, get to the end and fight a boss. What i think it does good is the cheesy factor 
 that was in the films and of course the blood and gore! By the way i am not some sort of serial 
 killer! Just like games that a bit risky, don't confirm to the image that only kids play games.
 
  
  Not to good at writing things like this. So basically not original but a right laff! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jubbrulez
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 30, 2007 5:13 am PT
Review:  Conan is an action hak n slaher wiv many fun fetures. GRAPHICS:
  Conan has an vry artistik style wiv a comic bk feel. The enviroments r gorge wiv amazin lightin 
 effex an detailed textures on structures. The charcters luk gr8 wiv conan veins an nt 2 mention 
 da almost fuly naked women!! the wepons r vry detailed an shiny. vry nyc. 8.5/10
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  Dis is da gr8 prt of da game!! u control conan fitein an platformin around stunin 
 levels chopin off heds an arms an splin galons of beautiful comic lyk blud!! u can access a huge 
 variety of moves, from chopin heds off 2 snapin baks! u cn equip dual swords or axes, masiv 2 handed 
 halberds an sords, singular wepons an mor. u fyt masiv bosses an all crazy stuf. brill 9/10
  
  OVERALL:
  i dno how long da game is coz i ant finished it yt bt of wt ive played its an extremly 
 solid action adventure wiv fun tuches nicked from PS2 legend GOD OF WAR. Buy Conan u wnt regret 
 it (probably) 8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: antyoung
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 29, 2007 3:08 am PT
Review:  I got a nice surprise playing this game. Plenty of blood, guts, and slow-mo death sequence. Simple 
 and very fun to play. Loads of moves to learn, with one or two weapons. Great fun. Nice graphics 
 too. You will enjoy learning to dis-member you foes in various ways, and its hard not smile as you 
 do it. There's a massive amount of moves to learn from you simply pressing x three times to different 
 combination, which inflict massive damage on your enemys. I hope the game will continue to be pleasing, 
 as i hack and slash through the levels, from what i have seen so far i am sure i wont be disapointed. 
 One last thing, theres some nice bonuses to collect, i wont give it away, you will just have to 
 play it lol. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
